Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday, June 3, 2015 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Commission Meeting Minutes
Attending: Jim McHale, Chairperson; Chris Johnson, Vice Chairperson; Al Goldberg, Treasurer ;
Dorothy Milne, Secretary; Kevin Owings, Commissioner; Ana Bermudez (RPBA Staff), Carolina
Juarez (RPBA Staff)
Absent: None
1. Welcome
Meeting was called to order at 9:03 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Approval of April 2015 Minutes
The minutes were reviewed. No changes, corrections nor additional information were
requested. Motion to approve the April 2015 minutes (Goldberg / Owings).
Unanimously approved.
4. Review and approval of April 2015 Financials
April 2015 Financials were reviewed. No changes, corrections nor additional
information were requested. Motion to approve April 2015 Financials (Johnson/ Milne).
Unanimously approved.
5. Action Items
 Review 2016 budget and workplan draft
Commission reviewed and discussed draft of 2016 Budget and Workplan to
submit to the City of Chicago. Discussion included:
i. Will be going over budget on landscaping, anticipating to spend less in
the coming years due to new plantings which will grow back annually.
ii. Line of credit is still $25,000. Will be changing banks.
iii. Added spending for Free Wi-Fi program, Banners, Landscaping, Small
business energy efficiency program, Bicycle Transit Enhancements and
BIPs.
iv. Removed spending from Safety Program
v. Ana and Carolina will submit draft to the City of Chicago and once we
receive their notes, we will meet to approve a final budget for 2016.
6. Information Items
 Landscaping
Carolina/ Ana reported: summer planters have been planted. Brickman will
plant perennials in sidewalk cut-outs. We are looking into affordable mulch for
tree squares.
 GSM Opening Ceremony
As the major sponsor, the Commission was invited to attend the Glenwood
Sunday Market Opening Ceremony. Chris Johnson, Dorothy Milne and Al
Goldberg will attend.
 Mile of Murals
2015 mural draft was approved by MoM committee. Mural will be painted in

 Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday, June 3, 2015 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.





July. Mural on viaduct between Morse and Lunt and under CTA Lunt exit bike
racks have been were restored by Roman.
New Businesses
Carolina announced new businesses on SSA #24: GingerSlam Nail Bar, Centered
Studios, Pub 626, SmackDab, Chez Delisay’s Cajun Cousine, Coffee shop/
bookstore on south west corner of Clark and Wallen, Tavern and Dollar Store.
P Street Designation
Ana reported that Alderman will be introducing P Street Designation this month
(June).

7. New Business
 Ana and Carolina have new titles; Ana is now the Marketing and
Communications Manager for the Rogers Park Business Alliance, including all
SSAs. Carolina is now the Clark/Morse/Glenwood SSA Manager.
 Next Meeting is July 21, 2015 at 9 a.m. to review 2016 Budget.
8. Old Business
None.
Meeting adjourned at 9:54 a.m.

 