Commission Meeting, 11/21/14
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19
Friday, November 21, 2014

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Amona Buechler, Commissioner; Simone Freeman,
Commissioner; Cally Raduenzel, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Dave Skora,
Community Resident; Sandi Price, RPBA Executive Director; Paul Reise, RPBA Staff
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:10 a.m.
2. Community and public input - None
3. Review and Approval of October 2014 Minutes
October 2014 minutes were not presented. October and November minutes will both be
approved at the December meeting.
4. Review of Financials
The financials through October 2014 were presented and discussed. The SSA has money to
spend before the end of the year.
5. Holiday Decorations
a. Paul has not received a quote from Patch yet for the Winter Wonderland
concept in the garden. He will continue to contact them. If he has no response,
he will call the vendor that Cally suggested.
b. Banners will be ordered to put on the fence, one on Howard and one on
Ashland. They will read: “ENJOY HOWARD STREET WINTER WONDERLAND
Brought to you by SSA #19, hellohoward.org” and “VISIT US IN THE SPRING,
COMMUNITY GARDENING, ENTERTAINMENT AND CLASSES, Brought to you by
SSA #19, hellohoward.org”.
c. Electrical access for the east end of Howard can be found under the cap at the
top of the poles. The streetscape has not been signed off on by CDOT yet, so we
may need to wait to put lights in the trees there.
d. Paul will contact Roof to Deck to find out why some of the lights on the west end
of Howard are not lit.
e. The poles will be wrapped with a more elaborate design than last year and will
stay up until 2/1/15.
6. Peterson Garden Project- Hello Howard Community Garden
Paul reported that we met with PGP. Everything went well this year and they are
gearing up for next year. We may need to complete the installation of the stage
as the Alderman’s office hasn’t been able to gather volunteers. Once set, we can
program more events. Registration starts in February. Paul will find and update
the flyer from last year to distribute to the community.

 Commission Meeting, 11/21/14
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

7. Staff Expectations:
a. The group requested that they receive minutes within one week after the
meeting.
b. Major issue updates will be communicated through weekly bulleted emails will
be sent by the SSA manager to the commissioners.
c. SSA manager will send the commission monthly status reports.
d. Commissioners would like to have extra meetings to focus more on planning in
2015. The first planning meeting has been scheduled for Thursday, January 15th
at 6:30pm at Green Spirit.
8. Rogers Park Business Alliance retreat
Cally reviewed the progress made at the RPBA/GSM/SSA retreat. In 2015, we will
work toward better communication between the entities, look at restructuring the
staff and diversification.
9. Old Business – None
10. New Business
a. Press releases – Dave Skora offered to write.
b. Billboard on Howard Theater building – Simone is having conversations with the
landlord of the Howard Theater building to determine how the SSA can pay for
advertising on the building and then offer the ads to the businesses on Howard
Street.
c. After the streetscape, the Big Belly cans were both placed outside the CTA
station. The one that’s between the newspaper stand should be moved to
Howard and Clark.
d. Simone mentioned that she is ordering cup sleeves through a company called
papersupplies.com. The SSA is paying ½ the cost of the items. We should see if
we could find the cheapest company and offer to purchase paper goods for
other businesses on Howard Street with the Hello Howard logo, cup sleeves,
bags, etc.
Meeting adjourned at 10:30 a.m.

 