Cl a rk / Mo rs e/G l en w o o d S p ec ia l S erv ic e A r e a # 2 4
Commissioners
Commission ers Meeting
Wednesday,
Wednesday, August 6,
6 , 2014 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Minutes
Attending: Chris Johnson, Vice Chairperson; Dorothy Milne, Secretary; Al Goldberg, Treasurer;
Ana Bermudez (SSA #24 Manager), Carolina Juarez (RPBA Staff).
Absent: Jim McHale, Chairperson; Kevin Owings, Commissioner.
1. Welcome
Meeting was called to order at 9:12 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None
3. Review and approval of July 2014 minutes
The minutes were reviewed. No corrections were requested. Motion to approve the July
2014 minutes (Johnson /Milne). Unanimously approved.
4. Review and approval of June 2014 Financials
The June 2014 Financials were reviewed. No errors were found and/or additional
information requested. Motion to approve the June 2014 Financials as presented
(Johnson/ Goldberg). Unanimously approved.
5. Review and make motions to approve the 2015, workplan and Rogers Park Business
Alliance as the Sole Service Provider. Commission reviewed and discussed proposed
workplan and budget. Motion to approve the 2015 Budget as presented (Johnson/
Milne). Unanimously approved. Motion to approve 2015 Workplan as presented
(Johnson/ Milne). Unanimously approved. Motion to approve the Rogers Park Business
Alliance as the Sole Service Provider (Johnson / Milne). Unanimously approved.
6. Program and Project Review
• Placemaking Event – La Sandia, Loteria! -8/15/14
Ana reported on a new project she is managing with the goal of reimagining a place
on Clark Street. The project is a citywide initiative with the intention of reimagining
a specific place that is underused/vacant or in need of activity. Ana will host this
event in front of the Adelphi lot on the corner of Clark and Estes. The event will
entail playing Loteria, free food, music and prizes.
• Taco Crawl
Ana reported to the commission about her plan to plan a Taco crawl along Clark
Street in SSA 24 as a marketing effort for the businesses.
• Glenwood Ave. Group Meeting
Ana reported that she is in the process of organizing a roundtable meeting with all
of the business owners in the Glenwood Avenue District in order to support them in
communicating/collaborating their plans for special events and use of the streets.
Commissioners showed interest in attending, Ana will share Doodle poll link with
them.

 •

Banner Design Competition
Ana reported that she is compiling quotes from companies who will bring down old
banners along Clark Street. Commissioners voiced their opinion about branding the
street once the banners come down. Ana explained that there are several grants
which have been submitted by the Rogers Park Business Alliance in order to pay for
a branding campaign for Clark Street and the efforts to have some sections of Clark
St. be assigned as Pedestrian Designations.

7. New Business:
• Firehouse has been awarded, however Alderman Joe Moore has not announce to
whom.
• Dorothy Milne reminded everyone that Glenwood Avenue Arts Festival will take
place the third weekend of August.
Next Meeting September 3, 2014. Meeting adjourned at 10:15 a.m.

 