Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, April 18, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Amona Buechler,
Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Cally Raduenzel, Commissioner; Paul Reise,
SSA 19 Manager; Carolina Juarez, RPBA Staff
Absent: Richard Rozhko, Commissioner
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:07 a.m.
2. Community and public input
None
3. Review and Approval of February 2014 Minutes
The commission reviewed the February 2014 minutes. Motion to approve the February
2014 minutes as presented. (Raduenzel/ Buechler) Unanimously approved.
4. Review and Approval of March 2014 Minutes
The commission reviewed the March 2014 minutes. Motion to approve the March 2014
minutes as presented. (Raduenzel/ Walters) Unanimously approved.
5. Review end of year 2013 Financials
The commission reviewed the end of year 2013 financials. Motion to approve the end
of year 2013 financials as presented. (Walters / Raduenzel) Unanimously approved.
6. Programs and Projects
a. Peterson Garden Project
Paul reported on PGP updates. Sign is up. Website is being finalized. Lots are all
completely placed; mulch will be spread at next “Work Day”. 49th Ward
Alderman will take care of water access. Garden will open as early as April 22,
2014, but depends on volunteers and weather.
b. Say Hello to Howard Advertising Placement
Send a list of property owners to commission so they can make some calls.
Commission suggests someone with more authority, like the 49th Ward
Alderman’s office call property owners to ask for access to their storefront
windows to place banners. Charlotte Walters would like a banner on her
window. Commission suggests a banner be placed near Howard CTA station.
c. Public Art
i. Mural: Paul updated commission on a location search for a mural on SSA
19. Waiting from an answer from property owners and businesses
owners of the wall.
ii. Sculpture: Paul is communicating with Bank of America about using their
space to install sculpture. Alternative location will be on the sidewalk on

 Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, April 18, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

d.

e.

f.

g.

south side of Howard Street and the east corner of Paulina. Commission
individually chose their top three favorite sculptures.
Art & Sol
Art & Sol will take place last weekend of July inside the Hello Howard Garden.
Paul or Carolina will have more details from Brittney.
Tree Lighting
Paul reported that the City of Chicago does not allow to string lighting from tree
to tree nor light trees year-round. Commission agreed to have lighting east of
CTA. Paul will find out if this can happen year-round.
Divvy
Paul will get meeting notes from Ana, RPBA staff who attended community
meeting about Divvy stations expanding into the North side of Chicago.
Commission would like to see a Divvy station near Howard street red line.
CAF
Paul reported that he is Chicago Architecture Foundation is not communicating
with him about tabled project on Howard Street. The commission suggested he
get in contact with the Rogers Park/ West Ridge Historical Society.

7. Old Business
Simone Freeman gave an update on theatre project housed in the storefront next to Sol
Café. Space will be used temporarily. Simone’s theatre project group asked for SSA 19
commission’s support. She will invite the group to next meeting to present their plan to
the commission.
8. New Business
a. Commission would like to create a plan to creatively advertise the businesses on
Howard Street. Commission discussed a map, a brochure, mosaic mural as ideas.
b. Amona Buechler mentioned street lights are left on on Howard Street. Paul will
alert the city of Chicago.
c. Charlotte asked Paul for ideas to improve her business façade.
d. Amona asked Paul for an average rental price for a space on Howard Street.
Meeting adjourned at 10:02 a.m.

 