Promote Committee Minutes
Thursday March 7th, 2019 8:35-10:55 AM
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce – 1414 N. Ashland Ave.
In attendance: Rebecca Dohe (Committee Chair), Elaine Coorens (Voting member), Fernando Moreno
(Voting member)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $5,000 from line item 1.10
(community grants) for Dynamics Events to host “Do Fashion” at Do Division on May 31st, June 1st and
2nd. (19-0207)
EC motions. RD seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
Motion 2: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $5,000 from line item from 1.10
(community grants) for Heaven Gallery to host their 19th annual benefit to be held on May 4th. (19-0208)
EC motions to table and resubmit this application. RD seconds. Motion is tabled.
Discussion: The committee does not feel the grant’s purpose is to assist with funding for an
organization to host its own fundraiser. They suggest Heaven Gallery resubmit an application for
their ongoing free programming and gallery openings, which better fits the goal of this grant.
Illuminight / Holiday Lights
•
•
•
•

The committee is interested in placing white string lights at The Polish Triangle year-round.
These would replace the current holiday lights.
RD suggests that we switch up the holiday lights at the triangle for the next holiday season.
Staff will bring a quote to Executive Committee this month.
Staff will ask Illuminute for quote for similar installation to the 606/Damen “Bike Lights” for the
Western 606 overpass, potentially in a different design (i.e. running, strollers, skateboarders)

2018 Annual Report
•

The committee reviewed the most recent draft with the staff and comments will be passed
along to Teska Associates

Community Grant Form
•
•

•

The committee reviewed the latest draft of an updated online application form and gave their
feedback.
They suggest that the application be updated to state any application must be submitted at least
two months prior to the event taking place, on the 25th of that month. For example, if an event
is to take place on June 1st, their application must be submitted to the committee by March 25th
for approval.
Staff will do another edit and bring the last draft to Executive Committee for final approval.

 Looking Forward
RD outlined a new goal to promote the neighborhood and businesses to local WPB residents.
o Committee will be brainstorming different ways we can encourage a more localized
campaign including potential ads
o RD suggested a coupon book or discount card something similar to “the entertainment
book” that is packed with coupons - FM suggested partnering with local schools to

 