Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday January 4, 2017 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Commission Meeting Minutes
Attending: Chris Johnson, Chairperson; Dorothy Milne, Secretary; Al Goldberg, Treasurer; Wally
Andersen, Commissioner; Sandi Price, Executive Director of RPBA; Beth Demes, Board
President of RPBA; Carolina Juarez; RPBA staff
Absent: None
1. Welcome
Meeting began at 9:04 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. 2016 October Minutes
Commission reviewed 2016 October Minutes. No changes, corrections nor additional
information were requested. Motion to approve 2016 October Minutes (Milne
/Goldberg). Unanimously approved.
4. 2016 Financials Through November
Commission reviewed financials through November 2016. No changes, corrections nor
additional information were requested. Chris Johnson asked what the big expenses
were in November of 2016 to warrant a transfer from the line of credit. Carolina will get
this information from Sandi Price, Executive Director. There was a conversation about
holiday decorations. The Commission would like the decorations to be more
professionally installed and more indicative of the holidays. Since the budget is an issue,
Carolina will look into other options which might address these issues while still
remaining within budget.
5. Manager’s Updates- Carolina gave updates on the following:
• Clark and Estes Development- Commission discussed their concerns about this
development. Commissioners would like to go on record that they do not
approve this project, however at this point there is no further action to be taken
since project is already moving forward.
• Clark Street Revitalization- Commission would like to make sure there is a
comprehensive branding campaign that comes out of this plan, which
acknowledges the current businesses on Clark Street, for example the Auto
related ones. Al Goldberg brought a list of Auto related businesses to prove
how prevalent this type of business is on Clark Street.
• RPBG Newsletter
• KICC Program’s Clark Street Presentation
• Clark Street Festival- this festival will not happen in the year 2017. Commission
asked that RPBA consider organizing the new and improved Taste of Clark Street
during the same time as Clark Street Festival.
• Taste of Clark Street
• Clark/Pratt
• Mile of Murals
• BIPs / SBIFs
• Small Business Saturday
• Live, Love, Shop Rogers Park

 Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday January 4, 2017 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

•
•

ADA Compliance Issue
Safety

6. Old Business
• Pride North – the commission had a discussion about the meetings which have
occurred in regards to this event expanding in days and footprint. The
commission is against the festival expanding in days and food print and will
write a statement stating their position.
7. New Business
• Commission titles were reviewed. Chris Johnson is Chair, Dorothy Milne is
Secretary, Al Goldberg is Treasurer and Wally Andersen agreed to be Vice
President.
• 2017 meeting dates were discussed. The commission would like to change the
July 5 date to an earlier date in June. A new date will be scheduled at a later
time.
Meeting was adjourned at 10:47 a.m. (Milne /Goldberg)
NEXT MEETING is March 1, 2017 at 9 a.m.

 