Howard Street at the Lake: A destination where its history, art and culture come alive.
SSA #19 Commission Meeting Minutes
Wed., January 11, 2018, 8:30 am
The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard St.
Minutes
In Attendance: Cally Radunzel, Commissioner; Barry Hoven, Commissioner; Carrie
Sullivan, Commissioner; Gale Howard, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner;
Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, RPBA SSA Manager
Guests: John Harris, A5 Branding; Patrick Casey, A5 Branding

1) Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:45 am by Cally Radunzel.
2) Community & Public Input
There was no community input.
3) Approval of Dec. 13, 2017 Minutes
Carrie Sullivan moved to approve the minutes, Barry Hoven second it. Motion passed
unanimously.
4) Howard Street SSA #19 Research & Recommendation by A5 Branding
John Harris & Patrick Casey of A5 Branding interviewed 13 Rogers Park key stakeholders
to receive their thoughts about Howard St.
Stakeholders interviewed:
Alderman Moore; Dorothy Milne of Lifeline Theater; Fred Anzevino of Theo Ubique
Theater; Cindy Plante of City of Evanston; Katrina Balog of Edgewater Chamber; Ari
Meyer of Mid-America Asset Management; Irma Rizzo of Willye White Park; Beth Ulion of
Howard Area Community Center; Sal Maldovan of Moldo Holdings Co; Jay Johnson of
Cornerstone Investment Group; Debbie Evans of Peckish Pig; Renee Labrana of R Public
House and Kidane Haile of Red Sea Restaurant
Eleven questions were asked of all stakeholders:
What do you like the most about Howard Street?

 What do you like the least?
What is your perception of Jarvis Square?
What community/area should Howard Street aspire to be like?
What should a Howard St brand convey?
What needs to improve on Howard St?
What sets Howard St apart from other communities/areas?
Who on Howard St is doing something great? What is it?
Who do you want to attract to live or work on Howard St?
What is your take on Hello Howard brand from a few years ago?
From an economic development standpoint, what would you like to see on Howard St?
For visitors?
Preliminary Recommendations:
Develop new brand and campaign
Market Continuously
Develop Signature events that are special to Howard St.
Encourage a stronger sense of community
There was a discussion and to develop a new branding campaign and retire the Hello
Howard campaign. Barry Hoven moved to develop a new branding campaign and
Charlotte Walters second it. Motion passed unanimously.
It was suggestion to do an online survey and get input from residents. A5 to send out a
monkey survey to RPBA & Alderman’s office.
A5 suggested the movie “Thrill Ride” for Movie in the Park for August 7, 2018.
5) Next meeting is scheduled for Wed, Feb. 7, 2018, 8:30 am at the Factory Theater.
Meeting adjourned at 9:00 am.

 