Howard Street at the Lake: A destination where its history, art and culture come alive.

Attending: Cally Radunzel, Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Barry Hoven,
Commissioner; Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, RPBA, Summur Roberts,
Consultant
Absent: Gale Howard Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commission
1.Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 9:00am by Cally Radunzel.
2.Community & Public Input
There was no community input.
3.Approval of May 17, 2017 Minutes
Carrie Sullivan moved to approve minutes, Simone Freeman second it. Motion passed
4.Approval of August 16, 2017
Could not approve these minutes as Gale Howard, Commissioner & Secretary has not provided
minutes to this meeting.
5.August 2017 Financials
August 2017 financials were reviewed with no questions.
6.Strategic Planning Session Report – Summur Roberts, Consultant
Summur presented her report from the SSA #19 Strategic Planning session that was held on
Tues., Aug. 29, 2107. One of her recommendations as a first step is to connect with all the
groups in the Howard Street area, such as A Just Harvest, Family Matters, Willye White Park,
Peterson Garden Project, etc. (see strategic plan for list) and create Howard Street Partners.
Identify one key person to represent each organization to create an ongoing dialogue &
coordinate efforts for Howard Street, i.e. global calendar. Barry Hoven volunteered to reach out to
A Just Harvest and Family Matters. Cynthia Ryan will reach out to other organizations to identify
key representative and then create a meeting.
Now that the strategic plan is done, the Commissioners wanted to reboot the brand/marketing
and have requested that A5 Branding & Digital Company be contacted and submit a proposal for
the next meeting on Oct. 18, 2017. Cynthia Ryan to reach out to A5. Carrie Sullivan moved to get
a proposal from A5, Simone Freeman second it. Motion passed.

7.Live Music in the Garden Debrief
Live Music in the Garden summer program was reviewed and discussed if it was successful or
not. Activities that were to be included in this event never happened and for next year the
program needs to be revamped and possibly moved over to Willye White Park. Events need to be
combined with food trucks or layered with other components to drive foot traffic to the area,
including more promotion. It was discussed that moving forward, event guidelines are to be
developed for all events and more coordination needs to happen. Cynthia Ryan suggested that 1-

 2 commissioners work on a subcommittee for events with her. Carrie Sullivan, Barry Hoven and
Simone Freeman volunteered.
8.Holiday Decorations
Cynthia Ryan reviewed holiday decorations with the commissioners. Illuminight has proposed
installing white lights on 101 trees on Howard Street from Oct.2017-Feb.2018 for $26,500.
Simone Freeman moved to approve this proposal. Carrie Sullivan seconded it. Motion passed.
Because of the cost of lighting the trees, it was agreed to spend no more than $2,000 on the
Hello Garden decorations and suggested having 6 real Christmas trees in tree stands with white
lights (3 on east & 3 on west side) to provide light to the garden space or have lights strung on
the garden fence. Cynthia Ryan to check with Charlotte Walters if she still has the lights from past
years, and/or check with Willye White Park if they do anything with lights and/or get quote for the
garden space not to exceed $2,000.
Simone suggested getting the holiday shopping rebate started earlier in November for promotion.
9.Landscaping RFP
Cynthia Ryan reported that Brighview Landscaping’s contract ends Nov. 30, 2017 and that she is
issuing a Request for Proposals (RFP). All planters have been switched to fall plants on Sept. 20,
2017. Cynthia is adding two 26” black planters to Eddy’s Food Mart, behind the sculpture and one
26” black planter to the Factory Theater and will be installed in the month of September. These
do not require a public way use permit as they are on private property.
In the spring, Cynthia will reach out to other business owners on Howard for additional planters.
There was a discussion of plants for the sculpture and commissioners wanted garland to be
installed for the winter décor. Cynthia will request this from Brightview.
Dead flowers in the 8 flower beds at Howard & Greenview that were installed in July, 2017 and
died are being replaced by Brightview in the month of September. These flowers are still under
warranty and will be replaced at no charge.
10.Commissioner Candidate – One Open Seat
Cynthia Ryan reported that Kidane Haile, Manager of Red Sea restaurant is interested in
becoming a commissioner. A commissioner application has been provide to Kidane and Cynthia
Ryan to follow up with him.

11.Other Business
There was a discussion about people drinking out in the street and in Willye White Park. People
are buying inexpensive liquor from Around the Clock liquor store and hanging out. Simone
reported that she needs to remove her outdoor bench as it is attracting these types of people. It
was suggested to meet with the owners of Around the Clock and see if they are willing to be more
upscale like Red Violin Wine & Spirits. Cynthia Ryan suggested to have Willye White Park (Irma)
and Police to the next SSA meeting in November for a discussion of these issues.
Simone Freeman wants to approach owner of building at Howard & Marshfield (Irwin) to see if a
mural can be painted on the side of building.
Cynthia Ryan reported that Salernos’ Pizza & Gauges LLC have signed a lease for vacant space
on Howard St.
12.Adjournment
Meeting was adjourned at 10:30 am. Next meeting is Oct. 18, 2017.

 