Executive Committee Minutes
March 19, 2019 8:30 AM – 10:20 AM
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce – 1414 N Ashland Ave.
In attendance: David Ginople (Chair), Marcy Huttas (Secretary), Wayne Janik (Treasurer), Rebecca Dohe
(Commissioner)
Guests: Andy Johengen (Vendor – Brightview)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager), Pamela Maass (Chamber
Executive Director)
1. Community Grant Application
a. GK presented the final draft for the community grant. A link was sent also previously to
all of the commissioners for review
b. RD mentioned that making the form electronic will allow staff to quickly edit the
application if the committee seems to be needing more information from applicants
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve the new, electronic version of the community grant
application to go live on the SSA website for all applications going forward, beginning Thursday, March
21, 2019.
RD motions. WJ seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
2. Extending Polish Triangle Lights
a. DG suggests staff confirm with Bartlett if lighting the trees year-round will damage them
b. He would also like to see the current quote be combined with a holiday light contract
c. Staff will request a quote that includes more maintenance and take down
3. Façade Rebate: Standard Bar & Grill
a. The committee will not approve the motion initially presented to Guide Development
for a façade rebate, as no additional information has been presented in regards to
permitting or invoices
b. Committee suggest resubmitting for future projects and/or invoices for security camera
installation
c. DG suggests that the next version of the Façade and security programs specifically
mention City of Chicago Landmark Commission approval is required
d. WJ suggests adding a section for their permit number
4. Holiday Decorations
a. The committee decided to move all holiday decorations to the Promote Committee
b. The Promote Committee will now be responsible for all contracts for holiday
decorations, lights and banners
5. Voting members
a. The commission will vote for Mary Tamminga as a new voting member for
Transportation Committee.

 6. Committees responsible for Promotional Campaigns
a. RD suggests that campaigns like “Get Off” come out of Promote Committee
b. MH agrees but thinks there needs to be coordination between all committees for
campaigns
7. Brightview / Milwaukee Ave. Planters – Spring & Summer planting
a. Andy presented ideas for the new plants this Spring and Summer and the committee
voiced feedback and concerns
b. Their contract is set to begin planting on April 15th, pending on the appropriate weather.
c. WJ would like to see Cleanslate power wash the current planters before new planters
are installed
8. Misc
a. Jordan Miller will look into repairing and/or replacing the Sloth Steady mural

 