Howard Street at the Lake: A destination where its history, art and culture come alive.
SSA #19 Commission Meeting Minutes
Wed., February 21, 2018, 8:30 am
The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard St.
Minutes
In Attendance: Cally Radunzel, Commissioner; Barry Hoven, Commissioner; Carrie Sullivan,
Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Cynthia
Ryan, RPBA SSA Manager, Sandi Price, RPBA
Absent: Gale Howard, Commissioner
Guests: Officer Bob Dworak; Jay Patel, Store Manager of Jewel-Osco; Ed Suleiman, Owner of
Around the Clock Liquors; Mike Land, 40th Ward Office; Irma Rizzo, Park Supervisor, Willye
White Park

1) Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:40 am by Cally Radunzel.
2) Community & Public Input
There was no community input.
3) Howard Street Discussion with Police, Willye White Park & Liquor Stores











Officer Bob began the discussion with saying that he gets several complaints a day for
unwanted activities on Howard St.
Many times, it is the same 12 offenders that have mental health issues.
Problems stem with the CTA kicking off the homeless at the end of the line at Howard
St. station and people coming from all over to social agencies in the area that provide
free food.
Jewel-Osco has hired armed security guards and will only allow customers no more than
thirty minutes to hang out.
Around the Clock will ban customers from the store if they find them drinking alcohol on
the street.
Around the Clock sends out 2 crew members daily to pick up bottles and trash in the
surrounding areas.
Around the Clock opens from 7am-12 midnight. Have steady stream of customers at
7am who are people getting off the nightshift and going home.
Recommend to have the bench at the bus stop at Howard garden removed to stop
people from sitting and drinking.
Recommend to have the benches removed on the east side of Willye White Park to stop
people from sitting and drinking and throwing liquor bottles at building in alley.
Business owners not getting a response from calling 911 for unwanted activities.

 


Business owners state that Officer Bob is very responsive to them and very effective.
Want more police to walk Howard St. and not to remain in their vehicles.
Officer Bob suggested for business owners to show up at Court Advocacy to press
charges, write a letter to request more police walking Howard St. and request a mobile
unit.

4) Approval of Nov. 13, 2017 Minutes
Carrie Sullivan moved to approve the minutes, Barry Hoven second it. Motion passed
unanimously.
5) Approval of Jan. 11, 2018 Minutes
Simone Freeman moved to approve the minutes, Cally Radunzel second it. Motion passed
unanimously.
6) Approval of Feb. 7, 2018 Minutes
Barry Hoven moved to approve the minutes, Carrie Sullivan second it. Motion passed
unanimously.
7) Marketing Budget for A5 Branding & Digital Company
A5’s marketing plan for Howard St. is $5,000 and the marketing campaign & tactics is a fee per
service structure. It was suggested that A5 recommend priorities for the fee for service items in
the marketing campaign to the SSA in $10,000 increments (instead of setting a fixed price
overall). Carrie Sullivan moved to approve the marketing budget as stated. Charlotte Walters
seconded it. Motion passed.
5) Next meeting is scheduled for Wed, March 21, 2018, 8:30 am at Urban Warrior.
Meeting adjourned at 10:00 am.

 