Devon SSA 43 Commission Meeting Minutes
Thursday June 15, 2017 6:00pm
2723 W. Devon Avenue
Commissioners Present: Sanhita Agnihotri, Irshad Khan, Maura Levit, Pete Valavanis, Tareq Ali Khan
Commissioners Absent: Bhavesh Patel, Mohammad Yaqoob
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Gina Caruso, (Rogers Park Business Alliance)
Public Present: Robert Taylor, Edin Seferovic (West Ridge Chamber of Commerce)
1) Call to Order: Irshad called the meeting to order at 6:07pm.
2) May 2017 Minutes: Motion by Maura with a second by Pete to approve the minutes.
APPROVED
3) Financial Report - 2018 Work Plan and Budget: Gina and Sandi presented the draft SSA 43 2018
work plan and budget, which reflected the priorities the Commission outlined at their April and
May meetings. The City provided the TIF rebate amount of $2,506 as well as the estimated late
collections of $7,303 and proposed amount of loss collection of $7,303. The Commission was ok
with adding more tax levy to allocate to relevant categories such as marketing, beautification
and maintenance. Motion by Maura with a second by Pete to approve the 2018 budget.
APPROVED Motion by Maura with a second by Pete to approve the 2018 workplan. APPROVED
The Service Provider vote was deferred to July.
4) Programs & Services
a) Security Camera Rebate Program. Peter Kim of Western Business Systems talked about
security cameras. Price of digital cameras ranges from $100 - $10,000 but in the normal
store the high def camera is about $100 and DVR is about $500. 6-8 cameras are typical
and is about $2300 – includes monitor, camera and hard drive that is 3 terabytes and
records for 2 weeks but depending on how you set it up and could have about a month
of recording. This is just motion recording – if set up on 24-hour time then 8 cameras 8
terabyte hard drive and can put more than one hard drive in these systems. 2.4
megapixel is more than enough (don’t need more than this) –these cameras zoom too.
There are license plate cameras for alleys - $300-$5000. Monthly service fee – have a
service contract – could cover up to one year $50/mo or so – with no moving parts there
are no problem. Existing system to upgrade – cheaper if you can use existing cables –for
8 cameras estimate $1200-$1300 – need to change the DVR –wiring is same for
analogue or digital.
b) Public Way Beautification. Bigbellys were sold to Rico Enterprises for $600 and will be
removed by end of the month. CDOT is coming to add more mulch to tree grates along
the main street. Brightview is giving an estimate for maintaining the parkway trees
along the side street.
c) Public Way Maintenance. Sandi reported that CleanStreet needs a location for a
dumpster they can use to avoid fly dumping in the district. Irshad has a lease for a
dumpster at Devon/Rockwell. Sandi will get bids to get the best deal.

 d) Pressure Washing – Gina gave update on bid for key corners. The pressure washing will
be completed before the July 9th sidewalk sale.
e) Customer Attraction. The two firms selected to interview for the branding project
attended the meeting.
i) Sparkfactor – introduced themselves. Peter liked how they personalized the project
– cost would include strategy; the narrative then work with Commission to see what
resonates. Taking photos. Campaigns, then key lines (same ad, different dimension).
Irshad – can we do this in stages? Yes – find a way to incorporate non-Devon streets.
Need to figure out who we are. Peter – can personalize the campaign. Irshad – how
do you pick and choose what businesses get picked in the campaign? Concern –
there is a lot of diversity on Devon so need to find a solution for this community.
ii) A5 – focuses on public/private partnership. Focuses on finding the story. Do
research and provide a research document – check in if it’s honest and authentic.
Create a graphic identify supported by text. They explained what a nontraditional
method of advertising could be such as activating a place – place making also started
elevating festivals. Work through a social media strategy. Good at raising funds from
the private and public sector to fund their work.
iii) Discussion – need to identify who we are. Survey should be done by people who are
the demographic we are targeting. RPBA has given companies lists of people to talk
with. Pete motioned to approve Sparkfactor with a second by Maura. APPROVED
Commission to get suggestions on who Sparkfactor should talk with.
f) Mural – The Music House did not abide by the conditions under which the SSA
Commission would approve funding, namely to make the business name not prominent
and in the corner. Motion to not approve funding by Peter with a second by Maura.
APPROVED
g) Inside/Outside Sale –Gina reported the City permit was secured and enlisted the help of
SSA Commissioners to sign up businesses to participate. The hope is to to the sidewalk
sale a couple of weeks after the initial one.
5) SSA Commission Seats No Updates
6) New Business
a) Parking issue- some businesses want to charge for parking – check if the Alderman can
do 2-3 hour parking limit.
7) Public Input None
8) Adjournment. Motion to adjourn by Peter with a second by Sanhita - APPROVED

 