WPB SSA #33 Commission Meeting Minutes
Wednesday February 20, 2019 – 7:00 - 8:34 PM
Wicker Park Field House
1425 N. Damen Ave.
In Attendance:
David Ginople (DG)
Rebecca Dohe (RD)
John Hall (JH)
Wayne Janik (WJ)
Marcy Huttas (MH)
Staff – Alice Howe (SSA Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (SSA Program Manager), Pamela Maass
(WPBCC Executive Director)
Guests – Brett Keeshin (Resident), Alma Weiser (Heaven Gallery)
1. Call to Order at 7:05 PM
Introductions – Chair
2. Review of January 16th, 2019 Meeting Minutes
Motion to approve the minutes by WJ; Seconded by: MH
3. Financial Reports January 2019
JH noticed the Budget vs. Actual report was from 2018.
The committee will motion the January financial reports in March
4. Chamber of Commerce ED Report; delivered by PM
• PM gave updates on the latest vendors and sponsors for WPB Wellness Days at the Indoor
farmers market at Chop Shop.
• The latest sponsors with the Chamber are Med Spring Urgent Care and Kambs Jennings –
Compass Mortgage for their second year.
• There has been a slip and fall suit from Wicker Park Fest filed but Criterion will be taking over
the case.
• The Chamber has put out an RFP for both payroll and health insurance contracts.
• They are also considering a switch in services for the website.
5. Program Manager report; delivered by GK
• 2018 Annual Report production in progress
• 2018 Annual Audit in progress
• Dates announced for SSA’s Free Community Shredding & E-Recycling Days
• Update on Street Furniture orders (bike racks and cigarette cans installing next week, planters
ordered an being delivered early April)

8. Reports of Committees
a. Executive

 Motion 1: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $17,500 from line item 2.06
(Public Art) for five additional sculptures from the 2019 Chicago Sculpture Exhibition to be placed on
North Ave. this spring. (19-0202)

Motion to approve by RD; Seconded by: WJ
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions
Motion 2: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $37,616 from line item 2.02
(Landscaping) for BrightView’s superseding contract to include the additional 40 planters along
Milwaukee Ave. to be installed and planted in late April or early May. (19-0203)
Motion to approve by RD; Seconded by: WJ
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions
Discussion: This motion is to supersede Motion 5 for Brightview’s contract.

Motion 3: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $22,500 from line item
2.03 (Façade Enhancement Program) for Window Works storefront activation to continue in 2019. This
will include the payment for 15 applicants to participate in the “Window Works” program to promote
local artists and designers works to activate vacant storefronts in WPB, curated and selected by Arts
Committee in cooperation with Guide Development Committee. (19-0204)
Motion to approve by RD; Seconded by WJ
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions
Discussion: JH questions what this new motion is for since it wasn’t discussed at Guide
Development Committee. DG explains this came out of Executive Committee upon review of the 2018
budget. GK also explained the initial 2018 motion stated it was to be a one-year program and that reapproving this from the 2019 budget makes more sense for budget tracking purposes going forward.
Motion 4: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $15,000 from line item
2.06 (Public Art) to fund mural installations at proposed sites selected and curated by Arts Committee.
(19-0205)

Motion to approve by RD; Seconded by WJ
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions
b. Promote WPB
•

Promote Committee did not meet in February due to the Polar Vortex weather.

d. Guide Development
•

•

MH explained the committee’s last meeting where members took time to review the
implementation matrix from the 2016 Master Plan and brainstormed ideas on how to
work on each category.
Members shared an idea or two for each category and are hoping to build off of these
ideas at the next meeting to hopefully bring back to the commission.

 e. Clean and Green
Motion 5: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $20,000 from line item 2.02
(Landscaping) for BrightView Landscaping Services to plant and maintain the new, additional orange
planters to be placed along Milwaukee Ave. this Spring. (19-0201)
Motion to table by WJ; approved by JH
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions
• Winter Snow Removal Update
o Christy Webber has removed 39 inches of snow and their contract goes up to 48 inches.
The commissioners agreed that if we go over, they will motion additional funding to cover
services if necessary.
f. Arts
• DG described art’s committee intention to collaborate with other committees to
incorporate art installations on the wayfinding kiosks, banners, and planter wrappings.
• DG suggests the committee use this potential project as the first “brainstorming”
session for the meeting.
9. Brainstorming (25 Minutes)
•
•

The commissioners discussed different ways in which the committees could work
together to coordinate art with wayfinding, banners, etc.
WJ requests that staff find pricing for planter wrappers.

10. Questions & Announcements (5 minutes)
•

•

AW presented on her early discussions with a group of community members to purchase
the current building her gallery (Heaven Gallery) is in. She asked if/how the SSA can get
involved in funding.
DG explained that the Commission is unable to assist with funding the purchase of a
building but can support her in a potential fundraiser or marketing for this cause.
Additional discussion is required at the committee level before any decisions are made
about the SSA’s involvement in this project.

11. Adjournment Motion at 8:34
Motion to adjourn by DG; Seconded by WJ
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions

Next meeting: March 20

 