Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday, April 1, 2015 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Commission Meeting Minutes
Attending: Jim McHale, Chairperson; Chris Johnson, Vice Chairperson; Al Goldberg, Treasurer;
Dorothy Milne, Secretary; Kevin Owings, Commissioner; Ana Bermudez (SSA #24 Manager),
Sandi Price (RPBA Executive Director); Carolina Juarez (RPBA Staff); Bob Wissmann and Kevin
Kummer, A.C.T. Group; Benet Haller, City of Chicago Dept. of Planning; Karen Forte, City of
Chicago Dept. of Planning and Development; Joe Prino, Member of the public
Absent: None
1. Welcome
Meeting was called to order at 9:05 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Approval of February minutes
The minutes were reviewed. No changes, corrections nor additional information were
requested. Motion to approve the February 2015 minutes (Johnson/Goldberg).
Unanimously approved.
4. Review and approval of end of year financials – December 2014
End of year financials were reviewed. No changes, corrections nor additional
information were requested. Motion to approve end of year financials through
December 2014 (Johnson/ Milne). Unanimously approved.
5. Action Items
• Audit Presentation –A.C.T. Group
The A.C.T. Group presented its 2014 audit report on SSA #24. The commission
discussed and asked questions. There were no findings in the audit. Motion to
approve draft of audit as final audit without any major changes to the footnotes
(Johnson / Goldberg).
• P Street Designation with Benet Haller from Dept. of Planning.
The City of Chicago presented its recommendation to designate parts of SSA #24 as
Pedestrian Streets, specifically a couple of blocks on Clark Street and Morse Ave. P
Street designations are intended to prevent development that encourages driving
and discourages walking, biking, and transit use among other things. The
commission discussed how this would benefit the commercial district. The process
to designate a P Street includes: a recommendation from the City of Chicago, SSA
support and a letter of support from the Alderman. Motion to support P Street
designation for SSA #24 which includes Clark Street and Morse Ave.
(Johnson/Owings). 1 Opposed.
6. Information Items
• Landscaping
Ana reported on new contract with landscaping company, Brickman. She will
acquire timeline and schedule after meeting with the company this week.
• Touhy Park

 Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday, April 1, 2015 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Ana presented Touhy Park’s schedule of events per the Commission’s request.
7. New Business
• Ana presented on events coming up. All commissioners encouraged to attend
these events.
(a) Casino Night- April 30, 2015
(b) SSA Forum- May 5 or 7, 2015, 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.
(c) First Day of Glenwood Sunday Market- Sunday, June 7, 2015 / 8:30 a.m.
Commissioners were invited to attend the GSM opening to represent the
Commission and their support for the market.
• Karen Forte from the City of Chicago’s Dept. of Planning and Development
reported new policies for Commissioner term renewals and announced current
status of Commissioner terms. She also explained how important it is to
complete the Ethics Statement.
8. Old Business
• Commissioners asked that banners be revisited. Ana will review what is in the
budget for this project.
• Ana let the Commission know that there is a possibility that the 49th Ward
Participatory Budgeting will install decorative elements to light poles on Clark St.
If this is voted on and approved then she will be part of the committee.
Meeting adjourned at 10:15 a.m.

 