Minutes from SSA #26 Commission Meeting – February 24, 2016
Location:

Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
1210 W Rosedale, Chicago IL 60660

Purpose of Meeting:

SSA #26 Commissioner’s Meeting

In Attendance:
Commissioners:

Jill Metz, Chairman
Rae Ann Cecrle, B&R Developers
Helen Cameron, Uncommon Ground
Jenny Yang, Phoenix Bean Products

Staff:

Katrina Balog, Executive Director, Edgewater Chamber of
Commerce
Jennifer Hackman, Economic Development Manager, Edgewater
Chamber of Commerce

Public:

None

1. Meeting called to order at 3:10 p.m.
2. Adoption of agenda – Rae Ann moved to adopt the agenda, Helen seconded the motion, and it
passed.
3. Approval of January minutes -- Rae Ann moved to adopt the minutes, Jenny seconded the motion,
and it passed.
4. Presentation of Financials – Jennifer presented the financials. A new layout was introduced that
includes planned expenses; these are expenses we are highly confident will be completely offset by
income from the City of Chicago. This column reflects about 92% of the levied amount. Jill
recommended the column not include “Budget” in its title so that it is clear the SSA is not running two
budgets. Very few expenses have occurred, but include banner replacements and installation and an
expense in 1.04 Social Media Outreach which will be reclassified to 1.09 PR/Media Relations.
5. 2016 Budget Adjustments – Jennifer referred to a document that showed SSA levied amounts versus
actual income from the City of Chicago going back to 2013. Actual income has never met the levied
amount, however actual income was down even further, by 8% year over year, in 2015. Based on this,
Jennifer presented an adjusted schedule of expenditures totaling $432K. This number was derived by
taking 92% of the levied amount plus a one-time TIF payout to the SSA. The largest adjustments were
made to line items 1.02 Special Events, 1.05 Decorative Banners, 1.06 Holiday Decorations, 2.02
Landscaping, 2.03 Façade Enhancement Program, 2.05 Streetscape Elements, 2.06 Public Art, 2.07

 Sidewalk Maintenance and 2.09 Snow Removal. Adjustments will not impact planned services, with the
exception of holiday decorations and power washing. This schedule will be increased if the first wave of
income taxes received from the City indicates that more than 92% of the levied amount will be received.
6. Event Sponsorship Applications and Awards—Four applications for event sponsorships were
presented to the Commission: Pivot fest with a request for $4,000, Edgefest with a request for $12,500,
Family Night Out with a request for $5,000 and the Fall Art Fair with a request for $15,000. The
commission discussed each application separately and compared sponsorship amount per business that
receives direct benefits.
The commission discussed the many indirect benefits of Edgefest, including a planned startup on Bryn
Mawr of an Edgefest vendor, Andy’s Italian Ice. Edgefest will offer a subsidy to SSA businesses to
participate and will market more proactively to SSA businesses.
The commission suggested that the Family Night Out seek ways to involve more SSA businesses directly.
Other suggestions include advertisement through the schools, connecting with summer camps.
The commission discussed the purchase of new art gallery space Katrina and Rae Ann discussed that the
impacts of loading events include businesses attractions- example is Andy’s Italian Ice, and Rae Ann’s
purchase of the new art gallery spaces. Julieanne is bringing high caliber art, Rae Ann is involving local
artists.
Jenny suggested assistance with print materials and promotion might offset direct funding of proposals
in the future.
Rae Ann Cecrle left the meeting at 4:35 pm, prior to the motion to approve funding requests.
Jenny Yang motioned to approve all funding requests, Jill seconded. The motion passed.
7. Light Pole Painting Discussion – Jennifer discussed that Pressure Washing Unlimited has been
selected as the City of Chicago’s primary contractor for street pole painting through 2018. CDOT
acknowledged that Pressure Washing was the low bidder by far, and that the City has been satisfied
with their work. Jennifer provided a table that illustrated each section of the district and the estimated
cost to paint each section. She would like to move forward with a scheduling plan with a focus either on
a section immediately south of Bryn Mawr or immediately south of Devon on Broadway. Street poles,
bike racks, trash cans and controller cabinets will be painted. The total cost for the entire SSA is
estimated to be around $70,000. $7,000 of funding has been scheduled for this project; however,
additional funding will be scheduled if the full levied amounts are received. As well, the SSA will seek
partners to participate in the project. The project is expected to get underway in September.
8. New Business Jenny is buying Medina Taxi and the empty lot. For whole sale changing B-1 to C-1.
Street loading /unloading. 5426 will be retail.
9. Public Input – There was no public input.
10. Adjournment – The meeting adjourned at 4:27 pm.

 