Commission Meeting, Thursday, January 30, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Cally Raduenzel, Commissioner; Amona Buechler,
Commissioner; Charlotte Walters-Rezzo, Commissioner; Dave Skora, Community Member; Nick
Jassewsk, Community Member; Sandi Price, RPBA Executive Director; Carolina Juarez, RPBA
Staff
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:08 a.m.
2. Review and Approval of October 2013 Minutes
The commission reviewed the October 2013 minutes. Motion to approve the October 2013
minutes as presented. (Walters-Rezzo/Raduenzel) Unanimously approved.
3. Review and Approval of November 2013 Minutes
The commission reviewed the November 2013 minutes. Motion to approve the November
2013 minutes as presented. (Raduenzel/Walters-Rezzo) Unanimously approved.
4. Review and Approval of Novmeber 2013 Financials
The commission reviewed the financials. Sandi explained that December financials take longer
than the rest, because it is the end of the year. She confirmed that money not used in previous
year will carry over to the next. Motion to approve the November 2013 financials as presented.
(Raduenzel/Walters-Rezzo) Unanimously approved.
5. Programs and Projects
a. Peterson Garden Project Sign
Sandi reported that RPBA has not heard from LaManda from the Peterson
Garden Project (PGP) with approval to move forward with sign. Commission
agreed to move forward with sign as is, even if RPBA has not heard from
LaManda. The commission would like the sign to be up right away. They are
interested in advertising/promoting Hello! Howard Garden as much as possible.
RPBA will ask Sparkfactor to expedite process. RPBA will send final version of
sign before printing/production. Commission asked to send a press release out
to Newstar, local publication. Dave Skora can help with this.
Sandi went over PGP timeline for Hello! Howard Community Garden.
Commission asked that location of community interest meeting be confirmed as
well as opening date. And asked to find out how PGP usually promotes this
meeting. RPBA will confirm. Commission asked that interest meeting flyers be
passed out via mailing or flyering the community. Commission asked to inform
Gale School of PGP plans. Also to purchase plots to offer to the school as a way
of involving local community.
b. Say Hello to Howard

 Commission Meeting, Thursday, January 30, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Commission discussed plan to place Say Hello to Howard marketing banners in
vacant storefronts. Discussion involved the content of banners:
i. Use images with business owner photos
ii. Include information/description of SSA (Group of local owners
participating in betterment of Howard Street community)
iii. Size of banners; big enough that it is legible to driving traffic)
iv. Additional banners should include list of annual events sponsored by SSA
19
v. Additional banners should include demographical facts as a way to
attract potential business owners (may pull from “Open For Business”
pamphlet printed by RPBA). Dave Skora will send suggested “facts” to
RPBA.
vi. Include web address. This led to a conversation about a website.
Commission decided to create a website because they felt Facebook is
not functioning as intended. On this website there should be a directory
of businesses somewhere in the Home page. Cally will coordinate this
process and follow up with quote for commission.
vii. Make sure to get windows cleaned once these banners are up.
c. Art on Howard
Carolina reported that owner at 1448 Howard who had agreed to give access to
place Art inside property is no longer available because he has rented the space.
Commission suggested she contact more than one property owner.
d. IIT Advisory Committee
Sandi reported on IIT advisory committee’s first meeting. This committee is
working on proposals for development on Howard and Paulina lot.
6. Old Business
a. Dominicks Vacancy Update
Sandi reported that there are no news about a new lease at the old Dominicks
location. She reminded commission about list of current grocery stores in
Rogers Park. Commission would like to know what the lease amount is and what
the sales were when Domicks was open. Sandi will look into this. Commission
discussed other options for potential grocery stores.
b. Commission would like to make sure there is a sign at Howard and Greenview
about Bike Fix-it Station.
c. Commission would like to make sure Snow Removal contractor is using “petfriendly” ice melting salt.
7. New Business
Schedule Meetings for the year
Commission will continue to meet monthly on the 3rd Thursday of every monthly. Next
meeting will be on Thursday, February 20, 2014.
8. Community Input
None.

 Commission Meeting, Thursday, January 30, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Meeting adjourned at 9:52 a.m.

 