Sheridan Road Special Service Area #54 Commission Meeting
Royal Coffee Thursday, February 12, 2015 / 8 a.m.

Minutes
Present: Jennifer Clark, Commissioner; Chris Bell, Commissioner; Sean Connolly, Commissioner; Paul Reise, SSA
54 Manager
Absent: Heather Hill, Chair; Tony Fox, Commissioner; Michelle Akan, Commissioner.
1. Welcome-The meeting was called to order at 8:20 a.m.
Community and Public Input-- None.
2. Review and approval of January 2015 Minutes
No corrections were requested no errors were found or additional information requested. Motion to
approve November 2014 minutes (Bell/ Connolly). Unanimously approved.
3. Staff Report
a. RFP- Paul presented the draft marketing RFP specifically asking for feedback on the deliverables
and anticipated challenges. The scope was edited to make clear our goal of developing a brand
as well as a strategy to create our identity. The section about Rogers Park was decided to change
to describe the SSA district rather than the whole neighborhood. Cmsr. Connolly said
landscaping cohesiveness is important and should be included in the RFP. Paul is to make the
changes discussed and distribute the RFP to marketing firms.
b. Discussion of the 2015 budget. Cmsr. Clark would like to see what is allocated already. Paul is to
create a budget timeline indicating what is allocated, what is projected, and a way to track what
progress is being made each month. We also discussed potential infrastructure projects to be
considered as the budget allows. We discussed bike parking/ people spot with a potential
placement on North Shore; metered parking in front of the Morgan; diagonal parking on side
streets; pedestrian bridge crossing Sheridan Rd, south of Loyola Ave.
4. Old Business
a. Paul provided update on the LUC/Place consulting survey
b. Piggyback lights were discussed. Paul recapped conversations with CDOT regarding the lights
and how progress stalled this winter to get the engineers out to inspect the poles. Paul is to
check with CDOT and Ald. Moore, if necessary, to get our project on the inspection schedule.
5. New Business
a. Discussion on the news that the Waldorf school is likely to move from their Loyola Ave location.
The commission expressed concern of the hole this could leave and asked Paul to contact St
Ignatius regarding their plans for the future.
Adjourned at 9:28 a.m.

 