SSA #19 Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, February 20, 2019, 8:30 am
The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard St.
Minutes
In Attendance: Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Simone
Freeman, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, RPBA SSA Manager
Absent: Gale Howard, Commissioner; Matthew McMunn, Potential Commissioner
Guests: John Harris & Lizzy Kreindler of A5 Branding & Digital, Joan Cinquegrani of Five Grain
Events
Meeting called to order by Carrie Sullivan at 8:45 am
I. There was no community input.
II. Howard St. Marketing – A5 Branding & Digital
A5 discussed now that the rebranding of Howard St is complete with the new website, banners
and social media. John Harris of A5 provided a scope of services, doing another round of
photography in the spring/summer, website maintenance, more street banners, decals,
handouts, Google ad words, CTA advertising and social media including Facebook & Instagram.
Google Ads continue for the next 6 months, however the social media contract ends at the end
of Jan. 2019. Charlotte Walters moved to approve for the next 6 months services for CTA
advertising, website maintenance, social media & Instagram with boosting along with Google ad
words through July 31, 2019. Simone Freeman seconded it. Motion passed.
III. Presentation by A5 Branding & Digital on Howard Chalk Festival
A5 Branding + Five Grain Events and Star Events presented different logos for the chalk
festival. Commissioners liked both logo versions A & D. The logos will be sent out to
Commissioners to see if we can narrow it down to one version. The name of the chalk festival is
Chalk Howard Street: A Street Art Festival in Rogers Park. The goal is to have 3D chalk artists,
2D chalk artists, amateur chalk artists, squares to be purchased and kid’s chalk area along with
live bands and food vendors on Sat., July 20, 2019 from 11am-8pm. The street will be blocked
off on Howard between Paulina & Ashland and utilize Marshfield as the foot print of the festival.
The commissioners want to know what the marketing plan is for the festival which will be
presented in next month’s meeting. The budget is $35,690 from SSA budget and to raise an
additional $5,500 in sponsorship for a total budget of $41,190.Simone Freeman moved to
approve the budget. Charlotte Walters seconded it. Motion passed.
IV. Approval of Jan. 16, 2019 Minutes
Charlotte Walters moved to approve the minutes. Simone Freeman seconded it. Motion passed.
V. Adjournment
Meeting was adjourned 10:00 am.
VI. Next SSA Meeting - Wed., March 20, 2019 at 8:30 am, The Factory Theater.

 