Cl a rk / Mo rs e/G l en w o o d S p ec ia l S erv ic e A r e a # 2 4
Commissioner
Commission er Meeting
Wednesday,
Wednesday, December 3,
3 , 2014 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Minutes
Attending: Chris Johnson, Vice Chairperson; Kevin Owings, Commissioner; Dorothy Milne,
Secretary; Al Goldberg, Treasurer; Ana Bermudez (SSA #24 Manager), Carolina Juarez (RPBA
Staff).
Absent: Jim McHale, Chairperson;
1. Welcome
Meeting was called to order at 9:11 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Review and approval of October 2014 minutes
The minutes were reviewed. No changes, corrections nor additional information were
requested. Motion to approve the October 2014 minutes (Goldberg/Milne).
Unanimously approved.
4. Review October 2014 Financials
The October 2014 Financials were reviewed. No changes, corrections nor additional
information were requested. Motion to approve the October 2014 financials (Johnson /
Owings). Unanimously approved.
5. Program and Project Review
• Artspace Market Study
There was a discussion about whether SSA 24 should contribute to the second
phase of Artspace market study. Artspace conducted feasibility study over the
summer to develop a live/work/art space in Rogers Park. After much consideration
the SSA will only provide funding if other resources such as grants from other
organizations are not allocated. Motion was made stating that SSA 24 will not
allocate 2015 funds to Artspace market study unless voted by commission
(Goldberg/ Johnson) Unanimously approved.
• 2015 Deadlines
Ana attended SSA forum and was given calendar of dates to submit SSA 2016
Ordinance documents. Ana will have a draft of 2016 budget at June Commission
meeting.
• Maintenance Updates
Campaign to inform the community about Ashland/Morse parking lot closing on
12.30.14 is underway. SSA 19 donated decorative tree branches which have been
placed inside sidewalk cut outs.
• Holiday Programs
Patch landscaping was hired to install holiday garland and ribbon around 50 poles in
SSA 24. The decorations are being installed as we speak. Shop Rogers Park program
is also in effect. Flyers have been distributed to every business along the SSA.

 •

SBIF educational session
Ana organized this session with Edgewater Chamber of Commerce for the
Clark/Ridge TIF.

6. New Business:
• RPBA retreat
Chris Johnson, Al Goldberg and Dorothy Milne were present. These commissioners
mentioned the retreat was a success. Chris Johnson agreed to represent SSA 24 in
future quarterly meetings organized for SSA commissioners, GSM council members
and RPBA staff/board.
• Review of future meetings
Commission will meet every other month beginning in Feb. of 2015. They will also
meet in July 22 to review budget but NOT August, 2015.
• SSA Annual Meeting
Meeting will take place on December 11, 2014 at 6 p.m. at Den Den Restaurant on
Clark Street. All Commissioners are encouraged to attend.
• Clark Street Roundtable
Next Tuesday, December 9, 2014 Ana, Carolina and Sandi will facilitate a roundtable
discussion with the Latino/a business owners on Clark Street in SSA 24. The
discussion will include topics such as:
o beautification of the street
o What are the owners’ needs from the SSA and RPBA?
•

Al asked for contact information for SSA liaison, Ana will send commission contact
information and scan the 2015 master calendar.
Meeting adjourned at 10:23 a.m. (Johnson/Owings)

 