Executive Committee Minutes
February 19th, 2019 – 8:30 – 9:45 AM
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce – 1414 N. Ashland Ave.
In attendance: David Ginople (Chair), Rebecca Dohe (Vice Chair), Marcy Huttas (Secretary)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
1. Chicago Sculpture Exhibition
a. DG explained the Arts Committee’s proposal to activate North Avenue with five
additional sculptures between Ashland and Damen Ave.
Motion 1: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $17,500 from line item 2.06
(Public Art) for five additional sculptures from the 2019 Chicago Sculpture Exhibition to be placed on
North Ave. this spring. (19-0202)

DG motions. RD seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
2. Brightview’s maintenance of additional orange planters on Milwaukee Avenue
a. Brightview presented a separate contract for 40 additional planters at Clean &
Green Committee meeting but Executive Committee discussed whether or not
they should motion additional funding or void the previous contract and start
with a new motion and fresh contract to supersede the original
Motion 2: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $37,616 from line
item 2.02 (Landscaping) for BrightView’s superseding contract to include the additional 40
planters along Milwaukee Ave. to be installed and planted in late April or early May. (19-0203)

DG motions. RD seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.

3. Budgeting procedure Window Works / Murals
a. GK thinks that if these are ongoing programs we should re-allocate funding for
2019 and look into creating a budget line for them in 2020 because it becomes
difficult to track if we continue to pay them out of the 2018 budget
b. Committee agreed and motioned would like to re-allocate for 2019
Motion 3: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $22,500 from line
item 2.03 (Façade Enhancement Program) for Window Works storefront activation to continue
in 2019. This will include the payment for 15 applicants to participate in the “Window Works”
program to promote local artists and designers works to activate vacant storefronts in WPB,
curated and selected by Arts Committee in cooperation with Guide Development Committee.
(19-0204)
Motion 4: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $15,000 from line
item 2.062 (Public Art) to fund mural installations at proposed sites selected and curated by
Arts Committee. (19-0205)

 4. Bright Beat proposal for recycling at Wicker Park Fest
a. The chamber’s events committee rejected Bright Beat’s proposal for Wicker Park
Fest.
b. MH suggests the SSA look into funding a recycling education element at Wicker
Park Fest.
5. Process for Wayfinding art selection / maintenance
a. DG explained that if SSA intends to expand art program on upcoming Wayfinding
kiosks to street banners, planter wraps and other parts of the SSA that a process
is needed to determine cross-committee communication for maintenance and
curation
b. This could become a much larger, cross-committee program that may require a
task force or separate committee
c. The committee agrees this project should feature local artists and possibly
including students from local schools.
d. GK suggests inviting Thirst to Promote Committee to brainstorm ways to work
collaboratively with artists and spread the wayfinding project’s art integration to
other initiatives
e. GK suggested that until we know more about logistics, cost, and timing of
wayfinding project launch it is difficult to discuss this any further

 