Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
Monday, April 15, 2019 2:30pm - 4:30pm
2949 W. Devon Ave., Chicago
MINUTES
Commissioners Present: Irshad Khan, Jayesh Shewakramani, Rebeca Vasquez, Maura Nemes, Pete
Valavanis
Commissioners Absent: Avi Bereliani, Sanhita Agnihotri
Commissioner Candidates Present: Mohammad Bozai, Junaid Butt
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Gina Caruso, Tony Pelikan (Rogers Park Business Alliance)
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein
Guests: Robert Taylor, West Ridge Chamber of Commerce (WRCC); Amy Pooley, ACT Group; CPD Officer
Hardy, CPD Officer Lamb; Jacob Miller, 24th District Civilian Analyst
I.

Call to Order at 2:40pm

II. Public Input – Robert updated on the “On Devon” event and reiterated the Chamber’s gratitude
to the Devon SSA for sponsoring this event.
III. Review and approve draft March 2019 Meeting Minutes – Motion to approve the minutes by
Maura with a second by Jay. APPROVED
IV. Financials – 2018 Audit and Draft 2020 Budget
a. 2018 Audit Amy Pooley from ACT Group presented the draft 2018 Devon SSA Audit.
Motion to approve the audit by Pete with a second by Rebeca. APPROVED
b. Gina and Sandi reviewed the draft 2020 budget with the Commissioners and will make
edits to the budget for review/approval by the Commission at the May or June meeting.
V. Programs & Services
a. BIP & Sign Removal Rebates – Gina presented the revised proposals for 2303, 2305 and
2305.5 W Devon – the vendor reduced their cost by $2,000 per storefront.
b. Public Way Security Camera Program
i. CPD Officer Hardy was joined by Officer Lamb and Jacob Miller, the District’s
Civilian Analyst.
ii. Gina provided an overview of the program goals, RFP process and status of the
program.
iii.
Officer Lamb stated the local SDSC (Strategic Decision and Support
Center) has access to Genetec cameras and has 24/7 viewing of the cameras
and that Devon/Mozart and Devon/Oakley have good cameras. IDOT put in
cameras on Western.
iv.
Jacob works with the SDSC to analyze data and do predictive analytics
and advises CPD Commander. Jacob stated his one big analytical thought is that
it’s extremely useful to have video fed into OEMC to immediately view

1

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
something during the act. Officers Quadry and Khan show up after the fact and
therefore preferred to view footage – which was before the SDSC was built out.
v. Now the goal is to view real time. Pre SDSC cameras were for deterrent or to
view footage. Now with the SDSC room, the info is sent out to CPD officers
immediately on the street. Their system can take a snap shot or video to send to
CPD officers right away, which is good for missing persons, too.
vi.
City pod cameras have access up to 30 days for footage. The City pod
cameras are Motorola and vary in age from brand new to 10 years old. Pod
cameras now are black and smaller. Ald. Silverstein stated that people say they
perceive the area as having a problem if they see pod cameras.
vii.
Pod cameras would not be used for a business – pod cameras must go
on poles. Given this, we can get specs of pod cameras to see which kind of
camera can be installed on buildings.
viii.
Irshad – one option is to buy cameras and gift them to the CPD. Districts
7 and 11 were first to have SDSC rooms. Aldermen in those districts purchased
cameras. Cameras are $30,000 or so per camera. First year with the room – saw
over 30% reduction in crime and double-digit reductions in successive years.
ix.
If the SSA funds buying cameras and gifting them to the City, the City
then pays for installation, internet, and ongoing maintenance. Ald. Silverstein
stated the CPD Commander can move them if they need to, so perhaps we try
to do a restrictive gifting so the cameras stay in the SSA.
x. Multiple entities control these cameras that feed into OEMC. Some owned by
police and others by the City.
xi.
Devon Seely and Devon California have cameras but are old (ca 2008).
Recovery rate is about 85% of vehicles stolen in the district.
xii.
Jay suggests put up cameras and have something on the phone (offline
from OEMC) and give CPD access rather than patching into OEMC. Officer Lamb
thinks is possible but not sure. Difference is a camera is patched into OEMC and
they can call out exactly what they are seeing on the camera rather than after
the fact. Having said that, the CPD needs cameras for both what’s happening
now and what happened in the past.
xiii.
Next steps
1. Get specs on the OEMC pod cameras to see what comparable camera
we can get that could be installed on buildings.
2. Find out what restrictive gifting can be done to the CPD to ensure the
cameras stay within the Devon SSA.
3. Follow up with Officer Henry once we have the camera specs and
decision on gifting the cameras.
c. Public Way Beautification
i. Streetscape Update – Light Pole Painting will be scheduled possibly this week.
ii. Holiday Decorations Update – Illuminight completed their light audit and are
waiting on replacement parts. The three additional mandalas are on order and
will be installed at the other gateways.
iii.
Public Art Update – Deferred to the May meeting.

2

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
iv.
Landscaping – Mulching and In-Ground Planters. Mulching is completed
and in-ground planters will be inspected before the end of April to determine
scope and cost for additional plantings.
d. Public Way Maintenance
i. Pressure Washing Sample Washing and Vendor Selection. The Commission
discussed the three bids and reviewed the sample cleaning photos by Quality
Pressure Washing. The Commission preferred to go with Pressure Washing
Unlimited which will provide equipment that will recover the water. Motion to
conditionally approve Pressure Washing Unlimited pending a sample cleaning.
e. Customer Attraction
i. “On Devon Promotion Campaign” Progress Report. Gina reported the campaign
is doing well considering the low amount of business profiles on file for creating
content.
ii. Special Events
1. Devon's Got Talent Sunday 11/3/19- Gina reported the event planning is
on schedule and the talent registration forms will be ready soon. Gina
stated the sponsorship recruitment will be discussed at the May
meeting.
2. Movie Night Sunday 6/23/19 - the movie, “Ralph Breaks the Internet” is
confirmed and marketing is occurring for the event. Robert is not sure if
the popcorn machine is working and will get back to Sandi.
f. Economic Development
i. Devon SSA Rebate Program Clinic 4/17/19. Gina distributed flyers for SSA
Commissioners to distribute in their zones.
g. Trolley – Gina presented research on a trolley for Devon. The Commission wants to try a
trolley program Independence Day weekend – Saturday July 6 and Sunday, July 7 10am
– 10pm. They want to utilize the Devon Bank and Hanmi Bank parking lots on Western.
RPBA will utilize social media and possible at the parking lots to let people know about
the parking.
VI. SSA Commission
a. New Candidate Recruitment – no updates.
b. Next meeting: 5/20/19 2:30pm – 4:30pm – meeting confirmed.
VII. Old & New Business
a. Opened / Closed Businesses – no updates.
b. Fire and Police Appreciation Day – the Commission agreed to bring the fire and police
workers refreshments to their stations. Junaid and Mohammad offered to donate food.
Next step is to ask the fire and police stations the best time in August to make the
delivery. RPBA will make a card with the Devon SSA Commissioners and Ald. Silverstein
listed.
VIII.Adjournment – motion to adjourn by Pete with a second by Jay. APPROVED

3

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 