Sheridan Road Special Service Area #54
Commission Meeting
Royal Coffee
Thursday, February 13, 2014
8:00 a.m.

Minutes
Present; Jennifer Clark, Commissioner; Tony Fox, Commissioner; Sean Connolly, Commissioner; Chris
Bell, Commissioner; Michelle Akan, Commissioner; Sandi Price, RPBA Executive Director; Carolina
Juarez, RPBA Staff.
Absent: Heather Hill, Chair
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:01 p.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Review and approval of November 2013 Minutes
The minutes were reviewed. No changes were requested. Motion to approve the November
2013 minutes (Connolly/Bell). Unanimously approved.
4. Review and approval of November 2013 Financials
The November, 2013 financials were reviewed. Motion to approve the November 2013
financials (Connolly/Clark).
5. Staff Report
a. Business updates
i. Ciao Bella: There is no update on the former Ciao Bella location except that the
property is still for lease.
ii. Twisted Tapas: Owner is worried about parking options near his business.
b. Landscape Plan
i. Sandi gave update on her communication with CDOT and Loyola regarding TIF
funds for a landscape plan for SSA 54. Chris Bell suggested the commission be
clear on what their landscape plan is.
c. SBIF
i. SBIF is accepting applications, all business owners are encouraged to turn in
their paper work.

 6. Sheridan Road business corridor map / Morgan at Loyola Map
a. RPBA should ask Ashley Chambers why Granada Center businesses are not included in
the Morgan at Loyola map.
b. Commission discussed latest version of SSA 54 Sheridan Road Map:
i. Make edits to map: Loyola Avenue nor Arthur Ave. connect to Michigan Lake.
(Beach). Business text should be bigger and accentuated more than the image.
Implement text into map somehow. Reduce land and water visuals. There
should be logos of businesses instead of numbers on map.
ii. Commission discussed printing vinyl of map to place on vacant storefronts along
SSA 54
iii. Once edits are made, vinyls of maps should be printed and placed in residential
buildings at Loyola University, CTA Loyola station, beaches, and the New 400
Theatre. Sean Connolly will send commission a list of maps can be placed in
Loyola Residential halls.
iv. Commission decided to table any edits or printing until after an upcoming
strategic planning meeting.
7. New Business
a. Commission discussed scheduling a strategic planning meeting for SSA 54 for the next 3
to 5 years. Commission is interested in making Sheridan Road cohesive with Loyola’s
plans. Jennifer will acquire design guidelines for Sheridan Road from Loyola University.
RPBA will find a facilitator for strategic planning meeting and make sure to make
meeting accessible to the public. Meeting is scheduled to be Wednesday, March 12,
2014.
8. Adjourned at 9:12a.m.

 