Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, August 15, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Simone Freeman,
Commissioner; Cally Raduenzel, Commissioner; Dave Skora, Community Member; Valerie
Lyons, Director of Willye White Park; Paul Reise, SSA 19 Manager; Carolina Juarez, RPBA Staff
Absent: Richard Rozhko, Commissioner, Amona Buechler, Commissioner
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:12 a.m.
2. Community and public input
Valerie Lyons, Director of Willye B. White park introduced herself to the commission and
talked about the programs at the park district. There was significant discussion on how
to build synergy between the park and the SSA including cross-posting events and
producing a monthly calendar of events.
3. Review and Approval of July 2014 Minutes
The commission reviewed the July 2014 minutes. Motion to approve the July 2014
minutes as presented. (Walters/ Freeman) Unanimously approved.
4. Review June Financials
The commission reviewed the June financials. Motion to approve the June financials as
presented. (Walters / Freeman) Unanimously approved.
5. Discuss 2015 SSA 19 Final budget and Workplan
Commission discussed 2015 Final budget and Workplan. Motion to approve 2015 Final
budget and Workplan as presented and to authorize the Rogers Park Business Alliance
as sole service provider for SSA 19. (Walters/ Freeman). Unanimously approved.
6. Programs and Projects
a. Peterson Garden Project
Weekly programming is continuing. Shipping container was painted with mural.
Commission discussed what could be done to make the plots closest to Howard
Street look better, and what could be done about the weeds along the fence.
Paul will contact PGP about weeding and process for next spring to ensure there
are no empty/under-utilized plots. Valerie Lyons offered to partner with kids
from the park district to help maintain the streetside plots.
b. Public Art
i. Sculpure: Commission asked for the text/pic from the brochure to use in
other promotions, Paul will follow up with Barb from Chicago Sculpture
Exhibit. It was asked if possible to re-align to be more visible from
Howard Street; Paul indicated that it’s attached to concrete base and not
feasible to move.

 Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, August 15, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

c.
d.

e.

f.
g.

ii. Mural: Commission asked for an update on the design from the artists by
the 27th of August circulated via email for their comments. Commission
was asked to be pro-active in looking for additional sites to help shorten
the turn-around time if additional mural opportunities arise in the future.
Valerie mentioned former water-feature wall could be used. Charlotte W.
asked if BIP funds could be used for murals.
HarvestFest
Date is September 27th at Willye White park. BigBuzz is our marketing and
promotional firm, Paul has a meeting with Melissa from BigBuzz next week.
Concerts at Willye B. White
Paul reported Tim Williams and Urban Rhythm will continue with music series,
next time is prior to the Movie in the Park (8/27). The park district is also hosting
a world music concert on Sept. 14th at noon
Planters
Sidewalk cut-offs cannot be planted or touched for a year because they have a
one year warranty with the City of Chicago. The commission would like to have
more business owners adopt a planter. Paul will ask business owners around the
SSA if anyone is interested.
Hello Howard Posters
Paul indicated that Hello Howard posters were now up in several business along
Howard Street
Advertising
i. Sol Café cup holders- Simone mentioned that she was ordering coffee
cup sleeves and the commission agreed to split the cost and include
Howard Street branding on one side. Paul will send Simone the design to
forward to the printer.
ii. 2015 Directory- Commissioners agreed to again place a full page ad in the
Business Directory. Discussion centered on what should be in the ad. It
was agreed to try and fit four of the HelloHoward photo along with text
about the SSA and its website. Paul will email for approval before
submitting to Harbor House for printing.

7. Old Business
Paul relayed Richard Rozhko has decided to resign from the commission.
8. New Business
none
Meeting adjourned at 9:56 a.m.

 