Guide Development Committee
Minutes
March 21, 2017
In attendance: Brent Norsman (SSA chiar, committee co-chair), Marcy (co-chair), Rebecca Dohe (SSA vice
chair), Wayne Janik, David Ginople, Sam Marts, Michael Lofton, Kim Van Dyn Hoven, Pamela Maass
(executive director), Jessica Wobbekind (managing director), Michael Ashkenasi (ssa program specialist)
Special Guest: Jim Peters, Quality of Life and Safety Consultant
1. Mr. Peters and the committee had a follow-up discussion from the 3/20 seminar
a. DG asked for details of Mr. Peters research and activities leading up to the seminar
b. Mr. Peters suggested a good clean-up would be more beneficial than private security
(broken windows theory).
c. MH asks – what are some actionable items that we have control over?
i. Mr. Peters: social marketing, i.e. “don’t leave things in sight in your car”, “don’t
walk alone late at night”
You need to decided- What is the common vision of the group?
d. SM- one of the biggest take-aways from the seminar is that we need to “own” our
neighborhood, one of the problems is that the SSA is huge.
e. Mr. Peters- ask yourself why is it happening here? For example- there are so many dirty
windows, it looks like no one is paying attention.
f. BN- we could create a “code of ethics” on how to be a better neighbor to distribute to
businesses
i. This is part of the intent with hiring a “Night Mayor” or Nighttime Economy
Coordinator
ii. Retail can be built around the nighttime economy and thrive as a result. There
should be better coordination between the daytime and nighttime businesses.
iii. The Night Mayor works with nighttime businesses, the police used to do this but
they are gone now, create a recognition program and a welcome packet for
businesses
** the night mayor is a much better investment in the community than private
security.
g. DG- are there groups that have actual metrics of the effectiveness? Mr. Peters- it
depends on the metrics., West Palm Beach decided they didn’t need armed security but
hired security to manage crowds which frees up the police, a lot of it is helping
businesses understand what people want.
h. Mr. Peters- we need to fix the problems that cause the crime
i. Need something actionable- the committee agrees to the we should put together a job
description for a night manager.
j. The Promote Committee can work on a neighborhood code of ethics, get the logos from
all the community groups.
i. Recognize our assets, take an inventory of our of our businesses.
k. Go back to a Cleanslate evening cleaning shift and earmark the rest of the money for a
nighttime manager.
Motion 1: to approve funding of Cleanslate evening service in an amount not to exceed $10,000 from
line item 2.08 (Sidewalk Maintenance).

 2. The committee reviewed the façade enhancement rebate application from 1841 W. North Ave.
Motion 2: to approve funding in an amount not to exceed $5,000 from line item 2.03 (façade
enhancement programs) for façade improvements at 1841 W North Ave.

Guide Development Committee
Minutes
April 11, 2017
In attendance: Brent Norsman (co-chair), Marcy Huttas (co-chair), Mike Cho (chamber board vice
president), Suzanne Keers, Michael Lofton, Pamela Maass (executive director), Jessica Wobbekind
(managing director)
1. The committee discussed the voting member application submitted by Michael Lofton
Motion 3: to approve Michael Lofton to become a voting member of the Guide Development
Committee.
2. The committee discussed the issues of safety and quality of life
a. BN provided a brief summary of consultant, Jim Peters, assessment. Mr. Peters advises
the community would be best served to hire a Night Manager. At this time, the
committee thinks the SSA summer intern can absorb some of the Night Manager duties.
b. BN, MH, PM and JW met yesterday and discussed a new idea- creating a rebate program
for businesses that are interested in hiring security.
i. MH- the thoughts about security are so mixed, this puts the power in the hands
of the PIN holders to let them decide what is right for them.
ii. It is easily implementable
iii. What about businesses that already hire security, such as banks? We will have
to work out some details of the program. The program should encourage
security to have eyes on the street.
Motion 4: to approve the funding of a private security rebate program in an amount not to exceed
$25,000 to provide rebates of up to $2,500 per business or residence from line item 5.05 (General Safety
and Security Programs).
3. The committee discussed creating an informational pamphlet to include best practices for night
time businesses, safety information for all businesses, information about ssa programs that are
available
a. The intern can hand out this pamphlet and talk to businesses. MC- the best time to talk
to nighttime businesses is the late afternoon.
Motion 5: to fund the design and printing of an informational pamphlet to market SSA #33’s safety
enhancement programs in an amount not to exceed $5,000 from line item 5.05 (General Safety and
Security Programs).

 