ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
PUBLIC HEARING
July 5, 2019 – 12:00 to 1:00 PM
Preventive Health and Health Services (PHHS) Block Grant Application
For Period of October 2018 through September 2019
AGENDA
I. Call to Order and Introductions
II. Updates regarding the PHHS Block Grant
III. Review and Discussion of Grant Projects Funded by the Block Grant
IV. Public Comment
V. Closing Remarks
Illinois residents have an opportunity to share their thoughts on services and programs funded through
the federal Preventive Health and Health Services Block Grant. A public hearing is scheduled for July
5, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Public Health offices in Springfield. The Preventive Health and
Health Services (PHHS) Block Grant provides all 50 states with funding to address their unique public
health needs in innovative and locally-defined ways. Grantees use these funds to respond rapidly to
emerging health issues, fill gaps in programs that deal with leading causes of death and disability and
support local efforts to achieve healthy communities. The Illinois Department of Public Health, Office
of Health Promotion, is the designated state recipient of the Preventive Health and Health Services
Block Grant funds. Programs and services supported by the grant include primary prevention and
health promotion efforts associated with improving nutrition, early hearing detection interventions, the
Illinois Project for the Local Assessment of Needs (IPLAN), county-level Behavioral Risk Factor
Surveillance (BRFSS), the State Health Improvement Plan, Illinois Pregnancy Risk Assessment
Monitoring System (PRAMS), and the Sexual Assault Set-Aside.
1)

2)

3)

Dates, Times and Locations of Public Hearings:
Friday, July 5, 2019
Noon to 1:00 PM
Illinois Department of Public Health
535 W. Jefferson Street, 2nd Floor Conference Room
Springfield, IL 62761-0001
This hearing is being held solely to gather public comment on the proposed grant application for
the Preventive Health and Health Services (PHHS) Block Grant. Participants must sign in at the
registration desk and must have the name badge on their person at all times while in the public
hearing location.
Contact:
Office of Health Promotion
217-785-4093

 