SSA 54 Commission Meeting Thursday, April 19, 2018, 8am, Royal Coffee

Minutes
In Attendance: Sean Connolly, Commissioner; Tony Fox, Commissioner; Heather Hill, Commissioner;
Chris Bell, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, SSA #54 Manager; Sandi Price, RPBA
Absent: Jennifer Clark, Commissioner; Richard Sasso, Commissioner

Meeting was called to order by Sean Connolly at 8 am.
Community & Public Input
There was no community & public input.
2017 Financial Audit
Sandi Price, Executive Director of Rogers Park Business Alliance presented the 2017 SSA #54 financial
audit report. There is a savings of $28,626. No further questions. Tony Fox moved to approve the 2017
financial audit, Chris Bell seconded it. Motion passed unanimously.
Loyola Contribution
Sandi Price presented the Loyola contribution account quick report since 2012. Currently there is $7,000
that has not been spent by SSA #54.
Approval of February 8, 2018 Minutes
Heather Hill moved to approve the minutes. Tony Fox seconded it. Motion passed unanimously.
Approval of March 8, 2018 Minutes
Heather Hill moved to approve the minutes. Sean Connolly seconded it. Motion passed unanimously.
Summer on the Plaza Contribution $7,000
This was tabled as Summur Roberts of Loyola University will be asked to attend next SSA meeting to
explain what the contribution would be used for.
2018 Program Tracker
Cynthia explained that a program tracker will be incorporated into each meeting packets to track
ongoing and completed projects. There was a discussion about installing Rogers Park bike racks
throughout the SSA on Sheridan Road. Chris Bell moved to install Rogers Park bike racks throughout the
SSA on Sheridan Road. Sean Connelly seconded it. Motion passed unanimously.

 BIP and Landscaping flyer and application will be distributed to SSA #54 businesses in the month of May,
2018.
Street Graffiti Solutions
Cynthia presented anti stick paint and bella wrap to be used throughout SSA #54 on electrical boxes and
street light poles. This would prevent people from using graffiti and taping up flyers. This was met with
enthusiasm and Cynthia was directed to get more information and price quotes.
Old Business
None
New Business
Flatts and Sharpe is planning a music festival in Sept. 2018 on Columbia Ave. & Sheridan Road.

***Upcoming Commission #54 Meeting Dates***
Thursday, May 31st at 8am

 