SSA 54 Commission Meeting Thursday, June 14, 2018, 8am, Royal Coffee

Minutes
In Attendance: Sean Connolly, Commissioner; Heather Hill, Commissioner; Jennifer Clark, Commissioner;
Chris Bell, Commissioner; Richard Sasso, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, SSA #54 Manager
Absent: Tony Fox, Commissioner
Guest: Cecilia Rodriquez, Loyola University
Meeting was called to order by Sean Connolly at 8 am.
Community & Public Input
There was no community & public input.
Summer on the Plaza Contribution
Cecilia Rodriquez presented a report on Summer on the Plaza and requested $7,000 contribution for
increasing the program to include an additional day of live musical performances. Chris Bell moved to
approve only $5,400 which is in the SSA budget. Jennifer Clark seconded it. Motion passed
unanimously.
Approval of April 19, 2018 Minutes
Heather Hill moved to approve the minutes. Chris Bell seconded it. Jennifer Clark abstained. Motion
passed.
2019 Draft Budget
Cynthia Ryan presented the 2019 draft budget and there was a discussion to keep money in section 3.03
public transit as a place holder for bike racks, look at reducing 6.03 bookkeeping costs and reducing 6.06
office supplies cost. Check to see if Brandon Harding’s salary is counted twice. Cynthia will check into
this.
Street Graffiti Solutions
Cynthia presented anti stick paint and bella wrap to be used throughout SSA #54 on electrical boxes and
street light poles. This would prevent people from using graffiti and taping up flyers. Cynthia reported
that Brandon Harding, Maintenance Director will be taking measurements in order to get a quote.
Old Business
None
New Business

 Chris Bell brought up using Gale Academy students to design artwork for the bella wraps to be installed
on electrical boxes and pay them for the design in an effort to support Gale Academy’s fundraiser for
their new medical center at the school. Cynthia Ryan is to check with city of Chicago is an RFP would be
used to do this.

Meeting adjourned at 9:50 am.

***Upcoming Commission #54 Meeting Dates***
Thursday, July 12 at 8am

 