Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, July 18, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Amona Buechler,
Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Cally Raduenzel, Commissioner; Dave Skora,
Community Member; Mrs. Carmell, Business Owner on the SSA; Paul Reise, SSA 19 Manager;
Carolina Juarez, RPBA Staff
Absent: Richard Rozhko, Commissioner,
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:06 a.m.
2. Community and public input
3. Review and Approval of May 2014 Minutes
The commission reviewed the May 2014 minutes. Motion to approve the Arpi2014
minutes as presented. (Raduenzel/ Buechler) Unanimously approved.
4. Review May Financials
The commission reviewed the May financials. Motion to approve the May financials as
presented. (Walters / Raduenzel) Unanimously approved.
5. Discusss 2015 draft budget
Commission discussed 2015 draft budget. Motion to approve 2015 draft budget as
presented. (Walters/ Freeman). Unanimously approved.
6. Programs and Projects
a. Peterson Garden Project
Programming is going well. Garden is a huge success. Gravel is place ready for
stage. Shipping container has been installed. There is a plan to paint the
container and add a roof.
b. Fix-it Stand
Paul reported the stand is now installed. The Recyclery Collective is happy about
the stand and will plan on programming in coordination with them to educate
the community about the stand.
c. Public Art
i. Sculpure: It is installed. It will find its home on Howard for one year. The
commission is very happy with the sculpture.
ii. Mural: Paul reported that owner (Dr. Nijar) of 1557 W. Howard (one of
the locations voted as one of the murals) is not cooperating on giving
access to wall. His proposal is over $1000 per month to rent the wall.
The Commission asked that Paul contact Dr. Nijar once more in writing to
try to negotiate a lower price. They also suggested that Paul arrange to

 Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, July 18, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

d.

e.

f.

g.

meet with Alderman Moore to see if he might have some leverage on the
issue.
Art & Sol
Simone reported that Brittney would like to push back the date to the same date
as Harvest fest since it was so successful last year. Brittaney will need help with
special event permit from the Rogers Park Business Alliance. The commission
agreed to pay Brittaney for her time organizing the market. It was also discussed
having the amazing Kale Burger made by Brandon at the market.
Concerts at Willye B. White
Paul reported will get details from Tim regarding his concerts in the park
proposal. The commission would like to know when he will play, how many
people will play and what type of music he will play.
Planters
Sidewalk cut-offs cannot be planted or touched for a year because they have a
one year warranty with the City of Chicago. The commission would like to have
more business owners adopt a planter. Paul will ask business owners around the
SSA if anyone is interested.
Artspace
Paul reported that the Arspace feasibility study was a great success. In order to
continue to next phase Rogers Park will have to be chosen and pay for that
particular feasibility study. The commission suggested the SSA encourage as
many artists in Rogers Park to write a letter to Arspace reiterating how much of
an interest exists among artists.

7. Old Business
Commission discussed Richard Rozhko’s lack of attendance. Paul will talk to him about
resigning from the commission.
8. New Business
a. Business Improvement Program applications
Motion to approve Good to Go ($2,532.14) and ZIPZ Express’ (pending final
submission) proposals for rebate assistance from SSA 19, Howard Street’s
Business Improvement Program (Walters/ Rauduenzal) Unanimously approved.
b. The new program director at Willye White park will be invited to next meeting in
order to have her meet the commission and get to know more about SSA 19 and
how they can collaborate with the park.
c. There is a new business owner interested in becoming commissioner. Carolina
will send her application.

Meeting adjourned at 9:54 a.m.

 