WPB Arts Committee
Minutes
March 28, 2017
In attendance: David Ginople (chair), Dan Murphy, Charlie Rees, Pamela Maass (executive director),
Jessica Wobbekind (managing director), Lynn Basa (artist) and 3 contractors for the art installation- Alex,
David Douglas and Eric
1. The committee discussed the public art installation at Milwaukee and Wood, Worker’s Cottage
Parklet, with Lynn Basa, the selected artist.
a. There cannot be any reference to Bucktown. It would be best to not reference any
neighborhood and instead focus on the history of Milwaukee Ave.
b. Ms. Basa really wanted to create a “People Place” at this corner.
c. The committee votes to move forward with one arch, all in favor
d. The committee discussed selling stamped bricks to partially fund the project. There
needs to be tests on the selected brick material to determine if it is possible.
e. Ms. Basa will provide a payment schedule, a typical payment schedule would be 50%
upon signing of contract to pay for materials, 25% when construction begins and 25%
upon completion. But Ms. Basa will need about $3,000 for engineering fees. DG – we
can release 10%.
f. What is the timeline? From the time we receive permission, approximately 16-20
weeks, actual construction will take approximately 5 weeks.
g. The concrete work will need to be done before the steel foundation, there are a lot of
utilities.
h. JW needs to contact CDOT to find out if there are plans, it would be helpful to have
them.
i. First step is to check in with the Alderman, then CDOT and then submit the permit
application.
j. Request- seal the grout to prevent graffiti, the metal will be painted instead of powdercoated so that it can be touched up easily.
k. Expectations for the SSA:
i. Set up meetings to facilitate the process
ii. Get permits
iii. Investigate the electrical hook-up, get it ready
l. Lights are pixels on a strand, can be programmed on a schedule, won’t take too much
power. Could it be solar powered? Possibly.
m. The goal is to get it installed by artist’s month in October.

 