Sheridan Road SSA #54 Meeting Minutes
Thursday, Feb. 8, 2018, 8am, Royal Coffee
In Attendance: Sean Connolly, Heather Hill, Tony Fox, Jennifer Clark, Sandi Price, Cynthia Ryan,
Guest: Summur Roberts
Absent: Chris Bell, Richard Sasso
Meeting was called to order by Sean Connelly at 8:15 am
Sept. 14, 2017 Minutes
Tony Fox motioned to approve the Sept. 14, 2017 minutes, Jennifer Clark seconded it. Motion passed
unanimously.
Snow Removal
There was a discussion that snow removal by Cleanstreet is inadequate and poor even by switching to a
one inch contract. Jennifer Clark to check if Loyola University could be paid by SSA #54 to provide snow
removal. Cynthia to check to see who Lakeview SSA #8 uses for snow removal as the sidewalks are
always clear. Hold back the payment to Cleanstreet. It was decided not to use Cleanstreets next year.
Cynthia Ryan to put out a request for proposals (RFP) for snow contract 2019.
Holiday Lights
The holiday lights are not consistent as there are no streetscape power outlets and the SSA is dependent
on property owners who allow us to plug into their external outlets. One whole block on each side from
Columbia to Northshore is dark since property owners declined even though we offered to pay for the
electricity used. Some discussion about re-designing lights just to be on available plazas. It was
recommended to have the holiday light contractor Illuminights to attend the SSA #54 meeting in the
summer months.
Strategic Planning
Strategic planning on Dec. 7, 2017 was beneficial to identify goals of SSA #54 over the next year.
Streetscape, beautification, business improvement program and landscape rebate are the priority.
Summer on the Plaza
Summur Roberts to provide a written Summer on the Plaza annual report.
Business Improvement Program
Eligible for a rebate up to 50% of the associated costs with a maximum rebate not to exceed $5,000.
Landscape Rebate
Eligible for a rebate up to 50% of the associated costs with a maximum rebate not to exceed $500.
Jennifer Clark moved to approve landscape rebate. Heather Hill seconded it. Motion passed
unanimously. Cynthia Ryan to design flyer for both rebate programs and bring it to next SSA #54
meeting.

 Loyola Contribution Financials
Jennifer Clark requested that contributions to SSA #54 and expenditures be included in the monthly SSA
meeting packet.
Program Tracker for Meetings
There was a discussion to have a monthly program tracker to be included in the monthly SSA meeting
packet. Cynthia to provide with meeting packets ongoing.
Monthly Meetings
In order to accomplish goals, it was agreed to meet monthly.
SSA #54 Logo
Heather Hill suggested to have the SSA #54 changed and will look into it.
Meeting was adjourned at 9am.
Next meeting is Thurs., March 8, 2018.

 