WPB Guide Development Committee
Minutes
June 13, 2017
In attendance: Marcy Huttas, Shelby Hastens, Michael Lofton, John Paige, Jessica Wobbekind (Managing
Director), Michael Ashkenasi (SSA Program Specialist)
1. The committee discussed the Market Study printed pamphlet
a. In terms of the audience, it seems now that the targeted audience is the business
community (e.g. potential new businesses in the neighborhood), rather than the
neighborhood at large. MA – an analogy would be how real estate agents market vacant
commercial space. In this case, we would be advertising our whole community, instead
of one commercial space…
b. JW – The SSA Commission approved up to $3,500 for the design and printing of the
pamphlet, but this will probably only cover the design costs, per our conversations with
Teska.
c. The committee suggested that we partner with the Chamber; the SSA can commit
$3,000 and the Chamber commits $3,000. The Chamber should perhaps take the lead
on this project, since this is turning into a business attraction piece.
2. Motion 1: To approve Shelby Hastens as a voting member of the Guide Development
Committee.
MH motions, JP 2nds, all in favor
3. The committee discussed the Façade Rebate program guidelines for eligible vs. ineligible
expenses.
a. MA – Although the Committee approved additional funding (+$1,600) for the metal
awning at 1709 W. Division on 5/8, the SSA Commission did not approve the funding at
the May meeting. Some of the commissioners felt the structure being proposed was not
technically an “awning”; some felt that awnings are not permanent improvements to a
building and are part of the “cost of opening a business”. Therefore, it is unlikely the
SSA Commission at this time will approve funding for awnings, so these improvements
should be moved to the façade rebate program’s “ineligible” list.
Motion 2: To move “awnings” from the eligible improvements list to the ineligible
improvements list of the façade rebate program
MH motions, JP 2nds, all in favor

 