Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, December 19, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Cally Raduenzel,
Commissioner; Amona Buechler, Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Paul Reise,
SSA 19 Manager; Carolina Juarez, RPBA Staff; Dave Skora, public; Gayle Howard, Resident.

1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:12 a.m.
2. Community and public input
None.
3. Review and Approval of October 2014 Minutes
The commission reviewed the October 2014 minutes. No corrections were requested,
no errors were found nor additional information requested. Motion to approve the
October 2014 minutes as presented. (Buechler/Raduenzel) Unanimously approved.
4. Review and Approval of November 2014 Minutes
The commission reviewed the November 2014 minutes. No corrections were
requested, no errors were found nor additional information requested. Motion to
approve the November 2014 minutes as presented. (Buechler/Raduenzel) Unanimously
approved.

5. Programs and Projects
a. Holiday Decorations
The commission is very happy with this year’s decorations. Along with
Charlotte’s help the commission was able to light up poles! Paul will send
commission a menu of options for light throughout the year.
Commission would also like the tree in Hello Howard garden. Paul will make a
plan for storing lights purchases via Charlotte’s contact. Paul will also look into
moving trees around so that they are more visible to the public. Paul will also
look into moving banners on Hello Howard garden around so they do not block
trees. The commission would like to promote the lighting of trees on
Happenings.
b. Live, Love, Shop Rogers Park – rebate program
Paul reported the program is going well. RPBA is getting lots of phone calls with
questions, so we anticipate people are participating!
c. Factory Theater
A new theater named Factory Theater is moving in to the old HACC space. The
theater will be open and ready for the public by April 1, 2015. Paul will suggest

 Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, December 19, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

BIP to them and Amona would like more information to pass out to her
customers at IMU.
d. Second Mural location
Amona proposes the second location be the building on the corner of Sheridan
and Howard where she leases for her business. The property owner is willing to
negotiate and is open to the idea. Paul will follow up with owner about logistics,
including timeline. The commission is in full agreement that this location should
be used for a mural; the already commissioned mural with Mixmasters, or
another artist. Commission would like to see a sketch from Mixmasters.
6. Old Business
None
7. New Business
a. Billboard on Howard Theater Building
Jay Johnson has proposed to install LED billboard on Howard Building adjacent to
CTA station. Jay would like to the commission to cover the cost and in return the
billboard will promote SSA 19 businesses. The commission is willing to take a
look at Jay Johnson’s proposal. The would like to know how much time SSA 19’s
businesses will be displayed; identify restrictions with Alderman’s office.
b. Marketing Video
RPBA is hiring a videographer to create marketing videos. They would like to
offer SSA 19 the first round of footage. SSA 19 commission is not interested
because they do not feel they are prepared to be promoted in this form. The
Commission would prefer to hire their own marketing specialist, or at least
someone to devote more time to SSA 19’s marketing needs.
c. Sculpture project
Simone knows a Rogers Park resident who is interested in creating sculptures for
SSA 19. Simone will email proposal and sample work to the Commission and will
discuss at next meeting.
d. Meeting dates & Times for 2015
Commission would like to continue with 3rd Friday of the month at 8 a.m.
e. 2015 planning meeting – January 15, 2015 for planning meeting is proposed.
Paul will send a doodle poll.
f. Flea Market Idea
Bob Fields, RPBA board member has a flea market idea he would like to happen
along SSA 19 boundaries. The Commission needs more information.
g. PGP
More lots will be added. Paul will look into making banners announcing sign up
dates and “more lots”.

Meeting adjourned at 10:05 a.m.

 