Clean & Green Committee Minutes
May 6th, 2019 9:05 AM – 11:00 AM
Janik’s Café – 2011 W. Division St. Chicago, IL 60622
In attendance: Wayne Janik (Committee Chair), Mary Tamminga (Voting member), Steve Jensen (Voting
member), Brett Keeshin (Voting Member), David Ginople (SSA Commissioner),
Guests: Stephanie Katsaros (Vendor – Brightbeat), Matthias Scheidler (Vendor – Christy Webber), Andy
(Brightview), Lisa Kidd (Vendor – Cleanslate)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
Motion 1: The Clean & Green Committee recommends the Executive Committee motion to approve
spending not to exceed $18,000 from line item 2.02 (Landscaping) for Christy Webber to install up to ten
trees in empty tree pits in specified locations throughout the SSA. (19-0502)
MT motions. SJ Seconds. All in favor. MOTION PASSES.
Motion 2: The Clean & Green Committee recommends the Executive Committee motion to approve
spending not to exceed $1,500 from line item 3.01 (Garbage/Recycling Program) for approximately 12
additional cigarette recycling cans from Terracycle to be installed at locations requested by businesses
within the SSA. (19-0503)
MT motions. BK seconds. All in favor. RECOMMENDATION PASSES.
1. Tree removal and planting
a. Staff have a running list of 8-10 tree pits ready for new tree planting
b. Christy Webber will provide a quote before May SSA Commission meeting
c. Staff will get a list of preferred species from Bartlett to Christy Webber for reference
2. North Avenue Planters
a. Christy Webber has begun work installing large rocks
b. The committee requests that staff looks into concrete/cement contractors to patch up
and repair damaged planter walls and also pour concrete bases for sculpture pedestals
3. Bright View Update
a. AJ gave updates on the Spring plantings – they will be adding soil and additional plants
when the new planters are delivered (sometime within the next two weeks)
b. The committee questioned whether it was worthwhile to do a spring planting and if so
perhaps more money should be spent on more mature plants
c. Summer planting mid-June
4. Cigarette Trash Can Update
a. There are currently six new cans ready to be installed at the Chamber/SSA office
b. Staff will provide Cleanslate with a list of locations to be installed in the next week

 5. Cleanslate Update
a. The committee requested that Cleanslate now paint over graffiti with black paint in the
appropriate areas, rather than trying to scrub tags off
b. The concrete, orange planters on Milwaukee Ave have been cleaned and power washed
as well as the bump-puts around the current and upcoming planter locations
c. Bike racks installed prior to this spring are currently undergoing maintenance and
painting
d. LK will continue to monitor the can linings and let staff know about ordering more
6. Discussion
a. The committee brainstormed methods for addressing business/building owners’
responsibilities for garbage and snow removal
i. Aldermanic offices will need to be involved
b. The committee is also interested working with the Ward Superintendents of Street and
Sanitation to identify and target businesses/building owners/tenants who are dumping
their waste in the street cans.
7. Free Community Shredding & E-Recycling Event
a. Next event will be held on Saturday, May 18th at Burr Elementary School from 10:00 am
- 12:00 pm.

Next meeting Monday 6/3

 