Cl a rk / Mo rs e/G l en w o o d S p ec ia l S erv ic e A r e a # 2 4
Commissioners
Commission ers Meeting
Wednesday,
Wednesday, June 4,
4 , 2014 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Minutes
Attending: Chris Johnson, Vice Chairperson; Dorothy Milne, Secretary; Kevin Owings,
Commissioner; Ana Bermudez (SSA #24 Manager), Carolina Juarez (RPBA Staff), Sabrina Rangel
(RPBA Intern).
Absent: Jim McHale, Chairperson, Al Goldberg, Treasurer
Community Member: Justin
1. Welcome
Meeting was called to order at 9:04 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
Rogers Park resident was present to learn more about SSA 24. The commission and Ana
explained the ways in which the SSA helps current and prospective business owners and
outreach to the community.
3. Review and approval of April 2014 minutes
The minutes were reviewed. No comments. Motion to approve the April 2014 minutes
(Johnson/ Milne). Unanimously approved.
4. Review and approval of May 2014 minutes
The minutes were reviewed. No comments. Motion to approve the May 2014 minutes
(Johnson/ Milne). Unanimously approved.
5. Review and approval of April 2014 Financials
The April 2014 Financials were reviewed. No comments. Motion to approve the April
2014 Financials as presented (Johnson/ Owings). Unanimously approved.
6. Program and Project Review
a. Parking Lot
Campaign to notify Rogers Park about the end of parking lot contract will begin
in August and September.
b. City Grant
Ana reported that the Rogers Park Business Alliance was not awarded a grant
from the City of Chicago to install Sidewalk Cafes on Clark Street. The Rogers
Park Business Alliance did receive a grant to work with Choose Chicago on a
campaign to market the Rogers Park community. Sandi Price is submitting
similar Sidewalk Café grant to other foundations.
c. Mile of Murals
Ana reported she is waiting on paperwork from CTA in order to move forward
on this year’s mural.
d. Facade
Ana updated that an SSA 24 business participated in the BIP program by moving
their business gates from the outside of storefront window to the inside of the
business.

 7. New Business:
• Kevin Owings announced that he is moving his business to another location, still
within SSA 24 boundaries.
• Chris Johnson requested a banner removal quote and to find out if Patch
Landscaping removes brackets and banners.
Next Meeting July 2, 2014. Meeting adjourned at 9:46 a.m.

 