Sheridan Road Special Service Area #54 Commission Meeting
Royal Coffee
Thursday, September 11, 2014 / 8 a.m.

Minutes
Present; Heather Hill, Chair; Jennifer Clark, Commissioner; Tony Fox, Commissioner; Sean Connolly,
Commissioner; Paul Reise, SSA 54 Manager; Carolina Juarez, RPBA Staff.
Absent: Chris Bell, Commissioner; Michelle Akan, Commissioner.
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:07 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Review and approval of July 2014 Minutes
Tabled for next meeting.
4. Staff Report
a. Retail Corridor Plan
Paul reported on LISC’s quote to produce a corridor plan for Sheridan Road.
Commission discussed how to work with LISC according to the SSA’s budget.
b. Polar Palooza- Winter Market/Festival
Jennifer Clark updated on Polar Palooza planning. Commission discussed how they
could sponsor event while supporting its businesses. Motion to earmark $5000.00 to
sponsor Polar Palooza and support local businesses interested in vending at the event
by covering 2/3 of their vendor fees(Fox/ Connelly). Unanimously Approved.
c. Street “Furniture”
i. Lights – Paul is working on getting quotes for piggy-back lights on Sheridan
Road.
ii. Benches- Commission decided there is no need for benches on Sheridan Road.
iii. Bike Fixit Stand – Paul proposed the commission invest in a Bicycle Fixit Stand to
be placed in or around the CTA Loyola Station. Motion to purchase Fixit Stand
to be placed at Loyola Plaza (Fox/ O’connelly). Unanimously Approved.
iv. Planters – Sidewalk cut-outs quote is 30,000 per cut-out. Paul reported that
these would be difficult to include since the current structure of the sidewalks
would not allow a consistent location for the cut-outs. Commission decided to
go with individual planters in front of businesses similar to the other Rogers

 Park SSAs. Paul will bring quotes and list of business owners interested in
hosting planters in front of their place of business.
5. Old Business
Paul announced the new businesses opening on Sheridan road: Philly’s Best, Hops & Grapes,
Potbelly’s Sandwich Works.
6. New Business
a. Meeting dates and times – Commission will continue to meet every second Thursday of
the month at 8 a.m. Heather will speak with Michelle about her plans to continue to
serve as Commissioner.
b. Commission would like to see new ideas for holiday decorations. The do not want to
continue with previous two years’ motif. RPBA will research alternative decoration
schemes.
c. Commission talked about updating SSA 54 logo to be more colorful. They would like to
brand the ssa with consistent color scheme.
d. Commission would like to add more Big Bellys to Sheridan Road.
7. Adjourned at 9:11a.m.

 