Guiding Development Committee
Minutes
May 8 2018
8-9.30am
In attendance: Brent Norman (Chair), John Paige, Michael Lofton, Nicole Plecas, Sam Choudhury (SSA
Program Manager), Hans Kumler (SSA Program Specialist).

1. The committee discussed the 2019 Budget and decided that more funds could be put towards
supporting implementation of the masterplan. In particular projects to put funding towards in
2019 included:
- Redoing the WPB directory/listing of businesses and creating a small pocket book/fold out
(but different to the WHERE neighborhood guide)
- Exploring web development/interface to create an online portal for businesses in WPB
where you can shop online
We also discussed that the current WPB website could be updated to include businesses logos and a
better listing of the types of businesses and it was recommended we look at what other Chambers and
SSAs have done on their websites. Discussion around profiling interesting businesses along the different
corridors that have participated in our rebate programs, that are not necessarily chamber members
should be put on the SSA Instagram.
2. WPB Ambassador Program – the committee discussed the need to open the program up to
residents and volunteers as businesses have not been applying in numbers that were expected.
Making the program easier to participate and sign up to should be explored.
3. SSA Interns – the committee confirmed that hiring a planning intern over the summer to assist
with marketing and outreach of SSA projects and services is necessary and we should look into
hiring an intern as soon as possible.
4. There was discussed that Guiding Development Committee and PZHD should both be looking at
proposals and from now on the invitation should be extended to the GD committee when PZHD
meets.
5. Draft a Storefront Activation Rebate program – similar to our other rebate programs to
incentivize artists and local businesses to do displays in vacant storefront windows.
Actions:
➢ Add extra budget around marketing/web media for SSA on 2019 budget
➢ Feature more businesses in the SSA on social media
➢ Open up WPB Ambassador program to residents and volunteers in the neighborhood
➢ Add GD committee members to the PZHD committee when applications are referred

 