SSA #19 Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, January 16, 2019, 8:30 am
The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard St..
Minutes
In Attendance: Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Simone
Freeman, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, RPBA SSA Manager
Absent: Barry Hoven, Commissioner; Gale Howard, Commissioner; Matthew McMunn, Potential
Commissioner
Guests: John Harris, Lizzy Kreindler, A5 Branding & Digital
Meeting called to order by Carrie Sullivan at 8:45 am
I. There was no community input.
II. Howard St. Marketing – A5 Branding & Digital
A5 discussed now that the rebranding of Howard St is complete with the new website, banners
and social media, we need to move forward to the next phase. Simone Freeman would like to
see Instagram added to the marketing efforts. John Harris of A5 discussed identifying 3-6
stories to pitch to the press, doing another round of photography in the spring/summer. Google
Ads continue for the next 6 months, however the social media contract ends at the end of Jan.
2019. It was suggested that A5 present at the next SSA meeting options for commissioners to
choose from what they want to do for the next phase of marketing.
There was a discussion that some of the Howard St. banners have been damaged and not
replaced. Cynthia & Lizzy of A5 will assess the banners and get them fixed by Bannerville USA.

III. Presentation by A5 Branding & Digital on Howard Chalk Festival
The SSA #19 Events committee comprised of Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Gale Howard,
Commissioner; Matthew McMunn, Potential Commissioner interviewed both A5 Branding + Five
Grain Events and Star Events on Jan. 10, 2019 to ascertain which company would be a better
choice to produce the Howard St. Chalk Festival. The events committee unanimously chose A5
Branding + Five Grain Events for the festival and recommended them at this meeting. The
footprint of the festival was discussed and the first option is on Howard St. from Paulina to
Ashland. Cynthia will check with Alderman’s office if the Alderman would sign off on this.
Charlotte Walters moved to approve A5 Branding + Five Grain Events to hire as the event
company for the Chalk Festival scheduled for Sat., July 20, 2019. Simone Freeman seconded it.
Motion passed.
IV. Approval of Dec. 19, 2018 Minutes
Charlotte Walters moves to approve the minutes. Carrie Sullivan seconded it. Motion passes.
V. Adjournment
Meeting was adjourned 10:00 am.
VI. Next SSA Meeting - Wed., February 20, 2019 at 8:30 am, The Factory Theater.

 