Devon SSA 43 Commission Meeting Minutes
Thursday November 16, 2017 4:00pm
2949 W. Devon Avenue
Commissioners Present: Sanhita Agnihotri, Irshad Khan, Maura Levit, Jayesh Shewakramani,
Commissioners Absent: Bhavesh Patel, Pete Valavanis, Tareq Ali Khan, Mohammad Yaqoob
Commissioner Applicants present:
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Tony Pelikan (Rogers Park Business Alliance)
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein
*there was no quorum for this meeting
1) Call to Order: The meeting started at approximately 4:15pm
2) Programs & Services
a) BIP, Sign Removal, and Security Camera Rebate Programs
i) Wintrust BIP Financing Seminar Wednesday, November 29th. Tony will pass out fliers in
advance to local businesses.
b) Public Way Beautification.
i) Sidewalk Cleaning Update
(1) Clean Street contract has been signed for 2018.
ii) Landscaping Update
(1) Still waiting for winter plantings from Brightview, they had a delay in receiving their
plants.
(2) Sanhita mentioned that the commission should consider planting succulents in the
spring.
(3) Irshad requested a list of the plants being used for the winter planting.
iii) Streetscape Update
(1) Alderman Silverstein reported that the project should be finished in a few weeks.
iv) Snow Removal
(1) To date there has not been enough snow for service.
v) Holiday Decorations
(1) Two sections of Devon remaining that need to be lit, one portion needs electricity and
the other portion still needs lights.
(2) The Commission requested a proposal from Illuminite for 2018 for lighting with music
c) Customer Attraction.
i) George from Sparkfactor presented new marketing materials. The Commission asked
George to create a mock-up of the “On Devon” logo with the SSA/Streetscape logo as a
watermark.
ii) Next steps are to review the photos and decide on brand strategy and campaign medium
(CTA Ads, Banners, Facebook Ads, etc.) George will also give his own recommendations on a
medium(s) to use.
iii) The Commission requested that Ingrid from Sparkfactor attend the next Commission
meeting to kick of the process of developing a website landing page for the “On Devon” ad
campaign, website URL options are itsondevon.com and ondevon.org.
iv) George mentioned the development timeline for the website is about 4 weeks, and the
minimum cost is $3,500.

1

 v) Website content would potentially include a gallery, listings for businesses, resource guide,
calendar of events, transit information, pdf forms for the various rebates that are available
to business owners, and a monthly newsletter.
vi) The Commission discussed different business listing strategies as a way to offset the website
development costs.
3) SSA Commission Irshad volunteered to call Commissioners with low attendance to see if they would
consider resigning their posts or commit to attending meetings. Currently 5 members must be
present for quorum.
4) New Business
a) Sandi asked the Commission to start brainstorming ideas for 2018.
b) Commissioners suggested an outdoor roll call for Police/Fire Fighters and a streetscape ribbon
cutting as events for 2018.
c) Commission recommended promoting the holiday toy drive held by the 50th Ward office.
d) Sandi also asked the current Commission members to recommend new candidates for
Commission seats.
e) December 14th at 4pm will be the date of the next Commission meeting.
5) Public Input None
6) Adjournment. Meeting adjourned at 5:36pm

2

 