SSA #19 Commission Meeting Minutes
June 21, 2017, 8:30 am
The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19 Minutes
Minutes
Attending: Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Barry Hoven, Commissioner; Carrie Sullivan,
Commissioner; Sandi Price, RPBA; Cynthia Ryan, RPBA; Amona Buechler, Guest; Toni Duncan, Guest
Simone Freeman, Commissioner – conferenced called in.
Absent: Cally Radunzel, Commissioner
1.Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:35 am by Carrie Sullivan.
2. Community & Public Input
Amona Buechler expressed her concern for the unattended flower beds on Howard Street and
Greenview. Plants need to be replaced in at least three flower beds as it is half full of dirt. Cynthia Ryan
to schedule a walk through with Brightview Landscaping on Howard Street to assess the flower beds.
Charlotte Walters brought up the issue of weeding of the trees and sidewalks west of Clark Street on
Howard Street, specifically across the street from the Peckish Pig restaurant. Cynthia Ryan will bring this
to RPBA Director of Maintenance Brandon Harding’s attention and have his crews take care of the
weeding.
Amona expressed her concern regarding Live Music & Activities in the Garden. She walked by the garden
this past Sat., June 17thand did not see anything going on in the garden. She suggested posting the
schedule of bands on the garden fence. Also suggested having canopies for the bands. Cynthia Ryan to
speak to organizer, Tim Williams to find out what happened on June 17th and have him post pictures &
videos of the Saturday garden events to the Hello Howard website. Two tents will be placed in the
garden storage container for the bands.
Amona also asked for a certificate of insurance for snow removal for her building on Howard Street.
Cynthia Ryan to check with Cleanstreet if they can provide the certificate.
Toni Duncan expressed that she would like to have people come to the beat meetings.
3. Approval of May 17, 2017 Minutes
Could not approve these minutes as Gale Howard, Commissioner & Secretary has not provided minutes
to this meeting.
4. Branding with Sparkfactor
Kate Alpert of Sparkfactor explained the proposal for the next evolution of the Hello Howard branding
campaign to include use of color and different types of businesses (not business owners only) located on

 Howard Street. The marketing campaign would provide 3 distinct concepts including 2 rounds of
revisions. There was much discussion around branding and the commissioners would like to see more
examples of banners/marketing campaigns from Sparkfactor. The commissioners also want to entertain
other proposals from other marketing companies. Sandi Price, RPBA stated that SSA #43 just put out a
Request for Proposals (RFP) for branding/marketing campaign. Sandi will forward all seven RFPs to the
commissioners for their review. Sandi informed the commissioners that SSA #43 chose Sparkfactor as
their branding/marketing company. It was decided that there would be a continuing conversation for
the next SSA #19 meeting to discuss what branding/marketing company to use.
5. Approval of 2018 Budget & Workplan
Charlotte Walters moved to approve the 2018 budget & workplan, Barry Hoven second it. Motion
passed unanimously.
6. SSA Approval of RPBA as Sole Service Provider for 2018
Barry Hoven moved to approve Rogers Park Business Alliance as sole service provider for 2018,
Charlotte Walters second it. Motion passed unanimously.
7. Sculpture Installation Update
Cynthia Ryan has arranged for an artist studio to install the sculpture at the corner of Howard Street &
Greenview. The wrought iron fence has been ordered and needs to coordinate the installation of the
fencing and sculpture together.
8. Artspace Update
Artspace has met with Alderman Moore of the 49th ward and moving forward. Currently negotiating the
sale of the land.
9. Live Summer Music & Activities in the Garden Update
This was discussed under community input. Grow to give beds have been removed in garden. Fencing
was installed to separate the community gardens from the event space.
10. InQbate
InQbate provided a Memorandum of Agreement (MOU) for their $99 social media marketing package.
This is available to businesses within the SSA and the SSA would pay the $99 fee. Urban Warrior Fitness
was interested. Cynthia Ryan will provide an email introduction.
11. Planters & Powerwashing
Cynthia Ryan provided the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for the Howard Street Planter
program. Businesses within the SSA can sign the MOU and provide $100 check for two planters. Urban
Warrior Fitness and the Factory Theater expressed interest in ordering the planters. Cynthia Ryan will
order as soon as she receives the signed MOU & check. Cynthia Ryan reported that she is receiving three
quotes for powerwashing and this will be completed in the month of July 2017.
12. New Businesses
Howard Café
Salerno’s Pizza
Gauges Body Piercing
Meeting adjorned at 10:15 am. Our next meeting is July 19, 2017.

 