Sheridan Road Special Service Area #54 / Commission Meeting
Royal Coffee- Thursday, April 9, 2015 at 8 a.m.

Minutes
Present: Heather Hill, Chair; Jennifer Clark, Commissioner; Sean Connolly, Commissioner; Chris Bell,
Commissioner; Paul Reise, RPBA Project Manager; Sandi Price, RPBA Executive Director; Carolina Juarez,
RPBA Staff.
Absent: Tony Fox, Commissioner; Michelle Akan, Commissioner
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:10 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Review and approval of:
a. March 2015 Minutes
The minutes were reviewed. No corrections were requested, no errors were found or
additional information requested. Motion to approve March 2015 minutes (Clark /
Connely). Unanimously approved.
b. End of Year 2014 financials
Be alert on spending due to __________
c. Draft of 2014 audit – Presentation by Bob Wissmann, ACT Group
Revenue needs to be accrued now in the year it was levied. Motion to approve 2014
Audit as presented (Clark/ Connelly).
4. Staff Report
a. Marketing RFP
i. Sparkfactor
Presented RFP, Commission asked questions.
ii. Killian: Owner is worried about parking options near his business.
Presented RFP, Commission asked questions.
iii. GD Squared
Presented RFP, Commission asked questions.
After presentations Commission discussed and decided to they would like to
choose between Killian and GD Squared or A5. Paul will get sample work from
Killian and send to Commission and schedule an interview with A5.
b. Commission Membership
Karen Forte from the City of Chicago’s Department of Planning and Development
announced expiring terms and reminded the Commission and Sole Service Provider that
DPD will no longer be sending reminders re: commission terms expiration dates.

 Heather Hill will reach out to Michele Akan to inquire about her future plans as
commissioner on SSA 54 and relay to Carolina.
c. Transportation & Infrastructure
No updates on piggy back lighting as now. Atira Hotel hosted 2 community meetings
and has been approved for two requests. April 16 is final approvals after which they will
pursue building permits from the City of Chicago. Jennifer Clark reported on Loyola
University’s market study survey results.
5. New Business
a. Go Grocer is open now!
b. Insomnia Cookies opening soon at The Morgan at Loyola Station building.
6. Adjourned at 10:30 a.m.

 