Devon SSA 43 Emergency Commission Meeting Minutes
Thursday February 8, 2018 3:30pm
2949 W. Devon Avenue
Commissioners Present: Sanhita Agnihotri, Irshad Khan, Maura Levit, Jayesh Shewakramani,
Pete Valavanis
Commissioners Absent: Bhavesh Patel, Mohammad Yaqoob
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Tony Pelikan, Gina Caruso (Rogers Park Business Alliance)
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein

I. Call to order at 3:35pm
II. Security Issue on Devon.
a. Jayesh described the crime and security issues occurring on Devon Avenue
between Washtenaw and Maplewood primarily with the jewelry merchants.
There have been several break-ins to stores as well as cars parked still running in
front of stores. Several businesses have hired private security.
III. Solution Options
a. Chicago Police Department. Ald. Silverstein and Sandi discussed what the
Chicago Police Department has been doing to address the crime issues. The CPD
already has a foot patrol along Devon.
b. SSA and privately funded security. Jayash asked the Commission about the SSA
helping to pay for security. He researched security companies and presented two
options, both of which would cost upwards of $100,000/year.
IV. The Commission discussed options. The concern is if the SSA pays for security, it would
be just for 3 blocks of the whole SSA, not equally distributed within the SSA, and a
security patrol that would cover the SSA district may not be effective because it would
take a long time to respond to an issue on the other side of the district. Ald. Silverstein
showed the Commission the Office of Emergency Management (OEMC) private security
camera program option.
V. After discussion, the Commission agreed on the following next steps:
a. Distribute the OEMC private security camera program information to area
businesses
b. Distribute the Devon SSA Security Camera Rebate program applications to area
businesses and encourage businesses to use the same camera specs as the
OEMC cameras.
c. Distribute the BIP applications for businesses that may still need to do the
protective film on their storefront windows (in addition to any other storefront
improvements).
1

 d. Request the CPD do burglar audits for businesses in the “hot spot” (Devon from
Washtenaw to Maplewood).
e. Ald. Silverstein to request the CPD have beat officers introduce themselves to
businesses in the “hot spot” and offer their cell numbers as well as request the
CPD to park patrol cars in the “hot spot” to help deter crime.
f. Educate drivers of delivery cars to not keep their cars running while picking up
orders, including putting signs in businesses discouraging this practice.
VI. Adjournment – Motion to adjourn by Pete with a second by Sanhita. Meeting adjourned
at 4:20pm.

2

 