Devon SSA 43 Commission Meeting Minutes
Thursday, March 16, 2017 4:00pm
th
Office of 50 Ward Ald. Silverstein 2949 W. Devon Avenue
Commissioners Present: Irshad Khan, Maura Levit, Sanhita Agnihotri
Commissioners Not Present: Bhavesh Patel, Pete Valavanis
SSA Commission Applicants Present: Mohammad Yaqoob
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price and Gina Caruso (Rogers Park Business Alliance)
Public Officials Present: 50th Ward Alderman Debra Silverstein
Public Present: Edin Seferovic (West Ridge Chamber of Commerce)
1. Call to Order: Irshad called the meeting to order at 4:10pm.
2. February 7, 2017 Minutes: The minutes were approved by Maura with a second by Sanhita.
APPROVED
3. Public Input. Edin Seforovic, Executive Director of the West Ridge Chamber of Commerce
presented a proposal to the Commission to sponsor the Chamber’s Shredding Day in April.
Irshad asked Edin for a list of proposed events to see what businesses could participate. Sanhita
motioned to approve a $400 sponsorship by the Devon SSA 43 with a second by Maura.
APPROVED
4. Public Way Beautification
a. Maintenance Director. Sandi introduced Brandon Harding the RPBA Maintenance
Director. Brandon explained his role for the Devon SSA 43, which includes auditing
workers to ensure they arrive on time. Brandon stated to the vendor CleanStreet that
RPBA expects the same high level of service in Devon SSA as in the other SSAs RPBA
manages. The Commission wants to ensure the crew cleans the whole district and
completes in a timely manner. Sandi and Gina will check the contract to ensure the
route for snow removal is fair for the district by starting in the middle and working their
way out. RPBA will check with CleanStreet’s contact, Antwon, to give a report for which
areas have more trash and places with disposable tea cups. Get garbage cans will be
considered outside these stores.
b. Landscaping RFP. Gina reported the RFP was advertised and sent to 7 companies. RPBA
received bids from 5 companies. Gina walked through a bid comparison chart. Sanhita
motioned to approve Brightview contingent on reducing the price by approx. 10% with a
second by Maura. APPROVED
c. The Commission would like to explore doing display kiosks and CTA directories.
5. Financials. Sandi discussed bank statement and RPBA is working diligently to prepare the 2016
Audit considering the difficulty in tracking down documents to complete the audit.
6. Business Support.
a. Gina presented a draft one-pager flyer to leave behind with businesses during business
visits. Sanhita motioned to approve the one-pager with the modification that the
sidewalk sale dates were removed with a second by Maura. APPROVED
b. The Commission approved of the Commission Ambassador Zones map.

 7. Customer Attraction.
a. Gina confirmed with the Commission that they want to do a sidewalk sale Sunday, July
9th with the possibility of another one August 19 or 20
b. Sanhita talked about Holi Festival March 26 put on by the Federation of Indian
Associations. Alderman SIlverstein said she should check about permitting for offering
free food.
c. Sandi discussed a branding proposal that was submitted to the West Ridge Chamber last
year and to see what the Commission would like to do for branding. The Commission
likes the idea of gateway signage and other things to welcome people to Devon Ave.
8. Business Improvement Program (BIP). Maura motioned to approve the applications with a
second by Sanhita APPROVED:
a. Christina Cleaners 3049 W Devon – the final documentation to pay the applicant was
reviewed and approved. The person who paid the invoices was the same person who
would receive the reimbursement check
b. Yaseen Zabiha Halal Meat & Grocery 2243 W Devon – applicant was approved
c. Punjabi Dhaba Restaurant 2525 W Devon – applicant was approved contingent on
Alderman Silverstein reviewing and approving the sign design
9. Security Camera Rebate program. Gina presented the program application for review and
approval. Maura motioned to approve the application and to let businesses do both the BIP and
Security rebate program simultaneously with a second by Sanhita. APPROVED
10. Commercial Attraction. Gina presented a real estate vacancy list she prepared. There are
approximately 30 vacancies out of approx. 300 spaces, resulting in an approximate 10% vacancy
rate. Sandi suggested these sites be put on Site Selector (www.siteselectorapp.com), which is
managed by World Business Chicago in partnership with the City of Chicago. Alderman
Silverstein will ask the City to get a business list for the Devon SSA. Next step is for RPBA to pay
for an intern or service hours to build up a business and property owner contact list.
11. SSA Commission vacancies. For the one vacant seat without a candidate, Sandi is looking at
someone by Damen and Devon.
12. Sandi discussed the RPBA benefit, Sneak Peak, in April and suggested the Commissioners attend
to let the rest of the community know about Devon SSA and for the Commissioners to get to
know others in the community.
13. Maura motioned to adjourn at 5:55pm with a second by Sanhita. APPROVED

 