Minutes from SSA #26 Commission Meeting – January 20, 2016
Location:

Edgewater Historical Society
5358 N. Ashland Ave., Chicago, IL, 60640

Purpose of Meeting:

SSA #26 Commissioner’s Meeting

In Attendance:
Commissioners:

Jill Metz, Chairman
Rae Ann Cecrle, B&R Developers
Helen Cameron, Uncommon Ground
Tina Travlos-Nihlean, 2nd Vice Chair/Secretary
Jenny Yang, Phoenix Bean Products

Staff:

Kimberly Bares, Interim Executive Director, Edgewater Chamber of
Commerce
Ally Brisbin, Marketing & Events Manager, Edgewater Chamber of
Commerce
Jennifer Hackman, Economic Development Manager, Edgewater
Chamber of Commerce

Public:

Jennifer Borchardt, Edgewater Development Corporation
Paul Reise, SSA 54/Rogers Park Business Alliance
Bob Remer, Edgewater Historical Society
Dorothy Nygren, Edgewater Historical Society.

1. Meeting called to order at 3:13 p.m.
2. Adoption of agenda – Rae Ann moved to adopt the agenda, Tina seconded the motion, and it passed.
3. Approval of July minutes – Tina moved to approve July minutes, Helen seconded, and it passed.
4. Presentation of financials
a. 2015 Review – Jenn presented 2015 financials. No action was required.
b. 2016 Workplan and Budget Update – Jenn presented the 2016 workplan. She and Kimberly
recommended that the Commission always have a fall meeting to review any last-minute budget
adjustments that come up. In 2015, revenue was lower than budgeted, but the commission had
“reserves” in the bank to make sure all bills were paid. The final fall meeting of 2015 was cancelled due
to lack of quorum. Jill suggested clearly identifying and communicating action items before meetings to
encourage attendance, and using an evite-type program so that everyone can see how many people
have RSVP’d. As a backup, commissioners can call into meetings for votes. A big change for the budget in

 2016 is that in 2015, the SSA took in less revenue than projected. Jenn recommended that the
commission’s carryover in 2016 does not exceed $30K, which means cuts to some program lines,
without impacting current funding or quality of programs. Jill suggested the commission review possible
areas to reduce expenditures at the next commission meeting.
5. Loyola-area Marketing Overlay District – Jenn presented the exploration of developing a new
brand/identity for an overlay district surrounding Loyola University. The boundaries of the proposed
district are Broadway/Sheridan from Granville to Farwell and Devon from the lake to Glenwood. The
idea is a partnership between SSA 26, SSA 54, Edgewater Chamber of Commerce, Rogers Park Business
Alliance, and Loyola University to promote businesses in the district to the university community. This
idea came from a market study PLACE Consulting did for Loyola University. Loyola University has offered
to cover the costs of hiring a graphic design firm to develop a logo and district naming/branding. The
Edgewater Chamber of Commerce Board and Rogers Park Business Alliance Board, as well as SSA 54,
have approved moving forward. No funds have been set aside for this project yet. Tina requested that
the Edgewater Development Corporation be part of the initiative as well, as she has had conversations
with Wayne Magdziarz from Loyola University about developments on Devon. Kimberly asked that all
cooperating organizations share information and work on the initiative thus far. All commissioners were
supportive of staff moving forward on the initiative.
6. Edge Arts Proposal – Jenn presented a proposal to use Storefront Improvement funds to support
Edgewater Artists in Motion’s work preparing vacant storefronts for pop-up galleries. The funding would
not exceed $500 per storefront, with a maximum spend of $3,000 in 2016. Jenny moved to approve the
proposal, Helen seconded, and the motion passed with one abstention.
7. Program and Project Updates
a. Events – Jennifer presented last year’s event sponsorship application and asked if
commissioners had any changes they’d like to see. No one had any edits. Jenn will open the application
period and bring applications to the next commission meeting.
b. Light Pole Painting RFP – The commission would like Jenn to move forward in releasing an
RFP for light pole painting.
8. 2016 Meeting Schedule – The commission agreed to the following meeting dates in 2016:
Wednesday, February 24; Wednesday, April 13; Wednesday, May 18; Wednesday, October 12.
9. New Business
a. Attendance Policy – The commission feels this will be addressed by setting meetings ahead of
time and clearly communication action items.
b. New Commissioner Recruitment – Jenn is looking to recruit new commissioners, there are 3
open spots. Jill suggested reaching out to someone at Pearl’s Southern Comfort and Anne Phillips from
Edge Theatre.
10. Public Input – There was no public input.
11. Adjournment – The meeting adjourned at 4:27 pm.

 