Commission Meeting, Thursday, February 20, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Cally Raduenzel, Commissioner; Amona Buechler,
Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Sandi Price, RPBA Executive Director; Carolina
Juarez, RPBA Staff
Absent: Richard Rozhko, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:06 a.m.
2. Community and public input
None
3. Review and Approval of January 2014 Minutes
The commission reviewed the January 2014 minutes. Motion to approve the January 2014
minutes as presented. (Freeman/Raduenzel) Unanimously approved.
4. Programs and Projects
a. Peterson Garden Project- Hello Howard Community Garden
Sandi reported that PGP informational meeting was well attended; over 70
people were present. 2,500 flyers were printed by RPBA and placed around the
neighborhood via Alderman Joe Moore’s office. HACC is accepting memberships
from people who do not have online access. Should PGP run out of scholarship
lots, SSA 19 will donate lots. There are 100 lots currently sold.
Sign: HelloHoward.org web address will not be included in garden sign to avoid
misdirecting people. Logos on the sign include: HelloHoward, RPBA, PGP and
49th Ward Alderman Joe Moore. Sandi will ask Sparkfactor for their perspective
on the suggested white or black frame around border of the sign.
b. Say Hello to Howard Banners
Commission discussed plans to place Hello Howard marketing banners in vacant
storefronts. Commission decided:
i. Banners will be sized 2’x 4’
ii. Hellohoward.org will be left on banners, the site will re-direct to new
website, not Facebook.
iii. Banner images will be of business owners who have not been marketed
as of yet: Ethiopian Diamond II, GNC, Pete’s Grill and Recyclery Collective.
We will print 5 of each.
iv. Events banner – Sandi will get draft from Sparkfactor and we will print 10.
v. Statistical banner will not be printed at this time
c. Art on Howard
Carolina reported that art is scheduled to be installed at the 1643 Howard
location depending on owner’s plans to lease.

 Commission Meeting, Thursday, February 20, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

5. Old Business
a. HelloHoward.org website
i. Plans to create a website have moved forward through Cally’s friend, Lisl,
the web designer. Commission reviewed four options. Commission
chose option 2. Regarding the business directory: Commission decided to
include businesses not within the SSA boundaries but along the Howard
Street business district. Directory will include businesses on Howard
Street from Sheridan to Western including Evanston side. The business
directory on the website will include the following in alphabetical order
and by category: Business name, address, category and link. Sandi will
coordinate this with web designer. Sandi also suggested all 14
HelloHoward campaign images be included in Home page of website.
Commission suggested there be a link to park events on website.
ii. Dominick’s – Safeway has taken the location off the “available” list.
There is no update about who has signed a lease.
6. New Business
Sandi asked if anyone knew police officers assigned on Howard. RPBA is considering
them for a community award. Sandi announced HACC is moving to building where
alternative school used to be. It appears Jamaica Jerk will be leaving its current location,
so there will be another vacant storefront. Simone reported that Rich Aronson will also
be moving his business from Howard Street. Simone is concerned about the amount of
vacancies on Howard and suggests trying something new: a theatre performance space
run by the community. Simone knows people who are interested in investing time in
this. Sandi will look at the SSA budget to see if it is possible. Simone will talk to her
friends to determine if there is interest.
Meeting adjourned at 10:07 a.m.

 