Devon SSA 43 Commission Meeting Minutes
Thursday December, 2017 4:00pm
2949 W. Devon Avenue
Commissioners Present: Sanhita Agnihotri, Irshad Khan, Maura Levit
Commissioners Absent: Bhavesh Patel, Pete Valavanis, Tareq Ali Khan, Mohammad Yaqoob, Jayesh
Shewakramani
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Tony Pelikan, Gina Caruso (Rogers Park Business Alliance)
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein

I. Call to Order at 4:08pm
II. Public Input – none.
III. Review and approve October and November 2017 Meeting Minutes. There was not
quorum to approve the minutes.
IV. Finances – Sandi presented the financials. The budget is in good shape and there is
more income than expenses. The Commission will watch the budget in the spring for
additional items to spend funds on and prepare for the 2019 budget.
V. Programs & Services
a. BIP, Sign Removal and Security Camera Rebate Programs. Gina and Tony
reported on status of applicants.
b. Public Safety
i. Officer Heather Hardy, CPD Troubled Buildings / Business officer.
Officer Hardy reviewed here role regarding troubled buildings for both
commercial and residential. Officer Hardy stated she would ask the
beat officers to introduce themselves to businesses in the SSA.
ii.Outdoor Roll Call. The Commission discussed having an outdoor roll call
as well as “Coffee with a Cop”, which is a national event. Talk with the
Commander and his team to schedule a community event in the spring
and summer. Consider having this event coincide with the streetscape
ribbon cutting.
c. Public Way Beautification
i. Sidewalk Cleaning Update – Sandi reported the dumpster for Devon has
been installed.
ii.Landscaping Update - the Commission reviewed the plant list and was
satisfied with the selections.
iii.
Streetscape Update – outstanding items to install include spring
trees, plantings, gateway screens and one area that has a scaffold up.

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 There are old lights still on Western and a few poles closer to Leavitt
that need to be removed. The streetscape will soon be complete.
iv.
Snow Removal Update – the snow removal contract is in place
and ready to go for snow removal.
v.Holiday Decorations
1. Western Avenue Decorations were installed for the winter
holiday season.
2. Lighting and Music RFP- Gina is working on getting bids.
d. Customer Attraction
i. Branding and Communications Guidelines Update. Gina, Tony, Sandi
and George summary for Sparkfactor to review the survey results and
make recommendations and then make modifications. The Commission
provided feedback on the concepts.
ii.Website Development – Sparkfactor presented a rough draft on the
website framework. Top of the website would be an animate portion of
the screen with video. The next level has a static element describing On
Devon, then a second on SSA 43 what it is, then a directory, then a
news/events section and a place to join the email list. The site will have
paralax (scrolling). City data portal can offer the business name and
address. We can run banner ad on the website. Business database – we
give Sparkfactor an Excel spreadsheet that they would upload to the
website. Consider adding the SSA map that would scroll on the page.
Once we figure out what we want Sparkfactor will link it out onto the
website. Hosting is $39/mo done in WordPress so RPBA can update the
site. Consider using Chamber Master functionality for the SSA.
iii.
Next steps: Review final survey results, Sparkfactor to make final
recommendations, make changes as needed. Commission to determine
what website components including: RPBA to get business database
–Tony to send Ingrid the business list in Excel. Schedule a quarterly
update of the businesses. Sparkfactor will take about 2 weeks to create
the website.
e. Special events – email the commission to find out about events. Music, dance,
food, lights – Sanhita will send a list of events. August 19 is the meeting with
the police commander to see what portion of Devon could be closed off.
Review special event permit packet.
f. 2018 Initiative Ideas
i. Streetscape Ribbon Cutting Event – plan a ribbon cutting event for
some time in late spring after the streetscape is completed.
ii.Quarterly SSA Open Houses – schedule quarterly open houses with help
in outreach to businesses by the SSA Commission ambassadors.

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 VI. SSA Commission
a. 2018 Commission Meeting Dates – Gina will circulate the meeting dates to the
Alderman and Sandi to check for any conflicts with holidays.
b. Open Seat & Attendance – Tarek Ali Khan is resigning. Natalie is interested and
will be sending her a 2018 application. The Alderman suggested approaching
Avid to rejoin the Commission.
VII. Old & New Business – none.
VIII.

Adjournment at 5:35pm.

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 