Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday, April 06, 2016 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Commission Meeting Minutes
Attending: Chris Johnson, Vice Chairperson; Dorothy Milne, Secretary; Al Goldberg, Treasurer;
Carolina Juarez, SSA Manager; Sandi Price, Executive Director of RPBA; Wally Andersen,
Member of the public
Absent:
1. Welcome
Meeting began at 9:05 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Approval New Chair
Motion to approve Christopher Johnson as new Chair of Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special
Service Area #24 (Milne/ Goldberg). Unanimously approved.
4. Audit Presentation –A.C.T. Group
Auditor presented audit while the Commission reviewed. No changes, corrections nor
additional information were requested. Motion to accept 2015 Audit draft as presented
(Goldberg/ Milne). Unanimously approved.
5. 2015 December and 2016 March Minutes
6. Commission reviewed both Minutes documents. No changes, corrections nor additional
information were requested. Motion to approve 2015 December and 2016 March
Minutes (Goldberg/ Milne). Unanimously approved.
7. 2016 Financials through January
Commission reviewed financials through January 2016. No changes, corrections nor
additional information were requested.
8. Manager’s Updates
Carolina updated the commission on all the following:
 Pride North Expansion
Pride North will not expand its boundaries or times unless Theo Ubique agrees
with expansion parameters. Dorothy Milne will get an update from Adam
Webster from Theo Ubique Theater.
 Partnership with CMSA students
RPBA is partnering with RPWebcreators to help businesses with their online
presence.
 LISC Chicago Plans Workshops
Carolina was accepted to Chicago Plans Workshops program where she will
acquire skills on how to plan with groups of people.
 Main Streets Competition
Clark Street was nominated to compete in Main Streets Competition, we will
know winner at the end of summer.
 Safety Visits with Sgt. Sisk
Carolina has been going on safety visits with Sgt. Sisk along Morse Ave. and
Glenwood Ave. commercial corridors.

 Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday, April 06, 2016 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

9. New Business
Sandi Price was present to give commission updates on what’s going on with RPBA
10. Old Business
 There was a discussion about putting up banners along Clark Street.
Commission requested that Carolina get a couple of quotes in order to come up
with a plan for purchasing.
 Taco Crawl was discussed. Carolina will get a testimonial from restaurants who
saw the benefit of the event in order to share with prospective participants in
2016 event.
Meeting adjourned at 10:15 a.m.
NEXT MEETING IS July 6, 2015 at 9 a.m.

 