Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
Monday, January 14, 2019 2:30pm 2949 W. Devon Ave., Chicago
MINUTES
Commissioners Present: Irshad Khan, Pete Valavanis, Sanhita Agnihotri, Maura Nemes, Jayesh
Shewakramani
Commissioners Absent: Avi Bereliani, Rebeca Vasquez
Commissioner Candidates Absent: Mohammad Bozai
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Gina Caruso, Tony Pelikan (Rogers Park Business
Alliance)
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein
Guests: Robert Taylor, West Ridge Chamber of Commerce (WRCC); Paul Pustelnik, Procom
I. Call to Order at 2:38pm
II. Public Input – Robert Taylor stated the WRCC is moving forward on a festival Labor Day
weekend (Sunday/Monday) in the Republic Bank parking lot. The event will close off
Washtenaw and the Chamber is trying to get a liquor permit.
III. Review and approve draft December 2018 Meeting Minutes - Motion to approve by
Pete with a second by Sanhita. APPROVED
IV. Financials – 2018 Audit Update – the audit is due to the City in May and RPBA is on
schedule to have it completed on time.
V. Programs & Services
a. BIP & Sign Removal Rebates – no updates
b. Public Way Security Camera Program Update
i. Paul from Procom presented his proposal and scope. The
Commission asked him questions. He will check if light poles have
enough electricity to add cameras.
ii.Ald. Silverstein will check how Ald Lopez got permit fees waived or
a per address permit and check if we can put cameras on light
poles.
iii.
Tony to check on district WIFI vendors.
iv.
Get additional bids in order to compare scope/pricing.
c. Public Way Beautification
i. Streetscape Update – Light Pole Painting – Gina presented the proposal
from Pressure Washing Unlimited to get an idea of cost for painting light
poles. The Commission requested we get additional bids.
ii.Ald. Silverstein said there are extra benches for installing.
Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
Holiday Decorations Update – Gina is having Scott at Illuminight
iii.
check the lights to check for proper functioning of color changing and to
change colors/programming for next season.
d. Landscaping – Planter by Republic Bank was hit - Sandi will talk with Brandon.
e. Customer Attraction
i. Banners – missing and damaged banners will be addressed this
week
ii.Advertising –Sandi reported on the proposal from Silverman Group. They
would not just post on social media, but do research, influencer
engagement etc. Start doing research now then launch in March Motion
to approve the Silverman Proposal by Pete with a second by Sanhita.
APPROVED
iii.
Sparkfactor Proposal – Digital Fencing
1. Gina shared a scope/cost from Sparkfactor for digital
fending. Jay said the WRCC used Beacon and Sandi
suggested Lincoln Square Ravenswood Chamber may do
this – Gina will follow up.
Special Events –
iv.
1. The Commission discussed the 2019 Devon's Got Talent
and agreed on Sunday, September 15. Irshad and Jay think
that Bombay Hall can be made ADA accessible for the
event. If not, then we should book the Croatian Cultural
Center.
2. The Commission wants to discuss the 2019 Movie Night at
the February meeting.
SSA
Open
Houses
f.
– Confirm 2019 Dates & Locations at the February
meeting
g. Economic Development: Map Usage – The Commission discussed the
map and will review the map functionality before the next meeting to
determine the most useful information to share with the public.
VI. SSA Commission
a. Renewing SSA Commissioner Applications – Sandi reviewed with
candidates.
b. Treasurer Election – Sanhita was appointed by the Commission as the Treasurer.
c. New Candidates (1 vacancy) Sudhir of Natasha Hair Salon Owner (Sanhita) Irshad
to reach out to businesses before the February meeting.
d. Next meeting: February 11, 2019 2:30pm – confirmed with the Commission.
Old & New Business
VII.
a. 2019 SPA Signature Page - Completed.
b. Opened / Closed Businesses
Adjournment – motion to adjourn at 4:30pm with a motion by Pete with a
VIII.
second by Sanhita. APPROVED
Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 