11 July 2018 8:30 am   Meeting called to order by Barry Hoven at 8:38 am
There was no quorum at 8:38am.
Quorum was made at 8:53 am when Charlotte Walters arrived.

In Attendance
Barry Hoven – Commissioner, Carrie Sullivan – Commissioner, Charlotte Walters - Commissioner
Sandi Price – Rogers Park Business Alliance, Cynthia Ryan – Rogers Park Business Alliance
Toni Duncan – Willye B. White Advisory Counsel, Eva McCann – Willye B. White Advisory Council
Adrian Pollard - Resident, Paul Ridgway - Resident
Not in Attendance – Gale Howard – Commissioner
The Minutes from the June 2018 meeting were not available. Minutes will be available at August meeting.

Events Committee
•

•

Thrill Ride Movie Event Report – Carrie Sullivan. Events Committee Members; Carrie Sullivan (by
phone), Barry Hoven and Gale Howard met at RPBA with Clarice Harris from A5. Reception before
Thrill Ride Movie in the Park, VIP Reception (Invite Only), Working on Speakers for Event. Charlotte
Walters, Director of Film. Plans are to talk to local businesses for donations for drinks and Associated
Bank donation $500 for to Pediatric Brain Cancer Charity by request of film director. Donations will be
accepted on site. Carrie will be setting up an Evite for the event. Cynthia Ryan is working on Marketing
Materials with A5. Banners and flyers have been created and locations have been made for the
materials. Barry Hoven working on food catering for Inspired Catering. Food order must be made by
end of month.
A5 Howard Street Branding Update – Barry Hoven. D&F Photographers have submitted initial
photography to A5. Gale Academy, Sol Café, PJ Shoes, Lost Eras, Urban Warrior and Caribbean Bakery
sites photographed. Additional photography will be scheduled for July. The goal is for a Saturday
Photoshoot to get more participants. Review locations west of the Metra tracks.

Unfinished Business and General Orders
Charlotte Walters expressed concern about the resignation of former commissioner Simone Freeman. The
Chairman explained the SSA bylaws do not allow for motions to reinstate members. The issue was tabled until
a special meeting could convene to discuss the matter further.

 The Marketing and Services Committee was formed with Unanimous Vote. Motioned by Charlotte Walters
and Seconded by Carrie Sullivan. The Marketing Subcommittee with oversee branding and Public Way
Aesthetics matters.
Discussions about 2019 Big Events; Chalk the Block, Howard Fitness Event and House on Howard were tabled
due to time constraints until the August 2018 meeting. Cynthia Ryan agree to research the Denver Chalk the
Block event.

Finance Report
Sandi Price and Cynthia Ryan of Rogers Park Business Alliance presented the 2019 Final Budget
A review of the 2019 SSA #19 Final Budget was reviewed and approved as follows by present members of the
SSA #19 Commission.
Summary
•
•
•

Vote to Approve the SSA #19 Services – Carrie Sullivan (Yes) Charlotte Walters (Yes) Barry Hoven (Yes)
Vote to Approve the SSA #19 Budget – Carrie Sullivan (Yes) Charlotte Walters (Yes) Barry Hoven (Yes)
Vote to Approve the SSA #19 Sole Service Provider – Rogers Park Business Alliance
Carrie Sullivan (Yes) Charlotte Walters (Yes) Barry Hoven (No)

All Motions Passed

Community and Public Input
•

•

•

Marketing and Services discussions about Streetscape benches and trashcans. Eva McCann suggested
business owners be encouraged to clean trash out in front of businesses. Also, that the SSA should be
responsible for trash cleanup. Adrian Pollard suggested we make a culture connection to ownership of
community by cleaning the sidewalks near businesses. Paul Ridgway expressed concern about the lack
of trashcans along the north side of Howard Street. Toni Duncan suggested helping business owners
improve the appearance of their storefronts. These matters were moved to the Marketing and Services
Committee for further discussion.
Eva McCann presented a project from the Willye B. White Advisory Council for fundraising for the
Willye White Park. The concept is a Halloween Storytelling contest with participation from local
theater. Carrie Sullivan noted Factory Theater was not available for this event. The SSA offered support
for online marketing, print materials and assistance with concept formation from John Harris of A5.
Eva McCann mentioned the orchard at Triangle Park is complete.

Next Meeting
August 15th, 2018, Urban Warrior Fitness, 1546 W. Howard Street, Chicago, IL 60626
Page 2

 

Page3

