Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, January 16, 2015, 2015, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Cally Raduenzel,
Commissioner; Amona Buechler, Commissioner; Paul Reise, SSA 19 Manager; Carolina Juarez,
RPBA Staff; Dave Skora, public
Absent: Simone Freeman, Commissioner
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:14 a.m.
2. Community and public input
None.
3. Review and Approval of December 2014 Minutes
The commission reviewed the December 2014 minutes. No corrections were requested,
no errors were found nor additional information requested. Motion to approve the
December 2014 minutes as presented. (Raduenzel/ Walters) Unanimously approved.
4. Programs and Projects
a. Holiday Decorations
Widely regarded as a big success. Commissioner Walters was commended for
her work with organizing and installation. Minor discussion on improvements for
next year. Will discuss further at 2015 planning meeting
b. Live, Love, Shop Rogers Park – rebate program
Commission would like to know where the program was advertised, Paul will
check with Ana. Paul informed commission of the changes put in place this year
and the feedback received. Final counts of participants and money spent will be
available by the end of February.
c. Factory Theater
Theater is still scheduled to open in Spring/ Summer of 2015. It will be an 80 seat
theater. Amona would like more information to pass out to her customers at
IMU.
d. Garden
Community meeting is scheduled for January 29, 2015 at 7 p.m. Meeting has
been advertised. Paul will look into purchasing a banner with the meeting
announcement to place in front of Wyllie B. White Park / or a banner with signup dates. Paul will meet next week with community non-profits to talk about
the Grow to Give lots in the garden. Paul will talk to PGP about planting flowers
along the fence of the garden to make the garden more marketable.

 Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, January 16, 2015, 2015, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

e. Second Mural Location
Paul is meeting with owner of building on Howard and Sheridan to talk about
logistics involved with painting a mural on his building. Paul has asked Lea and
Dustin for a sketch of mural. Depending on what the commission decides after
seeing the sketch, they might explore other artists.
f. Billboard on Howard Theater building
Paul will present Jay’s verbal proposal to the Rogers Park Business Alliance’s
Planning and Development committee.
g. Sculpture Project – Simone
The commission decided to support this project.
h. 2015 Planning Set Date
January 28, 2015 at 12 p.m. at Ethiopian Diamond
5. Old Business
Cally has not gotten her planter re-planted yet. She will contact Landscape Concepts as
well as Paul. Paul will also make sure SSA crew picks any garbage out of planters when
they are on their routes.
6. New Business
a. Amona will host an RPBA BizArts event at her location as a final event for her
business on last Wednesday of March.
b. Paul will follow up with owner of mattress store on Greenview and Howard to let
him know his sign is falling off and to make sure his hours are consistent
c. Paul will make sure the new Daycare location on Howard invests in window
decals to assure district beatification
d. Commission would like to expand Public Way aesthetic program to include more
planters along Howard Street.
e. If the commission decides to purchase another sculpture this year through the
Chicago Sculpture Exhibit project, make sure to choose a different sculpture.
Meeting adjourned at 10:10 a.m.

 