Devon SSA 43 Commission Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, September 26, 2017 4:00pm
2949 W. Devon Avenue
Commissioners Present: Irshad Khan, Maura Levit, Pete Valavanis
Commissioners Absent: Sanhita Agnihotri, Bhavesh Patel, Tareq Ali Khan, Mohammad Yaqoob,
Commissioner Applicants Absent: Jayesh Shewakramani
Service Provider Staff Present: Gina Caruso, Tony Pelikan (Rogers Park Business Alliance), Sandi
Price
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein
Guests Present: Natalie Abdullah, George Lowe (Sparkfactor)
NO QUORUM
1) Call to Order: Irshad called the meeting to order at 4:07pm.
2) Public Input: There was none.
3) August 2017 Minutes. The Commissioners reviewed the August minutes.
4) Financial Report – A financial report was not needed at this meeting since the Commission
receives financials on a more quarterly basis.
5) Programs:
a) Devon Branding Project Update: George Lowe of Sparkfactor presented three concepts
for the Devon branding project. The Commission discussed the concepts. Maura likes
the food On Devon, Pete likes On Devon, Ald. Silverstein likes Discover Devon. Irshad
asked about a website. George purchased www.ondevon.com in case this was the
selected concept. Pete and Tony like On Devon and think it would look good on a CTA
ad. They like a food-heavier focus with the On Devon catch phrase.

All like action shots. Sparkfactor should find phrases that sound similar in other cultures
as names of festivals or happenings. Maura – likes On Devon – because you can travel
on Devon – like the idea of a fun getaway. Pete likes Down the Street and Around the
World Debra – On Devon the Journey Begins. Sandi likes Get Lost and Find Everything.
Next steps: Sparkfactor to refine the On Devon concept and George to take actual
photos and develop additional phrases - build off of Down the Street and Around the
World and On Devon the Journey Begins; work out ideas for logo using existing
streetscape logo; use colors in A and fonts in Concept B.
b) Holiday Decorations: Scott from Illuminight presented on holiday decoration options. If
necessary, Sandi said business owners can send electric bill for the difference in their
electric bill but no one has taken them in the other SSAs. LED lighting is an option and
has a new technology that allows programming a light show, which is still expensive new

1

 technology. The lights can be kept up all year round. The Commission asked Illuminight
to go a cost estimate for lights for all the major intersections - Damen Kedzie to Leavitt,
Western Granville to Arthur and to install a canopy of lights at intersections with the
four corner businesses. The goal is to have lights up by Diwali on October 19 – Devon
from Western to California and to do mid-block and the corners.
c) Public Way Maintenance: Regarding dumpsters, Irshad has a building by Rockwell with
a possible location and Antwan from Cleanstreet can meet with Irshad to confirm the
location. Gina presented two proposals for cleaning services in 2018 – one from
CleanSlate and one from CleanStreet. Cleanslate was less than CleanStreet. Try to get
under $100k and make sure CleanSlate gave us the correct bid as they listed other SSAs
in their bid.
d) Inside/Outside Sidewalk Sale: Gina reported the the permits were secured for the
sidewalk sale October 21-22 and Tony was visited businesses to enlist their involvement.
Irshad offered to coordinate gathering the Commissioners the week before the sidewalk
sale to visit businesses and enlist their involvement.
e) SSA Commissioners: Irshad is a residential condo owner on the SSA and so fulfills the
City requirement to have a residential condo owner in the SSA on the SSA Commission.
f) Adjournment: Meeting adjourned 5:35pm.

2

 