West Town Chicago Chamber of Commerce
West Town Special Service Area (SSA) Commissioner Meeting
Thursday, March 1, 2018 at 12:00 p.m.
1819 W Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL 60622
Minutes
Present: Commissioners: Michael VanDam (Chair), Amy Laria (Vice-Chair), Chris Hunt, Jenny
Rossignuolo, Chad Tepley
SSA Program Director – Kace Wakem
Membership Director – Sara Bemer
Public Forum / Guests: Pauline Dengler – Cook County States Attorney’s Office of Community Justice
Centers
Not Present: Peter Gariepy (Treasurer), Steven Tobiason (Secretary), Adam Williams, Sara Dulkin


Call to Order: Michael VanDam called the meeting to order at 12:14 p.m.



Minutes from SSA Commission Meeting on February 1, 2018.
*Amy Laria motioned to approve 2/1/18 minutes. Chris Hunt seconded this motion and it was
approved unanimously.



Financial Report:
 2017 P&L Statement, Balance Sheet and YTD Budget distributed and reviewed.
*Chris Hunt motioned to approve 2017 Financial Statements. Amy Laria seconded this
motion and it was approved unanimously.
 2017 Budget reallocation recommendations: Move $2,269 from 6.00 and $5,180
from 7.00 for a total of $7,549 and reallocate $5,123 to 1.00 and $2,426 to 2.00 for
a total of $7,549.
*Chris Hunt motioned to approve the 2017 Budget reallocation. Amy Laria seconded this
motion and it was approved unanimously.
 2018 P&L Statement, Balance Sheet and YTD Budget distributed and reviewed.
*Amy Laria motioned to approve 2018 Financials. Chad Tepley seconded this motion and it
was approved unanimously.
 2017 Quarter 1-4 Reports were revised, distributed and reviewed
*Chris motioned to approve the 2017 Q1-4 Reports. Amy Laria seconded this motion and it
was approved unanimously.
 2017 Annual Report was distributed and reviewed.
*Chris Hunt motioned to approve 2017 Annual Report. Amy Laria seconded this motion and
it was approved unanimously.
 2017 Audit presentation is scheduled for the April 5th SSA Commission meeting.



Contracts:

 PR Contract – Contract with Zapwater Communications starts as of today.
Currently working out contract stipulations with expectations and will be signed
soon.

  Pressure Washing – Pressure Washing Systems proposal vs Pressure Washing
Unlimited proposal. SSA Commission wants clarification on PWU’s pricing if it
includes wrapping around the corners. Commission approves with moving forward
with PWU if the original price stays the same. If pricing changes, bring back to
commission for a vote next month. Would like the contract cleaning to start end of
April or early May, after the snow season is over.
*Amy Laria motioned to approve the contract of $35,260 from Pressure Washing Unlimited if
they will wrap around the corners at that price. Jenny Rossignuolo seconded this motion and
it was approved unanimously.
 Landscaping (weeding & mulching) – BrightView vs Christy Webber
Landscapes. Commission discussed the two vendors and the difference in hand
weeding vs chemical weeding. SSA Commission would like to continue with the
sustainability efforts of hand weeding. Commission approved the contract with
Christy Webber Landscapes for $16,390, with the additional funds being pulled
from the pressure washing line item.
*Amy Laria motioned to approve the contract of $16,390 from Christy Webber Landscapes.
Chad Tepley seconded this motion and it was approved unanimously.


Rebate / Grant Updates: Need to add anti-smash glass film to application for review in April.
a.

Façade Rebate Applications:

701 N. Damen Ave – Finished & Paid

1726 W. Chicago Ave – In Process. No current updates.

1900 W. Chicago Ave – Application for awning for La Remede.

*Amy Laria motioned to approve the $4,357.50 rebate for 1900 W. Chicago Ave’s Façade
Rebate Application. Jenny Rossignuolo seconded this motion and it was approved
unanimously.



b.

Security Rebate Applications:

1741 W. Chicago Avenue – Finished & Paid.

c.

Public Art Grant Applications:

Artist: Anthony Lewellen – 1838 W. Chicago Ave, Luxe on Chicago – In
process

Marketing / Beautification / Safety / Other:
 Street Cleaning: Trash cans set to be cleaned after snow season is over, probably
late March or early April. SSA Commission would like trash cans cleaned first,
then sidewalks.
 Banners & Holiday Decorations: One Chicago banners have been replaced with
ours.
 Landscaping: Tree Trimming happened on February 22 & 23rd. Waiting for report
from Bartlett about what was serviced.
 Discover West Town Mobile App: Framework was built in 2012 needs to be
updated to make updating and fixing the app easier. Quote for $4,410 for work,
currently the line item for the app is at $0. Michael looked for clarification on if
this is an actual Android or iOS app and Kace clarified that it is a mobile website
that can be saved as an app. It is not widely used now because it has been broken
and the Chamber has not spending money to promote it. SSA Commission is
concerned that we’re trying to create a platform that already exists in other
capacities (Yelp, Google, etc.) They feel now is not the right time to push it,
especially with the Chamber websites needing to be updated and Kace going on

 










maternity leave. The project has been tabled until after Kace returns from maternity
leave in September.
Master Plan: Next step is to present the Master Plan to the Alderman.
Presentations have started with the neighborhood group member meetings, and will
present at the Community Leaders Summit booked on April 12, 2018. Still waiting
to hear back from CDOT regarding the CTA studies and their communications
with the Alderman.
People Spot: Officially have postponed the People Spot in 2018. Will revisit
planning for the people spot in 2019 for a possible 2020 spring install date, in
conjunction with CDOT construction schedule.
Bike Racks: Waiting on pricing and design options from CDOT for potential
partnership.
Bike Friendly Business District: Working on re-starting program in spring of
2018 with Sara as the lead.

Old Business: None
New Business: None
Public Forum: Pauline Dengler from the States Attorney’s Office near Halsted and Maxwell. They
have been trying to have community meet and greets with the police force. Example: Michael Carr
who often causes disruptions in the neighborhood. The SAO handles his case and others like it.
They do safety presentations in the community (carjacking, robbery, senior safety, etc).
Adjournment
*Michael VanDam moved to adjourn meeting at 1:30 pm. Amy Laria seconded this motion at
it was approved unanimously.
***Next SSA Commission Meeting Date: Thursday, April 5, 2018***

 