

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

J-

I
4?

-. count 



Douglas J. Diggs

In Memoriam 
I.

Douglas Jackson Diggs was born in Detroit in 1964 to Anna Diggs Taylor, the state?s ?rst African
American female federal judge, and Charles C. Diggs Jr., who became the first African American
elected to Congress from Michigan. His stepfather, S. Martin Taylor, former head of New Detroit
and later, Vice President at DTE Energy was a prominent and caring ?gure in his life. Diggs credits
all his parents for his work ethic and his sense of civic responsibility that became his way of life;

and

Douglas Diggs graduated from the University of Detroit High School and Wayne State University.
He also received his Masters of Business Administration from Davenport University. Throughout
his career he was focused on growing the economy of Detroit. He served as Detroit?s Planning and
Development Director and was Director of Business and Economic Development for Detroit
Renaissance; and

Douglas Diggs was the catalyst for a variety of programs to boost minority business development
in the City including the Detroit Community Loan Fund, Michigan Statewide Minority Business
Development Center and the Detroit Entrepreneurship Institute. Most recently, he was responsible
for creating and implementing the Business and Workforce Participation and Outreach Plan for the
Little Caesars Arena and The District Detroit to ensure that Detroit businesses and residents
participate in the construction of the project; and

Douglas Diggs was the President and CEO of the Diggs Group Heritage developed and
implemented numerous economic development projects in the city. More important to him was the
work he did to create workforce opportunities for Detroit residents. He loved Detroit and saw it as
his mission to create opportunities for minority businesses to engage and thrive in the city's growth;
and

Douglas Diggs was a devoted husband and father. He married the love of his life Dr. Shauna Ryder
Diggs. This union was blessed with two daughters; Jaqueiine Exyie Diggs and Alexandra Anna
Diggs; THEREFORE, BE IT

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council expresses their deepest
condolences and share their sympathy in the loss of your loved one, Douglas J. Diggs. Your loss
is heaven?s gain. May God bless you and comfort you during this time and always.

    
 
 

5 

I PHE diet 
4,1337 .. - COU 

Cell?

41.. ?any"! -
5 11.. .

 

COUNCIL ME as i

If ?If 1'

 

NCL ?rm usua 
0U .EMBEP. 
May 25, 19 

 

DATE

 

YVONNESTOKES 

Fisher Magnet Lower Academy Principal

.

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes was raised in Hamtramck, Michigan and educated in the Hamtramck Public
School System until high school. As a high school student she attended Cass Technical High
School where she grew as a person and made life-long friends; and

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes? professional education was obtained at Eastern Michigan University where she
received a Bachelor of Science Degree in Elementary Education, with a ZA Endorsement in Early
Childhood Education and a Masters of Arts Degree in Educational Leadership. She started her
journey in education as a teacher at Howe Elementary School winning mini-grants for a
classroom library, hands-on science center and a classroom computer; and

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes also traveled around the city with the Goods School Rappers, a student group that
spread positive messages about staying in school and doing your best. The student rappers
received ?Spirit of Detroit? awards for their positive in?uence. Her work in developing the 
Tearn? and ?Lady L?s? boys and girls mentoring programs pointed many students in the right
direction and provided college exposure as a seed for future career possibilities; and

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes ?rst Principal assignment was at Wilkins Elementary/Middle School on the
eastside of Detroit in 20 I 0. [t was named a low achieving school. However, she rallied her staff
to develop a plan to move achievement upward. By August 20] 3, Wilkins was no longer a low
performing school. Her dedication and commitment to helping students achieve educational
goals is unparalleled; and

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes in November of 2013 was named the interim Principal of Fisher Magnet Lower
Academy where she has since remained Principal. After thirty years of service she will retire on
June 30, 2019; THEREFORE, BE IT

RESOLVED That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and the Detroit City Council recognizes
Yvonne Stokes for her contribution as an educator for the children of the City of Detroit. We
appreciate you for molding our next generation. May God continue to bless you in your future
endeavors.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

co GIL 
June 12, 2019

DATE

 

 

 DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 4 
DONNA NHCHELLE WHEELER

August 10, 1955 June 2, 2019
In Memoriam

WHEREAS Donna Michelle Wheeler was born to the union of Ed Franklin and Rubye Mae Berger in
Detroit, Michigan on August 10, 1955. She was the second for four children; and

WHEREAS Donna Michelle Wheeler received her education from the Detroit Public School system
graduating from Southeastern High School. She furthered her education and received a
Medical Assistant certi?cate from Crockett Adult Education. After graduation she was
employed as a Teacher?s Aide at Carsten Elementary School. Later she began a career as
a manager for McDonalds where she was honored for her excellence in customer service
and leadership skills; and

WHEREAS Donna Michelle Wheeler was a devoted wife and dedicated mother and grandmother. She
married the love of her life Pastor James Wheeler in 1977. This union was blessed with
three beautiful children: Terri, Lamont and Dionica; and

WHEREAS Donna Michelle Wheeler was a faithful woman of God. In 1984 she received Jesus Christ
as her personal savior and was baptized by the late Pastor KW. McClendon at First
Progressive Baptist Church. There she grew in faith and fellowship. She joyfully served
on the Progressive Usher Board until health issues arose. Afterwards she served as a
member of the Mother? 3 Board. She possessed a giving spirit. Her passion was bestowing
gifts upon relatives, ?iends and church members; and

WHEREAS It being the will of our Lord to call our beloved home after a long life of service, Donna
Michelle Wheeler transitioned from this life, from labor to reward on June 2, 2019;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED

RESOLVED That the O?ice of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council expresses their
deepest condolences and share their sympathy in the loss of your loved one, Danna
Michelle Wheeler. Your loss is heaven?s gain. May God bless you and comfort you
during this time and always.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

GREATER ST. PAUL BAPTIST CHURCH

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

410TH Church Anniversary

With humble beginnings and a deeply rooted commitment to growing the body of Christ,
Greater St. Paul Baptist Church is celebrating 40 years of service in the City of Detroit; and

Greater St. Paul Baptist Church started as a vision given to Reverend Ricardo Bartlett, Sr. and
was launched in 1979. The ?rst charter members included families such as: the Bartletts, Burns,
Harris, Howze and Means. The ?rst service was of?cially conducted on Sunday, February 19,
1979 at 2431 East Grand Boulevard in Detroit; and

Greater St. Paul Baptist Church by September 1979 under the leadership of Pastor Bartlett the
church raised over sixty-?ve thousand dollars and purchased 7203 East Harper in Detroit. More
blessings were poured over the congregation as the church started ministering to the Harper-
Frontenac community. They started outreach projects such as the Senior Citizens Meal Program,
a Food Co-op, a Senior Citizens Recreational Program, Youth-Oriented ministries, a Radio
Broadcast, and a Community Fun Festival and Carnival; and

Greater St. Paul Church grew spiritually and in membership. On Sunday, November 11, 1984 the
congregation was led to their new church home at 17300 Chandler Park Drive where the ministry
continued. Currently the church is located at 15325 Gratiot Avenue. They have been there since
Sunday, May 2, 1999. Their membership increased to over one thousand faithful citizens; and

Greater St. Paul Church under the leadership of Reverend Ricardo Bartlett, Sr. created ministries
to address the needs of the community and congregation while located on Gratiot Avenue. They
have Christian Education, a Child Development Center for ages six weeks to 5 years, Michigan
School Readiness for four year olds, a Radio Broadcast, TutOring services, Youth Ministry,
Giving Tree, Foreign Missions for Africa, Macomb Montessori Academy, and Substance Abuse
and Crisis Management; NOW THEREFORE BE IT

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council congratulates Greater

St. Paul Baptist Church on your 40?h Church Anniversary. May God continue to bless your
endeavors as you work to grow the body of ChristCOUNCILMEMBEH 
iiILMEMB Fl

Joint.

CI UNCIL EMBER

i/all?f 



 

 

 

 

 

 lle'f, 1 -.3 ,2 rf .5- 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL - Q6

- 
.r ?11' I 

United Church of Christ

100TH Church Anniversary

I I '1 I 


.J-

Plymouth

WHEREAS With humble beginnings and a deeply rooted commitment to growing the body of Christ,
Plymouth United Church of Christ is celebrating 100 years of service in the City of Detroit;

and
WHEREAS Plymouth United Church of Christ was founded May 4, 1919 as the ?rst African American

Congregational Church in the state of Michigan. It was started by the nine founding members
Deacon Edwards M. Hale; Mrs. Carrie L. Thompson; Mrs. Aljze Harris; Mr. M.C. Graham; Mr.
Farley; Mr. Joseph Shannon; Miss Thelma Benjamin; Mrs. Thomas Benjamin and Mr. Stewart
Thompson; and

WHEREAS Plymouth United Church of Christ from 1919 to 1957 served a multitude of people under the
previous leadership of its ministers. It continued to grow spiritually and in membership under the
leadership of Dr. Rev. Nicholas Hood II. He was a humanitarian and activist. He was the Senior
Minister of Plymouth United Church of Christ from 1958 to 1985. In 1963 he began a housing
ministry that led to the development of the Medical Center Courts apartments for low to
moderate-income families. In 1975 he began construction on the Medical Center Village
Apartments, town houses and senior building. His love and willingness raised the community and
Plymouth to new heights; and

WHEREAS Plymouth United Church of Christ elected Rev. Nicholas Hood after his father?s resignation.
Under his leadership many new members have joined the church, and the involvement of young
people have increased. His outlook has been ecumenical and he has borrowed from other
denominations practices and introduced a return to racial roots through such practices as annual
revivals, voluntary baptism by immersion in the Detroit River; and

WHEREAS Plymouth United Church of Christ has been a source of spiritual support and encouragement for
numerous people who have heeded the call to the ministry. The list of sons and daughters of
Plymouth who have been ordained is long and impressive. Rev. Nicholas Hood 111 continues the
tradition to serve the community through membership in numerous civic organizations. His
leadership has extended the church?s missionary outreach to include a personal relationship with
several African nations; NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council congratulates
Plymouth United Church of Christ on your 100th Church Anniversary. We thank you for not only
making a difference in the lives of the members, but also the community at large. May God
continue to bless your endeavors as you work to grow the body of Christ.



CCIUNCILPFI IDENT

council. MEMBER

 

  
 

 

 

 
  
 

 

i; -Jx;

1'31

4' .11 4.in

    
  

 

 

 

May 19, 201

DATE

 

