WEST TOWN SSA
MEETING OF SSA COMMISSION
Thursday, August 2, 2018, 12:00 PM
West Town Chamber of Commerce
1819 W. Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL 60622
Present: Commissioners: Michael VanDam (Chair), Peter Gariepy (Treasurer), Sara Dulkin, Adam
Williams, Amy Laria (Vice Chair), Steven Tobiason (Secretary
Membership Director: Sara Bemer
West Town Master Plan Intern: Benito Garcia
Not Present: Chad Tepley, Jenny Rossignuolo

Minutes
I.

Call to Order
• Michael called the meeting to order at 12:10 PM

II.

Approval of minutes from July 12
• Sara Dulkin motioned to approve 7/12/18 Minutes. Adam Williams seconded this motion
and it was unanimously approved.

III.

Financial Report & Budget:
• 2018 P&L Statement, Balance Sheet & YTD distributed – VOTE
o Amy Laria motioned to approve financial report. Adam Williams seconded this
motion and it was unanimously approved.

IV.

Rebate / Grant Programs:
• Facade Rebates: None
• Graffiti Abatement Rebate: None
• Public Art
o Promoting Program to SSA Businesses
o New Project Applications:
 For Freedoms – VOTE
• In partnership with Monique Meloche Gallery
• Estimated cost: $4,910
o Bus benches art initiative – objective is to get people
mindful of who they’re voting for, promote voting
participation
o 6 benches for about 3-month period
o SSA concern is to review the type of art and ensure
political messages are not promoted in any way
o SSA board will table this decision for September 6, 2018 to
decide if moving forward (NO VOTE TAKEN).


814 N Ashland Ave (RR #1) - VOTE
• Artist Lewis Taylor
• Estimated cost: $9,150
o Board has concern the project scope is small scale in
relation to the funding requesting
o Board is in favor to deny proposal due to unapproved
neighborhood tagging and excess charging by artist

 o
o
o
o

Sherri, property owner, should be engaged more and if
interested, should submit her own application and give
RFP guidelines
Application is denied by SSA Board
Peter Gariepy motioned to deny the project. Amy Laria
seconded this motion and it was unanimously approved.

Ongoing Project Updates:
 Chicago & Lessing
• In progress

V.

Marketing / Beautification / Safety:
• Graffiti Removal: Cleanslate is continuing to removing any tags; June report attached
• Pressure Washing: No Updates.
• Trash Cans: Trash cans are being serviced on a regular basis.
• Landscaping
o Christy Webber has their August visits scheduled for the 1st and the 14th of
August. By going early they are hoping that by the end of the month they may be
in a position to mulch the SSA. This has been delayed due to the construction on
Chicago Ave.
• Street Cleaning: No Updates.
• Mural Viaduct Cleaning: No Updates.
• Banners & Holiday Decorations:
o Selfreliance Bank banners – VOTE
o Amy Laria motioned to approve this request. Chris Hunt seconded this motion
and it was unanimously approved.
• Discover West Town Mobile App: No Updates.
• Master Plan:
o Updates from Ben
 Interactive Map
 Master Plan
• People Spot: No Updates.
• Bike Racks: No Updates.
• Bike Friendly Business District: TBD.

VI.

Old Business:
• Art Walk Talk & Best Practices for Chicago Ave Businesses
o Wednesday, August 22nd from 5:30-7pm at Chicago Truborn
• Margot Harrington mural
o Margot is a contact of Julie Ghatan (Dovetail). She was scheduled to complete a
mural for the Soho House, but when they found out that she was fundraising since
they weren't offering payment, they canceled the project.
o Has raised $1,300 from the community and wants to honor their donation by
completing this mural elsewhere.
o Looking for an available wall within the West Town SSA

VII.

New Business:

VIII.

Public Forum:
Meeting adjourned at 1:09pm
***Next SSA Commission Meeting Date: September 6th, 2018***

 