WEST TOWN SSA
MEETING OF SSA COMMISSION
Thursday, June 7, 2018, 12:00 PM
West Town Chamber of Commerce
1819 W. Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL 60622
Minutes
Present: Commissioners: Michael VanDam (Chair), Peter Gariepy (Treasurer), Jenny Rossignuolo,
Sara Dulkin, Adam Williams
Membership Director: Sara Bemer
West Town Master Plan Intern: Benito Garcia
Not Present: Amy Laria (Vice Chair), Steven Tobiason (Secretary), Chad Tepley,
I.

Call to Order
A. Michael called the meeting to order at 12:23pm

II.

Approval of Minutes from SSA Commission Meeting on May 3, 2018
A. Sara Dulkin motioned to approve 5/3/18 Minutes. Adam Williams seconded this motion
and it was unanimously approved.

III.

Financial Report & Budget
A. P&L Statement, Balance Sheet, and YTP Budget distributed and reviewed.

IV.

Rebate / Grant Programs:
A. Public Art Grant Applications
1. Chicago & Lessing
a) Spots measured - 30ft seams
b) Potentially $800 total for murals
c) Determine if 8 or 9 murals will be added, which have cost implications
and considering addition of a ‘Welcome to West Town’ mural
d) $200 for small remaining portion of viaduct wall
2. 1103 N Ashland (Branch Counseling & Wellness)
a) Artist is scheduled to paint the final design on (6/18 - 6/21)
b) Application approved previously
c) Final sketch approved, schedule for 6-18
3. 1838 W Chicago Ave (LUXE)
a) Review plans for Anthony Lewellen project
b) Need to make an addition to the original project proposal the Commission
voted on last month in order to add a photographer to the budget.
c) 200ft of plastic sheeting - $50 and $750 for additional items
d) Adam Williams motioned to approve the funding increase of $800. Jenny
Rossignuolo seconded this motion and it was unanimously approved.

V.

Marketing / Beautification / Safety:
A. Graffiti Removal: Cleanslate is continuing to removing any tags.
B. Pressure Washing: No Updates.
C. Trash Cans: Trash cans are being serviced on a regular basis. Cleanslate will soon need
to replace a trash can liner at Chicago Ave & Greenview on the northwest corner.
D. Landscaping: Christy Webber is hand-weeding the SSA twice a month. They have not
mulched the SSA yet. They are waiting until the majority of the construction along
Chicago Ave was finished, since construction crews were ripping through and replacing
trees. Christy Webber estimates that they should be able to mulch and get a real good
clean up in June. The SSA has not billed for any mulching as of yet.
E. 1611 Chicago Ave (West Town Library Branch)

 F.
G.
H.
I.

J.
K.
L.

1. It’s not a part of the SSA’s Public Art Grant. It’s being coordinated through the
City and 1 s t Ward. City met with some tenants from 1611 Chicago Ave to present
1-page summary and parking vacancy requests. The response was positive
overall. For some, there will be no impact of mural install; however, COPA will
have greatest impact due to parking lot.Street Cleaning: No Updates.
Mural Viaduct Cleaning: No Updates.
Banners & Holiday Decorations: No Updates
Discover West Town Mobile App: No Updates.
Master Plan: Updates from Ben
1. Field work, specifically tracking, documenting, and verifying SSA trash cans and
bike racks within the SSA area and providing the information to Tony Pelikan
from Place Consulting
2. Reviewing the initial survey responses from people regarding the Openlands
Tree Planting Grant - need to determine if this is something we want to pursue
before more edits/effort is done in refining the survey
3. Communication with CDOT on the Complete Streets initiative (Big Idea 1) and
preliminary planning outreach, specifically with Vision Zero education (internal
meeting) and West Fest in July
a) Vision Zero Introduction Training: Wednesday, June 27th from 2-4pm at
the WTCC
People Spot: No Updates.
Bike Racks: No Updates.
Bike Friendly Business District: TBD.

Old Business: None
New Business: None
Public Forum:
Meeting concluded at 12:46pm
***Next SSA Commission Meeting Date: July 12th, 2018***

 