Alton James @it? at Etta it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson

Lisa Whitmore Davis

Vice CITY PLANNING COMMISSION LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory Pawlciwski 
Marcel! R- Todd, Jr. Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angst Webb

e-mail: 

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Planning Commission in the Committee of the
Whole Room, 13th Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY, JULY 18. 2019 AT 6:30 PM

to consider the request of the Detroit Planning Development Department to amend Article
XVII, District Maps 28 30 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing an
M2 (Restricted Industrial) zoning classi?cation where a B4 (General Business) zoning
classi?cation are currently shown on seven (7) parcels generally bounded by East Warren
Avenue to the north, St. Jean Street to the east, Kercheval Street to the south and Beniteau Street
to the west. The location of the proposed rezoning is speci?cally indicated as the shaded area on
the accompanying map. The speci?c addresses of the parcels are available upon request.

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow for the expansion of the Fiat 
Mack Engine Plant. The proposed uses for the parcels to be rezoned are employee parking,
assembled vehicle storage and semi-trailer parking. The proposed uses are permitted by-right in
the M2 zoning classi?cation, but are not permitted in the B4 zoning district.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:

B4 General Business District

The B4 General Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a
thoroughfare-oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may bene?t
by drawing part of their clientele from passing traf?c are permitted. Additional uses, which
may be successfully blended with permitted by?right uses, are conditional.

M2 Restricted Industrial District

This district is designed for a wide range of industrial and related uses which can function
with a minimum of undesirable effects. Industrial establishments of this type provide a
buffer between residential districts and intensive industrial districts. New residential
construction is excluded from this district with the exception of loft conversions of existing
buildings and of residential uses combined in structures with permitted commercial uses.
These requirements are both to protect residences from an undesirable environment and to
ensure reservation of adequate areas for industrial deveIOpment.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing
and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Flaming Commission. This Zoning
Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article
[11, Division 3 of Chapter 61 of the I984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (Fax: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that some who are affected
by this proposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors
so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at 313-224-4950, through the TTY
number 71 l, or email crio@.detroitmi.gov to schedule these services.

For ?irther information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225KERCHEVAL STProposed Rezoning from B4 to M2

 

 

B4

M3

 

M4

 

E. WARREN AVE.

 

B4

 

 

 

R2

 

LILLIBRIDGE STBENITEAU ST.

 

 

R2

M2

 

 

 

ST. JEAN

 

M4

M4

 

 

 

 

M4

 

 

M4

 

 

M4

 

Proposed Rezoning from B4 to M2

 

