 James @it? [If Eetr? it Brenda Cass-Andrews

Chairperson

Lisa Whitmorc Davis

Vice CITY PLANNING COMMISSION Damon Ellis

David Esparza, AIA, LEED

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory Pmuowski

Mme" R- ?Mr Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.

Director

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313)224?4336 Aug? Webb
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Planning Commission in the Committee of the
Whole Room, 13th Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019 AT 7:15 PM

to consider the request of the City of Detroit Brown?eld RedeveIOpment Authority to amend
Article XVII, District Map No. 24 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by
showing a M3 (General Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where an R2 (Two-family
Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on three hundred twelve (312) parcels,
generally bounded by the 1-94 Edsel Ford Expressway and Medbury Avenue to the north, Van
Dyke Avenue to the east, I-Iendrie Avenue to the south and Townsend Avenue to the west
commonly identi?ed as the former Kettering High School located at 6101 Van Dyke Avenue and
the former Rose Elementary School located at 5800 Field Avenue.

The location of the proposed rezoning is speci?cally indicated as the shaded area on the
accompanying map.

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow for the establishment of a
high/medium-impact manufacturing automotive supplier. The proposed high/medium-impact
manufacturing or processing facility would be permitted on a by-right in the proposed M3 zoning
classi?cation.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:
R2 Two-family Residential District

The district is designed to protect and enhance those areas developed or likely to develop
with single- or two-family dwellings. The district regulations are designed to promote a
suitable environment for homes and for activities connected with family life. The only
principal uses permitted by right are single- and two?family dwellings. Additional uses are
conditional.

M3 General Industrial District

This district is composed of property so situated as to be suitable for industrial
development, but where the modes of operation of the industry may affect any nearby
residential uses. The purpose of this district is to permit the normal operation of a majority
of industries, subject only to those regulations needed to control congestion and to protect
nearby residential districts. No new residential construction is permitted in this district with
the exception of loft conversions of existing buildings and of residential uses combined in
structures with permitted commercial uses. These requirements are to protect residences

from an undesirable environment and to ensure reservation of adequate areas for industrial
development.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council a?er a public hearing
and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning
Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article
111, Division 3 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that some who are affected
by this proposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors
so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at 313-224-4950, through the
number 711, or email crio@detroitmi.gov to schedule these services.

For ?thher information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 

   
  


.



?1 
.43. 

 

 

Proposed Rezoning from R2 to M3

