 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Environment and Sustainability Committee

Wednesday, May 22, 2019 1:30 PM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE

Present: Deer. Degnen. Britton. Lowry. Miller and Morrison (6)

Absent: Silvestri (1)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Deer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers. in
accordancewith Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore - Concerned Citizen

I 0- 3 (:64

COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval ofthe minutes from the meeting of 7350018

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Lowry, to approve
19?3664. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Deer, Degnen. Britton, Lowry. Miller and Morrison (6)

Absent: Silvestri (I)

I?J-?ilfil

Sponsored by: BRIDGET DEGNEN. JOHN P. DALEY. BRIDGET GAINER, ALMA E. ANAYA.
LUIS ARROYO JR. SCOTT R. BRITTON, DENNIS DEER. BRANDON JOHNSON. BILL
LOWRY. DONNA MILLER. STANLEY MOORE. KEVIN B. MORRISON. SEAN M. MORRISON.
PETER N. SILVESTRI. DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
Cook County Board Of Commissioners

En vironmem and Sustainability Committee Minutes - Draft May 22, 2019
Committee

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION OF COOK COUNTY

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 30. Article 
Section 30-973 - 30-991 is hereby enacted as l'ollows:

Sec. 30-973. Short Title

This Article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Environmental Commission.
Sec. 30-974. Purpose
There is hereby created an Environmental Commission to serve the Following purpose:

Ensure Cook County is a leader in combating global warming.

Create a working group of environmental professionals from Cook County?s public and private
sectors working together to devise and implement initiatives to combat global warming.

Enact sustainable legislation and policy aimed at reducing the carbon footprint within the
geographic borders of Cook County.

Serve as a model for other governments by proactively combalting climate change with
innovative and practical environmental initiatives.

Sec. 30-975. Cook County Environmental Commission Membership

The commission will be composed of nine (9) members including the original sponsor of this bill,
who shall serve as Chair. The Chair shall be responsible for designating a successor when he or she
ceases to serve as a Commissioner on the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Six (6) members shall be appointed by the Chair. These members shall represent the following:

(1) One member of the Commission shall be a representative appointed by the Mayor?s Office of
the City ol?Chicago.

(2) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a representative from the north triad of Cook
County.

(3) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a representative from the south triad of Cook
County.

Page 2 of 7

Environment and Sustainability Committee Minutes - Draft May 22, 2019
Committee

(4) One (1 member of the Commission shall be a representative from a not-for-profit.

One (1) member of the Commission shall be. a corporate stakeholder with experience working on
environmental initiatives.

(6) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a representative from higher education or academia.

The President of the Cook County Board of Commission shall appoint one (1) member of the
Commission.

All appointments shall be con?rmed by the Cook County Board.
Sec. 30-976. Term and Vacancies

The Chair shall serve for the duration of his or her term as a Cook County Commissioner. The
Chair can serve for consecutive terms. Board members. excluding the Chair. shall serve for two (2)

years and may be reappointed for consecutive terms.

Vacancies 0n the Commission shall be ?lled in the same manner that original appointments are
made and shall be ?lled for the unexpired term of the member whose appointment has become vacant.

Sec. 30-977. Quali?cations of Members
All members shall have like-minded goals stated in the Purpose section of this Article.

All members shall have subject matter knowledge. experience and/or education in environmental
sustainability matters

Sec. 30-978. Meetings
This Commission shall hold a meeting once every even numbered month.
Meeting dates shall be set for the entire following year. in December of the preceding year.

Should a member of the Commission miss three consecutive meetings. the Commission may
choose to remove the member. and the Chair shall appoint a new member pursuant to Sec. 30-9?6 

This Commission shall be subject to the Open Meetings Act. 5 ILCS 120/] to 120/75. and by the
Freedom of information Act. 5 li.CS 140i] to 14Ui1 1.5.

Sec. 30-979. Powers, duties, and responsibilities

Page 3 of 7

Environment am! Sustainability Committee imt tes Draft May 22, 201 9
Committee

 

The Environmental Commission shall serve as a working Commission and in an advisory role to
the Cook County Board on matters relating to environmental sustainability: reduction of greenhouse gases
and reduction of environmental impacts in Cook County. The Environmental Commission shall be
responsible for:

(1) Considering all environmental impacts on surface water. groundwater. air. waste. land and
making appropriate recommendations to the Cook County Board, local municipalities and the
Chicago City Council at least once annually;

(2) Creating and presenting to Cook County Board an annual report and work plan in furtherance of
the Commission?s environmental goals and responsibilities. The Commission should solicit input

from all stakeholders via its representatives in the creation of its work plan; and

Participating in regional environmental associations and collaborating with other local
environmental stakeholders.

Sec. 30-980. Article scheduled to be repealed on May I, 2023
Repeal ol?AIticle. This Article is repealed on May 1, 2023.
Sec. 30-981 30?991. Reserved

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Lowry, to waive the
rules 19-3082. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Deer. Degnen. Britten, Lowry. Miller and Morrison (6)

Absent: Silvestri 

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Miller, to accept as
substituted 19-3082. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Deer. Degnen, Britton. Lowry. Miller and Morrison (6)

Absent: Silvestri 

is:

Page 4 of 7

Environment and Sustainability Committee Minutes - Draft May 22, 2019
Committee

Sponsored by: BRIDGET DEGNEN, JOHN P. DALEY. BRIDGET GAINER, ALMA E. ANAYA.
LUIS ARROYO .IR, SCOTT R. BRITTON. DENNIS DEER, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL
LOWRY, DONNA MILLER. STANLEY MOORE. KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON,
PETER N. SILVESTRI. DEBORAH SIMS. LARRY and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
Cook County Board Of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE SUBSTITUTE to File 19-3082
PROPOSED ORDINANCE SUBSTITUTE
ESTABLISHING THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION OF COOK COUNTY

WHEREAS, Cook County Government and the Forest Preserves of Cook County commit herein to
combat global warming, which according to National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
has resulted in detrimental impacts to the Midwest inciuding extreme heat, heavy downpours and ?ooding
affecting infrastructure. health, agriculture. forestry. transportation. air and water quality. and exacerbating
risks to the Great Lakes. How Climate is Changing, NASA: Global Climate Change, Vital Signs ofThe
Planet (April I2, 2019), Global warming is expected to depress economic
development. while decreasing gross dom estie product per capita 23% lower by 2100 and widening
income inequality. Marshall Burke. et Global nondfinear e? ect oftempemture on economic
production, 52? Nature lnt?l J. Sci. 235 (2015).
BE IT ORDAINED. by the Cook County Board ofCommissioners that Chapter 2. Administration
Article Boards, Commissions and Committees, Division 6. Environmental Commission. Section 2-550 -
2-520 is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 2-550. Short Title
This Division shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Environmental Commission
(Commission).
Sec. 2-551. Purpose
There is hereby created an Environmental Commission to serve the following purpose:
a) Ensure Cook County is a leader in combating global warming.
b) Create a working group of environmental professionals from Cook County?s public and private
sectors working together to devise and implement initiatives to combat global warming.
c) Promote sustainable legislation and policy aimed at reducing the carbon footprint within the
geographic borders of Cook County.
d) Serve as a model for other governments by proactively combatting climate change with innovative
and practical environmental initiatives.
Sec. 2-552. Cook County Commission on Environmental Sustainability Membership
a) The Commission will be composed of nine (9) members including the original sponsor ofthis bill.

who shall serve as Chair. The Chair shall be responsible for designating a successor if she
ceases to serve as a Commissioner.

b) Six (6) members shall be appointed by the Chair. These members shall represent the following:

Page 5 of 7

Environment and Sustainability Committee Minutes - Dra? May 22, 2019

Committee

Se

Se

See.

C.

C.



1) One member oi'the Commission shall be a representative from the north triad ofCook
County.

2) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a representative from the south triad of
Cook County.

3) One (1) member ofthe Commission shall be a representative from a not-for-protit.

4) One (1) member of the Commission shall be a corporate stakeholder with experience
working on environmental initiatives.

5) One (1) member ol?the Commission shall be a representative from higher education or
academia.

6) One (I member ofthe Commission shall have a background in environmental economics.

C) The President of the Cook County Board ol?Commissioners shall appoint one (1) member of the
Commission. This person shall serve as the Vice Chair ofthe Commission.

(1) The Mayor?s Office ofthe City ol?Chicago shall appoint (1) member ofthe Commission.

e) Ail appointments shall be con?rmed by the Cook County Board.

2-553. Term and Vacancies

a) Each member shall serve two-year terms.

b) The Chair shall serve for the duration of her term as a Cook County Commissioner. The Chair
may serve consecutive terms.

e) Commission members may be reappointed for consecutive terms.

d) Vacancies on the Commission shall be ?lled in the same manner that original appointments were
made and shall be ?lled for the unexpired term ofthe member whose appointment has become
vacant.

2-554. Qualifications ol?Members

a) All members shall have like-minded goals stated in the Purpose section ol? this Division-

b) All members shall have subject matter knowledge, experience andior education in environmental
sustainability matters.

2-555. Meetings

a) This Commission shall hold a meeting at least once every even numbered month. and meetings
shall commence the second even numbered month Following creation of the Commission.

b) Meeting dates shall be set for the following year, in December ol? the preceding year.

c) Should a member of the Commission miss three consecutive meetings, the Commission may
choose to remove the member, and the original appointing member shall appoint a new member
pursuant to Sec. 30-976 

d) This Commission shall be subject to the Open Meetings Act. 5 120i] et. seq, and the
Freedom ol?lnl?ormation Act. 5 ILCS 140i] et. seq.

2-556. Powers, Duties, and Responsibilities.

a) The Commission shall serve as a working Commission and in an advisory role to the Cook County
Board on matters relating to environmental sustainability. reduction of greenhouse gases and
reduction of environmental impacts in Cook County. The Commission shall be responsible for:

(1) Considering environmental impacts on surface water. groundwater, air and land in Cook
County and making appropriate recommendations to the Cook County Board. local

Page 6 of?F

Environment and Sustainability Committee Minutes - Draft
Committee

municipalities and the Chicago City Council to mitigate harmful impacts and promote

positive change:

May 22, 2019

(2) Creating an annual work plan in furtherance of the Commission?s goals and solicit input

from stakeholders via its members.

(3) Beginning in January 2020. creating an annual report and presenting it to the Cook County

Board via the Environment and Sustainability Committee: and

(4) Collaborating in regional environmental associations and with other local em-?ironmenlal

stakeholders.
Sec. 2-557. Division scheduled to be repealed on November 30, 2022
a) Repeal ofDivision. This Division is repealed on November 30, 2022.
See. 2-5 57 - 2-570. Reserved.

Effective Date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner
recommend for approval as substituted 19-3082. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Deer, Degnen, Britten, Lowry. Miller and Morrison (6)

Absent: Silvestri (1)

ADJOURNMENT

Britten, to

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Lowry, that this

was adjourn the meeting" The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Deer, Degnen, Britten, Lowry, Miller and Morrison (6)
Absent: Silvestri 

Respectfully submitted,

492., 23. 22A

 

.me

Chairman Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at .leeistur.ct_nn.

 

Page 7 of 7

