City of Detroit

Alton James
Chairperson

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION

Vice Chair/Secretary
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Director

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cc-cpc@detroitmi.gov

Brenda Goss-Andrews
Lisa Whitmore Davis
Damion W. Ellis
David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
The City Planning Commission will hold a public discussion in the Committee of the Whole
Room, 13th floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

Thursday, July 18, 2019 at 5:15 PM
to consider the request of Detroit Entertainment, L.L.C. d/b/a MotorCity Casino for approval of a
modification to the previously approved development proposal for a casino complex in the SD5
(Special Development District, Casinos) zoning classification generally described as the area bounded
by Grand River, Elm, Trumbull, Spruce, Brooklyn, Pine and the Lodge Freeway, comprising
approximately 24.75 acres. The location of the specific existing SD5 district is indicated on the
accompanying map.
The proposed modification would permit the addition of 700 new parking spaces via the construction
of an eight (8) level expansion at the east end of the existing parking deck erected on the property
bounded by Elm, Brooklyn, Temple and Trumbull.
The SD5 zoning classification is generally described as follows:
SD5 Special Development District for Casinos
The SD5 Special Development District is designed to facilitate the location of licensed casinos and
casino complexes within the boundaries established by the City of Detroit for casino gaming activities.
The SD5 District focuses on urban entertainment and recreational activities that will enhance the area
as a desirable location for tourists, conventions, and urban life. The provisions of the district
encourage pedestrian and transit-oriented linkages between casinos and casino complexes and other
activity areas within the city. Because of the special characteristics of casinos and casino complexes,
the requirements applicable to development in this district include submittal requirements and criteria
that are specified in this division. These regulations are designed to ensure that casinos and casino
complexes contribute positively to the built environment that the operation of casinos and casino
complexes will help to enhance, expand and stabilize employment and the local economy while
simultaneously ensuring effective public services and a high quality of life for nearby businesses,
institutions and residents.

After review and recommendation by the Planning and Development Department and the
City Planning Commission, the City Council shall review and approve site plans and design
features for all casinos and casino complexes.
Modifications to approved plans may be permitted by the City Planning Commission or its
staff per the provisions of Section 61-11-276

 You may present your views on this proposal by attending this discussion, by authorizing others
to represent you, or by writing to this office prior to the discussion, 2 Woodward Avenue, room
208, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because some that are affected by this
proposal may not have been notified, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so
that they may also express their opinions if they desire.
Interpreters for hearing-impaired residents may be present, if requested at least 48 business hours
in advance. To make a request, contact the Department of Civil Rights, Inclusion & Opportunity
(CRIO) at 224-9516.

Proposed SD5 Modification
Shaded area = Subject Site

 