STAFF REPORT 07-10-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6306
ADDRESS: 2254 LONGFELLOW STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT: BOSTON EDISON
APPLICANT: BRIAN ELIAS, HANSON’S WINDOW
STAFF SITE VISIT: 07-02-2019

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

PROPOSAL
The building located at 2254 Longfellow Street is a 2½-story single family residence constructed in 1919. The house
is clad in variegated brown brick and also features stucco and half-timbering. All wood detail, including the stucco
and half-timbering have been painted the same color (light taupe). The asymmetrical front façade features a one-story
projecting bay which features transom windows above casement windows with stucco and wood detailing at the base
of the bay. A small covered entryway exists to the far right of the front façade and features ornamental columns. The
original wood windows, including leaded sashes appear to still be intact. The multi-gable roof is covered in brown
dimensional asphalt shingles.

With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to wrap all existing wood and stucco
on all sides of the house with vinyl siding per the attached application. Including the following scope items:
• Proposed vinyl color is Coastal Sage (see attached).

STAFF OBSERVATIONS
The majority of the original building materials, including the stucco and half-timbering, are still intact and are

 character-defining features of the English Revival style of architecture. Covering wood and stucco with vinyl has in
many cases caused deterioration of the original material while removing the expression of the historic materials and
textures.
ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(7) Relationship of materials. The majority of houses are faced with brick, while many are partially or totally stucco. There are
some stone buildings, sometimes combined with stucco; clapboard is rare, and is extremely rare as the sole material.
Roofing includes slate, tile and asphalt shingles. Wood shingle roofs were once common and have generally been replaced
with asphalt. Wood shake does not exist and there is no known evidence that it was ever used in the district. Stone trim is
common. Wood is almost universally used for window frames and other functional trim and is used in many examples for all
trim.
(8) Relationship of textures. The most common relationship of textures in the district is that of a low-relief pattern of mortar
joints in brick contrasted with the smooth surface of wood or stone trim. There are a few houses with rough or rusticated
stone surfaces. The use of stucco or concrete, with or without half-timbering, as a contrast to brick surfaces, is not unusual.
Tile, slate, or wood shingle roofs have particular textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles generally have little
textural interest, even in those types which purport to imitate some other variety.
(9) Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors (such as red, yellow, brown, buff) predominate in wall surfaces. Natural stone
colors also exist. Where stucco or concrete exists, it usually remains in its natural state, or is painted in a shade of cream.
Roofs are in natural colors (tile and slate colors, natural and stained wood colors), and asphalt shingles are predominantly
within this same dark color range. Paint colors often relate to style. The buildings derived from classical precedents,
particularly those of Neo-Georgian Style, generally have woodwork painted white, cream, or in the range of those colors
including "putty"; doors and shutters are frequently dark green or black.
Colors known to have been in use on similar buildings of this style in the eighteenth or early twentieth centuries may be
considered for appropriateness. Buildings of medieval inspiration (notable Neo-Tudor) generally have painted woodwork
and window frames of a dark brown or cream color. Half timbering is almost always stained dark brown. The original colors
of any building, as determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for a house, and may provide guidance for
similar houses.
(10) Relationship of architectural details. Architectural details generally relate to style. Neo-Georgian buildings display classic
details, mostly in wood, and sometimes in stone. Porches, shutters, window frames, cornices, and dormer windows are
commonly, although not always, treated. Details on "Mediterranean" style or vernacular buildings including arched
windows, door openings, and porches, are often done in stone, brick, tile, and sometimes in stucco. Buildings of medieval
inspiration tend to have details in the form of carved wood or carved stone ornaments on window frames, door frames, and
eaves. In general, the various styles are rich in architectural details.

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Commission find the project scope, as proposed, to be inappropriate as it does not meets
the following Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation:
• 2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or
alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
• 5) Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize
a property shall be preserved.

  

 


Iv.31" _i lnL'Ill- I?llJ furl-?" . 
up"? . . r- . n?wWW-?? STAFF SITE VISIT 7/2/ 

 

 

- 

STAFF SITE VISIT 7/2/19

 I 


n- 



'IdJ-l- . I I 
*1 .u .Cv?h'

$5555 r3311 Imumma . alli-?w?Iquiaha-145E!

- 
. 
VII-I. 1?

l_l I- In, 

 



I . 
.
. 

   

 

APPLICANT-PROVIDED PHOTO

 APPLICANT-PROVIDED PHOTO

 APPLICANT-PROVIDED PHOTO

 APPLICANT-PROVIDED PHOTO

 APPLICANT-PROVIDED PHOTO

 APPLICANT-PROVIDED PHOTO

     Note: "Siding" hand-written
in proposed locations

 Note: "Siding" hand-written
in proposed locations

 Note: "Siding" hand-written
in proposed locations

 Note: "Siding" hand-written
in proposed locations

 