STAFF REPORT: 7-10-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6320
ADDRESS: 874 CHICAGO
HISTORIC DISTRICT: BOSTON EDISON
APPLICANT: YVONNE SEBREE
DATE OF STAFF VISIT: 7/6/2019

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS

PROPOSAL
The dwelling at 874 Chicago is a two-story, Tudor Revival single-family dwelling that was erected ca.
1920. The building’s exterior walls are clad with brick and stucco with false half timbering detailing. The
home is front gabled with intersecting side-gabled and flat-roofed wings. Windows are wood 3/1 units.
The building’s front elevation displays a partial-width, gabled-roof entry porch.
An historic-age 1½-story carriage house/garage is located to the rear of the home. The building
originally featured wood windows throughout.
In February 2019, a resident contacted HDC staff to note that existing 3/1 wood windows at the
property’s carriage house (at the roof dormer) had been replaced with new 1/1 white vinyl units as
per the below photo. Staff reviewed building files maintained by the Planning and Development
Department and noted that the vinyl windows had not been approved by the HDC. Staff therefore
forwarded the complaint to the Detroit Building, Safety, Engineering, and Environmental Department
(BSEED) for enforcement. In May 2019, the applicant visited HDC staff offices with a proposal to
replace the existing deteriorated concrete at the home with new concrete. At that time, staff noted the
existing vinyl window violation and alerted the current applicant that the work must be submitted
to the Commission for review. The applicant subsequently painted the white vinyl windows and
associated wood trim brown as per the below photo. With the current submission, the applicant is
seeking the Commission’s approval of the vinyl windows that were installed at the garage without
permit and/or Certificate of Appropriateness.
STAFF OBSERVATIONS
It is noted that the garage is minimally visible from the public right-of-way, despite that fact that it is
located to the rear of the home/yard. It is staff’s opinion that the historic-age garage does contribute to
the property’s historic character and its original wood windows were/are character-defining features of
the structure. Therefore, in staff’s opinion, if the windows are too deteriorated to be repaired, they
should have been replaced with new windows which match the original as per the Secretary of the
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, standard number 6. The light configuration of the new vinyl
windows are 1/1 and do not replicate/reflect the original windows’ 3/1 light configuration.

APPLICABLE ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(7)
Relationship of materials. The majority of houses are faced with brick, while many
are partially or totally stucco. There are some stone buildings, sometimes combined
with stucco; clapboard is rare, and is extremely rare as the sole material. Roofing
includes slate, tile and asphalt shingles. Wood shingle roofs were once common and
have generally been replaced with asphalt. Wood shake does not exist and there is no
known evidence that it was ever used in the district. Stone trim is common. Wood is
almost universally used for window frames and other functional trim and is used in
many examples for all trim.
(8)

Relationship of textures. The most common relationship of textures in the district is

 that of a low-relief pattern of mortar joints in brick contrasted with the smooth surface
of wood or stone trim. There are a few houses with rough or rusticated stone
surfaces. The use of stucco or concrete, with or without half-timbering, as a contrast
to brick surfaces, is not unusual. Tile, slate, or wood shingle roofs have particular
textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles generally have little textural
interest, even in those types which purport to imitate some other variety.
(9)

Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors (such as red, yellow, brown, buff)
predominate in wall surfaces. Natural stone colors also exist. Where stucco or
concrete exists, it usually remains in its natural state, or is painted in a shade of
cream. Roofs are in natural colors (tile and slate colors, natural and stained wood
colors), and asphalt shingles are predominantly within this same dark color range.
Paint colors often relate to style. The buildings derived from classical precedents,
particularly those of Neo-Georgian style, generally have woodwork painted white,
cream, or in the range of those colors including "putty"; doors and shutters are
frequently dark green or black. Colors known to have been in use on similar
buildings of this style in the eighteenth or early twentieth centuries may be
considered for appropriateness. Buildings of medieval inspiration (notably neotudor) generally have painted woodwork and window frames of a dark brown or
cream color. Half timbering is almost always stained dark brown. The original
colors of any building, as determined by professional analysis, are always
acceptable for a house, and may provide guidance for similar houses.

(10)

Relationship of architectural details. Architectural details generally relate to
style. Neo-Georgian buildings display classic details, mostly in wood, and
sometimes in stone. Porches, shutters, window frames, cornices, and dormer
windows are commonly, although not always, treated.
Details on
"Mediterranean" style or vernacular buildings including arched windows, door
openings, and porches, are often done in stone, brick, tile, and sometimes in
stucco. Buildings of medieval inspiration tend to have details in the form of
carved wood or carved stone ornaments on window frames, door frames, and
eaves. In general, the various styles are rich in architectural details.

RECOMMENDATION
As noted above, it is staff’s opinion that the historic-age garage does contribute to the
property’s historic character and its original wood windows were/are character-defining
features of the structure. Therefore, in staff’s opinion, if the original 3/1 wood windows are
too deteriorated to be repaired, they should have been replaced with new windows which
match the original. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission deny the issuance of a
Certificate of Appropriateness for the current vinyl windows at the garage/carriage house
because they do not meet the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation
standard number 6) Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced.
Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new
feature shall match the old in design, color, texture, and other visual qualities and, where
possible, materials. Replacement of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary,
physical, or pictorial evidence.

 


?m






 

REPORT

Rear garage/carriage, prior to window replacement

Rear garage/carriage, immediately after window replacement

 REPORT

Rear garage/carriage after window replacement. Note that vinly windows have been painted brown

 