Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Co-Chairs: Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT
Luann Hamilton, CDOT

Date:

March 14, 2019

Time:

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

MBAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Brendan Daley

Chicago Park District

Jose Abonce

Community Rep – West

Greg Piland

Federal Highway Administration

Margarita Reina

CDPH

Luann Hamilton

CDOT

David Smith

CDOT

Rebekah Scheinfeld

CDOT

Sean Wiedel

CDOT

John O’Neal

CMAP

Jacob Peters

Community Rep - North

Deloris Lucas

Community Rep – Far South

Jim Merrell

Active Transportation Alliance

Lucy Gomez

CLOCC

Jason Meter

Chicago Transit Authority

Melanie Eckner

Community Rep – Far North

Joe Sislow

Community Rep – Northwest

Mark Roschen

Department of Planning and
Development

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:00 pm by Chair Hamilton
December MBAC meeting minutes approved.

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Bicycle Crash Fatality Update –

Chair Hamilton

a) No fatalities reported yet this year, but there have been 5 serious injuries in 2019, compared to 17 at this
time last year. b) Vision Zero will be releasing several reports this spring: Vision Zero West Side, Downtown
Action Plan, and the Vision Zero Annual Report.
Reminder of new MBAC format -

David Smith

a) A new format has been implemented to better understand successes, challenges, and opportunities in
communities across Chicago. b) It’s objectives are: to better understand successes and opportunities
across community areas to build a stronger relationship between CDOT and Community Reps, and to
facilitate better discussion among community networks and advocates. d) Representatives will be
responsible for co-organizing site visits with CDOT, setting meeting agendas and providing information on the
community areas they represent.
Community Rep presentation: Northwest Region –
Challenges: a) Connectivity. b) The Kennedy Expressway cuts through most of the neighborhoods in this
region. c) The river can also be an obstacle going east-west d) Driving culture.
Priorities: a) Improve bike network connectivity between and build safer connections to existing assets b)
Develop coalition groups c) Build comfort routes and signage for these routes.
Next Steps: a) Identify key areas to connect on the south and east b) Identify best locations for new Divvy
stations c) Develop relationships with Aldermen and community groups.

Joe Sislow

 Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Community Rep presentation: North Region –

Jacob Peters

Challenges: a) Rebuilding new streets with protected lanes instead of dashed lanes. b) Otherwise safe
crosstown routes are broken up by barriers like highways, the river, and railroad crossings.
Priorities: a) There is the need for more equitable infrastructure across the region. b) Continue working on
the riverfront path. c) Develop standard intersection bike lane treatments.
Next Steps: a) Schedule at least one monthly meeting with an Alder. b) Identify an Alder and neighborhood
in this MBAC Region to replicate the Edgewater Neighborhood Bike Network Project.
Updates: New Ordinance Proposed for Low Speed Electric Bikes and Low Speed Electric Mobile Devices –

Amanda Woodall

a) Generally adopts the State code definitions for three standard classes of e-bikes. b) Establishes a
definition for low-speed elctric mobility devices. c) Provide clarity that these devices are legal transportation
options within the Chicago Municipal Code. d) Allows the use of these transportation modes within
appropriately designated roadway spaces.
Updates: Divvy – CDOT introduced an ordinance to amend our existing contract with Motivate as follows:

Sean Wiedel

a) Lyft (formerly Motivate) will continue to operate our system under the existing contract for 9 years. b) Lyft
will invest $50M in new bikes and stations, bringing us to 16,500 bikes and nearly 800 stations to serve the
entire city by 2021.
c) All new bikes will be hybrid, lock-to, and class 1 e-bikes. d) Lyft will become the
sponsor of the system - total commitment for capital and sponsorship and share of advertising is $127 M. e)
Lyft will expand the Divvy for Everyone program, add adaptive bikes, and start a job training program with
special emphasis on ex-offenders. f) Expansion of the system will take place in the South Side this summer
2019, exact boundaries for the expansion and new locations for stations are TBD.
Actions

Lead

Public Comment
Thank you CDOT for all the improvements in the bike system throughout the last few years. It has been a dream come true been a
cyclist in this community!
Will fatalities be reported by MBAC Region in the future?
Could a bike lane be built along Stoney Island?
There are serious concerns about allowing scooters on the sidewalk when operated by youth.
We would like to have futher discussions about the new ordenance and explore options to better separate e-bikes and pedestrians.
Announcements:
a)

Active Transportation Alliance: sent questionnaires about transportation issues to all runoff candidates, both Mayoral and City
Council. Their responses can be found in the following website: https://www.activetransnow.org/city-of-chicago – Announcing mini
grants for community based events. More information to come in the website, but in the meantime you can reach to Julia
Gerasimenko at julia@activetrans.org. – ATA is also collaborating with Chicago Family Biking to organize a “Bike to School Day” in
May. More information to come.

b)

2019 Ride of Silence: Join this year’s ride on Wednesday May 15, 2019. Visit the website to RSVP:
http://rideofsilencechicago.weebly.com/

c)

Bike Lane Uprising: is organizing a community service day coming up soon. Visit the following page to sign up to receive updates,
or sponsor the event: https://www.bikelaneuprising.com/day-of-service

d)

We Keep You Rollin’: Eco Tours starting this Spring. The first tour will take place on Saturday March 23 / 10am -noon. Participants
will explore the Calument Region. Contact Deloris Lucas to register to this event: deelucas2002@yahoo.com

Adjournment at 4:40 pm

 