Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Summary
Co-Chairs: Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT
Luann Hamilton, CDOT

Date:

September 12

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

Time:

MBAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Garth Katner

West Town Bikes

Margarita Reina

CDPH

Jim Merrell

Active Transportation Alliance

Charles Billows

Finance

Eric Goodwin

CLOCC

Brandon Daley

Park District

John O’Neal

CMAP

Todd Wyatt

DPD

Joe Sislow

Community Representative

Luann Hamilton

CDOT, MBAC Co-chair

Jacob Peters

Community Representative

Rebekah Scheinfeld

CDOT, MBAC Co-chair

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:05 by Chair Scheinfeld
February MBAC meeting minutes approved

Collective Action for Traffic Safety Conversation
Issues/Points raised

Presented by

Families and advocates for safer streets would like to implement their “own Vision” because Vision Zero
implementations haven’t done enough to stop people from dying on our streets.

Kristen Green, Ghost
Bikes and Ride of
Silence

Advocates and community membes are standing together to find a collaborative solution.
We would like to not only been seen as cyclists but also as ‘humans’.
Racial inequity is reflected in the number of people of color dying. We see the highest number of fatalities in
the West and South sides.
We need better education to change the culture of drivers.
Representing a group of about 1800 members (Chicago Family Biking is a Facebook Group and is aligned
with Kidical Mass)
We would like to thank the City and CDOT for trying to make our streets safer for everyone, since we
understand it is hard to get everyone involved in such process
In our oppinion, some of the most important issues to be addressed are:
-

Faster implementation of Vision Zero strategies.

-

All companies should comply with the side guard ordinance sooner rather than later. Companies
prioritize profit over human lives. Reinforce compliance to side guard ordinance.

Siouxzi Donnelly,
Chicago Family Biking

 Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Summary
Collective Action for Traffic Safety Conversation - Continue
Issues/Points raised

Presented by

a)Better management of traffic during constuction. When there are no good options for cyclists, they are
sometimes forced into a dangerous decision. b) More equitable infraestructure and proper maintenance of
bike infraestructure. It’s not only about building more, but about maintaining what we already have. c) Better
enforcement of dangerous drivers. d) Prioritize human life for all modes of transortation. e) We hope to be
more involved in the process of planning for safer streets.

Siouxzi Donnelly,
Chicago Family Biking

Vision Zero update:

Luann Hamilton,
CDOT

a)West Side events: Austin and Garfiled park took place in August and September. Last event to be held in
North Lawndale on Sept 29. b) Paint & post project installed in Garfield Park at the corner of Lake & Kedzie.
c) VZ Downtwon Task force prioritized strategies in each area and identified possibiliteis for pilot projects.
d) The City has received and secured funding from CMPA and IDOT to roll out Vision Zero in the South Side
in 2019.
Side Guard Ordinance:

Sean Wiedel, CDOT

a)Passed July 2017, requrires City contractors (over $2 million) to install side guards and conves mirrors on
large vehicles (over 10,000 lbs) b) Currently working to ensrue compliance with the ordinance and increse
number of large vehicles with these safety features even if not covered under ordinance. c) Looking at the ecrash data to prioritize companies who have been involved in multiple crashes for voluntary compliance and
to encourage other companies even if they don’t have a city contract.
Constructions Impacts:

Bryan

a)The goals is to schedule and stagger components so construction does not cause compounding issues
b)Three different stages for any work: preliminary review, permit revie & traffic plan, and inspection c) Q:
What should you do if something does not look safe at a construction site?- regardless of agency, even if a
City Agency is at fault. A: contact the dedicated email address: cdotpermitsupport@cityofchicago.org d)
The department is looking at opportunities to improve safety areas, not only sites, by maybe creating bike
detours through entire neighborhoods e) Collective advocacy is important to hold developers accountable

Other issues raised during this conversations
Aldermanic power to overwrite or support bike infraestructure. How can we (as constituents) better educate Aldermen about the
importance of bike infrastructure in their Wards? We haven’t created enough pressure to Alderman to make them understand how the
lack of appropiate infrastructure affects our lives.
Education and culture change. We should try to think about cyclist fatalities not only as a “cyclist problem” but as a community
problem. There should be more programs to teach people how to properly use the city’s road infrastructure. Invest more in education
and not only in infrastructure. Engage more with Chicagoans through social media. Teach people the basics about the rules of the
road.
Humanize the issue. It is important to add a “face” to the issue moving forward. How could we communicate to Alderman when a
cyclist fatality occurs in his/her ward?
Side guards. How can the City apply pressure to trucking companies to install side guards in their fleets? Nine years is way too long
for companies to comply with the ordinance. We see the need of expanding this to all vehicles and not only to City contractors. It is
imperative we find opportunities to get side guards installed in a more affordable way.
Better education to Police Officers when responding to crash incidents involving cyclists. Reports are not well recorded by the
Police Department. How can we better educate CPD to protect cyclists and record crashes properly?
Improve policies. It is very important to push other branches of government to improve policy. Lobby the State to make vehicle
education and license process more rigorous.
Public Comment
Q: John Greenfield- Is the topic on bike tickecking/ enforcement closed? A: It is an ongoing issue
It would be appreciated if this meeting is pushed back to 5 pm or a later time in the evening.

Adjournment at 5:00

  

