Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Co-Chairs: Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT
Adam Becker, CLOCC

Date:

November 7, 2018

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

Time:

MPAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Vikki Ortiz

AARP

John O’Neal

CMAP

Kyle Whitehead

Active Transportation Alliance

Greg Piland

FHWA

Luann Hamilton

CDOT

Dr. Karen Sheehan

Lurie Children’s Hospital

Rebekah Scheinfeld

CDOT

Audrey Wennink

MPC

Jennifer Herd

CDPH

Ben Helphand

NeighborSpace

Adam Becker

CLOCC

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:10 pm by Chair Scheinfeld
August MPAC meeting minutes approved.

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Pedestrian Crash Fatality Update –

Chair Scheinfeld

a) 37 fatalities from CPD data – a similar trend to 2017. b) The April spike in fatalities has not become a
pattern. c) 7 of 13 killed were in a marked crosswalk/on the sidewalk and 40% killed along HCC or in HC
CAs. These should contniue to be areas of focus for investments. d) More than half were hit by a large veicle
– risk of fatalities has increased as size of vehicles have increased.
Visio Zero Update -

Luann Hamilton

a) The Milwaukee Ave projects are being assessed for motorist compliance with stopping for pedestrians,
crosswalk performance and other metrics. b) Large vehicle safety - $2 million and over contractors with the
City required to have 25% in complaince July 1 and required to conffirm compliance. c) Infrastructure – Over
125 intersections were improved for pedestrians in 2018 and CDOT is on track to exceed goal of 300
intersections by 2020. d) World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims events Nov 18-19 with press
event in Federal plaza Nov 19.
Vision Zero West Side Event Series

Courtney Kashima

a) Three Vision Zero events were held on the West Side over the summer – Garfield Park, Austin, North
Lawndale. b) All events were designed to reconnect with the communities, make street design relevant to the
attendees and inform recommendations for the West Side plans. c) West Side plans are under review and
will be released soon with supporting materials including videos.
Healthy Chicago 2.0

Jennifer Herd

a) Healthy Chicago 2.0 plan centers around improving health equity in Chicago. b) As part of the plan, CDPH
curated a number of data measures for public knowledge and use by partners, e.g. Chicago Health Atlas. d)
Transportation is highlighted prominently as part of the plan - it’s about engaging the surroundings for
communities to make change.
Walkability Assessment – Marshall Square Resource Network

Jennifer Idrovo

a) MSRN focused on built environment as a barrier to a healthy community and started conversations about
walkability and collecting data around it. Over 120 participants of all ages, community partners, etc.
participated in the study. c) Walkability tool was redesigned for clarity and applicability to MSRN d) Shared
results with area Alderman and are creating a community implementation plan. Will continue to partner with
CDOT on improvements.
2018 Year-End Recap and Looking to 2019
a) Non governmental partners met in April to discuss strategies and identified five goals and three main
strategies to push forward pedestrian intiatives and support Vision Zero. b) Site visit to Englewood Nature
Trail in October. c) Would like to revamp participation and attendance with guidance from council members.

Chair Adam Becker

 Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Actions

Lead

Members who to be part of conversations about MPAC structure should reach out to Romina Castillo
(romina@musecommunitydesign.com).

Romina Castillo

Public Comment
Kyle Whitehead – ATA is devleoping a transportation platform for the mayoral election through their 501c4. They will be sharing the
questionnaire with candidates and the public in early December.
Alan Mellis – Thanks MPAC leadership for the action-focused
Adam Becker - CLOCC quarterly meeting November 28 will feature discussion about infrastrucutre and displacement.
Luann Hamilton – CDOT with AARP support and funding, developed a People Spot plan and prototype with plans now online.
Community organizations without resources to hire an architect will now be able to sponsor a People Spot using these plans. The
protoype is in Chatham for this season and will move to a new location in an enterprise zone.

Adjournment at 4:30 pm

 