STAFF REPORT 07-10-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6304
ADDRESS: 14933 ARTESIAN STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT: ROSEDALE PARK
APPLICANT: MARYANN REA, SUNRISE BUILDING
STAFF SITE VISIT: 07-02-2019

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

PROPOSAL
The building located at 14933 Artesian Street is a 1½-story single-family residence constructed in 1950. The wood
frame house is clad in red brick with horizontal siding in the front gable facing the street. The windows at the first
floor appear to be vinyl, however, a small wood fan-light is featured in the front gable. The cross-gable roof is
covered with light gray asphalt shingles and a small entry porch exists to the right of the asymmetrical front façade.
There is a concrete driveway immediately to the north of the house which provides vehicle access from Artesian to the
existing 20’ x 20’ wood frame garage located at the northwest corner of the parcel. The garage, constructed in 1951,
is utilitarian in design. The non-historic paneled garage door is located on the east façade. A person-door and two
wood windows are located on the south façade. The east and west facades feature lapped wood siding, however, the
south façade is currently clad in painted plywood. The cladding of the north façade is unknown. There is a significant
overhang of the roof at the east façade over the garage door. The soffit of the overhang is wood bead board. An
ornamental wood fascia board spans the width of the building. The overhang is supported by small wood columns at
the north and south ends of the span. The simple gable roof is covered in light gray asphalt shingles.

With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to demolish the existing 20’ x 20’
and erect a new 24’ x 24’ wood frame garage per the attached drawings. Including the following scope items:
•
•

Demolish existing 20’ x 20’ wood frame garage in its entirety including the demolition of the existing concrete slab.
Erect new 24’ x 24’ wood frame garage including new concrete slab and rat wall. The proposed garage will be clad in
horizontal vinyl siding in the color of “Oxford Blue” (see attached photos) with vinyl vented soffits and aluminum drip
edge and fascia. The proposed 6:12 side gabled roof are proposed to be covered with fiberglass shingles, however, the

 color and specification of the shingles was not provided by the applicant. The garage door is proposed to be a “steel
sectional” door that is 16’ x 8’ in size and will be white in color (see attached photos). The electrical service included in
the application include “3 plugs, 3” lights, 3 plugs.” It is unknown whether the plugs and lights are to be on the interior
or exterior of the garage. The current application does not include a person-door or windows.

STAFF OBSERVATIONS
Vinyl windows, shutters, and siding are all present on the existing house.
Given the recent discussion held amongst Commissioners at the June 26, 2019 HDC meeting regarding the
appropriateness of the use of vinyl (windows, fences, siding, etc.), staff is concerned about the appropriateness of the
proposed vinyl siding for the new garage.
ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(1) Height. The height of the single-family residential structures in the Rosedale Park Historic District range from one (1) story
to two-and-one-half (2½) stories tall, the half-stories contained within the roof. The standards, as defined in original deed
restrictions, shall be met by new single-family residences. Additions to existing buildings shall be related to the existing
structure. Garages are generally one-story tall. The three (3) apartment buildings on West Outer Drive near Grand River
Avenue are two-stories tall on a high basement. The red brick church on Fenkell at Stahelin has a slightly vaulted sanctuary
section that is nearly three (3) stories in height and two (2) single-story wings.
(2) Proportion of buildings' front facades. The typical front facades of residential buildings in the Rosedale Park Historic
District are often wider than tall or as wide as tall to their eaves. Tall half-stories with dormers provide additional height.
(3) Proportion of openings within the facade. Proportion of openings varies greatly according to the style of the building.
Typical openings are taller than wide, but individual windows are often grouped together to fill a single opening which is
wider than tall. Windows are often subdivided; buildings designed in English Revival styles frequently display leaded glass
in casement windows and transoms. In buildings derived from classical precedents, double-hung sash windows are further
subdivided by muntins. A variety of arched openings and bay windows exist throughout the district. Modernistic-style
residential buildings have large openings with a variety of proportional relationships. Dormers projecting from the front roof
slopes of many houses in the district add to the window area. Openings range from twenty (20) percent to seventy-five (75)
percent of the front facades, most falling into the twenty-five (25) percent to thirty-five (35) percent range.
(4) Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. In buildings derived from classical precedents, voids are usually arranged in a
symmetrical and evenly-spaced manner within the facades. In buildings of other styles, particularly those of English Revival
sub-styles, voids are arranged with more freedom, but usually result in balanced compositions. Voids often dominate the
design of the front facades of modernistic style houses.
(5) Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally determined by the lot sizes and the
setbacks from side lot lines. There is a general regularity in the widths of subdivision lots from one block to another, and a
shared rhythm and cadence along the streetscapes. Generally, all residences or parts thereof, including cornices, balconies,
pergolas or porches, are not nearer than three (3) feet to the side lot line, or as defined by specific subdivision or deed
restrictions.
(6) Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Entrance and porch types usually relate to the style of the building.
Generally, entrances and porches on buildings of English Revival precedents exhibit freedom of placement and orientation,
while buildings of classical inspiration typically have porches and entrances centered on the front facade. A common entry
arrangement on vernacular English Revival houses is that of a slightly projecting, steeply gabled vestibule or gabled wall
punctured with an arched opening. On smaller scaled buildings of later building styles, such as the Garrison Colonials,
minimalist traditionals, and ranches, entrances and porches are positioned on one side of the front facade. Some houses have
entrances that recede while others have porches, steps, and/or entrances that project. Most porches occupy a single bay
while others, particularly on Arts and Crafts and Bungalow style houses, span the length of the front facade. Side and rear
secondary entrances and porches and enclosed sunrooms are common. A rhythm of entrances and porches is not discerned
due to the variety of house designs in the district.
(7) Relationship of materials. Masonry is the most significant material in the majority of houses in the Rosedale Park Historic
District, in the form of pressed or wire cut brick, often combined with wood, stone, and/or stucco. Wood is almost
universally used for window frames, half-timbering, and other functional trim. Windows are commonly either of the metal
casement or wooden sash variety. Aluminum siding and aluminum canted windows on later buildings are sometimes
original; vinyl siding and vinyl windows, where they exist are replacements. Glass block exists as an original material in
some window openings of buildings in "modern" styles. Roofs on the majority of the houses in the Rosedale Park Historic
District are asphalt shingled, while several original slate roofs still exist. Garages, where they are contemporary with the
residential dwelling, often correspond to it in materials.
(8) Relationship of textures. The major textural relationship is that of brick laid in mortar, often juxtaposed with wood or
smooth or rough-faced stucco and/or stone elements and trim. Textured brick and brick laid in patterns creates considerable

 interest, as does half-timbering, leaded and subdivided windows, and wood shingled or horizontally-sided elements. Some
Arts and Crafts style buildings have stone as their major first floor material, providing a rustic, organic appearance, and
stucco or wood at second story level. Slate roofs have particular textural values where they exist; asphalt shingles generally
do not.
(9) Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors—such as red, yellow, brown, or buff, dominate in wall surfaces. Natural stone
colors also predominate: where stucco or concrete exists, it usually remains in its natural state, or is painted in a shade of
cream. Roofs are in natural slate colors, and asphalt shingles are predominantly within this same dark color range. Paint
colors often relate to style. The buildings derived from classical precedents, such as the Neo-Dutch Colonials and Garrison
Colonials, generally have woodwork painted in the white or cream range. English Revival style buildings generally have
painted wood trim and window frames of dark brown, gray, buff, or shades of cream, depending on the main body color.
Half timbering is most frequently stained or painted dark brown. Stained and leaded glass, where it exists as decoration
visible on the front facade, contributes to the artistic interest of the building. The original colors of any building, as
determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for a house, and may provide guidance for similar houses. Colors
used on garages should relate to the colors of the main dwelling.
(10) Relationship of architectural details. The architectural elements and details of each structure generally relate to its style.
Contributing residential buildings, constructed between 1917 and 1955, were designed in styles identified as English Tudor
Revival, Arts and Crafts, Bungalow, Colonial Revival, Dutch Colonial Revival, Foursquare, Prairie, French Renaissance,
Ranch, Garrison Colonial, Minimal Traditional, and International, or hybrids of these styles. Characteristic elements and
details displayed on vernacular English Revival-influenced dwellings include arched windows and door openings, steeply
pitched gables, towers, clustered chimneys, and sometimes half-timbering. Classically-derived styles display modest detail
and architectural elements, mostly in wood in the form of columned porches, shutters, cornices, and keystones. A great
variety of dormer types (shed, gabled, hipped, round-arched, and wall dormers), complimentary to the style of pre-circa
1935 buildings, are very common throughout the district. Porte cocheres and archways adjoining the main body of the house
add architectural interest where they exist. Modern styles are generally characterized by smooth, relatively unadorned wall
surfaces, horizontal bands of windows, and simplicity. The bank building at the corner of Grand River Avenue and Fenkell
at 18203 Ashton was designed in a pared down Neo-classical style typical of its period. The red brick church on Fenkell at
Stahelin features a triple set of double doors, stylized cross, and substantial stone piers demarcating its principal entrance. In
general, the district is rich in early to mid-twentieth century architectural styles.
(11) Relationship of roof shapes. A variety of roof shapes exists, relating to the style of the dwellings. Common on English
Revival buildings are steeply sloped pitched or hipped roofs with complex arrangements of secondary roof shapes, including
steeply sloped gables, clipped gables, and shed roofs. These roofs are commonly interrupted by gabled, shed, and multisided dormers, and substantial chimneys which are sometimes clustered. Bungalows feature low-slung, side facing gable
roofs with shed dormers. Classically-inspired buildings display pitched or hipped roofs with less slope, with or without
dormers. Roofs of houses built later in the period of development of the district, such as those of modern inspiration, tend to
have significantly lower slopes. Flat roofs are not typical except on porches, sunrooms, and other small extensions of a
primary building with a pitched roof, with the exception of the International style building facing Stoepel Park No. 1 at
14901 Minock. Flat roofs as the main roof of a primary building are generally not appropriate in the district.
(12) Walls of continuity. The common setbacks of houses on straight residential streets create strong visual walls of continuity.
This is augmented by the landscaped features in the public right-of-ways, such as the traffic islands and tree lawns planted
with mature trees.
(13) Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. Monumental features mark the entrance to
Rosedale Park near Grand River Avenue at Ashton Boulevard and Fenkell with an elaborate set of brick and stone piers; at
Glastonbury with brick piers and masonry globes, bearing a plaque identifying the area's developers; and at Piedmont, the
more modest of the three with its very squat brick piers bearing masonry globes. The flat terrain of the area is divided with
principal streets oriented north-south and alternating eighty (80) feet and one hundred (100) feet in width, and five east-west
streets fifty (50) feet wide. The district is separated from the Grand River Avenue commercial lots by an alley. The typical
treatment of individual residential properties is that of a dwelling erected on a flat or slightly graded front lawn. The front
lawn area is generally covered with grass turf, subdivided by a straight or curving concrete or brick walk leading to the front
entrance and a single width side driveway leading to a garage. There is variety in the landscape treatment of individual
properties. Lack of front yard fencing in all but the western part of the district is a result of subdivision restrictions that
prevent fences near to the front line of the property than the rear of the building. The placement of trees on the tree lawn
between the concrete public sidewalk and masonry curb varies from block to block or street to street. Lots in Rosedale Park
Subdivision No. 4, on Auburn, Minock, and Plainview, have no curbs, and feature wide tree lawns. Replacement trees on
the public right-of-way should be characteristic of the area and period. Original street lighting standards throughout the
district have tall fluted poles with crane's necks and replacement lanterns. Many have been replaced by tall, modern steel
poles. A specific light standard was designed for Outer Drive, and many still exist.
(14) Relationship of open space to structures. The curbed landscaped traffic islands in the center of the north-south streets
require that the road curves around them. Minock, Auburn, and Plainview on the western end of the district do not have the

 landscaped islands in the public right-of-way, although West Outer Drive has some wide medians. Public sidewalks line
each side of the street, and are set back from the road by a tree-lawn that widens when not opposite a landscaped traffic
island. All houses have ample rear yards as well as front yards. Wider lots in Rosedale Park permitted side drives with
garages at the rear of the lots. Where dwellings are located on corner lots, garages face the side street. Garages, when
original, often correspond in materials to the main body of the dwelling, but are of modest, one-story, simple box design
with single or double-doors. Some later houses in the west part of the district were originally built with garages that were
integrated into the main body of the dwelling. About half of the original garages in the district have been removed and/or
replaced. Fences of metal, wood, or stone separate individual properties from the alley behind the Grand River Avenue
commercial frontage. While there are a few hedges between properties in front, hedges and backyard fences are common
along the east-west streets, and backyard fences are common throughout the district. Stoepel Park No. 1, outside the
district's southern and western edge, preserves open space, as does Flintstone Park, outside of the district at its southeastern
edge.
(15) Scale of facades and facade elements. The Rosedale Park Historic District comprises a single-family residential
neighborhood of moderately scaled dwellings. Houses erected in the 1940s and 1950s are generally smaller in scale than
those built in the earlier phase of development. Three (3) multi-unit apartment buildings, on the west side of West Outer
Drive near Grand River Avenue, are also moderately scaled. Elements and details within are appropriately scaled, having
been determined by the style, size and complexity of the individual buildings. Window sash are usually subdivided by
muntins and casement windows are leaded, affecting the apparent scale of the windows within the facades.
(16) Directional expression of front elevations. The houses in the Rosedale Park Historic District are horizontal or neutral in
directional expression. Large architectural elements within facades are frequently vertical in directional expression, such as
multi-storied projecting gables sections, clustered chimneys, or columns. The three (3) apartment buildings on West Outer
Drive are horizontal in directional expression.
(17) Rhythm of building setbacks. Front yard setbacks are generally consistent on each residential street in the Rosedale Park
Historic District, as prescribed by the deed restrictions, although porches, entrance arrangements, window projections, and
irregular massing result in the appearance of variety.
(18) Relationship of lot coverages. The lot coverage for the single-family dwellings ranges generally from twenty-five (25)
percent to thirty-five (35) percent, including the garage, whether freestanding or attached.
(19) Degree of complexity within the facades. The degree of complexity has been determined by what is typical and appropriate
for a given style. Overall, there is a higher degree of complexity in the English Revival style buildings, where their facades
are frequently complicated by gables, bays, irregularly placed openings and entrances, and irregular massing, than those of
other styles. The facades of classically inspired buildings and modernistic buildings are more straightforward in their
arrangement of elements and details.
(20) Orientation, vistas, overviews. The orientation of buildings is generally toward the north-south streets, with the exception of
the house at 14901 Minock, which faces Stoepel Park No. 1. The primary vistas are created by the landscaped traffic
islands. Because of the standard setbacks and lack of front yard fencing, the streetscape appears as an unbroken greenbelt.
(21) Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Front facades of buildings range from completely symmetrical to asymmetrical but
balanced compositions. English Revival style buildings are irregular in layout and asymmetrical in appearance. The
classically-inspired buildings are generally symmetrical. The modernistic buildings are not symmetrical but result in highly
ordered compositions.
(22) General environmental character. The Rosedale Park Historic District is a solid, fully developed large residential area of
just under one thousand six hundred (1,600) moderately-scaled single family dwellings, built-up in the period between
World War I and World War II and complemented with typical examples of compatible houses from the 1950s. Its
landscaped features within the public right-of-ways results in a park-like setting. Located approximately twelve miles from
the city's center, the Grand River Avenue commercial strip is to its north; otherwise, the area features several other
substantial residential subdivisions, including North Rosedale Park and Grandmont.

RECOMMENDATION
Although the existing garage is of historic age, it is staff’s opinion that the work, as proposed, does not detract from
the historic character of the property. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission find the demolition of the
existing garage and erection of a new garage to be appropriate as the scope of work meets the following Secretary of
the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation:
• 10) New additions and related adjacent or relate new construction shall be undertaken in such a manner
that if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic property and its environment
would be unimpaired.
However, staff recommends the following conditions:

 0 The proposed siding should be of a more appropriate material than Vinyl

 

. 


- . . - . 
. . . gsz??ri?te tan'Stgget

- 
. 91.2". El 



I 

-V 



 

     
      
  

    

El. I

 
 
  

 

  
 

   
      
  
 
  
 

:q i
- 2:55ch?l.I?ft-k" ..: . - 
. ii; FwdSTAFF SITE VISIT 7/2/19

       
     



II.ns 35-: .
. . .T.. . .xq. I..1.-. .     
      
  

    

'mlun'n'.ii'.r' El. I

 
 
  

 

  
 

   
      
  
 
  
 

i
2:15ch?l-I-I
.Ih - Ma a .uI?f - - -
3 Fur.I I II I - 
e. aft-STAFF SITE VISIT 7/2/19

 

 

 

 

Ill 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IllI'll 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.1! I.. I
at}. .I. illg.ii

I

 

 

    

  

.. . II. I Iii.

   

Lil. or. tun?. I'll. Infilu? I I hill lg; . .r .I .lf rirlli liwit?ll. I. .fI Flu?F if.

 

..-.LII-II.

 

 

 

.1. - I II . .uIluf-l 
I II..II.- I'll-.-...IrllfiI-I Ii
I II . I .II-.I. 

 

 

 

 

II 1'ill-H1I'.II7-11 . I 
..IE: .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.-. Ill..-

- --.. .191 

 

 

.-.. . . .1.II1.II. IL..I I-.. . . . .. . . . . . .-.. . . . . .. .1I1 . I .I . . .I ..I..I I..IIJulh."1..ll- ?lilrimi1.1.11-.. 

 
   
 

 

 

I . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.llguy?H- .. 

ill'ilir'l ll?ll1 ?Illa 

   
  

hill. .41.:

1. I. .1 . 1.: .11.. .. winim?qianiul . . . 1..

 

 

 


. 1 41.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

El. .I.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ll.- Lr .. . ?Lurrlrulru?r EI-LITIHI

?I?ll I

Il?l

 

 

 

 

 

 

- .H. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.1111 . (II. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nm. fl! 33 ill i? l??l?l It.? [all-r? 1:?qu .Ilwnil? .Ilrl Ll in lb! I.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I If: . I 

Elli.-.. 

 

 

. .. -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- In. ll'l Ill ltltI.I.II.I I ..11w: ?u.m.....IrI .I'll i
II .llvl .- .I I I
ITII .I- 1 .T I .1 xl

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I i
I

Ill I'll?l?l 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


4., I I I .l

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

J. 

 

 



 

 

 

all? Va
?131?. 5:11 he Th . rut? mil. .t .. I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.I. .drTleI dint.

ll'llIUH4 il If;

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ilia-Ill! ill-?it In;

 

 

 

 

lull. l  .Ill. Lil-I'll! Elli LII ..[I'[Tall MILE.IIii?i trrI.II. .. .l .I..I .-. I..I .. I. I .I.II. I.II I.II. I. IILI .IIL. .I . . .. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . . "ii

II- - 

?u

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.t.w-EhrL Eff; .ET. F1 IVE. MPEEI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CERTIFIED TO

PO RT Metro West N.A. 



Metro East NA.
Grosse Pointe NA. 0)me Bank
7 Warren N.A. .

 

 

 

 

Applicant: TONY SHAWN RUMPHY AND VESTA ANN
Property Description:

Lot 850; ROSEDALE PARK SUBDIVISIONthat part of the N.E. 1/4 of Sec. 2.3. lying South of Grand River,Avenue, 
E.. Redford Twp. (now City of Detroit). Wayne County. Michigan. ,as: recorded in Liber
37 of Plats. Pages 74 and 75 of Wayne County Records. .-. 
FLOOD PLAIN Comm. No. 250222 Map No. 000513 Date: 7?2481?
Flood Zone C. Areas of minimal flooding. 
(.9 NOTE: GAR.
7 I 2 5; 50'? ENSR. IBNYTO
A E. I'd:
ESL As SHOWN.

    

Detroit 

Livonia
Southiield
Troy

N.W. 1/4 and all

?00

 

 

 

 

000 $10.
GAR. 
<3 i 
%4 LOT 859 LOT 860 LOT 851
conc.
TO ices 5.4
#14933 
I 202* a
a 9.6 000 SID. 3? 3
Eek. RES "a
.
14.:
2.3.0 
PORCH-J 
NORTH

50.0

I9:
co~0.cuag I
f; A A .?mgih
ARTESIAN AVE. 80? WD. ffwu'EW?

 



REPORT

 

Sunrise Building Group, Inc

Licensed - Insured - Bonded
28726 Plymouth Road 0 Livonia. Michigan 48150 I (734) 425-0000 Fax (734) 425-6822

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DATE 4 /t <3

JOB N0. CONTRACT 8t SPECIFICATIONS
Name 14M 101-} WORKTO BE PERFORMED AT:
Address?L?-It Q12 Mfg! ?rf?NI Street
City Zip 4?5 223 City
Telephone: Homem Work Direcn?ons 5 if 5' 

Al av? 5m 74952.1:
LotNo. LotSrze Sub Liber Page

 

 

 

 

Roofs Hip ?Wei Reverse Gable Others
Size 14' 1% 1'4 Sidino Hm Trim hum-Arum 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Overhang in Cornice ShinglesM?nl-HSS
-
Rafter Size i new Stud Size ?2 ?3?4 5% Corner Studs?m?
RoofSheathino .345? ESE Wail Sheathino 1/15, 1? Nailsimm?
Door Size__! in ?6 94 WNW Opener 
Electrical ?g a Kai-I475 '5 Customerto CoverTrench VestSteel 24]
[?4566 2 l?I' I
Service ?3 Rev 2 6!
Sizej%22:TypeE Wind 3 
Felt Line 
EI-Wreck haul Hangers 
Steel Corner Braces zi? 
I: Top Plates Ki Paint
[3 Bottom Plates I 
Clean-up Debris Stiffback Wk?
concerns WBRK . 
CI RatWall 3 lg? Expansions 
Footings Anchor Bolts I, o- -C- 
Haul Away Dirt Break OutConcrete I
[3 Fill Sand Remove Concrete
Conduit IE Brick 
Gravel 
Additional Work 
-- 51mm?- 1e03- 53.consideration for the work erformed above l/we. the urchaser(sl a 
gree 550 
Tma'ca?h Amounts Era Mme. Fisi?? awn meg-ls FIFTY M,c.eizs ?as? 
00
DOWN 5 Laos ugoln signing this agreement . I 3 1 550 a upon pouring concrete
?mi? a 
AYMENT be paid on or before :0 ymen to :3 upon delivery of lumber
. I 999 a 4:331; gmm, upon completion

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT 
ASPHALT SHINEFELT I
7/16? 053 a
ROOF TRUSSES 2 0.c.


I

 

 

 

 

 

METAL DRIP GE 
ALUMINUM . 

CIA
VENTED VINYL OFFIT

 

 

 

 

HORIZONTAL 
TWEK WRAP 


2x4's 16? o.c.I

TREATED 2x4 SILL 
PLATE ANCHO ED T0

SOLID PERIM ER BLOCK
WITH METAL RAPS

32" o.c. I 
I

 

 

 

 

4" CONC. SLA
4" COMP. 

 

 

 

 

 

POURED CONC. FOOTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PROPOSED WHITE GARAGE DOOR PROPOSED OXFORD BLUE SIDING

