 
Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
  
Date:

June 6, 2019

Time:

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

Co-Chairs:
MPAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Donald Knox

Chicago Department of Finance

Deloris Lucas

Far South Region Rep

Kylene Holderman

DCASE

Margarita Reina

CDPH

John O’Neal

CMAP

Jose Abonce

West Region Rep

Todd Wyatt

CMAP

Sean Wiedel

CDOT

Garth Katner

West Town Bikes

David Smith

CDOT

Jeremy Glover

MPC

Joe Sislow

Northwest Region Rep

Jacob Peters

North Region Rep

Lynda Lopez

Southwest Region Rep

Melanie Eckner

Far North Region Rep

Maurice Perkins

Far Southwest Region Rep

Jim Merril

Active Transportation Alliance

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:10 pm by Sean Wiedel
March MBAC meeting minutes were approved.

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Bicycle Crash Fatality Update –
a)​ Reporting one fatality thus far this year. It was a hit-and-run in the South side. ​b)​ Fatalities are trending
down 20% compared to the 5-year average.

David Smith

City Updates a) Divvy Update​ - Divvy will implement a robust community engagement during the expansion of the
network to collect stekeholders’ feedback. Divvy and the City want to gather ideas from MBAC
members Community Reps - a save the date for a conversation will be shared soon. All meetings will
take place in the South Side. A “road show” in the South Side in partnership with the Bicycle
Ambassadors and other partners will roll out this summer to collect as much information as possible
prior to the network’s expansion.
b) Vision Zero West Side Engagement Process ​- Vision Zero Chicago partnered with four community
organizations to sponsor and co-host events in the neighborhoods of Austin, Garfield Park, and North
Lawndale. These events embedded the Vision Zero message into existing community-led events.
Overall, the events provided a space for authentic conversations about street design, equity in
transportation, and enforcement strategies. Residents signed pledges, filled out surveys, and
provided thoughtful responses in a collective effort to think of Chicago’s streets in new ways. The
Vision Zero West Side Plan is completed and will be released in the upcoming weeks. The videos
presented during the meeting will be made available after the release of the plan at
visionzerochicago.org.
Community Representatives Presentations & Discussion a) MBAC Southwest Region​ - This region is composed of 12 different neighborhoods. Three High Crash
Corridors can have been identified in this region. Most of these neighborhoods experience high
economic hardship. These are dense neighborhoods, predominantly Latinx, except for Garfield Park.
The region has assets such as green spaces, public transit routes, commercial districts and bike
shops. The primary bike network issues/challenges are: truck traffic, industrial areas, few low-stress
routes and lack of safe crossing of the sanitary and ship canal. The region’s priorities are to address
pollution and heavy truck traffic to create more livable streets and to develop recommendations for
safer crossing along industrial areas and the sanitary and ship canal.

Amanda Woodall

Romina Castillo

Lynda Lopez

  
Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Agenda and Notes
Topic
a)

Facilitated by
MBAC West Region​ - The West region is composed of 8 different neighborhoods, all of which
experience high economic hardship and low child opportunity except for Austin (medium). The
majority of the population in the region is black and Latinx. On average, 40% of the population is
under 25. Seven High Crash Corridors have been identified in this region. The region has had
multiple planning efforts in the last few years: Hermosa & Logan Square Quality of Life Plan, North
Lawndale QLP, Austin QLP, and Belmont Cragin QLP. The region is also rich in community assets
and organizations. The main bike network issues/challenges in the region are a general lack of
infrastructure and perception of personal safety.

Jose Abonce

Industrial Corridor Planning a) ​Milestones put on hold currently. ​b)​ The plan is an implementation action plan. ​c)​ One of the proposed
goals of this document is to provide better access for all modes within and around the Little Village Industrial
Corridor. ​d)​ Four strategies focus in transportation actions. ​e)​ Next implementation steps are: 1. More
comprehensive study of the area 2. Study of 31st St. 3. Framework for Little Village design guidelines.

Gerardo Garcia

Site Visits Update First Site Visit scheduled for:
● Monday June 24 - bike ride across the North and Northwest regions
● Monday July 15 - Tour of Big Marsh & Riverdale / meeting in Big Marsh at 12:30 pm
● Wednesday August 28 - Tour of El Paseo / more information to come

Romina Castillo

Actions

Lead

Public Comment & Announcements
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
h)
i)

Deloris Lucas - call to action to create a community equity benefits agreement with advocates who want Divvy in their
neighborhoods.
Active Transportation Alliance - The Mayor’s Administration has committed to $20million for complete streets and as well as
developing a transportation equity task force.
Roll N Peace Bike Ride - June 14
Bike Convergence - June 15
Bike Week - June 21-28
4th Annual Legacy Ride - June 22
Spin 4 Peace Bikeathon - June 22
Bikes, Birds & Butterflies - August 15 / Montrose Point Sanctuary @6 pm
Fresh Bronzeville - September 21 / Burke Elementary School @3:30 pm

Adjournment at 4:30 pm

 