COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
NOTICE OF A REGULAR MEETING
The regular meeting of the Commission on Chicago Landmarks
scheduled for July 11, 2019, is CANCELLED.
The Permit Review Committee will hold its regular meeting in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, in Room 201-A on Thursday,
July 11, 2019, at 1:00 p.m.

Eleanor Gorski
Secretary

 NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING

PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
THURSDAY, July 11, 2019
City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St., Room 201-A
1:00 p.m.

AGENDA:
1. 2020 W. Thomas
Ukrainian Village District
Proposed new, second-floor, rear addition to the single-family residence

2nd Ward

2. 560 W. Fullerton
43rd Ward
Mid-North District
Proposed replacement of deteriorated exterior wythe of masonry on the south and west
elevations, new window openings and other alterations
3. 1730-1734 W. 18th
25th Ward
Proposed Pilsen Historic District
Proposed rehabilitation of three two-story buildings including construction of new
one-story, rooftop additions, roof decks, and other alterations
4. 1833 S. Throop
25th Ward
Proposed Pilsen Historic District
Proposed demolition of the front façade of a three-story, masonry building and construction
of a three-story, front addition

Dijana Cuvalo, AIA
Historic Preservation Division
Bureau of Planning, Historic Preservation & Sustainability
Department of Planning and Development

 PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
Summary of projects and staff recommendations, July 11, 2019

1. 2020 W. Thomas
Ukrainian Village District
Proposed new, second-floor, rear addition to the single-family residence
Applicant:

2nd Ward

Jeremy Caufman, owner
Richard Gallik, 3SI, Inc., architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following condition, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 9 and 10 of the U.S. Secretary of the
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings and
therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property and district and approve the project with the following
condition:
1. As proposed, the roof shall be clad in architectural asphalt
shingles to match the remainder of the roof. New masonry on
the side elevations shall match the existing in size, color,
texture, and appearance.
2. 560 W. Fullerton
43rd Ward
Mid-North District
Proposed replacement of deteriorated exterior wythe of masonry on the south and west
elevations, new window openings, and other alterations
Applicant:

Andreas Mantius, owner
Zenon Kurdziel, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 2, 3, 6, 7, and 9 of the U.S. Secretary
of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings
and therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property and district and approve the project with the following
conditions:

 1. As proposed, the exterior wythe of face brick at the south and
west façades (which has deteriorated beyond repair) may be
removed and replaced to match historic in dimensions,
coursing, profile, color, texture, and finish. Owner shall
contact Historic Preservation staff to schedule a site visit after
removal of outer wythe masonry and prior to any further work
to review the condition of back-up masonry. Masonry
repair/replacement details shall be included with permit
application and a mockup of new masonry with mortar shall be
reviewed for approval by Historic Preservation staff prior to
order and installation; and,
2. The size and configuration of the new windows are approved
as proposed. Based on the information submitted, the proposed
windows do not appear to meet the Commission’s standards
and guidelines. More details shall be submitted with permit
application. An alternative window may need to be selected if
appropriate profiles cannot be achieved.

3. 1730-1734 W. 18th
25th Ward
Proposed Pilsen Historic District
Proposed rehabilitation of three two-story buildings including construction of new
one-story, rooftop additions, roof decks, and other alterations
Applicant:

Michael Fox, Fox Chicago LLC, owner
Peter Mayer, Mayer Jeffers Gillespie Architects, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, and 10 of the U.S.
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic
Buildings and therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect
on the significant historical and architectural features of the
proposed landmark properties and district and approve the project
with the following conditions:
1. The proposed masonry repairs with select masonry
replacement are approved in concept. Original brick should be
salvaged and reused to the greatest extent possible. Detailed
masonry information including exact quantities of masonry
requiring replacement and replacement details shall be
submitted with permit application. All new masonry shall
match the historic in dimensions, coursing, profile, color,
texture, and finish;

 2. The ground floor alterations are approved. Enlarged,
dimensioned storefront details shall be submitted with permit
plans;
3. As proposed, new windows shall be aluminum-clad wood
consistent with the original configuration and operation as seen
in the historic photograph dated 1947. Enlarged, dimensioned
window details shall be submitted with permit; and,
4. As proposed, the new cornice on 1732 S. Throop shall be based
on the historic cornice as seen in the 1947 photo. Enlarged,
dimensioned details shall be submitted with permit application.

4. 1833 S. Throop
25th Ward
Proposed Pilsen Historic District
Proposed demolition of the front façade of a three-story, masonry building and construction
of a three-story, front addition
Applicant:

Ruben Sereno, owner
Jamie Gascon, architect
Rolando Acosta, attorney

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee:
A. Find that, pursuant to Article III, Section G.1 of the Rules and
Regulations of the Commission (the “Rules and Regulations”),
the significant historical or architectural features of the
proposed district are identified as all exterior elevations,
including rooflines, of the buildings visible from the public
rights-of-way; and
B. Preliminarily find that the subject building, a raised, three-story
apartment building constructed circa 1880 contributes to the
character of the proposed Pilsen Historic District which
includes excellent examples of residential and commercial
architecture synonymous with the working-class neighborhood;
and
C. Preliminarily find that proposed work would have an adverse
effect upon the significant historical and architectural features
of the building and the proposed Pilsen Historic District,
pursuant to Article III, Sections G.3.a. and G.5.e. of the Rules
and Regulations, Commission’s Guidelines and the U.S.
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of
Historic Buildings; and
D. Preliminarily find that pursuant to Section 2-120-780 of the
Landmarks Ordinance, the proposed work will adversely affect

 and destroy significant historical and architectural features of
the property and the proposed Pilsen Historic District; and
E. Issue a preliminary decision disapproving the application for
demolition of the historic front façade and construction of a
new front addition.
A preliminary decision disapproving the application would trigger
an informal conference and, if the informal conference does not
reach an accord, a public hearing on the permit application in
accordance with the provisions of the Chicago Landmarks
Ordinance.

 