Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ, Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioryer
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of Electioo Cooimissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of the

Reorganizational Meeting and Regular Board Meeting
May H 2019, 9:30 a.m.

69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J, Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Joan Agnew, Deputy Counsel
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
LaCretia Dandridge, Manager Human Resources

Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Audra Lewicki, Manager Community Services Division

Clinton Hurde, Manager Pre-Election Voting & Logistics Division
Matthew Lin, IT Manager
Sarita Villarreal, Consultant
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant

David Caudle, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago (LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition

Judd Ryan, ES&S
Rose Joshua, NAACP Chicago Southside

Charles Dayton, City Bureau

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 9:33 a.m.

I!.

Roll Call: all present

III.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented

IV.

Reorganization:
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 312-269-7900 * TTY 312-269-0027
chicagoelections.com • cboe@chicago0ledions.net•@ChicagoElection

 Reorganizational Meeting and Regular Board Meeting - May 14,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

A.
Election of Chairperson: Commissioner Swain moved to elect Marisel A.
Hernandez as Chair, Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was
approved and Marisel A. Hernandez was elected Chair of the Board by unanimous vote of
the Board.

B.
Election of Secretary: Chair Hernandez nominated William J. Kresse as Secretary.
Commissioner Swain seconded the nomination. William J. Kresse was elected Secretary
of the Board by unanimous vote of the Board.
C.
Adoption of By Laws: General Counsel Adam Lasker explained that the By-Laws
are the same as those last adopted by the Board with the exception of the date and
references to "Chairwoman" were changed to "Chair" in compliance with the Statute
that took affect earlier this year. Commissioner Kresse moved to adopt the By-Laws as
presented. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion passed and the ByLaws were adopted by 3:0 vote of the Board.
V.

Approval of Minutes:

A.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of March 13, 2019: Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of March 13, 2019.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed and the Minutes were
approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
VI.
Executive Director's Report
Executive Director Lance Gough reported as follows:
• The Board is going to be very busy over the next year
o

New equipment- we will be conducting our ongoing evaluation of voting
equipment

o We had a meeting with representatives of the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ),
Chicago Department of Fleet and Facility Management(2FM),the Chicago Park
District and Chicago Public Schools(CPS) yesterday regarding the ADA compliance
surveys of property that we use, or may use, as polling places. The different
agencies will have their staff conduct the surveys. The Park District will prepare
the surveys for each of the park district properties, CPS will survey schools and
2FM will survey the other City departments' properties, and our staff will survey
privately owned properties.

■

The DoJ agree that we will not meet the original deadline for full
compliance, but that we are moving in a positive direction. We are
working on a new 2022 agreement with DoJ.

■

Training sessions for the individuals who will be doing surveys have been
scheduled through the month of June. The training will include how to do
measurements and how to complete surveys through the use of smart-

phones. Our employees training will be the week of June 10^^ CPS the
week of the 17^*^, Parks and 2FM will begin on the 24^*^.
■

Equip For Equality developed the survey tool.
Page 2 of 7

 Reorganizational Meeting and Regular Board Meeting - May 14,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

■

General Counsel Lasker thanked CPS, Park District and the City of Chicago.
All three entities care a lot about the project, they understand the
financial constraints we have, and are being very helpful in this project.

o Our preliminary budget for Cook County is due next Friday.Copies will be sent to
the Commissioners for their review. In the budget we discuss increasing rates of
pay for Judges of Elections to match with the increases in the minimum wage. We
are working with Cook County Clerk Yarbrough as they are facing the same
situation and hopefully we will have this ready for the 2020 elections.
o

We have several contracts to renew.

o We need to look at warehouse space. There are discussions that part of the
warehouse that we are using will be converted to a hotel, so we need to find new
space. Though it is up to the City to find us space, we have been looking at a few
options. It is up to the City to pay for and find us space per the Election Code.
• Commissioner Swain asked if we know when our budget for the City of Chicago Is due.
Mr. Gough said that we have not yet heard when it will be due. The City is waiting for a
new budget director.
• Commissioner Swain reminded Mr. Lasker that he would like to find out how we can get
Continuing Legal Education (CLE) credit for lawyers who serve as Judges of Election.
A.

Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday reported as follows:
• Registration is scanning the paper applications for ballots.

• Staff from other Board departments are helping to verify and attach the
applications to the voters records
• He is working with Christopher Tomecek, Manager of the Districts and Boundaries
Department, to reduce the number of precincts. The target reduction is at least
500 precincts citywide; this will result in cost savings. By Friday we should have
reviewed all 50 wards. We are beginning with combination precincts [precincts
that share polling places] and reviewing the numbers of in-preclnct voting within
those precincts over the last 6 elections.

• After we have drafted the proposed new precinct lines, we will provide maps
showing old and proposed lines and discuss with each Alderman and
Committeeperson. Others who are working on this project are Mr. Holiday's
Assistant Cassandra Molina and the Districts and Boundaries staff.

Mr. Lasker pointed out that we have been pushing for Voting Center legislation/
but it does not look like It will make it into the omnibus bill this session.

We have reviewed applications for hiring a new Purchasing Agent. We had several
applicants, but many had little or no experience In procurement. We have
narrowed the list to 3 and will begin interviews on Thursday. We did post this job
for external hire.

Page 3 of 7

 Reorganizational Meeting and Regular Board Meeting - May 14,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

• Mr. Holiday Is working with managers and staff to see what their needs are as
they clean up from the last election and prepare for 2020.
B.

Communications Director Jim Allen reported as follows:

• Mr. Allen is working with IT Department Manager, Matthew Lin, and the Board's
current vendor on the Board's website migration project. The current vendor
wants to continue with us in the security part, but not hosting the website. Mr.
Allen indicated that this matter may not have to come before the Board because
the pricing may be so low that it would only require the Executive Director's
authorization.

• We are working on altering our canvass mailing so to allow us to securely gather
more email addresses. Specifically, we are working on a system where voters may
go to a section of the Board's website and use a code provided on the canvass
mailing to securely add their email address to the voter's record. Mr. Allen needs
Mr. Lasker to review.

o We will have two mailings, both quad-lingual. One will include a concealed
code that the voter can use to add his/her email address on the website.
VII.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: These items were

mentioned above.

B.
Electronic Poll Books: Judd Ryan of ES&S reported that ES&S continues to meet
with Board staff to discuss improvements for the next version of the E-poll books.
C.

Voting Equipment: ongoing evaluation.

D.

Legislation

• General Counsel Adam Lasker reported as follows:
• As previously mentioned, the Voting Centers will probably not make it onto the
omnibus bill. Other Items from our legislative wish list include relief on Early
Voting, and relief on scheduling a municipal runoff election.
• Mr. Lasker reported that he had attended the Association of Election
Commissions of Illinois (AECOl) where he heard a report from the Illinois State
Board of Elections'(ISBE) Angela Ryan. The ISBE is tracking the same bills we are.
The bills are stuck in committee and would probably fall into an omnibus bill
which should come out soon.

• Commissioner Kresse inquired of the status of pre-trial detainee voting legislation.
Mr. Lasker stated that the bill is still pending and would only apply to Cook
County.

• The current legislation session ends May 31st. If we submit any legislation. It will
probably have to go to the fall session.

Page 4 of 7

 Reorganizational Meeting and Regular Board Meeting - May 14, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners
VIII.

New Business

A.

Judges of Election Post Hearing Removal - Desiree L. Morris
Legal Counsel Joan Agnew presented the case to the Board.
Desiree L Morris was assigned to Ward 1, Precinct 9. Ms. Morris was removed as

Judge of Election on February 26*^ for belligerent behavior.
All due process was provided. We served Ms. Morris with notice, she filed for
reconsideration. A Hearing Officer was assigned, transcripts were prepared. Ms.
Morris was notified that she could call witnesses or provide evidence in this
matter. Poll workers and poll watchers appeared and gave testimony.

Following the hearing the Hearing Officer submitted her report recommending
that the Board sustain its original Order of removal.

Commissioner Kresse moved to adopt the Hearing Officer's report and sustain the
removal of Desiree L. Morris as Judge of Election. Commissioner Swain seconded
the motion. The Hearing Officer's report was adopted and the removal of Desiree
L. Morris as Judge of Election was sustained by unanimous vote of the Board.
B.
Attorney Contractor Agreement between Board of Election Commissioners for
the City of Chicago and Joan T. Agnew, Attorney at Law

The Chair stated that Ms. Agnew has provided legal services to the Board for
many years. There is no changes to the provisions of the contract other than the
dates.

Commissioner Swain moved to approve an Attorney Contractor Agreement
between the Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago and Joan T.
Agnew, Attorney at Law,for legal services. The term of the agreement beginning
June 1, 2019 through May 31, 2020 at a rate of $250 per hour and any necessary
expenses. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was passed by
3:0 vote of the Board.

The Chair thanked Ms. Agnew for everything that she does for the Board and
thanked her for keeping the Board as a ciient.
C.
Approval of a contract with Dykema Gossett PLLC for outside legal counsel for
purposes of advising, counseling and representation in areas where the Board needs
additional and/or specialized expertise in employment law and other litigation matters.

Mr. Lasker explained that part of the agreement is for existing litigation, that
portion of the agreement's term would be extended to the completion of
litigation at trial level. The other portion, which is much needed, as the Board is
reviewing and reorganizing will be from May 14, 2019 through May 13, 2020. If

Page 5 of 7

 Reorganizational Meeting and Regular Board Meeting - May 14, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

the Board wishes to further discuss the litigation, it could do so in Executive
Session as pending litigation.

The lead counsel will be Mr. Abad Lopez, he and any others who will be assigned
under this agreement will be minority counsel.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the contract with Dykema Gossett PLLC.
Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion was approved by
unanimous vote of the Board.

IX.

Legal Report

General Counsel Adam Lasker reported as follows:
• At the AECOl event Mr. Lasker attended last week in Bloomington he heard that Danville
had a 1 precinct recount.

• Another legislation update: the ISBE is advocating is to get statutes in line with the ADA.
We are currently the state's experts because of our agreement with the DOJ

• There is only one election contest pending -in Ward 5
• There were 3 wards involved in Discovery: Ward 33(13-vote spread -the Incumbent
conceded). Ward 46 had a 25-vote spread, and the challenger conceded after discovery
recount. The Ward 5 recount only showed a one-vote change out of 179. We are still
waiting to see the amended complaint.

• General Counsel Lasker stated that he would like to speak with the Board during
executive session regarding some investigations.
X.

Financial Report: none.

XI.

Public Comment: none.

XII.
Executive Session for the purpose of discussing pending litigation under Sections 2(c}ll
and 2{c)14 of the Open Meetings Act: Commissioner Swain moved to enter into closed executive
session. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The Board voted 3:0 to pass the motion.
The Board entered into executive session at 10:07 a.m.

The Board returned to open session at 10:40 a.m. The Chair reported that no actions were
conducted during executive session.
VIM.

New Business (continued):

Three Managers reported the status of their respective departments with the Board:
Human Resources Department Manager LaCretia Dandridge discussed the personnel and the
function of the Human Resources Department.

Registration Department Manager Jim Carii discussed the personnel and the function of the
Registration Department.
Page 6 of 7

 Reorganizational Meeting and Regular Board Meeting - May 14,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Audra Lewicki, Manager of the Community Services Division, discussed the personnei and the
function of the Community Services Division.
XDI.
Adjournment: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn. Commissioner Swain seconded
the motion. The Board voted unanimously to adjourn. The meeting was adjourned at 11:52 a.m.

Submitted,

Commissioner Wiliiam J. Kresse

Secretary

Page 7 of 7

 