ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MEMORANDUM
TO:

Budget Committee Members

FROM:

Gregory Stevens, Acting Associate Director, Federal, & State Grants Unit

DATE:

June 20, 2019

RE:

Victims of Crime Act Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)

This memo is in addition to the VOCA memo provided in the Budget Committee materials
emailed on Friday, June 14, 2019.

NEW NOTICES OF FUNDING OPPORTUNITY (NOFOs)
The Grant Accountability and Transparency Act requires grants to be initiated through a
competitive process unless an adequate justification is presented for sole source funding in a
particular case. To comply with this requirement, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority (ICJIA) will issue additional FFY18 Victims of Crime Assistance (VOCA) Notice of
Funding Opportunities (NOFO) in the 3rd quarter of 2019 to solicit applications for two NOFOs.
The notices will detail federal VOCA requirements and NOFO specific program designs as
summarized below:
1. Helping Everyone Access Linked Systems
Illinois Helping Everyone Access Linked Systems (HEALS) is a demonstration project funded
by the Office for Victims of Crime. The Illinois HEALS project calls for a relationship
framework to improve the identification and coordination of services for child, youth and
families.

 VOCA FFY17
June 20, 2019
Page 2

A Relational Approach to Strong Linkages 

Engage
Connect
Recognize

Culturally specific & humble,
accessible, relevant
Availability & awareness of
resources
Asking about victimization &
noticing behavioral cues

The Illinois HEALS NOFO will focus on cross-system projects that emphasis the framework
outlined above. Staff requests designating approximately 2.7 million in FFY17 VOCA funds to
issue a competitive NOFO in the third quarter of 2019. This amount may change upon selection
of applications. Designation recommendations resulting from this funding opportunity will be
presented at the December 12, 2019, Budget Committee meeting.
2. Expanding & Enhancing InfoNet as a Case Management System
ICJIA developed and manages the statewide victim services data collection system called
InfoNet. Staff requests designating up to $556,024 in available FY18 VOCA funds to issue a
sole source NOFO in the third quarter of 2019 for the ICJIA InfoNet System. Designation
recommendations resulting from this funding opportunity will be presented at the August 15,
2019, Budget Committee meeting.
InfoNet is a web-based, centralized statewide case management system for domestic and sexual
violence centers maintained by the ICJIA. InfoNet is used by over 100 Illinois victim service
providers, allowing them to track individual victims served and services provided, and easily produce
standardized program and funding reports. InfoNet has been instrumental for enhancing not only
services supported with VOCA Assistance Funds, but all services provided to victims of
domestic and sexual violence in Illinois for over 20 years.
This grant intends to expand staffing to support InfoNet to accommodate its growth and
substantially strengthen the system as a case management tool for victim service providers.
InfoNet has three distinct interfaces, each tailored for domestic violence, sexual assault, and child
advocacy centers. ICJIA is beginning work with law enforcement and prosecutor based victim
service providers to design a new, fourth InfoNet interface that meets their case management, data
tracking, and reporting needs, potentially doubling InfoNet’s user base within the next two years.
Funds will be used to increase staff resources in project management, application development,
technical and research support. This will ensure ICJIA keeps pace with the increasing number of
service providers and users needing secure access, technical support, and training. The
strengthened case management features will not only improve providers’ ability to deliver

 VOCA FFY17
June 20, 2019
Page 3

services at the individual level, but also InfoNet’s utility for demonstrating service impact,
evaluate programming, and the impact of VOCA funding.
Application development staff will modify and build upon InfoNet’s application code with new
data elements and reporting features that facilitate case management. Research and project
management staff will devote the additional time providing user trainings and assistance about
using InfoNet’s data to inform case management, and host ongoing forums with users to learn
how the practice is progressing and how it could be improved. Technical support staff will
ensure ICJIA can accommodate InfoNet’s growing number of users needing secure access. All
staff roles will help meet the increased training and support needs.

 