DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
REGULAR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 26, 2019
4:00 PM
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

Donele Wilkins
John George
Pamela McClain
Matthew Walters
Stephanie Washington

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

Maggie DeSantis
Ray Scott
Juan Gonzalez
Sonya Mays

OTHERS PRESENT:

Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Rebecca Navin (DEGC)
Malinda Jensen (DEGC)
Kenyetta Bridges (DEGC)
Ngozi Nwaesei (Lewis and Munday)
Emery Matthews (Real Estate Interests)
Bret Stuntz (SME)
Kirstie Hardy (AKT Peerless)
Jeff Aronoff (Miller Canfield)

 MINUTES OF THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY REGULAR MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 26, 2019
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD SUITE 2200 DETROIT, MI – 4:00 PM
CALL TO ORDER
Chair Matthew Walters called the meeting to order at 4:20 PM.
GENERAL
Approval of Minutes:
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the minutes of June 12, 2019 as presented. The Board took the
following action:
On a motion by Ms. McClain, seconded by Mr. George, DBRA Resolution Code 19-06-02-257 was
unanimously approved.
Treasurer’s Report
Ms. Kanalos presented the May 2019 Treasurer’s report.
Mr. Walters called for a motion accepting the May 2019 Treasurer’s Report as presented. The Board took
the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 19-06-03-187 was
unanimously approved.
Approval of DBRA Budget (FY 2019-2020)
Ms. Kanalos presented the DBRA Budget for FY 2019-2020. Ms. Kanalos noted that the DBRA Budget
Committee reviewed and recommended approval of the budget at its June 24, 2019 meeting.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the DBRA Budget (FY 2019-2020) as presented. The Board took
the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 18-06-01-212 was
unanimously approved.
PROJECTS
Mack and Conner Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Mr. Vosburg presented the Mack and Conner Brownfield Redevelopment Plan to the DBRA Board.
Mr. Vosburg described the changes to the Mack and Conner Brownfield Redevelopment Plan since the
June 12, 2019 meeting including changes in the eligible costs, terms of the loan from the Michigan Strategic

 Fund including the structure of the tax increment financing, and the Developer name change to Fiat Chrysler
Automobiles or other related entity.
Project Introduction
The City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (DBRA), is the project developer (the “Developer”)
for the Plan. The DBRA will conduct eligible activities to prepare the Property (defined below) for
redevelopment and then transfer the Property to Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) or a related entity.
Investigation and remediation activities will be conducted to prepare the Property for a $1.6 billion
investment that will revive and expand FCA’s existing Mack Engine II Plant which will produce a new
generation of Jeep cars and SUVs to keep the company competitive in the evolving international market.
FCA hopes to reopen the plant by late 2020.
The Targeted Redevelopment Area (TRA) includes 276 adjacent parcels, including the Mack Engine Plant,
which will undergo significant redevelopment activities to prepare for and support the Mack Engine Plant
expansion. The redevelopment will have enormous economic impacts and remove blight conditions
persistent throughout the area. In order for the 276 adjacent parcels to qualify as “eligible property” under
Act 381, the City of Detroit City Council (“City Council”) and the Michigan Strategic Fund (“MSF”) must
designate the TRA.
The total investment is estimated to be $1.6 billion. The Developer is requesting $130,686,942.00 in TIF
reimbursement, however only $39,766,696.00 in TIF Reimbursement is projected to be captured for the life
of the Plan.
It is estimated that approximately 2,300 temporary construction jobs and new 3,850 FTE jobs will be created
as a result of the FCA expansions at the Mack Engine II Plant.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) includes a 276-parcel TRA, 8 parcels to the south along the Detroit
River and two parcels to the north of the TRA. The Property is located on the east side of Detroit, south of
I-94 and west of Conner Street.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the Property
was previously utilized or is currently utilized for commercial, residential and/or industrial purposes; (b) it is
located within the City of Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the parcels
which comprise the Property are included within the TRA; or (d) if the parcel is not within the TRA, the
parcel has been determined to be a “facility,” functionally obsolete, blighted as defined by Act 381, or is
adjacent and contiguous to one of the “facilities,” functionally obsolete, or blighted parcels. It is anticipated
that the designation of the TRA by the City Council will occur simultaneously with City Council’s approval
of this Plan. The designation and approval of the TRA by MSF is expected to occur in July 2019 .
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include Department Specific Activities (i.e. due care
investigations, due care planning, soil remediation, dewatering and underground storage tank removal),
property acquisition for economic development purposes, demolition, site preparation activities and public
infrastructure improvements as well as the preparation and implementation of a brownfield plan and Act
381 work plan. The eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the
Property and will be financed solely by the Developer. The eligible activities are estimated to commence
within 18 months of approval of the Plan and be completed within 3 years after approval of the MSF work
plan, if applicable, or 3 years after execution of the Reimbursement Agreement.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible

 activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement executed by the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Predevelopment Activities (enviro investigation & planning)
2. Due Care Compliance & Response Activities
3. Property Acquisition for Economic Development
4. Demolition
5. Lead and Asbestos Activities
6. Site Preparation
7. 15% Contingency
8. Brownfield Plan & Act 381 Work Plan Prep
9. Brownfield Plan & Act 381 Work Plan Implementation
10. Interest (5% Simple)
*Total Reimbursement to Developer
11. Authority Administrative Costs
12. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
13. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$1,225,272.00
$19,405,826.00
$52,590,000.00
$1,384,480.00
$197,500.00
$26,007,350.00
$6,719,572.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$23,096,942.00
$130,686,942.00
$2,983,222.00
$1,369,350.00
$0.00
$135,039,513.00

*Developer is only projecting to receive $39,766,696 in TIF Reimbursement
The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
FCA will be seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of Industrial
Facilities Exemption PA 198 Tax Abatement.
DBRA-CAC Letter of Recommendation
The DBRA-CAC recommended approval of the Plan at the June 12, 2019 CAC meeting. Attached is the
DBRA-CAC’s letter of recommendation for the DBRA Board’s consideration.
Public Comments
The DBRA public hearing for the Plan was held on Tuesday, June 25, 2019 at 5:30 pm at the Samaritan
Center located at 5555 Conner St. #2210, Detroit, Michigan. The results of the DBRA public hearing are
attached.
Attached for the Board’s review and approval was a resolution approving the Mack and Conner Brownfield
Redevelopment Plan and its submittal to Detroit City Council.
Ms. Wilkins asked why the developer was changed from the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
to Fist Chrysler Automobiles. Mr. Vosburg stated that the change was made to be in line with the
Development Agreement entered into by the City of Detroit, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority, and FCA. Ms. Nwaesei stated that FCA is the developer for the project and the DBRA, City of
Detroit, and the State of Michigan are investing in the project, and that the DBRA will be entering into a
Reimbursement Agreement with FCA to describe how the tax increment revenue will be used in connection
with this project.
Ms. Wilkins asked who will bear the greater burden for the project. Ms. Navin stated that the DBRA is
performing the eligible activities for the project, but FCA bears the greater burden for the funding for the
project because they are investing a greater amount and will be responsible for future improvements to the
Property.

 Mr. George asked how much the land acquisition is expected to cost. Ms. Navin stated that very little has
been expended to date for land acquisition but that she can provide the anticipated amount for the land
acquisitions.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Mack and Conner Brownfield Redevelopment Plan, as
presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 19-06-269-02 was
approved. Ms. Wilkins abstained.
Marston and Morrow Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Mr. Vosburg presented the Marston and Morrow Brownfield Redevelopment Plan to the DBRA Board.
Project Introduction
Tiberina Detroit Inc. is the project developer (the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails the construction of
an industrial building on the property in each phase. It is anticipated that an approximately 74,350 squarefoot industrial building will be constructed on the eastern side of the Property (defined below) as part of the
first phase of the project. The second phase is anticipated to include the construction of an approximately
63,750 square-foot industrial building on the western side of the Property.
The total investment is estimated to be $18.4 million for Phase 1 and $17 million for Phase 2, for a total of
approximately $35.4 million. The Developer is requesting $7,697,003.00 in TIF reimbursement.
It is estimated that approximately 204 temporary construction jobs and new 63 FTE jobs will be created as
a result of the project.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) will consist of two (2) parcels located north of the intersection of
Marston and Morrow Streets, west of St. Aubin near Detroit’s Milwaukee Junction neighborhood.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the Property
was is currently utilized for an industrial purpose; (b) it is located within the City of Detroit, a qualified local
governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the parcels that compose the Property are facilities as defined by
Act 381.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include site assessment and baseline environmental
assessment (BEA) activities, due care activities, response activities, environmental insurance, demolition
activities, asbestos, lead, and mold abatement, infrastructure improvements, site preparation activities, land
bank title clearing, and preparation and implementation of a brownfield plan and 381 work plan. The eligible
activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed
solely by the Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no
debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan and be
completed within 3 years.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Environmental Assessments
2. Due Care and Other Response Activities

$97,000.00
$2,656,768.00

 3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Demolition
Mold, Lead and Asbestos Activities
Infrastructure Improvements
Site Preparation
Brownfield Plan & Work Plan Preparation
Brownfield Plan & Work Plan Implementation
Contingency (15%)
Interest (5% simple)
Total Reimbursement to Developer
11. Authority Administrative Costs
12. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
13. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$628,000.00
$25,000.00
$817,600.00
$1,403,189.00
$30,000.00
$65,000.00
$829,583.00
$1,417,863.00
$7,697,003.00
$1,733,739.00
$612,496.00
$3,293,213.00
$13,336,451.00

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of an Industrial
Facilities PA 198 Tax Abatement.
DBRA-CAC Letter of Recommendation
The DBRA-CAC recommended approval of the Plan at the June 12, 2019 CAC meeting. Attached is the
DBRA-CAC’s letter of recommendation for the DBRA Board’s consideration.
Public Comments
The DBRA public hearing for the Plan was held on Thursday, June 20, 2019 at 5:30 pm at New Center
Stamping located at 950 E Milwaukee St., Detroit, Michigan. The results of the DBRA public hearing are
attached.
Attached for the Board’s review and approval was a resolution approving the Marston and Morrow
Brownfield Redevelopment Plan and its submittal to Detroit City Council.
Mr. George asked what the proposed end use is for the Property in the Plan. Mr. Matthews stated that there
will be a manufacturing end use for the Property by the Developer, which is a supplier for FCA.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Marston and Morrow Brownfield Redevelopment Plan, as
presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms.Washington, DBRA Resolution Code 19-06-270-02
was unanimously approved.
Land Assembly Project: Authorization to Enter into Letter of Intent & Purchase Agreement with
DPSCD for Former Kettering High School & Rose School Sites
Ms. Bridges presented the Land Assembly Project: Authorization to Enter into Letter of Intent & Purchase
Agreement with DPSCD for Former Kettering High School & Rose School Sites to the DBRA Board.
As the Board is aware, the City of Detroit (the “City”) administration has requested the assistance of the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) in industrial land assembly activities aimed at
establishing market-ready industrial sites within City limits in order to attract manufacturing and logistics
companies (the “Land Assembly Project”).
In connection with the project recently approved relating to Fiat Chrysler’s (“FCA”) new and expanded
facilities in the area of Mack and Conner and Jefferson and Conner (the “FCA Project”), staff has identified

 the properties located at 6101 Van Dyke and 5830 Field St., Detroit MI, which properties comprise the sites
of the former Kettering and Rose Schools (collectively the “Property”), as a location that is ideal to support
the ancillary growth of additional suppliers that will service the FCA Project through supplier contracts.
DBRA staff seeks the Board’s approval to enter into Letter of Intent for the purchase of the Property, in the
form provided in Exhibit A (the “LOI”), and a Purchase Agreement consistent with the terms set forth the
LOI (the “Purchase Agreement”), for a purchase price of $2,600,000 with an earnest money deposit of
$130,000. In connection with the purchase, the City of Detroit is expected to transfer an amount equal to
$150,000 to the DBRA to fund the earnest money deposit and certain diligence or related activities pursuant
to a funding agreement (the “Funding Agreement”). It is expected that the balance of the purchase price
would be funded by an end-user supplier, subject to subsequent DBRA Board approval.
A resolution approving the execution of the LOI and the negotiation and execution of the Purchase
Agreement and Funding Agreement was attached for the Board’s consideration.
Ms. Wilkins asked what the current zoning is for the Property. Ms. Bridges stated that the current zoning is
residential and that the zoning will be changed to industrial because of the intended end use of light
manufacturing.
Ms. Wilkins asked if there have been an environmental impact studies conducted for the Property. Ms.
Bridges stated that the Developer will perform environmental studies and impact studies as it relates to
traffic, and there will be buffering requirements, but there will not be a heavy industrial facility.
Mr. George asked who will be responsible for the demolition of existing structures. Ms. Bridges stated that
the demolition of existing structures will be the responsibility of the Developer.
Mr. Walters asked how many jobs are expected to be created by the future project. Ms. Bridges that there
are approximately 625 new jobs anticipated to be created directly related to the FCA Project.
Ms. McClain asked who determined the value of Kettering High School. Ms. Bridges stated that there was
an appraisal done on the Property.
Ms. Wilkins asked how many of the jobs will be temporary or permanent. Ms. Bridges stated that the 625
projected new jobs will be permanent new jobs to the City of Detroit.
Ms. Walters called for a motion approving the Industrial Land Assembly Project: Authorization to Enter into
Letter of Intent & Purchase Agreement with DPSCD for Former Kettering High School & Rose School Sites,
as presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. McClain, seconded by Mr. George, DBRA Resolution Code 19-06-262-24 was
unanimously approved.
ADMINISTRATIVE
None.
OTHER
None.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None.
ADJOURNMENT
Citing no further business, Mr. Walters called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. Washington the meeting was unanimously adjourned
at 4:41 PM.

 CODE DBRA 19-06-02-257
APPROVAL OF MINUTES JUNE 12, 2019
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the regular meeting of June 12, 2019 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such
minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority.

June 26, 2019

 DBRA 19-06-03-188
ACCEPTANCE OF TREASURER’S REPORT FOR MAY 2019
RESOLVED, that the Treasurer’s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the period
May 1 through May 31, 2019, as presented at this meeting is hereby in all respects accepted as
actions of the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.

June 26, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-06-01-212
ADMINISTRATION: DBRA BUDGET FOR FY 2019-2020
WHEREAS, the DBRA is receiving revenue from Brownfield Plan application and
processing fees and from administrative fees permissible under Act 381, Public Acts of Michigan,
1996, as amended (“Act 381”); and
WHEREAS, the DBRA staff has prepared the attached DBRA Budget for FY 2019-2020
(the “Budget”) (Exhibit “A”).
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the DBRA Board of Directors hereby
authorize a Public Hearing on the DBRA Budget for FY 2019-2020 at a time and place determined
by the DBRA Authorized Agent and subject to public notice in accordance to Act 381, Public Acts
of Michigan, 1996, as amended.

June 26, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-06-269-02
MACK AND CONNER BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Detroit (the “City Council”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed
areas in the City of Detroit; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the policies, procedures and bylaws governing the DBRA, the
DBRA has submitted a proposed Brownfield Plan for the Mack and Conner Redevelopment Project (the
“Plan”) to the Community Advisory Committee for its consideration and comment and has solicited
comments by the public by publication of notice stating that the proposed Plan has been submitted to the
Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan
applies; and
WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee has considered the proposed Plan and approved
a resolution recommending the approval of the proposed Plan and designation of a targeted redevelopment
area as defined in Section 2(rr) of Act 381 (“TRA”) by the DBRA and the City Council as presented by the
DBRA; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Board of Directors of the DBRA has
considered the proposed Plan and desires to approve the proposed Plan and to request that City Council
call a public hearing to consider and adopt a resolution approving the proposed Plan and designation of a
TRA.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the adoption of the Brownfield
Plan and designation of a TRA by City Council and the Michigan Strategic Fund (“MSF”) for the Mack and
Conner Redevelopment Project is in keeping with the purposes of Act 381 and recommends submittal of
the Plan to City Council for approval and designation of a TRA by City Council and MSF.
2.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA approves the Plan substantially in the form attached
hereto and on file with the Secretary of the DBRA.
3.
Any Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized and directed to submit a certified copy of
this Resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the City Council call a public
hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions required to approve the Plan in accordance with
Act 381.
4.
That any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA or any two
of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all

 documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or appropriate to implement
the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.
5.
That all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent of the DBRA, in the
name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts
would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution
of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
6.
All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this
resolution are rescinded.

June 26, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-06-270-02
MARSTON AND MORROW BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Detroit (the “City Council”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed
areas in the City of Detroit; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the policies, procedures and bylaws governing the DBRA, the
DBRA has submitted a proposed Brownfield Plan for the Marston and Morrow Redevelopment Project
(the “Plan”) to the Community Advisory Committee for its consideration and comment and has solicited
comments by the public by publication of notice stating that the proposed Plan has been submitted to the
Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan
applies; and
WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee has considered the proposed Plan and approved
a resolution recommending the approval of the proposed Plan by the DBRA and the City Council as
presented by the DBRA; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Board of Directors of the DBRA has
considered the proposed Plan and desires to approve the proposed Plan and to request that City Council
call a public hearing to consider and adopt a resolution approving the proposed Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the adoption of the Brownfield
Plan for the Marston and Morrow Redevelopment Project is in keeping with the purposes of Act 381 and
recommends submittal of the Plan to City Council for approval.
2.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA approves the Plan substantially in the form attached
hereto and on file with the Secretary of the DBRA.
3.
Any Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized and directed to submit a certified copy of
this Resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the City Council call a public
hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions required to approve the Plan in accordance with
Act 381.
4.
That any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA or any two
of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all
documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or appropriate to implement
the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.

 5.
That all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent of the DBRA, in the
name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts
would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution
of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
6.
All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this
resolution are rescinded.

June 26, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-06-262-24
LAND ASSEMBLY PROJECT: AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO LETTER OF INTENT &
PURCHASE AGREEMENT WITH DPSCD FOR FORMER KETTERING HIGH SCHOOL &
ROSE SCHOOL SITES
WHEREAS, the City of Detroit (the “City”) administration has requested the assistance of
the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) in industrial land assembly
activities aimed at establishing market-ready industrial sites within City limits in order to attract
manufacturing and logistics companies (the “Land Assembly Project”); and
WHEREAS, In connection with the project recently approved relating to Fiat Chrysler’s
(“FCA”) new and expanded facilities in the area of Mack and Conner and Jefferson and Conner
(the “FCA Project”), staff has identified the properties located at 6101 Van Dyke and 5830 Field
St., Detroit MI, which properties comprise the sites of the former Kettering and Rose Schools
(collectively the “Property”), as a location that is ideal to support the ancillary growth of additional
suppliers that will service the FCA Project through supplier contracts; and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff seeks the Board’s approval to enter into a Letter of Intent in the
form provided in Exhibit A (the “LOI”), and Purchase Agreement and a Purchase Agreement
consistent with the terms set forth the LOI (the “Purchase Agreement”), for the purchase of the
Property for a purchase price of $2,600,000 with an earnest money deposit of approximately
$130,000; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the purchase, the City of Detroit is expected to transfer an
amount equal to $150,000 to the DBRA to fund the earnest money deposit and certain diligence
or related activities pursuant to a funding agreement (the “Funding Agreement”), with the balance
of the purchase price to be funded by an end-user supplier, subject to subsequent DBRA Board
approval; and
WHEREAS, Staff is seeking the Board’s approval of the execution of the LOI and the
negotiation and execution of the Purchase Agreement and Funding Agreement consistent with
the LOI and this resolution; and
WHEREAS, the transactions contemplated herein is consistent with the DBRA’s purposes
of promoting the revitalization and reuse of certain properties and is otherwise consistent with its
powers and purposes.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the DBRA Board of Directors hereby
approves the LOI and the DBRA’s actions required to be undertaken thereunder.

 BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized
Agents of the DBRA or any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the
authority to execute the LOI, negotiate and execute the Purchase Agreement and Funding
Agreement consistent with the LOI and this resolution, and negotiate and execute all documents,
contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or appropriate to implement
the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the DBRA.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are
hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
June 26, 2019

 EXHIBIT A
LETTER OF INTENT

See attached.

