ANNUAL & REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Charles Hayes Family Investment Center
4859 S. Wabash, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, July 16, 2019
9:30 a.m.

AGENDA

I.

Roll Call

II.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

III.

Election of Officers

IV.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Finance & Audit Committee Report – Craig Chico, Chairman
Item No. 1
Authorization to extend the BMO Harris Bank line of credit facility for an
additional period not-to-exceed 60 months; amend the facility to an aggregate
amount of $25 Million and approve the use of the facility to invest an amount
not-to-exceed $5.25 million related to the For-Sale Townhome component of
Parkside 4 Phase 2 Development – Mike Gurgone, Chief Investment Officer
Item No. 1A

Recommendation to accept and submit to HUD the CHA’s Single Audit Report,
Financial Statement Audit and Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the
year ended December 31, 2018 – Michael Moran, Chief Financial Officer; Allen
Faucett, Jr., Director, Audits and Management

Tenant Services Committee Report –Meghan Harte, Chairwoman
Item No. 2
Recommendation to award a contract for Mobility Counseling Services.
Recommended Awardee: HCP of Illinois, in an aggregate not-to-exceed amount
of $6,955,894 for a two-year base term and three one-year option terms – Mary
Howard, Chief Resident Services Officer
Real Estate Operations Development Committee Report – Matthew Brewer, Chairman
Item No. 3
Recommendation to execute Housing Assistance Payments Contracts for
Diversey Manor and 5751 S. Michigan Apartments and Housing Assistance
Payments Amendment for 5801 S. Michigan Apartments – Derek Messier, Chief
Property Officer

 Item No. 4

Ratification of the formation of Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC and
authorization to serve as a member of Ravenswood Senior Living GP, LLC, the
General Partner of Ravenswood Senior Living LP – Ann McKenzie, Chief
Development Officer

Item No. 5

Authorization to loan CHA Funds not-to-exceed $14,000,000 for the
redevelopment of the site at 2640-2720 North Sheffield – Ann McKenzie, Chief
Development Officer

Item No. 6

Authorization to submit a Disposition Application to HUD for disposition of Harold
Ickes property for the Southbridge Phase 1A and Phase 1B project – Ann McKenzie,
Chief Development Officer

Item No. 7

This Number Not Used.

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Closed Meeting
•
Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1) and (c)(2); purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property under (c)(5) and (c)(6); pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c) (11);
review of closed meeting minutes under (c) (21) and audit reviews under (c) (29).

VII.

Open Session Resumes – Roll Call

VIII.

Approval of Minutes for the Closed and Regular Meetings of May 21, 2019.

IX.

Presentation of Matters from Closed Session
Item No. 8
Ratification of 6th Amendment of the CHA Corporate Lease and authorization to
approve costs associated with office renovations – Matt Mosher, Chief
Construction Officer
Item No. 9
Item No. 10

XI.

Authorization to settle the matter of CHA and Ironshore Indemnity, Inc. – Cheryl
Colston, Chief Legal Officer
Personnel Action Reports – Pat Rios, Chief Administrative Officer

Adjournment

2

 