July 16, 2019

Item No. 4

RATIFICATION OF THE FORMATION OF RAVENSWOOD SENIOR HOUSING LLC AND
AUTHORIZATION TO SERVE AS A MEMBER OF RAVENSWOOD SENIOR LIVING GP, LLC, THE
GENERAL PARTNER OF RAVENSWOOD SENIOR LIVING LP
Address: Ravenswood Senior Living, 4501 N. Winchester, Chicago, Illinois 60640
Alderman: Matt Martin - Ward: 47th
Presenter: Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer
Recommendation
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (BOC) of the Chicago Housing Authority
(CHA): 1) Ratify the formation of Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC to serve as a member of
Ravenswood Senior Living GP, LLC (General Partner), the General Partner of Ravenswood Senior
Living, LP (Owner), which will own Ravenswood ILF LLC and Ravenswood SLF LLC, and rehabilitate,
own, and operate the Ravenswood Senior Living project; 2) Authorize various significant actions
to be undertaken by Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC(either in its own capacity or as a member
of the General Partner, if necessary). Such actions include the execution and delivery of the
operating agreement of Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC, the execution and delivery of the
operating agreement of the General Partner, and if necessary, the execution and delivery of the
limited partnership agreement and amendment to the limited partnership agreement of the
Owner, and the execution and delivery of various financing, acquisition, and other development
and/or management documents; 3) Authorize the Chief Executive Officer of CHA or his designee
to execute and deliver such documents, certificates and undertakings on behalf of CHA to
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing; and 4)
Authorize the designated officers of Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC (RSHLLC Designated
Officers) to execute and deliver such documents, certificates and undertakings on behalf of
Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC (either in its own capacity or as a member of the General
Partner) to perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
The requested action complies in all material respects with all applicable federal, state and local
laws, and CHA Board policies. Staff have completed all necessary due diligence to support the
submission of this initiative.

Ravenswood Senior Living
1

 The Ravenswood Senior Living project (RSL) will be located within the Lincoln Square community
area in an Opportunity Area. The site boundaries are: W. Wilson to the north, N. Wolcott to the
east, W. Sunnyside to the south and N. Winchester to the west.
The development plan is to create a senior “continuum of care” facility, which will provide a 119unit Supportive Living Facility (SLF) to be owned and operated by Ravenswood SLF LLC, and a 74unit Independent Living Senior Facility (ILF) to be owned and operated by Ravenswood ILF LLC.
The State of Illinois Developed the Supportive Living Program (SLP) as an alternative to nursing
home care for low-income older persons and persons with physical disabilities under Medicaid.
By offering personal care and other services, residents can live independently and take part in
decision-making. The model is specifically designed to enable independent seniors to transition
directly to the SLF when the need for supportive living services arises.
The Developer, Evergreen Real Estate Development Corporation, will rehabilitate and
reconfigure the former Ravenswood Hospital into two separate senior facilities: a 74-unit senior
ILF on floors 5 through 9 and a 119-unit senior SLF on floors 1 through 4. The Ravenswood Senior
Living project will provide 74 Independent Living Senior units for seniors referred by CHA (CHA
ILF Units) and the Supportive Living Facility will have a priority for seniors referred by CHA.
The CHA-controlled entity, Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC, is anticipated to have a 10%
ownership interest in the General Partner and will work with the Developer and Owner, on the
construction, financing, management, and senior services required for the long-term operations
of the Ravenswood Senior Living project.

Respectfully Submitted:
_____________________
Ann McKenzie
Chief Development Officer

2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2019-CHAWHEREAS,

The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 16, 2019 entitled “Ratification of the Formation of
Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC and Authorization to Serve as a Member of
Ravenswood Senior Living GP, LLC.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING
AUTHORITY:
THAT,

1) The formation of Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC to serve as a member of
Ravenswood Senior Living GP, LLC, the General Partner of Ravenswood Senior
Living, LP (Owner), which will own Ravenswood ILF LLC and Ravenswood SLF LLC,
and rehabilitate, own, and operate the Ravenswood Senior Living project is hereby
ratified; 2) Authorization is hereby given for various significant actions to be
undertaken by Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC (either in its own capacity or as a
member of the General Partner, if necessary). Such actions include the execution
and delivery of the operating agreement of Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC, the
execution and delivery of the operating agreement of the General Partner, and if
necessary, the execution and delivery of the limited partnership agreement and
amendment to the limited partnership agreement of the Owner, and the
execution and delivery of various financing, acquisition, and other development
and/or management documents; 3) Authorization is hereby given to the Chief
Executive Officer of CHA or his designee to execute and deliver such documents,
certificates and undertakings on behalf of CHA to perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing; and 4) Authorization is
hereby given to the designated officers of Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC
(RSHLLC Designated Officers) to execute and deliver such documents, certificates
and undertakings on behalf of Ravenswood Senior Housing LLC (either in its own
capacity or as a member of the General Partner) to perform such actions as may
be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

____________________________
Eugene E. Jones, Jr.
Chief Executive Officer
Chicago Housing Authority

3

 