STATE OF ILLINOIS
COUNTY OF COOK

June 6, 2019

MINUTES FOR THE REGULAR MONTHLY BOARD MEETING
NORTH SHORE MOSQUITO ABATEMENT DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
At the convened monthly meeting for the North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Board of Trustees held at the District office, 117 Northfield Road, Northfield, Illinois,
Thursday, June 6, 2019. President Zbesko called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
ROLL CALL
Trustee Carol Blustein
Trustee Nelson Howard
Trustee Kathleen Kendrick
Trustee John Zbesko
Trustee William Zimmer

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE
Executive Director Mark Clifton
Communications Manager David Zazra
Attorney Ross Secler of Odelson & Sterk (Arrived at 7:02 pm)
Internal Operations Manager Jennifer Zimmer
Auditor Chris McClure
I.

MINUTES

Approval of Minutes: Minutes of the April 4, 2019, meeting of the NSMAD were
approved as corrected and distributed to the members of the Board. Trustee Howard
moved to approve, Trustee Kendrick seconded. All ayes.
II.

REPORT FROM BOARD OFFICERS

President: President Zbesko noted that after attending for his third year in a row he was a
little bit disappointed with this year’s AMCA Washington Days. He felt that there were a
lack of productive meetings with legislators and the same issues, which did not directly
affect the District, continue to be discussed. He said it would be unlikely that he would
attend next year.
The Executive Director and Trustee Howard informed President Zbesko that IMVCA’s
First Annual Springfield Days was very productive and suggests he attend next year.
Lastly, President Zbesko reflected on his own tenure on the NSMAD board, reminding
the Trustees of the service of former Trustee Otto Cesario who has a tree dedicated to his

1

 memory outside the District office. He also wanted all of the Trustees to think about their
tenures on the board. Personally, he noted that he was reflecting about what type of
person he would like his successor to be and when might it be time to move on from the
Board of Trustees.
Trustee Zbesko introduced auditor Chris McClure as part of the President’s report. Mr.
McClure distributed his audit summary for the year ended December 31, 2018, to each
board member. Mr. McClure then took the board through each page of his full report. He
concluded that the District is in good financial standing.
Vice President: Trustee Howard agreed that AMCA Washington days was less than
satisfying although he did have one very good conversation with legislators and he did
enjoy hearing different perspectives from across the country. He noted that a lot of the
information could be gathered from the AMCA Annual meeting but next year may be
different.
The Executive Director noted that the SMASH Act was passed in Congress after the
AMCA conference, but still needs to be appropriated. So there was some success that
came out of the issues raised by AMCA in Washington this year.
Secretary: No report.
Trustee: No report.
Treasurer: Trustee Zimmer read financials as well as April and May bills and payrolls.
In April, total receipts were $37,247 total disbursements were $128,064 and total assets
were $2,214,747. In May, total receipts were $27,077 total disbursements were $124,607
and total assets were $2,118,805. All totals rounded to the nearest dollar. The finance
report was accepted. The report will be filed for the audit.
III.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S AND LAB REPORT:

Operationally, the Executive Director informed the Trustees that larvicide treatments
began at the end of April this season, which was earlier than previous years due to the
heavy rain throughout the District. Staff have treated 150 acres of the District with
larvicide using the Buffalo Turbine and as a result resident complaints are down across
the NSMAD.
The Executive Director then shared some preliminary results from a study that is in
progress involving the District’s buffalo turbine. There have been promising results that
will help inform future control methods. Reductions in mosquitoes early in the season
will help reduce the amount of eggs laid later in the year and will hopefully help to
reduce later emergence of mosquitoes.

2

 In May, the District has treated 550 acres of floodwater, this is five times what has been
completed to this point in past years. The office has received 92 calls for service, and
only three were related to biting mosquitoes.
In the lab, mosquito testing with PCR is operational and currently the vector index is low.
Also, the insectary is filled with mosquitoes and there is a lot of resistance testing
occurring.
Finally, the Executive Director updated the Trustees on tick surveillance. The District’s
tick dragging has resulted in catching 67 ticks so far this season. Mostly dog ticks have
been caught and they will be tested in the fall.
IV.

REPORT FROM LEGAL COUNSEL:

Attorney Ross Secler presented and discussed with the Trustees the updated District
Ordinance 2019-01 establishing open meetings act remote attendance for Trustees of the
NSMAD. He also informed the Trustees that he is working on an update to the District’s
Full Time Employee Manual for the Trustee’s to review and vote on at the July meeting.
V.

COMMUNICATION MANAGER’S REPORT:

Communications Manager, Dave Zazra, updated the Board on public relations and
communications activities for the month of April and May, including media releases
regarding WNV positives, public outreach to residents, intergovernmental outreach,
distribution of the Annual Report, updates to the website and GovDelivery and Twitter
messaging metrics.
VI. INTERNAL OPERATION MANAGER’S REPORT:
Internal Operations Manager, Jennifer Zimmer, updated the Board on the financial
operations of the District and information on upcoming activities at the next Board
meeting.
VII.

OLD BUSINESS:

After some discussion, President Zbesko asked for a motion to approve District
Ordinance 2019-01 establishing open meetings act remote attendance for Trustees of the
NSMAD. Trustee Zimmer, makes the motion. A roll-call vote on the levy ordinance
resulted in the following; Ayes: Trustees Zimmer, Howard and Blustein. Opposed: none.
Abstain: Trustees Zbesko and Kendrick. The motion passes.
IX.

NEW BUSINESS: None

Announcements:

3

 July 11, 2019, at 7:00 P.M. and NSMAD headquarters, 117 Northfield Road, Northfield,
IL, were fixed as the time and place of the next regular meeting. Trustee Zbesko asked
for a motion to adjourn. Trustee Kendrick seconded. All ayes.
Adjournment: The June 6th meeting was adjourned at 8:24 pm.
ATTESTED
President, John Zbesko

SUBMITTED
Secretary, Kitty Kendrick

4

 