Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Criminal Justice Committee
Wednesday, July 24, 2019

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-4597
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 06/26/2019
19-0768
Sponsored by:
LARRY SUFFREDIN,
County Board of Commissioners

STANLEY

MOORE

and

PETER

N.

SILVESTRI,

Legislative History :

12/12/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Criminal Justice Committee

Legislative History :

6/26/19 - Criminal Justice Committee - accept as substituted

Legislative History :

6/26/19 - Criminal Justice Committee - recommend for deferral as substituted

Page 1 of 2

Cook

 Criminal Justice Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

July 24, 2019

19-3660
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
LAW LIBRARY CHANGE OF HOURS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 50 - Libraries, Article
II. - Law Library, Sec. 50-33 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 50-33. Rules for use of Library.

(a) The Cook County Law Library (“Library”) is a public law library open to all for the purposes of
legal research. To ensure open, reliable access to legal information and knowledge in a timely manner, the
following rules shall be applicable to all users of the Library.

***

(b) Hours of Operation for the Cook County Law Library.
(1) Main Library located at the Richard J. Daley Center will be open Monday through Friday from
8:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m., and on Saturday, from 12:30 p.m. -4:30 p.m.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect September 1, 2019...end
Legislative History: 6/6/2019 Board of Commissioners refer to the Criminal Justice Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Moore
Vice-Chairman: Johnson
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 2 of 2

 