Investment Committee Meeting
Held at the Office of the Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (the Fund)
Held on June 24, 2019
Presiding:

Trustee and Investment Committee Chair: Mr. Thomas Beyna

Present:

Trustees: Ms. Melissa Conyers-Irvin, Ms. Carol Hamburger, ,
Mr. Edward Wodnicki and Mr. Brian Wright

Not Present:

Trustees: Ms. Jennie Huang- Bennett, Mr. Michael Lappe and Ms. Susie Park,

Trustee staff:

Mr. Tariq Malhance and Maricio Banvelos of the City Treasurer’s Office; Mr. Marty
Johnson of the Chief Financial Officer’s Office

Fund Office:

Mr. Kenneth Kaczmarz, Interim Executive Director, Ms. Caroline Vullmahn,
Comptroller and Sebastian Medina and Jackson Lockard Interns.

NEPC, LLC

Mr. Kevin Leonard, Partner, Kristen Finney Senior Consultant and Ms. DeAnna Jones,
Senior Consulting Specialist

Others

Ms. Rosemarie Giambalvo Fund Annuitant member, ands Christine Williamson,
Senior Reporter, Pension & Investments Magazine.
Ms. Sarah Mongerson, The Smith Group

President Beyna called the meeting to order at approximately 9:15 a.m.
I.
Cash Flow Update
Ms. Caroline Vullmahn, Comptroller of the Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (PABF or the Fund),
began her presentation regarding the Fund’s cash flow. Ms. Vullmahn provided the Committee members a PABF
Cash Flow worksheet which was distributed and shows the Fund’s cash balances, expected benefit payments, other
expenses for the month, and the resulting expected cash on hand as of June 30, 2019. Ms. Vullmahn indicated that
at the end of the month, the cash balance is anticipated to be approximately $103.5 million. Ms. Vullmahn also
indicated that the Fund has pending Capital Calls totaling $80 million that will reduce the available cash and require
additional liquidity for the July and August 2019 Benefit payments.
Ms. Vullmahn explained the details pertaining to the Tax Receipts information provided on the Cash flow
worksheet. Ms. Vullmahn indicated the amounts attributable from the receipts for each individual Levy and
Payment year along with information on the amounts received through the Fund’s ability to “Intercept” funds
directly from the State of Illinois Comptroller’s Office for outstanding balances on each year’s Levy.

II.
TNT Performance Flash at May 31, 2019 (unaudited)
Ms. DeAnne Jones and Mr. Kevin Leonard from NEPC reviewed the unaudited Performance Flash of May 31,
2019 provided by the Fund’s Custodian Bank, The Northern Trust Bank. The report indicates that the total Fund
declined -2.27% for the month during May, 2019. Small and Micro Cap Equity were hit the hardest, declining 7.69% and -8.31% respectively for the month. Year to Date the Fund is up 6.67% with Domestic and Non-Us
equities continuing to add the most value over their respective benchmarks.
III.
Fixed Income Core and Core Plus RFP
Ms. DeAnne Jones and Mr. Kevin Leonard from NEPC distributed and reviewed their prepared report indicating
the respondent firms, NEPC’s analysis and recommendations. The analysis was provided on both the Core and
Core Plus searches. Trustees discussed the criteria and qualifications of all candidates that responded.

 Investment Committee Meeting
June 24, 2019
Page Two:

NEPC used their research resources to provide an analysis that developed listings of recommendations in both
searches. The Committee determined that the three following firms, responding to the Core Search would be
invited to present at the July Investment Committee meeting.
Wells Capital Management (incumbent)
Garcia Hamilton & Associates
Earnest Partners
Similar research was provided for the Core-Plus search and after discussion it was determined that the Committee
would invite the following four managers present for the Core Plus mandate.
LM Capital (incumbent)
Wellington (incumbent)
National Investment Service
Western Asset Management
Presentations will be scheduled for the Investment Committee of July 22, 2019.
The Fund’s existing Incumbent managers have been notified of their requirement to compete for these mandates.

IV.

Miscellaneous

The Committee briefly discussed the potential for utilizing a collective pool for the investment of Non-US Equities
managed by UBS, as opposed to the Fund’s current Separate account managed by UBS because of difficulties
encountered with the potential transacting and custody of “China A-Shares” . The Investment Objectives are the
same in both Vehicles. The committee directed NEPC to provide a brief analysis of the Fund’s overall utilization
of Minority Brokerage, and a comparison of fees and the operational differences pertaining to both vehicles.
A motion was made by Trustee Hamburger , seconded by Trustee Wodnicki to go into executive session under 2
(c) (7) to discuss litigation
ROLL CALL
For:
Beyna, Conyers-Irvin, Hamburger, Wodnicki, and Wright (5)
Against:
None (0)
Absent
Huang-Bennett, Lappe and Park (3)
Upon Completion of the Executive Session;
A motion was made by Trustee Hamburger , seconded by Trustee Wright to come out of Executive Session
ROLL CALL
For:
Beyna, Conyers-Irvin, Hamburger, Wodnicki, and Wright (5)
Against:
None (0)
Absent
Huang-Bennett, Lappe and Park (3)

 Investment Committee Meeting
June 24, 2019
Page Three
A motion was then made by Trustee Hamburger, seconded by Trustee Wright to adjourn the meeting.
ROLL CALL
For:
Beyna, Conyers-Irvin, Hamburger, Wodnicki and Wright (5)
Against:
None (0)
Absent
Huang-Bennett, Lappe and Park (3)

:
Respectfully submitted,

Brian Wright
Recording Secretary of the Board of Trustees
Investment Committee Member

 