PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC 
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

53

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
July 11, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6000226 100% City Funding To Increase Funding by $2,700.000.00 for
Economic Development Activities to Support Small Businesses.
Amendment No. 4 Amended Small Business and Commercial Corridor
Initiative for the Housing and Revitalization Department. Replacing
federal funds on agreement with City funding. Contractor: Economic
Development Corporation Location: 500 Griswold, Ste. 2200, Detroit,
MI 48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through
December 31, 2019 Total Contract Amount: $12,123,141.96.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION (Contract Amount before
increased funding: $9,423,141. 96.)

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Officer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract NO. 6000226 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated July 11, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

July 11, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002241 100% Federal Funding To Provide Loan Serving and Collections for
Multifamily Development Program Loans. Contractor:
Community Reinvestment Fund, Inc. Location: 801 Nicollet Mall, Suite
1770 West, Minneapolis, MN 55402 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through June 30, 2021 Total Contract Amount:
$450,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002241 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated July 11, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
July 11, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002270

100% City Funding To Provide Staf?ng Support, Capacity Building and
Technology Enhancements for the City of Detroit's Workforce
Development Programs. Contractor: Detroit Employment Solutions
Corporation Location: 440 E. Congress, Detroit, MI 48226 Contract
Period: Upon City Council Approval through June 30, 2022 Total
Contract Amount: $3,000,000.00. HOUSING AND
REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002270 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated July 11, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

5&9

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
July 11, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002127 Revenue To Provide the Lease of City Property by Grand Trunk
Western Railroad for Loading, Unloading, Parking/Storing Motor Freight
Containers. Contractor: Grand Trunk Western Railroad 
Location: 17641 South Ashland Avenue, Homewood, IL. 60430 
Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through April 28, 2022 
Total Contract Amount: $751,860.00. PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002127 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated July 11, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

5i}

Alton James @it? at Eett? it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis
Vic, Chair/360mm,, CITY PLANNING COMMISSION A 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory pawlo?wski?
Mgrcell TOdd? Jr. Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224?4336 Angy Webb
e?mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov
June 28, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE: Request of Fusco Shaffer Pappas Architects on behalf of the Pope Francis Center to

amend Article XVII, District Map 13, of the 1984 Detroit City Code Chapter 61,
?Zoning? by showing a PD (Flamed Development) zoning classi?cation where R3
(Low Density Residential) and B6 (General Services) zoning classi?cations are
currently shown on one parcel commonly identi?ed as 3769 East Can?eld.
(RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

BACKGROUND AND PROPOSAL

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has received a request from Fusco Shaffer Pappas
Architects requesting that the City of Detroit amend Article XVII, District Map No. 13 of Chapter 61
of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? to show a PD (Flamed Development) zoning classi?cation
where R3 (Low Density Residential) and B6 (General Services) zoning classi?cations currently exist
on one parcel commonly identi?ed as 3769 East Can?eld, generally bounded by Gar?eld Street to
the north, Mt. Elliott Street to the east, East Can?eld Street to the south and Ellery Street to the west.

The subject property is currently vacant land. Historically, this site was developed with a mixture of
uses including a school and housing; however, the buildings were demolished over 20 years ago. The
property is located on the east side in City Council District 5.

Proposed Development

The Pope Francis Center proposes to build and operate a bridge housing facility to serve Detroit?s
homeless community at this site. The purpose of bridge housing is to give people a place to live for
90-120 days to get off the street and transition to permanent housing. The proposed development
would include 40 studio apartment units, a cafeteria, gymnasium, library, classrooms and a health
clinic. An outdoor s?'cure shelter area will also be included for those who wish to remain outdoors.
Certain portions of the building such as the clinic and the gymnasium will be open for community
use.

The Pope Francis Center currently operates a facility serving the homeless in downtown Detroit at
438 St. Antoine (southeast comer at Lamed). Services provided include meals, laundry facilities and
showers, but no overnight shelter. Additionally, people can access medical care, legal advice and
housing providers. The new facility will be an expansion of their services and the downtown location
will continue to operate.

Community Outreach

Pope Francis has held a stakeholder meeting and two community meetings to inform the community
about the project, gather opinions and address concerns. The District 5 Neighborhood Manager
assisted the applicant in contacting nearby residents, businesses and churches. Initial contact was
made by door-knocking in the neighborhood; follow-up was by postcard, email and door hangers.
The ?nal meeting was held on May 20, 2019 at St. Elizabeth Catholic Church which is 3-4 blocks
from the proposed project. About 40 area residents attended and asked questions regarding operation
of the facility, security and construction timeline. One suggestion was a board of community
members to give ongoing suggestions and address any concerns. The applicant was receptive to this
idea and offered to appoint a community member to the board of directors.

CPC MEETINGS

Public Hearing June 6

On June 6, 2019 the City Flaming Commission (CPC) held a 6: 15 FM. public hearing on the subject
rezoning. Fifty-eight notices were mailed to surrounding occupants and property owners; six notices
were returned as undeliverable. Nine members of the public spoke at the hearing, ?ve were in
opposition and four in support.

Points in support: Assistance for the chronically homeless is needed
The site has been vacant for over 20 years
No residents or businesses will be displaced
The size is manageable?only 40 residents on site
Portions of the facility will be open for community use
Contaminated soil at the site will be remediated
The neighborhood has been neglected and this will bring hope
Points in opposition: Community has been ravaged has many similar uses in area
This project won?t end homelessness
The development doesn?t consider community
Would prefer housing at the site

Flaming Commissioners expressed concerns regarding community outreach and the extent of similar
uses in the immediate area. The applicant agreed to do additional outreach and obtain letters in
support of the project.

Recommendation Action June 20
Additional information was provided about the community engagement process, other similar uses in
the area and letters of support from the community. The City Flaming Commission voted 5-2 to
recommend approval of the rezoning. Although public comment was not taken on the item (as it was
not a public hearing), a number of individuals spoke during general public comment at the end of the
meeting. Fourteen people spoke in opposition to the proposal, including several members of the
group Grassroots Detroiters. Their major concerns were:
0 That they were excluded from the community engagement
- The environmental contamination at the site and the effect of disturbing the soil
0 Recent increase in crime and a potential additional increase as a result of this project
0 Too many homeless shelters and similar uses in the area?specifically the new NSO
facility at Mack Gratiot and Team Wellness which recently moved to Mt. Elliott 
Mack
The project won?t bene?t the community

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
Surrounding Zoning and Land Use

The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: B6 (General Services) and R3 (Low Density Residential) Auto Repair Garage, Food
Processing Facility, Single-Family House (at the comer of Mt. Elliott, DLBA-owned)

East: R3 (Low Density Residential) Single-Family House, Greater St. Peter?s AME Zion
Church, Vacant Land

South: R2 (Two-Family Residential) and R3 (Low Density Residential) Vacant Single?
Family House, Vacant Land

West: R2 (Two Family Residential) Vacant Land (DLBA?owned)

Approval Criteria

This proposal appears to meet the eight approval criteria for a map amendment listed in Section 61-3-
80 of the zoning ordinance, speci?cally:

The amendment will not have adverse impacts on property in the vicinity. The proposed site plan
provides adequate landscape buffering for adjacent property. Access to the medical clinic and
the gymnasium will be a bene?t to the community.

The suitability of the subject property for the existing and proposed zoning classifications. The
existing B6 zoning district allows fairly intense uses by?right such as Minor Auto Repair, Car
Wash and Used Auto Sales Lot which would not be appropriate directly adjacent to
residentially?zoned property. This rezoning corrects this issue and allows a speci?c mix of uses
that will be compatible with surrounding uses and zoning.

Whether the pr0posed amendment corrects an error or meets the challenge of some changing
condition, trend or fact. It?s unclear why this site was initially zoned B6 as schools and
dwellings are not permitted. Rezoning the site for the proposed uses will enable the development
of the underutilized site and address an anomaly in the pattern of zoning.

As a PD district, this proposal is also subject to the approval criteria in Section 61-3-96, speci?cally:

Whether the subject site covers a minimum of 2 acres and is capable of being planned and
developed as one integral unit. Yes, the site is 5.92 acres and the proposal is a single, cohesive
development.

That no other zoning district classi?cation would be more appropriate. The unique mixture of
uses included in this proposal, especially the outdoor shelter area, is not allowed in a single
zoning district.

That the development will result in a recognizable and substantial benefit to the ultimate users of
the project and to the City, where such benefits would otherwise be unfeasible or unlikely to be
achieved. The Pope Francis Center did extensive research into the best practices and design of
facilities that serve the homeless including tours of facilities in 9 cities. The resulting design is
distinctive and merits the ?exibility of a PD district.

That the proposed type and density of use shall not result in an unreasonable increase in traffic
or the use of public services, facilities and utilities, that the natural features of the subject site
have the capacity to accommodate the intended development, and that the development shall not
place an unreasonable burden upon surrounding land or land owners. The site is large enough
to accommodate the proposed uses and traf?c without negative effects on adjacent properties.
Substantial setbacks and landscaping are proposed adjacent to the residentially-zoned areas to
the south and west.

Master Plan Consistency

The subject site is located within the Middle East Central area of Neighborhood Cluster 4 of the
Detroit Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows ?Institutional? for the
subject property. The Planning Development Department has determined that the proposed map
amendment conforms to the master plan.

RECOMMENDATION

On June 20, 2019, the City Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of the rezoning
request to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 13 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
?Zoning,? to show a PD (Flamed Development) zoning classi?cation where R3 (Low Density
Residential) and B6 (General Services) zoning classi?cations currently exist on one parcel
commonly identi?ed as 3769 East Can?eld, generally bounded by Gar?eld Street to the north, Mt.
Elliott Street to the east, East Can?eld Street to the south and Ellery Street to the west. The ordinance
establishing the map amendment has been reviewed and approved as to form by the Law Department
and is attached for your consideration.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Jamie J. Murphy, Staff

Attachments: Rezoning Ordinance
PDD Master Plan Interpretation
District Map 13
CPC Public Hearing Notice

cc: Maurice Cox, Director PDD
Esther Yang, PDD
Karen Gage, PDD
Matt Walters, Mayor?s Of?ce
David Bell, Director, BSEED
James Foster, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel

SUMMARY

An ordinanCe to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zom'ng,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 13 to Show
a PD (Planned Development District) zoning classi?cation where R3 (Low Density Residential
District) and B6 (General Services District) zoning classi?cations are currently shown on one
parcel commonly identi?ed as 3769 East Can?eld Street, generally bounded by Gar?eld Street to

the north, Mt. Elliott Street to the east, Canfield Street to the south, and Ellery Street to the west.

I


 

MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map
No. 13 to Show a PD (Planned Development District) zoning classi?cation where R3 (Low
Density Residential District) and B6 (General Services District) zoning classi?cations are
currently shown on one parcel commonly identi?ed as 3769 East Can?eld Street, generally
bounded by Gar?eld Street to the north, Mt. Elliott Street to the east, Can?eld Street to the south,
and Ellery Street to the west.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Article XVII, Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zom'ng,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, is amended as follows:

A. District Map No. 13 is amended to Show a PD__{Planncd Development District)
milassitication where ?ow Density Residential District} and B6 [General Services
District) stoning classifications are currently shown on one parcel commonly identi?ed 2133:1762
Mn?elgl?treet. generally bounded by Gar?eld Street to the north, Mt. Elliott Streetto the
east. Can?eld Street to the south. and Ellery Street to the west. identi?ed more specifically as:

LOTS THRU 8. FISCHER BERNARTS SUB L3 P48 FLATS. W.C.R.

I2 THRU 23, SUB L19 P43 W.C.R.

 

LOTS THRU 9, LAMBERTS SUB L19 P65 FLATS. WCR.
SOUTH 181.9 FT OF 236THEREOF LEIB FARM L45 P664 DEEDS. W.C.R.

LOTS 9, SCI-IWARTZS SUB L16 P64 FLATS. W.C.R.

 





.1. 1-



"Coipo1atio_n Council'?

ALL VACATED ALLEYS BOUNDED BY ELLERY. MT CANFIELD dc

GARFIELD

B. All development within the PD {Pianned Development District) zoning
classi?cation for the land herein described shall be in accordance with the site plans, elevations,
and other components of the development proposals For the ?Bridne Housing Pope Francis
Center' or.oiect as drawn by F11sco.Sl1111te1 11 Paopas. Inc. dated April' 1.2, 201.9 and shall be
subiect to the 'l?ollowina conditions:

1. The applicant must work with the adiaeent community to minimize disruption to

the neighborhood during construction and to address any itnpactson an ongoing

basis.

 

to

 

All ?nal site plans, and signageplans are 
review a11d_aporoval by the City Planning Commission stall" prior to submitting 111w
applications inapplicable building or construction permits,

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance
are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the presewation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth day after publication
in accordance with Section 401(6) of Public Act 110 01'2006, as amended, M.C.L. 125340105)
and Section 4?118, paragraph 3 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to Form:



Lawrence T. Garcia

. 



rmw? -.- . 

  

A Yurxt; IVItsxx?utu. (.lrix'nzx
2 Sun; 808
Drum?: Mu'mr; n: 48226

(it or PHONE 313-224-1339
Draw: wwu' nmxomuum
TO: Mr. Marcell Todd, Legislative Policy Division
FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Rezoning
DATE: June 12, 2019
CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development (PDD)

Karen Gage, Director, PDD Zoning and Innovation
Greg Moots, PDD Zoning and Innovation
Kevin ronce, PDD Central Region

RE: Master Plan of Policies review of request to modify the existing BS (General Services District)
and R3 (Low Density Residential District) zoning classification to PD (Planned Development) for
the property commonly known as 3769 E. Canfield, generally bounded by E. Canfield, Ellery,
Garfield, and Mount Elliott

 

Dear Mr. Todd:

Pursuant to the City of Detroit?s City Charter (Sections 6-202 and 6-204), the Planning and Development
Department?s Planning Division submits the following review ofthe proposed Rezoning.

The proposed map amendment is at the request of Fusco, Shaffer Pappas Inc. on behalf of Pope Francis
Center to develop a facility to serve the homeless, consisting of residential units with a cafeteria,
gymnasium, and library.

Location
The subject site is located at 3769 E. Canfield, bounded by E. Canfield Street, Ellery Street, Garfield
Street, and Mount Elliott Avenue.

Existing Site Information
The subject site is currently empty.

Surrounding Site Information

There are trucking-related uses to the north, homes and vacant lots to the south and east, and vacant
residential lots to the west. The Future General Land Use designation is Medium Density Residential to
the east, Institutional and Low Medium Density Residential Commercial to the north, and Low/
Medium Density Residential Commercial to the west and south. The broader area is characterized by
mostly vacant residential lots.

Project Proposal
Proposed is a 2 story tall building containing 40 apartments with amenities and support services, including
a health clinic. This facility will be used for assisting the homeless population.

 

 

Interpretation

impact on Surrounding Land Use

The anticipated impact on the surrounding uses is minimal, as the uses are either commercial or vacant.
There should not be excessive noise or other impacts from the proposal. The land to the east, north and
south is zoned R3, to the north is BS.

impact on Transportation

Given the current under-utilization of the streets surrounding the site and the fact that Mt. Elliott Street
is designated as a ?Major Street?, as is East Forest Avenue (1 block to the north), the development is not
anticipated to create significant negative traffic impacts. . Buses runs on Mt. Elliot Street and East
Forest Avenue.

 

Master Plan Interpretation

The subject site area is designated Institutional (INST). Institutional status applies to areas of
approximately 10 acres or more with educational, religious, health or public uses, including: churches,
libraries, museums, public or private schools, hospitals, or government building, Institutional structure
or land used for public purposes. The proposed development also meets Goal 8, ?IncreaSe support
services for the City?s homeless population?, of Citywide Health and Human Services policies.

The proposed use is an institutional one, as it serves the homeless population.

The proposed development and rezoning conforms to the Future General Land Use
characteristics of the area.

The institutional nature of the proposed development that the PD zoning will facilitate follows the

Future General Land Use designation ofthe area, and thus this rezoning conforms to the policies of the
City's Master Plan.

Respectfully Submitted,

Esther Yang
Planning and Development Department

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Map 4-63, Neighborhood Cluster 4, Middle East Central.



 

 

 

EAST GRAND BLVD

 

CINVHE) 1.. V:




HII-Jnrnu

IEI

 

 

 

 



5321EFT-ZEMI-at?; ?z
13?

n: I


130338

2


DC
I
NIFHUII



 

 

I
32 IL.
I
I
IL

 

 

 

 


?uocmm"1354311YET-13H 

jaa

THEODORE AVE 




WEI-HIS. PL
M4 
WHERE SEII


I?m HITIEIW

 

II
I
I

II
I

33195 .

 

 

 

HANCIICK

 

 

 

 

BILL
31HQBH

 

 

 

 

RREFELD

I
I I
I

 

 

GARFILLQ 



CANFI ELD AVE

 

 

'?li'lfl'fEFLSTImam 1:3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



IE

.. 53R2.-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


A:
1'Alton James @itp of Eetr? it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis
Damion Ellis
VICC Chan/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Esparza AIA LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory pawlo?wski?
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e-mail: cpc@detroitrni.gov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the City Planning Commission in the Conimi tree of the Whole Room, 
Floor of the Coleman A. ?t'ounaMunicioal Center. 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit. Michigan 48236 on

THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019 AT 6: 15 PM

to consider the proposal of Fusco, Shaffer Pappas to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 13 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a PD (Planned Development) zoning classi?cation
where R3 (Low Density Residential) and B6 (General Services) zoning classi?cations currently exist on
one parcel commonly identi?ed as 3769 East Can?eld Street. The location of the proposed rezoning is
speci?cally indicated on the accompanying map.

The change is being proposed to allow for the construction of a new building to provide services to the
homeless community. Speci?cally, the building is proposed to include 40 studio apartments, cafeteria,
gymnasium, library, classrooms, health clinic and outdoor shelter space.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:

R3 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

This district is designed as a low-density multi-family district. The regulations are designed to
promote and encourage town and terrace house development, courts, and garden apartments. It is
intended that this district be used primarily on local thoroughfares thereby encouraging a suitable
environment for family life. Among others, uses permitted by right include single and two-family
dwellings, town houses, multi?family dwellings, and community facilities necessary to serve a
residential district.

B6 GENERAL SERVICES DISTRICT

This district provides for wholesaling, transport, food services, and similar activities essential to
the commerce and health of the City. Of?ce, retail, service, and other uses normally desiring to
locate in this type of district are also permitted.

PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

This district will permit planned developments throughout the City and will be particularly useful
in urban renewal areas. Such planned developments shall be substantially in accord with the goals
and objectives of the Master Plan, by having a major land use that corresponds to the most general
category of land use, which are Residential, Public/Civic/Institutional, Retail/Service/Commercial,
Manufacturing and Industrial, and Other, proposed in the Master Plan for the area involved. Such
planned developments shall provide a desirable environment for the uses proposed and shall not be
out of harmony with their general surroundings. The regulations of the district are designed to
accomplish this by permitting ?exibility in overall development while ensuring adequate
safeguards and standards for public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare and, where
applicable, encouraging historic preservation.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing and after
receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning Ordinance map
amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article Division 3 of Chapter
61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this preposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to represent
you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing: Two Woodward Avenue, Room 208, Detroit, Michigan
48226 (email: cpc@detroitmi. gov). Because it is possible that some who are affected by this prOposal may
not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so that they too may express
their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services at public
meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please contact the Civil
Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313)224-4950, through the TTY number 711, or email
crior'u?detruitmi . any to schedule these services.

For additional information concerning this proposal or the scheduled hearing, please call
313-224-6225FOREST AVEGARFIELD STCANFIELD STWILLIS ST.
1

 

Proposed Rezoning from R3 B6 to PD

53

Alton James aft? of it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson Damion W. Ellis
AIA, LEED
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Msrceltl R- Todd, Jr- Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb
?'80 or

Phone: (313)224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: 

July 12, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Delegation of City Council Special District Review and approval of building permit
applications during Summer recess 2019 (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

According to the City of Detroit Zoning Ordinance the Detroit City Council approves by
resolution any work undertaken by permit on land zoned PC or PCA after receiving
recommendation from the Planning and Development Department and the City Planning
Commission. It has become the practice of Your Honorable to delegate this responsibility to the
staff of the City Planning Commission during periods of recess when permit applications of this
sort may be submitted and need to be addressed in a timely fashion. The Council?s delegation of
this reSponsibility allows work, compliant with the City Code, to advance during recess and/or
when the Body is not conducting business in the context of Your regular meetings.

Attached for Your consideration You will ?nd a resolution effectuating the delegation of Special
District Review and corresponding action jointly to the Planning and Development Department
and the City Planning Commission staff for Your Summer recess 2019.

Respectfully submitted,

Marcell R. Todd, Director

cc: Maurice Cox, Director, PDD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corp. Counsel
Kim James, Law Dept.
Bruce Goldman, Law Dept.

Attachment

A RESOLUTION BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance requires that any permit application submitted to the
Building and Safety Engineering and Environmental Department related to the Exterior design,
location and appearance of work within a the Public Center (PC) District and the Public Center
Adj acent/Restricted Central Business District must be reviewed by the City Planning
Commission (CPC) and the Planning and DeveIOpment Department and

WHEREAS, consistent with Sec. 61-3?182 of the Zoning Ordinance, the City Council approves
by resolution, any such permit application subsequent to receipt of a report and recommendation
from the Planning and Development Department and the City Planning Commission; and

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council will be on recess July 31, 2018 through September 
2018, and the City Council?s Committees will not resume meeting until that time; and

3

WHEREAS, time sensitive requests for work in these districts may be received by the City
while the Council is not in session; and

WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Detroit City Council to facilitate such requests and not
unnecessarily delay the issuance of building permits.

NOW THERFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Detroit City Council authorizes the Planning and
Development Department and the City Planning Commission staff to jointly review, approve,
approve with conditions or deny any permit applications for land zoned PC or PCA submitted
between July 31, 2018 and September 2018 and to do so in consultation with other City
agencies as may be appropriate.

Mm? James @it? of Etta it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Damion Ellis

e?mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

July 11, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of the Iconic-55, LLC for PCA (Public Center Adjacent District) Special
District Review of proposed exterior changes to 511 Woodward Avenue
(RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

REQUEST
The City Flaming Commission (CPC) has received a request from Iconic?51 1, LLC (The Elia
Group) tO approve exterior changes to 511 Woodward Avenue.

The subject property is zoned PCA, a classi?cation which calls for City Council approval of any
exterior changes following the review and recommendation of the City Planning Commission
and the Planning and Development Department (Sections 61-2-181 and 61?1 1-81) of the Zoning
Ordinance. The subject site also requires review by the Historic District Commission.

BACKGROUND

The subject site is located on the west side of Woodward Avenue between West Congress
Avenue on the north and West Lamed Avenue on the south. The block measures approximately
271 feet along Woodward Avenue with a depth of 30 feet.

The site was developed in 1972 with the Detroit Federal Savings and Loan Assoc. Building a
4-story glass and steel bank building. The existing building measures approximately 250 along
Woodward Avenue with a depth of 30 feet, totaling 7,530 square feet. The current exterior Of
the building includes gold mirrored glass, a main entrance at the center of the building facing
Woodward Avenue with a brick facade above, and a box on the roof screening
mechanical/e1conical/plumbing equipment. The front of the site along Woodward Avenue is
developed with raised planters with steps leading to the front of the building. The site was most
recently owned by Wayne County and has been vacant for 12 years.

PROJECT PROPOSAL
CPC staff and the Flaming Development Department met with the developer on
April 3, 2019 to discuss the proposed project. The Elia Group is proposing to purchase the
building and redevelop it as a commercial space with several tenants. Please see the attached
plans for reference. Proposed exterior changes include:
I Replacing the building facade on the north, east, and south sides of the building with
clear glass;

0 Adding a decorative metallic facade screen to the front of the building and wrapping
around the top of the north facade;

I Adding horizontal exterior lighting; and

0 Updating the existing front plaza with outdoor seating, ADA ramp access, and
landscaping.

ANALYSIS

Surrounding Zoning and Land Use
The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: developed the Chase Tower/The Qube (across West Congress)
East: PCA: developed with One Detroit Center (across Woodward)

South: deve10ped with One Woodward Building (across West Lamed)
West: developed with the Guardian Building (across the alley)
Review

Section of 61-1 1-97 of the Zoning Ordinance lists the PCA District Review Criteria. The
relevant PCA review criteria provisions are as follows, with analysis in italics:

(2) Scale, form, massing and density should be appropriate to the nature of the project and
relate well to surrounding development. The decorative metallic facade would change
the form of the building and its appearance along Woodward Avenue;

(3) The proposed development should be compatible with surrounding development in terms
of land use, general appearance and function and should not adversely affect the value of
adjacent properties. The subject 4-story building is dwarfed by the adjacent 40-story
Guardian Building which backs up to 51] Woodward. One could argue that the
proposed clear windows and decorative metallic facade would complement the One
Woodward Building (built in 1962) to the south and the Chase ower/T he Qube (built in
1958) to the north;

(6) Adequate public and private open space should be provided for light and air, landscaping,
and, where appropriate, for passive and active recreation. The project is proposing to
update the large existing plaza in front of the building along Woodward Avenue with
outdoor seating, new landscaping, etc. 

(9) Appropriate buffering and screening of service, loading, refuse collection, mechanical
and electrical equipment and parking areas should be provided. The existing mechanical
screen would remain on the top of the building, but the proposed facade screen would
hide part of the existing mechanical screen;

(10) Careful consideration should be given to orientation for solar access to both the proposed
project and surrounding development. 51] Woodward is quite smaller than the 4
adjacent o?ice towers.

(l l) Signage and graphics should be tastefully designed to be visually appealing and in
character with surrounding development; they should provide needed information,
direction and orientation in a clear and concise manner. The proposed signage plan is not
completed, but the proposed plans indicate the sign location and state that total building
signage is 500 square feet.

(12) Security considerations, especially avoidance of visually isolated public spaces, should be
a major element of the design program. The CPC understands final plans for the public
space at the front of the building have not yet been completed, but the preliminary design
is to remove the existing planters which would help open up the space.

(13) Barrier-free access and public safety features should be carefully planned. The plans
Show adding an ADA access ramp to the plaza and main entrance.

(l4) Preservation/restoration of buildings having architectural or historic value should be
considered a primary objective. On June 26, 2019, the building changes were submitted
to the Historic District Commission (HDC). sta? indicate the HDC approved the
proposal with the condition that petitioner submit additional detailed drawings of the
proposed screen wall.

(15) Urban design elements of form and character should be carefully considered; such
elements include, but are not limited to: richness/ interest of public areas through the
provision of storefronts, window displays, landscaping, and artwork; color, texture and
quality of structural materials; enclosure of public spaces; variations in scale; squares,
plazas and/or "vest pocket parks" where appropriate; continuity of experience, visual
activity and interest; articulation and highlighting of important visual features;
preservation/enhancement of important views and vistas. The proposed design opens up
the north and south corners of the building; the ?rst ?oor would be open and visible to
the street; the site is proposing an outdoor seating area.

CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION

The CPC maintains that 511 Woodward Avenue is an important location downtown along
Woodward Avenue, and that the current vacant building with early 1970?s architecture (gold
mirrored glass) does not add to the aesthetic appeal of the area. The Elia Group is proposing a
bold change to the facade of the building. has submitted a letter in support of the
proposed facade change which is attached for reference. The HDC has voted to approve the
proposed changes as well.

On May 16, 2019, the City Flaming Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL of the
proposed exterior changes with the following condition:
That ?nal site plans, elevations, landscape, lighting, and signage plans he
submitted for City Planning Commission staff approval prior to making
applications for applicable permits.

A resolution for approval is attached for Your consideration.
Respect?illy submitted,
Alton James, CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Christopher J. Gulock, AICP, Staff

Attachments: Resolution, support letter, and proposed drawings

cc: Maurice Cox, Director, 
Karen Gage, 
Greg Moots, 

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, Iconic-511, LLC proposes to make exterior alterations to the building at 511
Woodward Avenue including a new facade and decorative metallic facade screen; and

WHEREAS, the subject property is located within a PCA (Public Center Adjacent) zoning
district and is subject to special district review; and

WHEREAS, the Flaming and Development Department has provided their comments as to the
appropriateness of the proposed alterations; and

WHEREAS, on Thursday, May 16, 2019, the City Plaming Commission voted to recommend
approval of the proposed alterations in accordance with the PCA District review criteria as listed
in Section 61-11-97 of Chapter 61 of the Detroit City Code, ?Zoning?; NOW THEREFORE BE
IT

RESOLVED, that the Detroit City Council hereby approves the proposed alterations to 511
Woodward Avenue as depicted in the drawings dated 2/05/2019 prepared by the lead ?rm of
Yamasaki, with the following condition:

1. That ?nal site plans, elevations, landscaping, lighting and signage plans be submitted to
the staff of the City Flaming Commission for review and approval prior to application
being made for applicable permits.

  

+1 A MIJNIrtn-ui, (.7111: NI ER
3 308
Drarnorr, ?31110.15: 48236

CIT 1t 0t" DETROIT PHONE 3 111-224-1359

Pr. AND [Dravrti.oI'Mi'aNT 

May 14, 2019

Detroit City Flaming Commission
208 CAYMC
Detroit, MI 482266

RE: Public Center Adjacent (PCA) Review of exterior changes at 511 Woodward Avenue.
(RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

The following is the Flaming and Development Department?s (PDD) review of the proposed
facade changes of the building located at 511 Woodward Avenue. This review is carried out per
Sec. 61-11-96 for the review of developments located in the Public Center Adjacent (PCA) zoning
district.

Following is our response to the applicable criteria from See. 61 -1 1-97, with our response in italics.

(3) The proposed development should be compatible with surrounding development in terms of
land use, general appearance and function and should not adversely affect the value of
adjacent properties; The newfacade, with its clear glass and linear elements, appears to
acknowledge the design of the Yamasaki?designed building to the south (11?2th ?The Cube t0
the north.

(15) Urban design elements of form and character should be carefully considered; such elements
include, but are not limited to: richness/ interest of public areas through the provision of
storefronts, window displays, landscaping, and artwork; color, texture and quality of
structural materials; enclosure of public spaces; variations in scale; squares, plazas and/or
?vest pocket parks? where appropriate; continuity of experience, visual activity and interest;
articulation and highlighting of important visual features; preservation/enhancement of
important views and vistas; The new facade is a substantial improvement over the current
re?ective gold facade. It adds a variety of structural materials and will allow passers-by to
see the interior activity in the building.

(16) Special attention should be given to amenity and comfort considerations such as provision
for outdoor seating, restrooms for public use, bicycle storage, convenience of access points
and protection from harsh weather through such features as enclosed walkways and arcaded -
pedestrian areas; The plans state that there will be changes to the plaza, with new plantings
and seating area, these improvements are not shown but shall be reviewed via the
encroachment permit.

Because of the conformance to the above standards for development in the PCA district, the PDD
is pleased to support the proposed facade changes adjacent to 511 Woodward.

Respectfully Submitted,

If. i? .
KM 

Karen Gage, Director
Of?ce of Zoning Innovation

we



CC: Gregory F. Moots, Lead Planner
Maurice Cox

511 Woodward Avenuo






. .


3
i

II
3
3
?r

rad

0:1:

mm 1.1.111 11111.1.1411mr- W7



The Elia Group i Yamasaki i SMM Studio i MA Engineering i Illuminart i Shymanski As??ociates mm 

 

Existing Roottop MEP behind

corrugated metal Screen Wall ?i

Existing Rooftop MEP behind
corrugated metal Screen Walt

 

 

 

Existing Brick
Alley between Canopy over
511 Woodward and Front Door

The Guardian Building 

wt Gated Entry 

 

         

 

Alley between

511 Woodward and
The Guardian Building
wl Gated Entry

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No Entry
along Larned 

 

Existing Entry into
Tenant Space

Existing Brick Facade Existing Rooftop MEP behind
along alleyway corrugated metal Screen Wall

Existing Ventilation
Louvers (typical)

 

Existing
Enb'y this side I I No Existing

I - ?isside
i E?i?a ii i it 

I L.
Existing Brick Planters Existing Alley Gate Existing MEP Doorway to Receiving I Existing Alley Gate

ontop oiraised Plaza and Egress Exit

Existing Brick Facade Existing Rooftop MEP behind
conugated metal Screen Wall
I I I

  

 

Existing Egress Exit
Door from Stairwell

Existing Gold tone Glazing

 

 

 

 

i wl Bronze Mullions

I 
i Existing
i Entry this side

- - 7?1 . _l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No Exisb'ng I 
Entry ?tis side i- 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

it

 

i

ii

I
=1i


 

 

 

 

 

Existing Brick Planters Existing sman Deciduous Brick covered
onton of Iaised Plaza Trees in raised Planters Entry Campy 
along Plaza Level

Existing Main Entry wl Revolving Existing concrete Steps
Door and two (2) Side Doors up to Plaza

 

Existing Conditions

         

"urn? l? II 

g?
Hun. Wow. it

.. .

  

Existing conditions of building include gold tone glazing with bronze tone mullions separating panes. Main entry
into building includes one (1) revolving door and two (2) swing doors. Middle portion oilacade is brick with brick
canopy over main entry. Screen walls on roof are corrugated metal painted darlt bronze.

- i if 
Situated along Woodward Avenue. the existing building sits at the 'foot' ofThe Guardian Building. Long vacant, the
empty building leaves a gap in Woodwards transformation and Detroit?s expanding downtown lifestyle.

 



ELIA 511 Woodward Ave Detrort MI

GROU

43:09

MABEIEERNS

Shymanskl 
Pesociates LLC

 

 

 

1mm lsm?n 

Campus Marn'us

           

Monroe Blocks

.

:1

10 Gram Itnn 

Chase Building
"The Cube"

Ally Detroit Center
Guardian Building

.3
Kasai-Ii 

?5 150 West Jefferson

Coleman A Young

One Woodward Avenue Municipal Center

(Yamasaki)

 

Jefferson Avenue

 

Denna-motile



 

Site Survey

Scale:1' 40'- 0'

 

 

511 Woodward Ave Detroit MI I. 

0 war-rm:-
124souwoaa-aumsmoABmu-gmm 4mm

5mm; 
Mandala LLC

 

 

 smn 

Rendering

 

?nunmwagwf

.muyium?.

?I?m j. 

. .. . --..
.. .. . . ."IfIlumihi



Inn-mmunumouV

 

THE

ELI A 511 Woodward Ave Detroit MI 

0 Eh;
124$0hwmd?msmaAErmMJ 46303 mu

Shymanski 8.
Associates LLC

 

 

 smn ASA 

Rendering

 

 



 

 

ELIUMIN Ft?

 

Shymanslu a
Associaias LLC

 

. _r ?i 

a.

 

511 Woodward Ave Detroit MI

GROUP

1? II 
4m

Rendering

 

 

 



 

 

itiUl?g?H RT

 

Shymanskl 
Asma' tas LLC

 

511 Woodward Ave Detroit MI

GROUP

TH 
124 souwmqunan-Aamw ?ms

Rendering Line Drawing

 

 

 



 

Shymanski 

- Associalas LLC 

 



511 Woodward Ave Detroit MI

0 UP
4&0:



Axonometrics

 

Horizontal LED Lighting
along Spandrel (typical)

Tenant Space

Corporate Signage on

. __Building Exterior

Entry into

   

Parametric Facade Screen

in Metal?c lone ?nish

 
       


I 
:zupdated wi ADA Access Ramp,
Outdoor Seating and tree and
shrub plantings

Existing Plaza Monumental Staircase

iswill I'lr-lml -,
Filly-.21]
Er W, la:

Fins

rIr/fmlf

a? aid?! jut-?lg 

?ii It

.

 
 

  
 
  
    
  

F515, ?5+1 ?In
Figjhf??! ?ll
{fir??l? 
tri?ing If.?
i? ?girth/215'
.1

i

f4- 17.11
fig/"HM . If}.

i 

air-Joe i

I:

   
 

North


Exploded Axonmetric

Scale: 1'

 

Shymaruski 

Amniotic-r LLC

 



 

511 Woodward Ave Detroit MI

20' - 0'

 

Axonmetric

Scale: 1'

II 
0 UP
43:05

 

3T: CI :51? am



 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JDOHD
I
3M1 PJEMPOOM LLQ urn?{H
69 WW
ueld 261V  eAe' 
lam aItwn Joddn 66mm? qruus PUB can
niMuwnooauwoppoqma MUHPUBFZEHOI ?meapw Aqqo'lmuela uaMuanoaluwewoqwo 
we bums anmw m1 was dwaumowvuv ?ulmnajo?nua um manna nuns mam ?Emma 5mm Bums!
a Cl._l_l_ - .l - 
ll -. -- 
igm?guaa c. DUDE lag an an 
Li ?99? min-133 u; .1 L: .1 
alumnae #13 ?3 1 . p. 5" 
IMMumml .- - ..
-r ii 1__1
.
. OZL Buns 0H 81th 
. . Ll HHQWAME)
?h?x i Immuamuu
I H?r?z? I 1' I: 

ma moi mun pmpooM us mm
Inc-puns: 1ml We" 3: uognmmeu


ueld

 

Elevation

 

Total Building Signage
Area Allowed is 500 sf.
Final Signage Locations

Existing Rooftop MEP behind pending Tenants
updated Matching Screen Wall Signage:

32 sflTenant Space -or- 2.6
r? Existing Rooftop MEP

 

 

Opening in Facade Screen,
lined with matching material

 

 

Existing Rooftop MEP

Li. of tenant wall exposure
behind updated matching Screen Wall

(139?)
Paramebic Facade Screen
in Metallic toned ?nish

 

     

Horizontal Exterior Ughting
along Spandrel (typical)

Horizontal Exterior Ughting
along Spandrel (typical)

 

TENANT Clear Exterior Glazing
wl Butt Joint Silicone
Mullions (typical)

Direct Access to Tenant I
space via Lamed St I.



To Derrcl airman



DirectAccess to Tenant
space via Congress St

. To thmu 

         

     

   

   

Plan?ngs along Plaza include
Deciduous Trees and small Shrubs

S?ding Glass Wall System Raised Facade Screen
embedded into Curtain Wall above Entry

Main Entry of Building Sliding Glass Wall System
and Elevator Lobby Access embedded into Curtain Wall

Exterior Elevation

Scale: 1' 20' - 0'

 

 

511 Woodward Ave Detroit MI .
Elsi? - YAMASA 

12-1 SWWoaj-ardHeSmeAErmrm?a-nw 

Existing Roo?op 
behind updated matching

 

Screen Wall

Horizontal Exterior Ughling
along Spandrel (typical)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f?

 

2fL Airspace between
Facade Screen and
Building Glazing

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signage:

32 stTenant Space -or- 2.6 U.
of tenant wall exposure (139')

Exterior Brick Well

.r along Alley to remain

13%;me

Parametric Facade Screen

Metalic toned ?nish

Elevation

Existing Rooftop MEP
behind updated matching
Screen Wan

 

 

 

Horizontal Exterior lighting
along rvpican

Ell - 

 



1_

 

 

 

 

Exterior Brick Wall
along Alley to remain

Tn an; a To Wood-ad Ave
and (ire-dd St a 01m Transl.

2ft Air space between
Facade Screen and
Building Glazing

 

 

 

 



?r



if

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tonhidhe
t. re Iron! 

 

 

 

Concrete steps
from outdoor Plaza

 

 

 

 

Tenant space

Total Building Signage

Area Allowed is 500 s.l.
Final Signage Locations
T.B.D. pending Tenanls

 

 

 

Entry Portal into

 

 

Enlry Portal into
Tenant space

Exterior Elevation

Scale: 1' 20'-0'

 

 

TIIE

IELJAK

0 UP
?me

511 Woodward Ave Detroit MI

?it?

?15135.21?;

Shymenski 
Associates LLC

3.32, W- 

 

 



Alton James Qtitp Hf EBtr?it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis
Vic, CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 3333025352.. MA LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory 
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e?mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

July 12, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request from Pogoda Companies to rezone 15999 Joy Road and a portion of 15801
Joy Road from an R5 (Medium Density Residential) and an M4 (Intensive
Industrial) zoning classi?cation to a B4 (General Business District) zoning
classi?cation to develop a self-storage facility/public storage house (RECOMMEND
DENIAL)

Pogoda Companies is requesting to rezone 15999 Joy Road and a portion of 15801 Joy Road,
generally located on the south side of Joy Road west of Green?eld Avenue, from an R5
(Medium Density Residential) and an M4 (Intensive Industrial) zoning classi?cation to a B4
(General Business District) zoning classi?cation on Zoning Map No. 40. The change in zoning
is being requested to allow for the development of a self-storage facility/public storage house.
Please see the attached rezoning application and public hearing notice which includes a map of
the subject location.

BACKGROUND AND REQUEST

The subject property, which is located more speci?cally at the southeast corner of Joy Road and
St. Marys Avenue, is presently zoned R5 with the smaller M4 section at the northeast corner of
the property. The site, which is currently owned by the Episcopal Diocese of Michigan, contains
4 acres and is presently vacant with grass and trees.

Zoning Map No. 40 from 1940 shows the subject area south of Joy Road and west of Green?eld
zoned as heavy manufacturing, most likely due to the proximity to the rail corridor to the south.
The 1968 zoning map shows the subject area zoned M4. In the past, the Episcopal Diocese of
Michigan owned overall about 22 acres in this area, which included St. Martha?s Church built in
1954, St. Peter Home for Boys, and a small cemetery. In 2007, due to dwindling membership,
St. Martha?s ceased holding regular Sunday services and sold the building to Triumph Church.
In 2010, St. Peter Home for Boys closed and later demolished.

In 2007, Presbyterian Villages of Michigan and Saint Luke?s Health Ministries petitioned the
City to rezone the aforementioned 22 acres to R5 (except for two small M4 areas). This request
was approved by City Council (Ordinance No 25-07) in order to allow for the development of
the Presbyterian Villages of Michigan facility west of the church, as well as a senior continuum
of care retirement community on the south and east edges of the campus including 11 apartment
buildings adjacent to the church and home for boys. In 2008, Presbyterian Villages constructed

the Village of St. Martha?s, a 3-story senior independent living facility on 2.8 acres. Saint
Luke?s Health Ministries project was never built.

Pogoda Companies is proposing to purchase the subject 4 acres and construct a self-storage
development with free-standing units including climate controlled and standard units in a drive
up con?guration. Pogoda Companies, founded in 1987 and based out of arrnington Hills, MI,
is one of Michigan?s largest self-storage operators and brokers in 35 locations. A preliminary
site plan, which is attached for reference, for the pr0posal shows 7 rectangular shaped buildings.
The Zoning Ordinance ?rst allows public storage houses as conditional in B4 and B5 and by-
right in M1 through M5.

PUBLIC HEARING RESULTS

On May 16, 2019, the City Planning Commission held a public hearing on the rezoning request.
At the hearing, the petitioner provided an overview of the development, including:
I The petitioner explained how the facility would operate;
I The company?s research showed the area is underserved for storage facilities; and
I The project is proposing simulated wrought iron along Joy Road and to save any many
mature trees as possible.

At the hearing, an administrator of St. Martha?s spoke in opposition and 4 residents of St.
Martha?s spoke in opposition. Some of the concerns included:
I The proposed commercial use would be incompatible with the adjacent residential senior
building;
I There are concerns about traf?c, noise, lighting, visual impacts, neighborhood security,
etc.; and
I The facility should be built in a non-residential area.

During the hearing, the City Planning Commissioners also discussed the following issues:
I One Commissioner noted at recent community meetings held on the proposal, it appeared
the majority of residents who attended were not interested in the proposed facility;

I One Commissioner stated the proposed use can be very helpful to have in a community,
especially if a house has ?ooding problems, etc., and

I One Commissioner raised concerns about the loss of the natural green area and asked
what types of businesses are allowed in B4.

ANALYSIS

Surrounding Zoning and Land Use
The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: developed with a church, party store, vacant land, and apartments
East: R5: developed with a senior independent living facility

South: vacant land

West: 7B4 and vacant with residential beyond

Community Input

The subject site is located within the larger community area referred to as the Cody Rouge
Community Action Alliance, which is generally bounded by 1-96 on the north, Green?eld Road

on the east, Ford Road on the south, and Rouge Park on the west. Prior to the public hearing, the
deve10per met with representatives of the community in order to present the project.

Zoning Ordinance Criteria
Section 61-3-80 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance lists eight approval criteria on which zoning
map amendments must be based. The analysis of the criteria is as follows:

1.

Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or meets the challenge of some changing
condition, trend or fact;

The proposed amendment would not correct an error on the zoning map. Regarding
changing trends, in 2007, the subject area was rezoned from M4 to R5 to encourage medium
density residential development west of the existing church.

Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the Master Plan and the stated purposes
of this Zoning Ordinance;

The subject site is located within the Brooks area of Neighborhood Cluster 7 of the Detroit
Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows Institutional for the
subject area. It is assumed this area was designated Institutional, because over the last 60
plus years, the area has included the church, boys home, and 2 former high schools to the
south.

Whether the proposed amendment will protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public;

It is determination, the proposed zoning map amendment would not serve to protect
the general welfare of the public. The B4 district provides for business and commercial uses
of a thoroughfare-oriented nature. In the 2008, Presbyterian Villages of Michigan
constructed the 3-story senior building with 46 apartments. The proposed zoning map
amendment would adversely affect the general welfare, because it could result in the
establishment of commercial uses of a thoroughfare-oriented nature that would negatively
impact the existing residential character of the area.

Whether the City and other service providers will be able to provide adequate public
facilities and services to the subject property, while maintaining adequate levels of service to
existing development;

Not applicable.

Whether the proposed rezoning will have significant adverse impacts on the natural
environment, including air, water, soil, wildlife, and vegetation and with respect to
anticipated changes in noise and regarding stormwater management;

The existing site is developed with a number of mature trees. The developer indicated a
willingness to save as many mature trees as possible. The nature of most commercial uses is
to have high visibility from the adjacent commercial corridor. There is a higher probability
that developing the site with medium density residential uses would result in the need to
remove less existing vegetation. Furthermore, the proposed development would have a
signi?cant number of buildings and paved area to access the buildings, which would leave
little remaining permeable surface area on the entire 4 acre site.

6. Whether the proposed amendment will have signi?cant adverse impacts on other property
that is in the vicinity of the subject tract;
The proposed rezoning has the potential to have signi?cant adverse impact on the property
that is in the vicinity of the subject tract. The subject site contains 4 acres with a depth of
587 feet along St. Marys Avenue. The proposed commercial use would bring additional
lighting, traf?c, noise, and activity in close proximity to the adjacent 3-story senior building
adjacent to the site.

7. The suitability of the subject property for the existing zoning classification and proposed
zoning classification; and
While there presently is some B4 zoned land (vacant) on the south side of Joy Road just west
of St. Mary?s Avenue. The larger tract of land to the west is zoned R3 (Low Density
Residential) which is presently vacant and to the east which is zoned R5 which is developed
with senior housing and vacant space owned by the nearby church. As a result, the proposed
B4 commercial land would be located primarily between two residentially zoned areas. The
subject request might be more appropriately at the intersection of two major thoroughfares.

I

8. Whether the proposed rezoning will create an illegal ?spot zone. 
Not applicable.

RECOMMENDATION

Based on the analysis presented in the above report and the results of the public hearing, at its
meeting on June 20, 2019, the City Flaming Commission voted to recommend DENIAL of
proposed rezoning request. Attached is a resolution for Your consideration.

submitted,
Alton James, CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Christopher J. Gulock, AICP, Staff

Attachments
cc: Maurice Cox, Director, 

Karen Gage, 
Dave Walker, 

Resolution By

 

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Flaming Commission (CPC) has concluded its deliberations
regarding the request of Pogoda Companies to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 40 of the
1984 Detroit City Code Chapter 61, ?Zoning? to show a B4 (General Business District) zoning
classi?cation where an R5 (Medium Density Residential) and an M4 (Intensive Industrial)
zoning classi?cation currently exists at 15999 Joy Road and a portion of 15801 Joy Road,
located at the southeast corner of Joy Road and St. Marys Avenue, to allow for the development
of a self-storage facility/public storage house which is permitted as a conditional use in the B4
zoning district classi?cation; and

WHEREAS, The CPC has held the statutorily required public hearing on this request on
Thursday, May 16, 2019 and has submitted to Council its report and recommendation for denial
of the aforementioned rezoning request dated July 12, 2019, stating in part that the Commission
is of the opinion that a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation has the potential to
have a signi?cant adverse impact on other property that is in the vicinity of the subject tract.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council hereby denies the request of Pogoda Companies to
amend Article XVII, District Map 40 of the 1984 Detroit City Code Chapter 61, ?Zoning? to
show a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation where an R5 (Medium Density
Residential) and an M4 (Intensive Industrial) zoning classi?cation currently exists at 15999 Joy
Road and a portion of 15801 Joy Road, located at the southeast comer of Joy Road and St. Marys
Avenue.

City Planning Cammission File 
202 Coleman A. Young Mani ipal Center

 

 

Detroit. Michigan 48226 Date Filing

(313) 224-6225 (phone)

(3 224-4336 (lat) RE. 
APPLICATION FOR A ZONING CHANGE

. 

 

 

 

 

The City Council at th City til Detroit requires a report a. re ointnendation [rpm the Cit)
Planning Commission on :11 proposals before it takes In at action. Please pro ide the
i'ollouing regarding the pr ip so that the Commission may proceed in its res tea
and processing of this request.
Section 6l-3-3 ol? the Detroit Zoning Ordinance states that application for rezoning rt ay be
initiated by petition from.

i. all owners ofthe property that 1 the subject of the application:

7.. the owners? authorized agents,

3. any revteu or deeision-maki 1g body; or

4 other persons With a legal interest in the subject property. such as a purchaser under

contract.

Petra as the City Council are to be made through the City Clerk tia separate mitten request
prepared by the applicant or the completion of form available from the City Planning
Commission

The applicant will be noti?ed at least set on (7) days prior to the meeting at a hich the proposal
will appear on the Commission's agenda.

The applicant (or a representative of the applicant) is expected to be in attendance at the required
public hearings to present the proposal and to ansuer any questions regarding the matter

The City Planning Commission may request all necessary inl'ormatinn pertaining to proposed
ordinances for the regulation of development in carrying out its duties as set lorth in Section 4-
402 and 6-204 ofthe City Charter.

Failure to answer all pertinent questions and to supply all of the requested information ?ill
delay processing of this proposal.

NOTE: Applicants proposing a reroning or modi?cation to the PD (Planned DeteIOpntent}.
PC (Public Center). PCA (Restricted Central Business Districti and the SDS (Special
Development District. Casinos) zoning district classit'ieatt ins lTlUsl complete a
different application uhich may be obtained from our ot'l'iee

41"" 
(?imp ?l 

Signature ol'Applicatit: r" (AGENT OF THE APPLICANT)

Date: 04/29/2019

Ruined hilt? Page 1 n: 5

ZONING 

Effective January 1 I. 1995, the Ill be charged fee for the processing of rezoning
application. The fee schedule is as l'ollott 

 

 

 

I Size 01? P?p?'ljf I Fee 
I One achr less $350.00 
Over one acre $350.00 for the ?rst acre [lth 525 00 for 

each additional acre to maximum of I

51.000931 1

 

Payment of the fee most be in the form ol? a heel; or net ler to the
Cm. nfDetroir Treasurer" When the Cit). Planning Ct minim . has .lccepicd payment, the
applicant should formally submit the pettu to the oiltce of the Cli} Clerk.

ZONING CHANGE PROCEDURES:

 

A change in the 70nlt?lg on property located the City oi Detroit requires
action by the Cit} Planning Commission {alter the holdtne of at Suite-rec; tired public hearing)
ad by the City Council (after the holding. of Charter-required pu hearing)

A change i usually tnkes from three to but months to accomplish (from the date of
submittal of the applicatiOn to the effective date ol'the zoning change)

At each of the required public hearings. all owners of property. residents businesses and known
community organizations within 300 feet of th* property in question are iti?cd ol? the proposal
and of the tinre. dine and place of the hearing. The npplicnnt ttill be responsib?e for posting
publ-c voice of the public henring on the property in question in a enner accepuble to the
Planning CommiSsi-In. The persons so notified nr invited to utter the hearing. hear
presentations on what IS being proposed. and express their opinions on the proposal if they so
desire

[t is mandatory that the applicant. or the applicant?s officially designated representative, attend
both of the public hearings and justify to the satisfaction of the members of the Ctty Planning
Commission and the members of the City Council that the current zoning classification is
and that the proposed change and resultant development can take place and be
accomplished adversely affecting the surroundit 9 properties.

Rented Ss'tt'

 \?ame ol?ApplicanL' POGODA COMPANIES
Address oprpEicunL 30500 NORTHWESTERN HWY #525
ZIpCodc FARMINGTON. MI 48334

a

Telephone Number: (248 

2 EPISCOPAL DIOCESE OF MICHIGAN
same as nboxu. me GAME)

Addrentnt 4800 WOODWARD AVENUE
Cit) Sum: DETROIT: MI 48201

Telephonei?iumber: (313) 33;:Addres? 15999 JOY ROAD

between SOUTHFIELD WW and GREENFIELD ROAD
(Street) (S tract)

6 General Lucuiion Property

 

SOUTH SIDE OF JOY ROAD FOR PRIMARY SECONDARY

FRONTAGE ON ST. STREET

7. Legal Descripuon of Subject Parcel. {Mu} In ulna-had)

SEE ATTACHED SURVEY AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION

h? I?m 3 u! ?77

S. Size 01 Subject Parcel {Dimens'iomj 286X589X305X537

9

10

11.

(Acrcagu) 4 - GA

Description of .Lnticnpated 

SELF-STORAGE DEVELOPMENT WITH FREE-STANDING UNITS INCLUDE

 

CLIMATE CONTROLLED AND 

THE LAYOUT WILL ALSO ACCOMMODATE 
OFFICES AND A SMALL PROPERTY MANAGER DWELLING UNIT.

Rcason v.11} the present zumin;Y C1 Imt appropriate and uh). the proposcd zoning
classification is more appropriate.

THE SITE HAS TWO CURRENT UNDERLYING ZONING DISTRICTS, M4 AND
R5. IN ORDER TO ACCOMMODATE THE PROPOSED USE. REZONMJ.
USE CONSISTENT WITH THE USE AND ADJOINING PROPERTIES AND USES

IS NECESSARY. B4 WILL ACCOMMODATE RETAIL AS 
CONDITIONAL USE.

Zoning of Adjacent Properttey

T9 the North- B4 (ACROSS JOY ROAD)
To the South - M4

To the East - Adj?CCf?li. Properties:

Tome Nortlt- MIXED-COMMERCIAL BUSINESS, RELIGIOUS, RESIDENTAIL
To South- EMPTY - SPECIFIED AS EDUCATIONALKSCIENCE

To the E451- SENIOR HOUSING, RELIGIOUS

Tothc IMMEDIATE IS EMPTY - BEYOND IS MULTI-FAMILX

tail}? Page 4 Mi

 Community Organizations? and/0r Block Clubs contacted by 

 

 

 

i Group ?nale/Address Cunt-act Pairsmulene Numer 
AVENUE COMMUNITY CARRIE LIVINGSTON- 3135909344
ORGANIZATION (WACO) VICTORIA ESCHEN- 3135909550

JOY COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION
115875 JOY ROAD 

 

ESTATES



]17567 HUBBEL I






 

YOLAND SHARP-3135730377
113530 LESURE 

 

.. 

14. Adjacent Properl} Ow ncrs. Businesses or Resident.? contacted by Applicant

 

 

 

 

. Indicate: 

'1 Owner 

1 Business Addreta's ul' I ?l
Name Resident _Aderss AdjucenLPrerl-ty Phone
DIOCESE OF 

. 1
OWNER l4800 WOODWARD AVE l15875/15801 JOY 
MICHIGAN -DETROIT, MI 48201 i

. 4400
. Runwd 51- 5

 Qtlt? of EBtrnIt Brenda 0055 Andrews
1431:?ng MCD Lisa Whitmore Davis
Vice Chuir'?ecretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 3:352:33? 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Rumlh 
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: epc??detroitmignv

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Planning Commission in the Committee of the
Whole Room, 13th Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY, MAY 16, 2019 AT 6:15 PM

to consider the request of Pogoda Companies to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 40 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a B4 (General Business District) zoning
classi?cation where an M4 (Intensive Industrial District) zoning classi?cation and an R5 (Major
Business District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on property at 15999 Joy Road and a
portion of 15801 Joy Road, generally located on the south side of Joy Road east of St. Mary?s
Street containing 3.34 acres. The location of the proposed rezoning is indicated as the highlighted
area on the accompanying map.

The proposed map amendment is being requested to develop the presently vacant land into a self-
storage facility public storage house.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:

R5 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

This district is designed to provide for a range of residential development from the single-
family detached dwelling to medium-density multiple-family dwellings. The primary use
in this district will be the rental apartment structure. In addition to permitted residential
uses, certain speci?ed non-residential uses which can be properly blended into this
district may be permitted.

84 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

The B4 General Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a
thoroughfare-oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may
bene?t by drawing part of their clientele from passing traf?c are permitted. Additional
uses, which may be successfully blended with permitted by-right uses, are conditional.

M4 INTENSIVE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

This district will permit uses which are usually objectionable and, therefore, the district is
rarely, if ever, located adjacent to residential districts. A broad range of uses is permitted
in this district. New residences are prohibited with the exception of left conversions of
existing buildings and of residential uses combined in structures with permitted

commercial uses. These requirements are to protect residences ?'om an undesirable
environment and to ensure reservation of adequate areas for industrial development.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing
and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning
Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article
111, Division 3 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the homing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that some who are affected
by this proposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors
so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313) 224-4950, through the
TTY number 711, or email crio@detroitmi.gov to schedule these services.

For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 

 

1L IL I 
JOYROAD
34 ii 13GREENFIELD ROAD


 

 

 

 

 

R1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed Rezoning from M4 R5 to B4

joy road

dnva up storage
35' 20.3005!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


din-ale controlled storage 
17,500 I
5 R5
- o- I. 
Fm?.
1
Entry 

A . 35?x290'dr?nroup storage
paint . 30'1290'rtivaup alongasxzeo'dmeupslamge 
1233Ett?mary's road
f? ?h .

 

 

 

7 as

in conceptual site layout plan - opt. 1 Pogoda Companies g, 
1" 50' 0228/2019 OIX Studio project 0  STUDIO

 



 
 

Dnowmlno Rmzvuopulu?r Aumonnv
DETROIT
500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit. MI 48226

  
   

July 11, 2019

Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Abolishment of the American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. Brownfield
Redevelopment Plan

Dear Honorable Council Members:

The American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the ?Plan") was
approved by City Council more than two years ago in 2001. The legal descriptions for
the subject Plan are attached (Exhibit A).

At the regularly scheduled June 12, 2019 DBRA Board of Directors meeting, DBRA staff
recommended abolishment of the Plan on the basis that the project has been completed
and the purposes for which the Plan was established have been accomplished in
accordance with Section 14(8)(a) of Act 381. The DBRA subsequently adopted a
resolution (Exhibit B) approving the abolishment of the Plan and authorizing the
submission of a copy of its resolution to request that City Council adopt a resolution

abolishing the Plan.

The DBRA, as authorized by City Council, sent a notification of termination of the Plan
(Exhibit C) in accordance with Section 

Authority's Request
The Authority is respectfully requesting the following action from the City Council:

July 16, 2019
Referral of the resolution terminating the Plan to Detroit City Council Planning and

Economic Development Standing Committee on July 18, 2019.

July 18, 2019
Consideration of the City Council?s Planning and Economic Development Standing

Committee to terminate the Plan and opportunity for the Developer to be heard
during public comment.

July 23, 2019

City Council adoption of the Resolution (Exhibit D), terminating the Plan.

Sincerely.
1'

Jennifer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

C: Detroit City Council
City Clerk
Marcel Todd
Irvin Corley, Jr.
David Whitaker
Malinda Jensen
Matthew Walters
Allen Rawls
Brian Vosburg
Stephanie Washington
DeAndree Watson

Exhibit A
Legal Descriptions of Plans to be Terminated

PARCEL 1

LAND IN THE CITY OF DETROIT, WAYNE COUNTY. MICHIGAN. DESCRIBED AS: LOT 4.
EXCEPT THE SOUTHWESTERLY 20 FEET DEEDED TO THE CITY OF DETROIT AND ALL OF LOTS
5 THROUGH 67, INCLUSIVE. INCLUDING VACATED ALLEYS ADJACENT TO SAID LOTS AND
ALSO INCLUDING VACATED HORACE AVENUE AND VACATED GREELEY AVENUE. ESTATE
SUB, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF. RECORDED IN LIBER 27 OF PLATS. PAGE
19. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

ALSO

LOTS 8.9 AND 16. BOUNDED BY ESTATE SUBDIVISION ON THE SOUTH.

THE EASTERN LINE OF RUSSELL AVENUE ON THE WEST. THE SOUTHERN LINE OF

WESTMINSTER AVENUE ON THE NORTH AND THE WESTERN LINE OF THE GRAND TRUNK WESTERN
RAILROAD ON THE EAST. EXCEPT THAT PART OF LOT 16 DEEDED TO THE MICHIGAN STATE
HIGHWAY COMMISSION. OF SECTION 38 OF THE TEN THOUSAND ACRE 
ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF. RECORDED IN LIBER 19 OF DEEDS, PAGE I75. WAYNE
COUNTY RECORDS.

ALSO

ALL THAT PART OF THE OF SECTION 43 OF THE TEN THOUSAND ACRE
WESTERLY OF THE GRAND TRUNK RAILROAD EASTERLY OF 
ESTATE SUBDIVISION. SOUTHERLY SECTION 38 OF THE TEN THOUSAND ACRE AND NORTHERLY OF HOLBROOK AVENUE.

ALL BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS: COMMENCING AT THE SOUTHWESTERLY
CORNER OF LOT I OF SAID ESTATE THENCE 
121.26 FEET ALONG THE WESTERLY LINE OF LOT I, ALSO BEING THE EASTERLY LINE OF
RUSSELL SERVICE DRIVE. TO THE POINT OF THENCE CONTINUING
906.31 FEET ALONG SAID THENCE 62.1.3 

THENCE ALONG THE ARC OF A CURVE TO THE RIGHT 139.06 FEET 
CENTRAL 138.679 FEET) TO A POINT ON THE
SOUTHERN LINE OF WESTMINSTER AVENUE (50 FEET THENCE 607.71
FEET ALONG THE SOUTHERN LINE OF WESTMINSTER AVENUE TO A POINT ON THE WESTERN
LINE OF THE GRAND TRUNK WESTERN RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY (66 FEET WIDE):
THENCE 1049.07 FEET ALONG SAID RAILROAD TO THE
NORTHERN LINE OF HOLBROOK AVENUE (66 FEET THENCE 679.84
FEET ALONG THE NORTHERN LINE OF HOLBRODK THENCE 117.99
FEET (118.00 FEET THENCE 91.46 FEET TO THE POINT OF
BEGINNING. CONTAINING 18.6164 ACRES OF LAND.

Exhibit 
DBRA Resolution

  

Inowmlun Ilnlvuoullrl Aumoum
500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48226

  
   

CODE DBRA 19-06-06-04

AMERICAN AXLE 8. MANUFACTURING, INC. BROWNFIELD PLAN: RECOMMENDATION TO CITY
COUNCIL TO ABOLISH PLAN

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the was created
pursuant to Michigan Public Act 381 of 1996, as amended ("Act 381"); and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Detroit (?City Council") is the governing body (as that
term is defined by Act 381) of the and

WHEREAS. on April 9, 2001, the DBRA Board of Directors approved the American Axle 
Manufacturing, Inc. Brownfield Plan (the "Plan") and recommended the approval of the Plan to City Council;
and

WHEREAS, on April 25, 2001, City Council approved the Plan; and
WHEREAS, on April 27, 2001, the Mayor of the City of Detroit approved the Plan; and

WHEREAS, Section 14(8)(a) of Act 381 of 1996, as amended, permits a governing body to abolish
a brown?eld plan when it ?nds that the purposes for which the plan was established are accomplished; and

WHEREAS, on October 10, 2017, City Council delegated developer termination notices to the
and

WHEREAS, the ?developer" for the Plan is American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. (the ?Developer?);
and

WHEREAS, the DBRA has determined that the project identified in the Plan has been completed
and the purposes for which the Plan was established have been accomplished; and

WHEREAS, the DBRA Board of Directors desires to recommend abolishment of the Plan to City
Council.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, subject to the notice authority delegated to the DBRA by
the City Council, the DBRA Board of Directors hereby authorizes a written termination notice to the
Developer; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, subject to the completion of the notice requirement described in
Section of Act 381 and the provision to the Developer of an opportunity to be heard at a public
meeting pursuant to Section 14(8)(b)(ii) of Act 381, the DBRA Board of Directors hereby recommends
termination of the Plan to City Council; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, subject to the abolishment of the Plan by City Council, that the
DBRA Board of Directors hereby authorizes the termination of any other agreements or contracts between
the Developer and the DBRA that were executed in conjunction with the Plan; and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any one of the
Authorized Agents of the DBRA. shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all

documents, contracts. or other papers necessary to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution
on behalf of the DBRA.

June 12, 2019

Exhibit 
Notice of Termination

  

II I. I 
Ill?? Bnowunun Aumonm'

DETROIT
500 Griswold. Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48225

  
   

June 13, 2019 SENT VIA CERTIFIED MAIL

Mr. Timothy Kljun

Corporate Manager

American Axle Manufacturing, inc.
One Drauch Drive

Detroit, MI 48211

RE: Notice of Intent to Abolish Brownfield Plan for the American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. Redevelopment Project

Mr. Kljun:

Per Act 381 of 1996 Section 14 this letter is to inform you that the Detroit City Council has authorized this notice to inform
you that abolishment of the Brown?eld Plan for the American Axle 8: Manufacturing, inc. Townhome Redevelopment Project (the
?Plan?) will be considered in no less than thirty days.

On April 25, 2001 the DBRA adOpted and on April 27, 2001 the Detroit City Council approved the Plan.

It is our understanding that the project as described in the Plan has been completed, the associated Single Business Tax Credit has
been utilized, and the purposes for which the plan was established have been accomplished. Because the project has been completed,
the Brownfield Plan will be abolished the for the subject project per Act 381 of 1996 Section 

While you are welcome to speak at any public meeting of City Council regarding the proposed abolishment, the following public
meetings have been tentatively scheduled at the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, 13"h Floor, Detroit, MI
48226 regarding the abolishment of the Plan where, should you desire, you will also have an opportunity to be heard:

0 Thursday, July 18, 2019 at 10:00 AM Detroit City Council Planning Economic Development Standing Committee
I Tuesday, July 23, 2019 at 10:00 AM Detroit City Council of the Whole Meeting

In no event would any abolishment be effective until at least 30 days after the date of this notice.

Sincerely,

167% 

Jennifer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

CC: Rebecca Navin, DEGC
Brian Vosburg, 
Ngozi Nwaesei, Lewis Munday
Brittney Hoszkiw, MEDC

US. Postal Service?

CERTIFIED MAIIJD RECEIPT

Domesiic Mai! Only

 

  

For deilvcn,r Information. visil our WC?IH-illt? nl ww ?cps com

   

 


?t


DMWW 8 cumin-W

 

Decree-dummy H.


 

 

 

:1 Mr. Timothy Kljun
Corporate Manager

American Axle 8: Manufacturing, Inc.

455,; One Drauch Drive

Detroit, MI 48211 

   

NILE: 531.5

    
 

 

 
 
   
 
 

SENDER: COMPLETE THIS SECTION

 

El Agent
13 Addraeaa-B
C. Date of Delivery

I Complete Items 1. 2. and 3.

I Print your name and address on the reverse
so that we can return the card to you.

I Attach this card to the back of the mailpiece.

or on the front if space permits. 

1. Article Addressed to: D. Is delivery amines from item 1? Yes

if YES.enter delivery below: El No

 

 

Mr. Timothy Kljun
Corporate Manager
American Axle Manufacturing, inc.
One Drauch Drive
Detroit, Mi 48211

 

 

 

Cl Priority Ill-Ill HM

 

3. Service Type
Adult Signature [1 til-gimme Niel!m
El Adult Signature Restricted Deilvery :3 Mall Fleetrletnd
4 2 801 7069 r477 64 um miptier
Collect on Dellvery an
El Collect on Delivery Restricted Delivery Signature Gen?nnatinn
- - El Signature 

 

2. Article Number (Transfer from service label}
Restricted Delivery

5315
'8 Form 3811. July 2015 PSN 7530-02-000-9053

tail
Resti'lcted Delivery

 

Domestic Fleturn Receipt 

Exhibit 
City Council Resolution

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION
ABOLISHING THE BROWNFIELD PLAN
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE AMERICAN AXLE MANUFACTURING, INC. REDEVELOPMENT


 

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381?), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (?Authority") has been established by resolution of
the City Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City Council?) for the purpose of promoting the
revitalization of eligible properties in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, on April 25, 2001, City Council approved the American Axle
Manufacturing, Inc. Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the ?Plan?); and

WHEREAS, the eligible property described in Exhibit A, attached hereto, is the
eligible property subject to the Plan; and

WHEREAS, Section 14(8)(a) of Act 381 permits a governing body to abolish a
brownfield plan when it finds that the purposes for which the plan was established are
accomplished, provided that the governing body first does both of the following: gives
30 days' prior written notice to the developer at its last known address by certified mail or
other method that documents proof of delivery attempted, and (ii) provides the developer
an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is the governing body (as that term is defined by Act
381) of the Authority; and

WHEREAS, the Authority?s staff has confirmed that the project for which eligible
activities were identified in the Plan has been completed and the purposes for which the
Plan was established have been accomplished; and

WHEREAS, on June 12, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Authority adopted a
resolution recommending abolishment of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, on October 3, 2017, City Council authorized the Authority, on behalf
of City Council, to manage and/or administer the notices required by Act 381 in connection
with any brownfield plan or plan amendment terminations; and

WHEREAS, the required notice of the termination of the Plan was given in
accordance with Section of Act 381, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 
and

WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 14(8)(b)(ii) of Act 381, the developer
identified in the Plan was provided with an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting on
July 18, 2019.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT:

1. The Plan is hereby abolished by City Council in accordance with Section 14(8)(a)
of Act 381.

2. City Council hereby ratifies the abolishment, if any, of any agreements or contracts
between the developer of the Plan and the Authority that were executed in
conjunction with the Plan, including, but not limited to, the reimbursement
agreement.

The City Clerk is requested to submit one (1) certified copies of this Resolution to
the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226

AYES: Members

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the City Council of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, at
a regular meeting held on . 2019, and that said meeting was conducted
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended, and that
the minutes of said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required by said Act.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

And WillslArts DBRA BackuplCorrespondence\City Council Resolutionsl2019 City Council Resolutions\AA Aubin Termination Authorization CC
resolutiondocx

   
 

 
 



 

EnowmlnoRrorvnomlmnumom?rv
500 Griswold. Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48226

  
   

July 11, 2019

Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Abolishment of the American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. (Renovation of St.
AubinlClay Property) Brownfield Redevelopment Plan

Dear Honorable Council Members:

The American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. (Renovation of St. AubinlClay Property)
Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the ??Plan?) was approved by City Council more than two
years ago in 2002. The legal descriptions for the subject Plan are attached (Exhibit A).

At the regularly scheduled June 12, 2019 DBRA Board of Directors meeting, DBRA staff
recommended abolishment of the Plan on the basis that the project has been completed
and the purposes for which the Plan was established have been accomplished in
accordance with Section 14(8)(a) of Act 381. The DBRA subsequently adopted a
resolution (Exhibit B) approving the abolishment of the Plan and authorizing the
submission of a copy of its resolution to request that City Council adopt a resolution

abolishing the Plan.

The DBRA, as authorized by City Council. sent a notification of termination of the Plan
(Exhibit C) in accordance with Section 

Authoritv's Request
The Authority is respectfully requesting the following action from the City Council:

July 16, 2019
Referral of the resolution terminating the Plan to Detroit City Council Planning and

Economic Development Standing Committee on July 18, 2019.

July 18, 2019
Consideration of the City Council's Planning and Economic Development Standing

Committee to terminate the Plan and opportunity for the Developer to be heard
during public comment.

July 23, 2019

G.) Jul 23 2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution (Exhibit D), terminating the Plan.

Sincerely.

Eh" 4K
nifer Kanalos

Authorized Agent

C: Detroit City Council
City Clerk
Marcel Todd
Irvin Corley, Jr.
David Whitaker
Malinda Jensen
Matthew Walters
Allen Rawls
Brian Vosburg
Stephanie Washington
DeAnd ree Watson

Exhibit A
Legal Descriptions of Plans to be Terminated

 DESCRIPTION:
.nd in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as:

PARCEL 1: Lots 73 through 73, and Lots 97 through 99, and Lots 111
through 120, both inclusiVe, Wilkins Subdivision, according to the plat
thereof as recorded in liber 11, page(s) 59 of Plats, Wayne County

Records.

PARCEL 2: Vacated Lots 32; 33 and 34 and part of vacated Lots 23, 30
and 31, and Lots 35, 37 and 38 and part of Lots 28 and 39 including
vacated public alleys, 20 feet wide, adjacent to said lots and also
including the southerly part of vacated Marston Avenue adjacent thereto,
Livingstone's Subdivision of part of quarter sections No. 58-59, Ten
Thousand Acre Tract, City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, as
recorded in liber 1, page 312 of Plats, Wayne County Records, described
as: Beginning at the intersection of the southerly line of Marston
Avenue, as now established, 60 feet wide, with the westerly line of St.
Aubin Avenue 60 feet wide; thence along the westerly line of St. Aubin
Avenue, south 26 degrees 43 minutes 40 seconds east 357.51 feet: thence

:h 28 degrees 39 minutes 20 seconds west 150.65 feet; thence north 26
degrees 04 minutes 22 seconds west 143.64 feet; thence south 63 degrees
36 minutes 23 seconds west 60.00 feet; thence north 26 degrees 04
minutes 22 seconds west 31.75 feet to the centerline of a wall of an
existing building: thence along the centerline of said well and its
extension westerly, south 63 degrees 54 minutes 27 seconds west 80.00
feet; thence north 26 degrees 03 minutes 18 seconds west 266.21 feet;
thence along the southerly line of said Marston Avenue, north 63 degrees
12 minutes 35 seconds east 258.86 feet to the_point of beginning, except
that part deeded to the City of Detroit and described as follows: Parts
of Lots 31, 32 and 33, vacated by Wayne Circuit Court, File No. 46732,
judgment entered September 20, 1906, of the ?Livingston's Subdivision of
part of Quarter Sections No. 58-59, Ten Thousand Acre Tract", as

recorded in liber 1, page 312 of Plats, Wayne County Records, and being

more particularly described as follows: Commencing at the intersection

Continued on next page

LEGAL DESCRIPTION 

of the westerly line of St. Aubin Avenue 60 feet wide and the southerly
line of Marston Avenue, 60 feet wide, thence south 26 degrees 43 minutes
40 seconds east along the westerly line of St. Aubin Avenue, 357.51 feet
to the point of beginning; thence from the point of beginning, south 28
degrees 39 minutes 20 seconds west 150.65 feet; thence north 26 degrees
04 minutes 22 seconds west 12.25 feet; thence north 23 degrees 39
minutes 20 seconds east 150.48 feet to the westerly line of St. Aubin
Avenue; thence south 26 degrees 43 minutes 40 seconds east along said
westerly line of St. Aubin Avenue, 12.25 feet to the point of beginning.
Also except Part of quarter section 59 of the Ten Thousand Acre Tracts,
town 1 south, range 12 east, Hamtramck Township, City of Detroit, Wayne
County, Michigan, being described as: Commencing at the intersection of
the southerly line of Marston Avenue (60 feet wide) and the westerly
line of St. Apbin (60 feet wide), thence south 26 degrees 43 minutes_40
seconds east, along westerly line of said St. Aubin 236.34 feet to the
point of beginning; thence south 26 degrees 43 minutes 40 seconds east
continuing along westerly line of said St: Aubin 110.32 feet to a point
that is 10.00 feet northwest, measured at right angles, from the
northwesterly line of said St. Aubin; thence south 29 degrees 27 minutes
43 seconds west along said line lying 10.00 feet northwest, measured at
right angles, from the northwesterly line of said St. Aubin 105.45 feet
to a non-tangent point of curvature; thence along a cuIVe to the left
having; an arc length of 197.59 feet, a radius of 210.00 feet, a central
angle of 53 degrees 54 minutes 38 seconds, a chord bearing north 00
degrees 40 minutes 48 seconds east and a chord distance of 190.36 feet

to a tangent point on the westerly line of said St. Rubin, also being

the point of beginning.

PARCEL 3: Lots 79, 81 and 83 through 96, both inclusive, Wilkins
Subdivision, according to the plat thereof as recorded in liber 11,

page(s) 59 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

PARCEL 4: Part of Lot 40 and Lots 41, 42, 43, 44 and 45, inclusive, of
Livingstone?s Subdivision of part of Quarter Sections No. 58 and 59, ten
Thousand Acre Tract, City of Detroit, Wayne County, according to the plat

Continued on next page

LEGAL DESCRIPTION 

?Hhereof as recorded in liber 1, page 312 of Plats, Wayne?Cpunty Records,
together with vacated public alley and vacated Marston Avenue, described
as: Beginning at a point in the southerly line of Marston Avenue, 60
feet wide, which point is distant north 63 degrees 12 minutes 35 seconds
east 41.45 feet from the intersection of the easterly line of Morrow
Avenue and tie southerly line of Marston Avenue; thence along the
southerly line of Marston Avenue north 63 degrees 12 minutes 35 seconds
east 259.01 feet; thence south 26 degrees 03 minutes 18 seconds east
245.60 feet; thence south 63 degrees 45 minutes 26 seconds west 194.11
feet; thence north 38 degrees 26 minutes 53 seconds west 84.53 feet;
thence north 42 degrees 38 minutes 10 seconds west 167.30 feet to the

point of beginning.
Excepting therefrom the following?described property:

All that part of Lots 40 and 41 and part of vacated public alley 20 feet
wide, adjoining said Lot 41 on the westerly side. Livingstone?s
Subdivision of part of Quarter Sections 58 and 59, Ten Thousand Acre
"tact, City of Detroit, Wayne County, as recorded in liber 1 of Plats,
Age 312, Wayne County Records, described as: Beginning at a point
distant north 63 degrees 12 minutes 35 seconds east 300.46 feet along
the southerly line of Marston Avenue, 60 feet wide, as now established
and south 26 degrees 03 minutes 18 seconds east 207.185 feet from the
intersection of said southerly line of Marston Avenue with the easterly
line of Morrow Ayenue, 66 feet wide; thence south 26 degrees 03 minutes
18 Seconds east 38.415 feet; thence south 63 degrees 45 minutes 26
seconds west 111.97 feet; thence along the easterly wall of an existing
building north 26 degrees 18 minutes 30 seconds west 38.415 feet; thence

north 63 degrees 45 minutes 26 seconds east 112.14 feet to the point of

beginning.

PARCEL 5: That part of Lots 42 through 45, inclusive. and vacated part of
Marston Avenue, of Livingstone's Subdivision according to the plat
thereof as recorded in liber 1, page 312 of Plats, Wayne County Records,
described as: Beginning at a point in the southerly line of Marston

Continued on next page



LEGAL DESCRIPTION 

5-4..

ehue. 60 feet wide.
35 seconds east 41.45
Morrow Avenue and the
degrees 38 minutes 10

38 degrees 26 minutes

which point is distant north 63 degrees 12 minutes
feet from the intersection of the easterly line of
southerly line of Marston Avenue; thence south 42
seconds east 167.30 feet to a point; thence south

53 seconds east 84.53 feet to a point, thence

south 63 degrees 45 minutes 26 seconds west 105.64 feet; thence north 26

degrees 13 minutes 10

12 minutes 35 seconds

seconds west 242.72 feet: thence north 63 degrees

east 41.45 feet to the point of beginning. l-and-

PARCEL 6: Lot 62, Wilkins Subdivision, according to the plat thereof as

recorded in liber 11, page(s) 59 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

Ward 3, Tax Item Nos.

[3532 [3533 [3534 [3535 [3535 [3537 [4732 [4744

4745 [4746 [3533 [3540 [3541 [3542-55 [4750.001 [3525.002 [3525.003

3525.004L

Exhibit 
DBRA Resolution

 


DETROIT
500 Griswold. Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48226

CODE DBRA 19-06-06-05

AMERICAN AXLE MNUFACTURING. INC. OF ST. AUBINICLAY 
BROWNFIELD PLAN: RECOMMENDATION TO CITY COUNCIL TO ABOLISH PLAN

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the was created
pursuant to Michigan Public Act 381 of 1996, as amended ("Act 381?); and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Detroit (?City Council") is the governing body (as that
term is de?ned by Act 381) of the and

WHEREAS, on May 1, 2002, the DBRA Board of Directors approved the American Axle 
Manufacturing, Inc. (Renovation of St. Aubin/Clay Property) Brownfield Plan (the ?Plan") and recommended
the approval of the Plan to City Council; and

WHEREAS. on July 17, 2002, City Council approved the Plan; and
WHEREAS, on July 24, 2008, the Mayor of the City of Detroit approved the Plan; and

WHEREAS, Section 14(8)(a) of Act 381 of 1996, as amended, permits a governing body to abolish
a brownfield plan when it finds that the purposes for which the plan was established are accomplished; and

WHEREAS, on October 10, 2017, City Council delegated developer termination notices to the
and

WHEREAS. the ?developer" for the Plan is American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. (the 
and

WHEREAS, the DBRA has determined that the project identified in the Plan has been completed
and the purposes for which the Plan was established have been accomplished; and

WHEREAS, the DBRA Board of Directors desires to recommend termination of the Plan to City
Council.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, subject to the notice authority delegated to the DBRA by
the City Council, the DBRA Board of Directors hereby authorizes a written termination notice to the

Developer; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, subject to the completion of the notice requirement described in
Section of Act 381 and the provision to the Developer of an opportunity to be heard at a public
meeting pursuant to Section 14(8)(b)(ii) of Act 381, the DBRA Board of Directors hereby recommends
termination of the Plan to City Council; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, subject to the abolishment of the Plan by City Council, that the
DBRA Board of Directors hereby authorizes the termination of any other agreements or contracts between
the Developer and the DBRA that were executed in conjunction with the Plan; and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers and any one of the
Authorized Agents of the DBRA. shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all

documents, contracts, or other papers necessary to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution
on behalf of the DBRA.

June 12, 2019

Exhibit 
Notice of Termination

  

.
anowunuumenopmmnu-moun
500 Griswold. Suite 2200

Detroit. MI 48226

  
   

June 13, 2019 SENT VIA CERTIFIED MAIL

Mr. Timothy Kljun Carrie LP. Gray Dawn Uranis

Corporate Manager Director, Corporate Relations Manager, Corporate Relations
American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. American Axle Manufacturing, Inc.
One Drauch Drive One Drauch Drive One Drauch Drive

Detroit, MI 48211 Detroit, MI 48211 Detroit, MI 48211

RE: Notice of Intent to Abolish Brownfield Plan for the American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. (Renovation of St. Aubin/Clay Property)
Redevelopment Project

Mr. Kljun:

Per Act 381 of 1996 Section 14 this letter is to inform you that the Detroit City Council has authorized this notice to inform
you that abolishment of the Brown?eld Plan for the American Axle Manufacturing, Inc. (Renovation of St. Aubin/Clay Property)
Townhome Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan") will be considered in no less than thirty days.

On July 17, 2002 the DBRA adopted and on July 24, 2002 the Detroit City Council approved the Plan.

It is our understanding that the project as described in the Plan has been completed, the associated Single Business Tax Credit has
been utilized, and the purposes for which the plan was established have been accomplished. Because the project has been completed,
the Brown?eld Plan will be abolished the for the subject project per Act 381 of 1996 Section 

While you are welcome to speak at any public meeting of City Council regarding the proposed abolishment, the following public
meetings have been tentatively scheduled at the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, 13?h Floor, Detroit, MI
48226 regarding the abolishment of the Plan where, should you desire, you will also have an opportunity to be heard:

0 Thursday, July 18, 2019 at 10:00 AM Detroit City Council Planning 8: Economic Development Standing Committee
- Tuesday, July 23, 2019 at 10:00 AM - Detroit City Council of the Whole Meeting

In no event would any abolishment be effective until at least 30 days after the date of this notice.

Sincerely,

Jenni er Kanalos
Authorized Agent

CC: Rebecca Navin, DEGC
Brian Vosburg, 
Ngozi Nwaesei, Lewis Munday
Brittney Hoszkiw, MEDC

 
   
    
   
   

THIS SECTION

I Complete items 1, 2, and 3.
I Print your name and address on the reverse
so that we can return the card to you.

I Attach this card to the back of the mallpiece,
or on the front if space permits.

 

i'i-iiS UN 

 

 

 

 

1. Article Addressed to:

Dawn Uranis
Manager, Corporate Relations
American Axle Manufacturing, Inc.
One Drauch Drive
Detroit, Mi 48211

ill! 1 ill

9590 9402 2801 7069 7477 40

4: sin: iutlv ?ooec wit-:1 Sd

'r?r'r tiri?i -.

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

IIN 'lio?a?

?Suiinpeinuew 13 eixv 

3. ServiceType


   

suoneiau aleJOdJOf) 'JaBeuew

 

2. Mole Number {Transfer from service 

7016 0000 5000 533?!

 

El Mutt Signature Restricted Delivery
El Certi?ed Main
?Siam 
El Collecton very
Cougar Delivery Restricted El Signature Continent
Ola.? El Signature Con?i'rrie
Mail Restricted Delivery Rammed Deilvery

 

PS Form 3811, July 2015 PSN 

SENDER: COMPLETE THIS 

Complete Items 1, 2. and 3.
I Print your name and address on the reverse
so that we can return the card to you.

I Attach this card to the back of the mailplece,
or on the front if space permits.

 

Domestic Fieturn Fi

urnianncul mi enema an;

 

 

RECTIDN UN 

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

 

 

Signature
EAR

 

 

 

1. Article Addressed to:

Carrie L.P. Gray
Director, Corporate Relations
American Axle Manufacturing, inc.
One Drauch Drive
Detroit, MI 48211

g; HEved by ?rigd Name) . 
D. ledeliveryaddressd immitemi? ElYas

If YES. enter delivery address below: [1 No

 

  
       

at;

112817 '1!01190



   

 

.rF 11' r.

 

 

aniia qonem 

 

  
   

 

 

 
    

oul 'suiinneinuew 73 eixv 
suoiteiag ?Jopeiia
A215) 1 aiJJeg

 

3. Service Type prim-?y Mail Exp

uranium-Li
9590 9402 2801 7069 7477 57 El Gerti?edMaiiHeet?eledDellvety Return Fieceipti'or 
CollectonDeiiveiy in?rm-nettle 
2. Article Number (Transfer from service label) ?@173;in mm? 332%: an 2
701.0 0000 50:10 mam?

 

 

PS Form 381 1, July 2015 PSN 7530-02-000-9053

SENDER: COMPLETE 

Complete Items 1. 2. and 3.

I Print your name and address on the reverse
so that we can return the card to you.

I Attach this card to the back of the mail lace
or on the front lf space pennlte. 
1. Article Addressed to:

Mr. Timothy Kljun
Corporate Manager
American Axle Manufacturing, inc.
One Drauch Drive
Detroit, Ml 48211

I Hi ll ll

5 9402 3363 7227 8053 45
. Article Number (Transfer from service inbeii

vale none seen sane 

Domestic Return Ft

?liniien uni-'1'.

TE THIS SEC TION OH EU 

\t

 
  

        

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
    
  
     
     
  

 

 

 

 

  

 

   

.3:
g.
lfYES.enier delivery address belowe33~<
7:
garage assume it 3' i" 6'6 a
DMuitSigneuireReat?otedDeli (D re 3
Emma'smio my ?33 I g? 7
Certifi l?eetriot
EICoiiectonDei edDeilvery Dummrier 90
DCollectonDeilvery Restricted Delivery Gaul! -- 

El Signature Cenii
El Restricted Deilvery Reetriclod

 

3 Form 3811. July 2015 PSN 7530-02-000-9053

Domestic Return

 

   

 

Ania new 


nannies l9150d 'S?n

L.

iBiSOd "S'n



AIUO HEW onsauiog

ldlEiOEH Q'iIVl/il GEllzilltiE-IO
Meoinies ieisod 's'n

Exhibit 
City Council Resolution

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION
ABOLISHING THE BROWNFIELD PLAN
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE AMERICAN AXLE MANUFACTURING, INC. (RENOVATION OF ST.
AUBINICLAY PROPERTY) REDEVELOPMENT 

 

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381"), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (?Authority") has been established by resolution of
the City Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City Council?) for the purpose of promoting the
revitalization of eligible properties in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, on July 17, 2002, City Council approved the American Axle
Manufacturing, Inc. (RENOVATION OF ST. AUBINICLAY PROPERTY) Brownfield

Redevelopment Plan (the ?Plan?); and

WHEREAS, the eligible property described in Exhibit A, attached hereto, is the
eligible property subject to the Plan; and

WHEREAS, Section 14(8)(a) of Act 381 permits a governing body to abolish a
brownfield plan when it finds that the purposes for which the plan was established are
accomplished, provided that the governing body first does both of the following: gives
30 days? prior written notice to the developer at its last known address by certified mail or
other method that documents proof of delivery attempted, and (ii) provides the developer
an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is the governing body (as that term is defined by Act
381) of the Authority; and

WHEREAS, the Authority's staff has confirmed that the project for which eligible
activities were identified in the Plan has been completed and the purposes for which the
Plan was established have been accomplished; and

WHEREAS, on June 12, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Authority adopted a
resolution recommending abolishment of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, on October 3, 2017, City Council authorized the Authority, on behalf
of City Council, to manage and/or administerthe notices required by Act 381 in connection
with any brownfield plan or plan amendment terminations; and

WHEREAS, the required notice of the termination of the Plan was given in
accordance with Section of Act 381, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 
and

WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 14(8)(b)(ii) of Act 381, the developer
identified in the Plan was provided with an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting on
July 18, 2019.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT:

1. The Plan is hereby abolished by City Council in accordance with Section 14(8)(a)
of Act 381.

2. City Council hereby ratifies the abolishment, if any, of any agreements or contracts
between the developer of the Plan and the Authority that were executed in
conjunction with the Plan, including, but not limited to, the reimbursement

agreement.

The City Clerk is requested to submit one (1) certified copies of this Resolution to
the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226

AYES: Members

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the City Council of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, at
a regular meeting held on 2019, and that said meeting was conducted
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended, and that
the minutes of said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required by said Act.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

And Wills\Arts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council Resolutions\2019 City Council Resolutions\AA Aubin Termination Authorization CC
resolutiondocx

 
 

DBRA

Blown no Airman"

500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

    



 

July 11, 2019

Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Termination of the Pine Street Townhome Brownfield Redevelopment Plan

Dear Honorable Council Members:

The Pine Street Townhome Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the "Plan") was approved
by City Council more than two years ago in 2008. The legal descriptions for the subject

Plan are attached (Exhibit A).

At the regularly scheduled June 12, 2019 DBRA Board of Directors meeting, DBRA staff
recommended termination of the Plan on the basis that the project had failed to occur
with respect to the eligible property for at least two (2) years following the date of the
resolution approving the brownfield plan or plan amendment in accordance with Section
14(8)(b) of Act 381. The DBRA subsequently adopted a resolution (Exhibit B) approving
the termination of the Plan and authorizing the submission of a copy of its resolution to
request that City Council adopt a resolution terminating the Plan.

The DBRA, as authorized by City Council, sent a notification of termination of the Plan
(Exhibit C) in accordance with Section 

Authority?s Request
The Authority is respectfully requesting the following action from the City Council:

July 16, 2019
Referral of the resolution terminating the Plan to Detroit City Council Planning and

Economic Development Standing Committee on July 18, 2019.

July 18, 2019
Consideration of the City Council?s Planning and Economic Development Standing

Committee to terminate the Plan and opportunity for the Developer to be heard
during public comment.

July 23, 2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution (Exhibit D), terminating the Plan.

ii JUL 2019 Eli-15:25

Sincerely,

on,? in 

Jennifer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

C:

Detroit City Council
City Clerk

Marcel Todd

Irvin Corley. Jr.
David Whitaker
Malinda Jensen
Matthew Walters
Allen Rawls

Brian Vosburg
Stephanie Washington
DeAndree Watson

Exhibit A
Legal Descriptions of Plans to be Terminated

Exhibit A
Pine Street Townhome
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 
Legal Descriptions of Eligible Property to which the Plan Applies

A Part of Private Claim 228 In the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan being
described as Part of Lots 56 through 59 and Lots 62 through 66; also Lots 60 and 61,
inclusive and Part of Lots 62 through 66 of ?Lamed?s Subdivision on the Laferty Farm,?
as recorded in Liber 60, Page 2 of Deeds, Wayne County Records, also including the
Revirsionary interest in Vermont Avenue, Huron Street, Ottawa Street and public alleys
lying within the bounds of the following described parcel; Commencing at the
intersection of the South line of Spruce Street (50 feet wide) the West line of Vermont
Avenue (50 feet wide), said point being, also the Northeast comer of Lot 100 and said
Lamed?s Subdivision; thence South 22 degrees 47 minutes 00 seconds East 377.22 feet in
part along the West line of said Vermont Avenue to the point of beginning, said point
being on the South line of Pine Street (variable width); thence North 66 degrees 59
minutes 26 seconds East 142.50 feet along the South line of a point on the West line a 15
foot wide public alley; thence South 22 degrees 47 minutes 00 seconds East 120.21 feet
along the West line to a point on the North Right-of-way line of the I-75 Freeway, also
known as the Fisher Freeway (Variable width); thence the following 3 courses along said
North line (1) south 66 degrees 40 minutes 22 seconds West 142.51 feet and (2) South 68
degrees 11 minutes 51 seconds West 172.01 feet and (3) South 72 degrees 09 minutes 29
seconds West 170.71 feet to a point on the East line of Wabash Avenue (65 feet wide) 
thence North 22 degrees 47 minutes 00 seconds West 102.00 feet along said East line to
the South line of Pine avenue (Variable width); thence North 66 degrees 59 minutes 26
seconds East 342.06 feet along said South line to the point of beginning.

Exhibit 
DBRA Resolution

 Enowunno RrorvnopMmT AUTHORITY
DETROIT
500 Griswold. Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48226

 

CODE DBRA 19-06-155-03

PINE STREET TOWNHOME BROWNFIELD PLAN: RECOMMENDATION TO CITY COUNCIL TO
TERMINATE PLAN

the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the was created
pursuant to Michigan Public Act 381 of 1996, as amended ("Act 381"); and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Detroit ("City Council") is the governing body (as that
term is de?ned by Act 381) of the and

WHEREAS, on June 12, 2008, the DBRA Board of Directors approved the Pine Street Townhome
Brown?eld Plan (the ?Plan") and recommended the approval of the Plan to City Council; and

on July 15, 2008. City Council approved the Plan; and
WHEREAS. on July 28. 2008, the Mayor of the City of Detroit approved the Plan; and

WHEREAS, Section 14(8)(b) of Act 381 of 1996; as amended, permits a governing body to
terminate a brownfield plan or plan amendment for an eligible property if the project for which eligible
activities identified in the brown?eld plan or plan amendment fails to occur with respect to the eligible
property for at least 2 years following the date of the resolution approving the brownfield plan or plan
amendment, provided that the governing body first does both of the following: Gives 30 days' prior written
notice to the developer at its last known address by certified mail or other method that documents proof of
delivery attempted, and (ii) Provides the developer an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting; and

WHEREAS, On October 10, 2017, City Council delegated developer termination notices to the
and

WHEREAS. the ?developer" forthe Plan is Corktown Housing, LLC (the ?Developer"); and

WHEREAS, the DBRA has determined that the project identified in the Plan failed to occur within
2 years of City Council's approval of the Plan; and

WHEREAS. the DBRA Board of Directors desires to recommend termination of the Plan to City
Council.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, subject to the notice authority delegated to the DBRA by
the City Council, the DBRA Board of Directors hereby authorizes a written termination notice to the
Developer; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, subject to the completion of the notice requirement described in
Section of Act 381 and the provision to the Developer of an opportunity to be heard at a public
meeting pursuant to Section 14(8)(b)(ii) of Act 381, the DBRA Board of Directors hereby recommends
termination of the Plan to City Council; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, subject to the termination of the Plan by City Council, that the DBRA
Board of Directors hereby authorizes the termination of any other agreements or contracts between the
Developer and the DBRA that were executed in conjunction with the Plan; and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any one of the
Authorized Agents of the DBRA, shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute any and all
documents. contracts. or other papers necessary to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution

on behalf of the DBRA.

June 12. 2019

Exhibit 
Notice of Termination

 
     

DEc'?lcalT Baowmmo RmIVnOpmmAumonnv
500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit. MI 48226

 

June 13, 2019 SENT VIA CERTIFIED MAIL

Mr. Konrad Kohl

Corktown Housing, LLC

211 W. Fort Street, Suite 720
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Notice of intent to Terminate Brown?eld Plan for the Pine Street Townhome Redevelopment Project

Mr. Kohl:

Per Act 381 of 1996 Section 14 this letter is to inform you that the Detroit City Council has authorized this notice to inform
you that termination of the Brownfield Plan for the Pine Street Townhome Redevelopment Project (the "Plan") will be considered in
no less than thirty days.

On June 12, 2008 the DBRA adopted and on July 15, 2008 the Detroit City Council approved the Plan.

It is our understanding that the project as described in the Plan has failed to occur. Because the project failed to occur, the Brown?eld
Plan will be terminated the for the subject project per Act 381 of 1996 Section Because no Eligible Activities have been
submitted, a new Brown?eld Plan may be established in the future.

While you are welcome to speak at any public meeting of City Council regarding the proposed termination, the following public
meetings have been tentatively scheduled at the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, 13th Floor, Detroit, MI
48226 regarding the termination of the Plan where, should you desire, you will also have an opportunity to be heard:

- Thursday, July 18, 2019 at 10:00 AM Detroit City Council Planning Economic Development Standing Committee
0 Tuesday, July 23, 2019 at 10:00 AM - Detroit City Council of the Whole Meeting

In no event would any termination be effective until at least 30 days after the date of this notice.

Sincer

0923 

ennifer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

CC: Rebecca Navin, DEGC
Brian Vosburg, 
Ngozi Nwaesei, Lewis Munday
Brittney Hoszkiw, MEDC
Karen O?Donoghue, Tactix Solutions (please spell check this)

US. Postal Service?

CERTIFIED RECEIPT

Domestic Mail Only

For tinllveiv information. visui out wuhsnc- ill rum

   
 

 

 

 
  

'-MeIlFee

 

   
 
 
 

DWWM 3
DWMW 
Emma-mummy 
mewm 

.SeMceeAmebaneddh-W

 

701.6 0000 

       

SENDER: COMPLETE THIS SECTION

I Complete items 1, 2. and 3.

I Print your name and address on the reverse
so that we can return the card to you.

I Attach this card to the back of the mailpiece,
or on the front if space permits.

Mr. Konrad Kohl
Corktown Housing, LLC
211 W. Fort Street, Suite 720
Detroit, MI 48226

I "4 

 

  
     
      
 



    
 

Fictiuisv lur 

COMPLETE THIS SECTION ON DELIVER
A. ?i nature 

9
Fit ,iiVMk/ce ref .
B. by (Printed Name) C. Date of Delivery
if (3 (afar 7 '6

Addres.

 

 

1. Article Addressed to:

Mr. Konrad Kohl
Corktown Housing, LLC
211 W. Fort Street, Suite 720
Detroit, MI 48226

ill I Hill

9590 9402 2801 7069 7477 33

D. ls deliver address different from item 1? Cl Yes
If YES, enter delivery address below: No

 

 

 

 

2. Article Number {transfer from service label)

70145 0000 53MB
5 PS Form 381 LH?His?Psmn?oa-oneaclw? 

 

 

3. Service Time l:l Priority Mail Expruum
CI Adult Signature mm Mir-
EI Adult Signature Restricted Delivery El cred Melt Restricted
l3 Certi?ed 
El certified Mail Restricted Delivery El ?atten Receipt for
El collect on but Wendi?
l:l Collect on Delivery Restricted Deilvay El Signature Con?rmatlon?m
insured Mali El Signature Continuation
Mali Restricted Delivery Hesirlctad Delivery
00)

 

Domestic Return Receipt

Exhibit 
City Council Resolution

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION
TERMINATING THE BROWNFIELD PLAN
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE PINE STREET TOWNHOME REDEVELOPMENT 

 

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381?), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (?Authority") has been established by resolution of
the City Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City Council?) for the purpose of promoting the
revitalization of eligible properties in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, on July 15, 2008, City Council approved the Brownfield Plan for the
Pine Street Townhome Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the ?Plan"); and

WHEREAS, the eligible property described in Exhibit A, attached hereto, is the
eligible property subject to the Plan; and

WHEREAS, Section 14(8)(b) of Act 381 permits a governing body to terminate a
brownfield plan or plan amendment for an eligible property if the project for which eligible
activities were identified in the brownfield plan or plan amendment fails to occur with
respect to the eligible property for at least two (2) years following the date of the resolution
approving the brownfield plan or plan amendment, provided that the governing body first
does both of the following: gives 30 days? prior written notice to the developer at its last
known address by certified mail or other method that documents proof of delivery
attempted, and (ii) provides the developer an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council is the governing body (as that term is defined by Act
381) of the Authority; and

WHEREAS, the Authority?s staff has confirmed that the project for which eligible
activities were identified in the Plan failed to occur within two (2) years of City Council?s
approval of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, on June 12, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Authority adopted a
resolution recommending termination of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, on October 3, 2017, City Council authorized the Authority, on behalf
of City Council, to manage and/or administerthe notices required by Act 381 in connection
with any brownfield plan or plan amendment terminations; and

WHEREAS, the required notice of the termination of the Plan was given in
accordance with Section of Act 381, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 
and

WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 14(8)(b)(ii) of Act 381, the developer
identified in the Plan was provided with an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting on
September 6, 2018.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT:

1. The Plan is hereby terminated by City Council in accordance with Section 14(8)(b)
of Act 381.

2. City Council hereby ratifies the termination, if any, of any agreements or contracts
between the developer of the Plan and the Authority that were executed in
conjunction with the Plan, including, but not limited to, the reimbursement
agreement.

The City Clerk is requested to submit one (1) certified copies of this Resolution to
the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226

AYES: Members

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the City Council of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, at
a regular meeting held on . 2019, and that said meeting was conducted
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended, and that
the minutes of said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required by said Act.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

And Wills\Arts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council Resolutions\2019 City Council Resolutions\Pine Street Townhome Termination
Authorization CC resolutiondocx

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - TTYz7ll

 

 

 

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 
July 12, 2019
Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate on behalf
of Woodward Mack 22, LLC in the area of 81 Erskine and 3500 Woodward Avenue,
Detroit, Michigan, in accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005 (Petition #703).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning Development Department and Finance
Department have reviewed the application of Woodward Mack 22, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the
criteria set forth by PA. 210 of 2005 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the
Master Plan.

Public Act 210 of 2005 states that the legislative body of the qualified local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate in accordance with Section 3 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a resolution
to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of
the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem
tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please find a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Mm, Wk,

Kelly R. Vickers
Associate Director

S. Washington, Mayor?s Office
M. Cox, PDD

f: D. Rencher, HRD

5 V. Farley, HRD

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act 210 of 2005 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a resolution
approving the application of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate within the boundaries of

the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, Woodward Mack 22, LLC has made application for a Commercial Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached

hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing, at
which a Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application
and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem

tax within the City of Detroit.

Qtitp of )ctmit

Janice M- Wi??fre?l OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City clerk Deputy City Clerk/Chiefofstaff

July 12, 2019

To: Maurice Cox, Director
Flaming and Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 908
Detroit, MI. 48226

Re: Woodward Mack 22, LLC
Please ?nd attached an amended application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation

Exemption Certi?cate for Property located at 81 Erskine and 3600 Woodward Ave.
(RELATED TO PETITION #703)

21/ Respectfully submitted, 
fa . 1' 3? 
(:36 
.- . x?

Michael J. O?Connell, Jr. Asst. City Council Clerk i
Of?ce of the City Clerk

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 - Fax (313) 224-1466

June 21, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit. MI 48226

RE: AMENDMENT to the Request for the Establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation
Certificate for 81 Erskine Street and 3600 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan
48226 for Woodward Mack 22. LLC

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as an amended request to the PA210 Certificate request dated April 2.
2019 and received by the Clerk's Of?ce April 4. 2019 for 81 Erskine Street and 3500 Woodward
Avenue. A copy of the original application is included here as Attachment B.

This amendment is being submitted to reduce the request to the parcel identi?ed as 81 Erskine
(01004187001). This parcel is currently occupied by a parking lot and was previously occupied
by former buildings associated with residential houses and apartment buildings. The parcel will
be redeveloped with the six-story parking structure with ground floor retail identified in the

originally application.

A parcel map identifying this parcel is included in Attachment and the legal description is
included in Attachment D.

The proposed project scope and investment for the overall development has not changed.

Respectfully Submitted 

I ii .i-i

If".

Adam Nyman 5'
Woodward Mack 22, LLC

Earn mm Loom
248-649-6320

Alta chme nts:

Attachment A: Update Application Form

Attachment B: Original PA210 Certificate Application
Attachment C: Parcel Map

Attachment D: Legal Description

*Fw

- 

Attachment A

Updated Application Form

 

Michigan Dspanmant ol' TreIsury

4507 (Rev. 00-09) USE ONLY

 

 

Application Number Date Received LUCI Coda

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Issued under authority of Public Act 210 at 2006. as amended.

Read the instructions page before completing the form. This application should be filed after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 1. 2 and 3 and file one original application form (with required atiIchments)
and one additional copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU). Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax bene?ts until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC). Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon In the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STD.

PART 1: OWNER ruroarhanon {applicant must complete attitude)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

trio. circus to be crealsd diretoiuciitty's rohabWattcn No. nit-obs to be retained due to facility's No. oi lobe is be created during romanticism
?1 00

 

 

 

 

PART APPLICATION DOCUMENTS

 

 

Prepare and attach the following items:

General of the in unity (year built. original uas. most recent use. St i k:
number oi stories. sqtlaroioutarpci element 0 aocnorn advantages expected the exemption

Description of the qualifsd lacilily's proposed use Legal description

Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken Deuurrpirun oi the ?undersorved area' (Quali?ed Retail Food
Irmunis only)

Descriptive Iisl ol the fixed bmidins equipment that will he a panel the quali?ed facility Commerdtri Rehabilitation Exemption Csrtiilicale ror ouarrned Retail Food
Establishments (Form 4753) (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

time schedule for undertaking and completing the rehabillatlon

PART 3: APPLICANT CERTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

authorized spaniel Tat-phone Numhnr
Adam Nyman (248) 649-6320
Fax Numhor E-mail Address 

Street Address Gilli State ZIP Code
115 West Brown Steet Birmingham MI 48009

 

 

 

 

 

lcertiiy that. to the best of my knowledge, the information contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted. Further: i am familiar with the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended, and to the best of my knowledge the
company has complied or will be able to comply with all at the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the approval attire application by the local
govemmeniai unit and the issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the Slate ?lbx Commission.

llurtlrer certify that this rehabilitation program. when completed, will constitute a rehabilitated facility. as defined by PublicAcl 210 of 2005. as amended,
and that the rehabilitation of this facility would not have been undertaken without my receipt or the exemption certi?cate.

Signature nutrition-jinn Company Oltioor [no otrlhontort_au_rrnrui Title 

 

'nppiicunl {Company} trams (applicant must ins-tile own or or the facility} NNCS or SIC Code
Woodward Mack 22. LLC 561110
"Eric-rune Sweet Address City Slate zip? code 
81 Erskine Street Detroit MI 48226
oi Chy?owhsI-Fp or Vrilage (taxing authority} County? Echool 'Dislricl Where ram; is Located
Detroit 
- a ne etroit
City [3 Village 
Dale Commencement .. Planned ?sts?oi Rehabilitation Completion 
07/01l2019 1211212020
Estimated Number of Years Exemption Requested (1-10) 
$18,610,000 10
Expected Project Outcomes (check all that apply)
increase Commercial Activity Retain Employment Revitalize Urban Areas
Create Employment Prevent Loss of Employment I: increase Number of Residents In Facility's Community

 

 

 

 

.r '3
2' f/ hilt}? 

 

-. 

Form 450?. Page 2

 

4: lies assoe RECOMMENDATIONS (assassgr of rgusi complete Part in?

Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of Commercial Property. as provided in Public Act 210 of 2006. as amended. for the tax year
immediately preceding the effective date of the certi?cate (December 31 of the ye_ar approved by the 

 

Taxable Value State Equalized Value (SEV)

 

Land

 

 

 

 

Bulidlngisi

 

The pmpal?ty' to he covErTad by?l?tfeXemptiEn may not he Included on any other spastic tax roll with receiving the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption. For example.
propony on Iha Eligible To): Reverted Property (Land Bank) speci?c tax roll csnnol be granted a Commercial ?che bililalion Exemption that would also put the same property

on [he Commercial Rahahlillatlcn spediio lat-t lull.

By checking this box certify that. it approved. the property to be covered by this exemption will be on the Commercial Rehabilitation Exempu?on speci?c tax roll
and not on any other speci?c to: roll.

 

 

Til?amt! at Local Gosemmenl Body

 

Name of Assessor {El and last name] Telephone Number

 

Fan Number E-meil Address

 

 

i certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the iniom'lation contained in Part 4 or this application is complete and accurate.
Assessor's Signature Dale 

 

 

"PAaTia: LOCAL Acrton (clan of Leu'musi?cenplge Pang-
thuun Taken By Lou tatlach a certified oophl the to solution}. 

[3 Exemption approved for years. ending December 30. (not to exceed 10 years)

L:l Exemption Denied

 

 

 

Univ?Uiuncl (attach dame: Local l??lnu culicul on Identi?cation Coda School Code

 

PAR'T'Em?ani?r?r CLIEEK CERTIFICATION (clerk of LGU mtis-l-cotnplete page?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name {?rst and last: Telephone Number

Fax Number E?mail Adore-s3 
Mailing Address CRY Slate We a.
Conlact Person Information EU Contacl Person Telephone-Hominy Fall. Number

 

 

i certiiy that, to the best of my knowledge. the information contained in this application and attachments is complete and accurate and hereby request
the State Tax Commission issue a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate. as provided by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended.

Clerk's El?n attire Date

 

 

 

The clerk must retain the original application at the local unit and mail one copy of the completed application with attachments to:

State Tax Commission
P.O. Box 30471
Lansing. MI 48909



 

 

Instructions for Completing Form 4507
Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

The Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate was created by Public Act 2 to of 2005, as amended. The application is initially ?led,
reviewed. and approved by the LGU and then reviewed and approved by the State Tax Commission. According to Section 3 of Public Act 210
of 2005, as amended, the LGU must establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District. Rehabilitation may commence after establishment of

Commercial Rehabilitation District.

Owner Applicant instructions

I. Complete Parts l, 2 and 3 ot?application

2. Prepare and attach all documents required under Part 2 ol? the application:

General description of the facility (year built, original use. most recent use. number of stories. square footage)

at.

b. Description of the quali?ed facility's proposed use

c. Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken

(1. Descriptive list of the ?xed building equipment that will be a part at the quali?ed facility
e. Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility?s rehabilitation

Statement of? the economic advantages expected from the exemption

g. Legal description of the facility

it. Description ot? the "underserved area? (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)
3. Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments:
a. Complete Part 1 of the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Cer'tt?cationfor Quali?er! Retail Food Establishments
(Form ?1753). Submit to LGU clerk along with application.
b. Describe the ?underserved area? and provide supporting documentation to show how the project area meets one or more of
the following requirements:
i. An area that contains a low to moderate income census tract(s) which, based on per capita income, are tracts below the
66.67 percentile ($23,643 in 1999 dollars) and it below average supermarket density

'Ii. An area that has a supermarket customer base with more than 50% living in a low inGOmc census tract(s) which based on
the per capita income, are tracts below the 66.67 percentile ($23,643 in 1999 dollars)

An area that has demonstrated signi?cant access limitations due to travel distance and has no Quali?ed Retail
Food Establishments within two miles ofthe goo?center for an urban area or has no Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments

within nine miles of the goo-center for a rural area.
For assistance in determining the project area?s eligibility. visit and click on
Commercial Rehabilitation Act.

4. Submit the application and all attachments to the clerk of the LGU where the property is located.

LGU Assessor Instructions
Complete and sign Part4 of? the application.

LGU Clerk Instructions
1 . After LGU action, complete Part 5 of the application.
2. After reviewing the application for complete and accurate information, complete Part 6 and sign the application to certify the
application meets the requirements as outlined by Public Act 2 0 of 2005 . as amended.
3. Assemble the following for a complete application:
8. Completed Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Evempn?on Certi?cate (F rm 4507)
b. All required attachments listed under Part2
c. A copy of the resolution by the LGU establishing the district
Li. A certi?ed copy of the resolution by the LGU approving the application
e. Complete Form 4753 (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)
4. Submit the completed application to: State Tax Commission. PO. Box 30471, Lansing, MI 48909

Application Deadline

The State Tax Commission must receive complete applications on or before October 31 to ensure processing and certi?cate issuance for the
following tax year. Applications received alter October 3] may not be processed in time for certi?cate issuance for the following tax year.
For guaranteed receipt by the State Tax Commission, send applications and attachments via certi?ed mail.

if you have questions or need additiOnal information or sample documents. visit or call
(517) 373-2408.

 

 

Attachment 

Original PA21O Certificate Application

CITY CLERK 4 PER 201C "Hi?ii'?

 

 

 

 

1- 
macaw Winn-m 

 

 

 

 

Application for Commarclal Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

mammogram. .- 

Read the maxim page before the farm. This would be mad altar tho uommaruhl 
alum II ambush-d. Thu applicant must ounplem Puts 1. 2 and 3 and Illa one origlnal uni?cation hm mum! auadumnm)
mime 0113:110me local 90me unit Attachme legal dauiptlon of properly onenparaia
sheet This pmjaat win not meal?! 12:: bene?ts unl? approved by me Slabs Cmmisaion (3T0). Application; mash-ad altar 
31: may noth- 3:de upon in the This II nubjaclto Us STU.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PART ewu?? a sad-mm." - . .
Wusmm
WaodwardeHZ. LLC 50111!)
mar-undam- Git? Bib mm
81 and 115 Street and 3500 Woodward Avenue 136th Ml 48226
cam 
Dam? w: tron

law Um [3m 
Wmumw

061013019 131212020
mum Wld?dim mum WEN (Mu:
10

wmm(m1m?m?v}

Iwmmuum Dnunamml Inmumum-

emu Emploarmm pm Lac-umbmm lmnuo 
Hmutphluhmunhmm 

225 100

mt! Itllm in lama:




 

I: wmwmuwmm
mm?: ?mm an: Food mm:- ?m

.


7PEB'iTirA??mmtd?mmnmu -- 

 

 

 

 

Wm: 

Adam Hyman (248) 649-6320

Fm "will! mm 


WI an an 

115 Wes! Brown Shot Blnringham MI 48009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Fudfm: 
Mm 


 

memdu-anmm


2311?1

 

 

 

 

elm nun-add.



 

 


.- 

 

Ml De rim 1 fT -
STATE ?35 ONLY .e 

Application Number Date Received Coda

 

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Issued under authority of PubiicAot 210 of 2005. as amended.

Read the Instructions page before completing the term. This application ahoutd be ?led after the commercial rehabilitation
diatrict ie eatahliehed. The applicant must complete Parts 1. 2 and 3 and ?le one original application form {with requrred attachments)
and one additional copy with the clerlr of the local governmental unit Attach the iegai description at property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax Commission (ETC). Applications received alter October
31 may.i not be acted upon in the current year. This application la subject to audit by the ETC.

 

PART 1: OWNER INFORMATION (applicant must complete all iletds}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applicant {Company} Me??appticent must Era?Ina owner or the iaalliiyi NAICS or SIC Coda
Woodward Mack 22. LLC 561 110
City State ZIP Code
81 and 115 Erskine Street and 3500 Woodward Avenue Detroit Mi 48226
Name of City, foemrrhip or Winona (tearing authority) nounly? School District Where Facility is Located
Detroit 
- a no 3 r0'
City CITownehip Village I
Data oi Rehabillialion Como-cement [m rrtiddiyyw) I .. - Planned Date of?hobtiltation Completion 
06i01120?i 9 1211 212020
Estimated Coat oi Rehabilitation Numberoi?r'aere'E?iremption Requested {1451? 
$21.000.000 10
Expected Project Outcomes (oi-lack all that apply)
increase Commercial Activily Retain Employment Revitalize Urban Areas
Create Employment Prevent Lesa oi Employment increase Number of Residents in Faeillty's Community
No. oi intro to be created due to facility's tion the. cit?lob: to be retained due to inlrlabimnlionl mi canalnrollon lobe to or; cm?ad'dirri? 
225 0 100

 

Prepare and attach the lollowing items:

General description of the (yearbu?t, original use. moatrecanl useeeoonem a vantages expected from the exemption

Description oi the qualified proposed use Legal description

oi the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken Cl 0' iil??upd?f??ivad 3198' (Quali?ed Food
a intents 

Descriptive list or the ?xed huldlno equipment that will be a Part of the facility Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Carilliicale ror Oriented Retail Food
Establishments (Form 4763) (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

Time schedule for undertaking and completing the laciliiy'? rehabilitation

 

 

 

 

 

Name of Authorized Company Of?ce: (no authorized agents} Telephone Flute-Er
Adam Nyman (248) 649-6320
Frat Number E?mnll Address

Errealnedroua om State ZIP Code
115 West Brown Steet Birmingham MI 48009

 

 

 

 

i coolly that. to the heel of my knowledge, the iniormation contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive oi the property ior which liria
applicailon is being arrhmiiled. Further. lam inmiller with lira provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended. endio the beat of my knowledge the
company has complied or will be able to comply with all oi the requirements theme! which are premouislie lo ihe apprairal oi the application by the local
governmental trail and the issuance oi a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption by the Stale Terr Commission.

Further certify that {his rehabilitation program. when completed, will constitute a rehabilitated facility: as de?ned by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended,
and that the rehabilitation oi this lacitliy would not have been undertaken without my receipt of the exemption certificate.

Signature at i Company Oilicar (no authorized our: Ilia} Tlilo

 

 

 

 

{in i flr?i? i Mitt 13,0 lair/3m . 

i

 



.

Form 4507. Page 2

 

PART 4: AESESSOR RECOMMENDATIQNS of LGU must complete Part 4} 

Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of Commercial Property. as provided In Public Act 210 ot2005, as amended. for the tax year
Immediately preceding the effective date of the certificate (December 31 of the year approved by the STC).

 

Taxable Value

State Equalized Value (SEV)

 

Land

 

 



 

 

 

The property to he covered by this exemption may not?be Ihc?dert on any-other apecilio tax roll while receiving the Contmurclol Rehabilitation Exemption. For example.
properly on the Eligible Tex Reverted Property (Land Bank) specific tax roll oannotbe granted a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption that would also put the same property

on the Commercial Rehabilitation speci?c tax roll.

By checking this box I certify that. it approved. the property to be covered by title examptlon be on the Commercial Rehabilitation Examptlon apecittc tax roll
and not on any otherspecitictex roll.

Nettle otter-mt Government Body

 

Name (ilret end last name) Telephone Number

 

Fax- ?N-urnber? I Email Address

 

 

 

icen?ity that, to the best of my knowledge. the information contained in Perl 4 of this application is complete and accurate.

 

 

K?esoor?e Signature Date

 

PART 5: LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION {clerk of LGU must complete Part 5} 

Action fatten tty LGU (attach a certi?ed copy or the recoiutiont:

 

 

Exemption approved for years. ending December 30? (not to exceed 10 years)

Exemption Denied
Dole District Eeleltiiahed (attach resolution ior district} Local Unit Classi?cation Code School Code

 

PART 6: LOCAL GOVERNMENT CLERK (clerk of LGU must complete Part 6)

 

 

 

 

 

Clerk'e Home (tire! and tent} Telephone ttlurnber
Woo?? Empire-cum:
Address 13-in State Code
LGU Contact Person [chdIttonel Information LGU Contact Pereorr Telephone Number Fear Nurnher 

icerli?r that, to the best of my knowledge, the information contained in this application and attachments is complete and accurate and hereby request
the State Tax Commission issue a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate. as provided by Public Act 210 at 2005, as amended.

 

Clerk's Signature

 

Date

 

 

The clerk must retain the original application at the local unit and mail one copy of the completed application with attachments to:

State Tax Commission
PO. Box 30471
Lansing. MI 43909

 

 



 

PROFESSIONAL 
MANAGEMENT COMPANYM

 

April 2, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municlpal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate for 81 and 115
Erskine Street and 3500 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226 for
Woodward Mack 22, LLC

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate for
81 and 115 Erskine Street and 3500 Woodward Avenue. Detroit. Michigan 48226. The parcel is
located in Detroit's Midtown neighborhood, north of downtown, bounded by Woodward Avenue
to the west, Mack Avenue to the north, John Street to the east, and Erskine Street to the south.
which is referred to herein as the ?Property" and further described in Attachment A. The Property
is wholly owned by the developer and current owner, Woodward Mack 22, LLC. The property is
located in an existing Commercial Rehabilitation District approved under Petition #1074 on June

9, 2016.
Company Synopsis

The project developer, Woodward Mack 22, LLC, was established in 2015 and are owned and
managed by Professional Property Management Co. of Michigan (PPM) which have been
operating since 1974. PPM focuses on bridging gaps between investors and tenants by invoking
practical management services. Currently responsible for managing more than 5,000 multi-family
residential (apartment/townhome) units and one million square feet of commercial and industrial
space, PPM is versed in asset management; leasing, marketing, and property management; and
investment services. Over the years, PPM has successfully positioned the project area for growth
as a vibrant district.

Project Synopsis

The proposed Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate ("Certificate") is being requested
for the prOperty located at B1 and 115 Erskine Street and 3500 Woodward Avenue located in
Midtown Detroit. Wayne County south of Mack Avenue and east of Woodward Avenue. in 2016,
a Commercial Rehabilitation District was approved pursuant to PA 210 consisting of the area
generally bounded by Woodward Avenue, Mack Avenue, St. Aubin, Gratiot Avenue, and the

Fisher Freeway (the ?District").

The Property consists of four parcels totaling an approximate 3.20 acres and contains an office
building and a surface parking lot. The Property borders the historic Bonstelle Theater, owned
and operated by nearby Wayne State University. and the Michigan State University (MSU) Detroit
Center on Woodward Avenue. The Property is also within walking distance to many of Midtowns
amenities, Including the Fisher Music (DSO) Theatre, the Majestic Theatre and a host of bars and
restaurants that have become staples in Midtown Detroit. It is also positioned near DMC Hospital.

The project will Include parking lot and site feature demolition for construction of a 6-story mixed-
use parking structure (approximately 213,099 square feet) with retail (approximately 6,730 square

liSW. Brown Streel Birmingham, MI 48009 248.649.6320 248.649.0775 

 

 





 

Request for Establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate at
81 and 115 Erskine Street and 3500 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226 for
Woodward Mack 22, LLC

feet) on the ground floor as well as rehabilitation to the office building to Class A (115 Erskine
Street; approximately 57,000 rentable quare feet) to restore the urban fabric of the area. It also
entails the activation of an alleyway and redevelopment of the former Eliot Street. The parking
structure will support rehabilitation of the nearby office building located at 100 Mack Avenue.

The parking deck is a critical part of restoring the office building occupancy at 115 Erskine Street
and 100 Mack Avenue and is needed to support the proposed hotel construction at 3448
Woodward Avenue. Ground-floor retail is integral to activating the proposed alleyway and
jumpstarting the efforts to create the SOMA District. The retail will wrap around the lower level of
the structure. New garden spaces incorporated into the alleyway and public amenities will feature
plants that support native wildlife and help reduce stormwater runoff demand on public
infrastructure. The proposed structure will also have energy efficient and LED lighting.

The proposed uses of the SONIA District compliment the office functions in the existing buildings
on the John Street side of the project and the cultural and educational programs in the Bonstelle
Theater and the MSU Detroit Center on Woodward Avenue. This investment will support urban
density, redevelop an existing surface parking lot in a higher and better use, and facilitate
rehabilitation of the office building at 115 Erskine Street. Additional information on the project is

included in Attachment A.

The Necessity for Tax Relief

Substantial investment is necessary to rehabilitate the area into a viable, long-term development
and the rehabilitation project would not be possible without the receipt of an exemption certificate.

in order to secure this financing and future tenants for the project, the operating costs of the
proposed renovations and redevelopment of the District needs to be kept as low as possible

(including property taxes).
PA 210 Request

This application documents the request for the establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation
Exemption Certificate. A 10-year abatement is being requested.

Economic Advantages of the Rehabilitation

The project will increase day-time density. investment and foot traffic to the parks and retail
centers of Midtown.

Upon successful redevelopment. the project will generate increased income taxes. aid in the
retention of skilled, local talent and fill a need for additional office and commercial tenant spaces.
The proposed redevelopment will encourage continued redevelopment and improvements in the

surrounding area.

On a short-term basis, approximately 100 temporary construction jobs will be created during
demolition and new-construction activities. On a long-term basis. it is estimated that 20-30 FTE
jobs will be created from future retail tenancy and the of?ce building at 115 Erskine, upon
renovation, will support up to 200 professional jobs. Upon completion, there will be spin-offjobs
associated with the facilities and maintenance of the property. Woodward Mack 22, LLC is
experienced in employing Detroit residents on our projects and will utilize the D2D program and

2

 

Request for Estabiis hment of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate at
81 and 115 Erskine Street and 3500 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226 for
Woodward Mack 22, LLC

a Skilled Trades Task Force to ensure Detroit?based contractors and workers bene?t from the
redeVelopment.

On a long-term basis, following expiration of the 10?year abatement the renovated and
rehabilitated building will deliver a significant increase In tax revenue. Over time. the successful
redevelopment and cultural growth will have a city?wide impact.

Closing

Woodward Mack 22. LLC and PPM have a "hands-on" management philosophy and decades
worth of experience with similar commercial and residential projects throughout metro-Detroit.
They have designed the District to enhance and promote the redevelopment and revitalization
efforts already underway in Midtown Detroit and have a proven record of utilizing Detroit-based
contractors and Detroit residents on redevelopment projects. Woodward Mack 22, LLC and PPM
look fonivard to pursuing this redevelopment and continuing to invest in Midtown Detroit.

Respectfully submitted.

Adam Nyman
Woodward Mack 22, LLC

com
248-649-6320

Attachments:

Attachment A: Detailed Project Description

Attachment B: Parcel Map

Attachment 0: Paid Receipt of Current Taxes
Attachment D: Incentive Information Chart

Attachment E: Support Letters

Attachment F: Resolution for CRD District Establishment

 

 

Attachment A

Detailed Project Description

General Description

The proposed project is in the heart of Midtown Detroit, south of Mack Avenue and east of

Woodward Avenue. The Property consists of four parcels
and contains an office building and a surface parking lot.
Bonstelle Theater, owned and operated by nearby Wayne

totaling an approximate 3.20 acres
The Property borders the historic
State University, and the Michigan

 

9 




{1

--
,l??ln?Avrrii

Wick 





7

 

State University (MSU)
Detroit Center along
Woodward Avenue. The

Property is within walking
distance to many amenities,
including the Fisher Music
(DSO) Theatre, The Majestic
Theatre and a host of bars
and restaurants that have
become staples in Midtown
Detroit. lt is also positioned
near DMC Hospital.

The Property will serve as a
landmark by creating a
gateway to the famed Brush

 

 

Park neighborhood. The landlocked house adjoining the pr
commemorated for being a gem from the ?Little Paris" heyda
The associated addresses and parcel 
identification numbers and a copy of the
corresponding legal descriptions can be
found at the end of this attachment.

General Description of
Proposed Use

The proposed redevelopment will replace a
surface parking lot with a multilevel parking
deck with retail wrapping the lower level.
These uses will complement the office
functions in the existing buildings on the .
John side of the project and the cultural

and educational programs in the Bonstelle 
Theater and the MSU Detroit Center on Woodward Avenue.

AttachmentA
Page 1 of 5



 

oposed District at 80 Eliot Street is
of Brush Park.

 
 
 

  

    
  

 

 

-111 I - "?tll: 
. quail-aunt! -.- 
1 I1 t" I II

    


I
?HUGH-mitt. - I
't



  
   

 

 

 

Spurring off the success of The Scott, a recently completed mixed use multifamily residential
apartment building across from the Property, this redevelopment will create placemaking
opportunities in Midtown Detroit. The Property will also include small garden spaces, pocket
parks, and by reconnecting Eliot Street. will further connect and strengthen neighborhood
pedestrian connections. The park spaces are greatly needed and will complement the nearby
John Watson park further south. The reactivated alleyway will serve the community by
providing privately owned public spaces for daily activities and special events. Redevelopment
will provide an additional opportunity to extend the revitalization occurring throughout Midtown
by providing additional day-time foot traffic.

Nature and Extent of the Rehabilitation

The proposed redevelopment will include parking lot and site feature demolition for construction
of a 6-story mixed-use parking structure (approximately 213,099 square feet) with retail
(approximately 6,730 square feet) on the ground floor as well as rehabilitation to the office
building to Class A (115 Erskine Street; approximately 57,000 rentable square feet) to restore
the urban fabric of the area. it also entails the activation of an alleyway and redevelopment of
the former Eliot Street. The parking structure will support rehabilitation of the nearby office
building located at 100 Mack Avenue.

The parking deck is a critical part of
restoring the office building
occupancy at 115 Erskine Street
and 100 Mack Avenue and is
needed to support the proposed
hotel construction at 3448
Woodward Avenue. Ground-floor
retail is integral to activating the
proposed alleyway and
jumpstarting the efforts to create
the SOMA District. The retail will

 

. Attacen A
Page 2 of 5

wrap around the lower level of the structure. New garden spaces incorporated into the alleyway
and public amenities will feature plants that support native wildlife and help reduce stormwater
runoff demand on public infrastructure. The proposed structure will also have energy efficient
and LED lighting.

Woodward Mack 22, LLC intend to apply for a 10-year real property tax abatement under the
provisions of PA 210 Commercial Rehabilitation tax abatement. The remaining sources of funds
for the project are through Owner Equity and Permanent Financing. Hard-cost investment is
estimated at $19?20 million, with total project investment estimated at $20-22 million.

Descriptive List of the Fixed Buildinq Equipmenthenovations

Renovations, new fixed building equipment and materials for the project include;

- Demolition of up to 120,000 square feet of parking lot/pavement, including curbs and
gutter and landscape features.

- Parking structure precast, building concrete, and masonry work

. Rough carpentry and framing

Doors/windows glass

- Drywall/Acoustical wire mesh partitions

- Finishes; drywall and steel studs/insulation, caulking, hard tile, flooring, painting,
decorating

- Mechanical, plumbing, electrical and HVAC

. Fire protection systems

- Elevators/Special equipment for parking controls

Time Schedule

Renovation activities are anticipated to commence in Spring 2019 with a completion goal of
fall/winter 2020.

Statement of Economic Advantages

The proposed development will create a sense of place, encourage increased spending and
create new jobs in the heart of Midtown Detroit. The new mixed-use office, retail and restaurant
space will bring new investors into Midtown, as well as providing much needed parking for the
existing office buildings.

The granting of the tax abatement will not result in any fewer taxes to the City of Detroit in the
short-term or long-term. All City of Detroit taxes are now current. Upon successful
redevelopment, the development will generate increased property and income taxes.
Furthermore, the District will retain and curate local talent, create new jobs, increase daytime

density, and strengthen security.

On a short-term basis, approximately 100 temporary construction jobs will be created during
demolition and new?construction activities. On a long-term basis, it is estimated that 20-30 FTE

Attachment/l
Page 3 of 5

jobs will be created from future retail tenancy and the office building at 115 Erskine, upon
renovation, will support up to 200 professional jobs. Upon completion, there will be spin-off jobs
associated with the facilities and maintenance of the property. Woodward Mack 22, LLC is
experienced in employing Detroit residents on our projects and will utilize the D2D program and
a Skilled Trades Task Force to ensure Detroit-based contractors and workers bene?t from the

redevelopment.

The increase in tenant based jobs within the building will increase City collected income tax at a
1.2% rate for non?residents and 2.4% rate for Detroiters. The current parking lot does not

generate any jobs.

On a long-term basis, following expiration of the 10-year abatement the building will deliver a
significant increase in tax revenue.

Leqal Descriptions

81 Erskine

Parcel: 01004187001

ERSKINE PT OF LOT 3, ALL OF LOTS 4-7 8: 14-16, PT OF E-W VAC ALLEY ADJ TO SD
LOTS, BLK 10 SUB L.8 P.12 DESC AS: COMM FROM 12M 018 300.08 TH 60D 17M 161 TH 29D 39M 538 149.78
TH 60D 17M 50 TH 29D 35M 538 149.74 TH 8 60d 17m 229.13 FT TO
POB- 1.341 ACRES ON 02/09/2018 FROM 01000883-8, 01004187.,

01004188.
81 Erskine

Parcel: 01004187007

ERSKINE 104.04 FT OF VAC ALLEY LYING BTW VAC ELIOT ST (60 FT WD) 
ERSKINE ST (60 FT WD) ADJ TO LOTS 12-SUB L.8
P.12 - .064 ACRES ON 02l09/2018 FROM 01000883-8, 01004187.,

01004188.
3500 Woodward Avenue.

Parcel: 01004187006

VAC ELIOT ST (60 FT WD), LYING BTW WOODWARD AVE (120 FT WD) JOHN ST (60
FT WD) - .757 ACRES ON 02/09/2018 FROM 01000833-8, 01004187.,

01004188.

115 Erskine Street:

ERSKINE PT OF LOT 3, ALL OF LOTS 1?2 18-20, ALL OF VAC ALLEY ADJ TO SD
LOTS, BLK 10 SUB L.8 P.12 DESC AS: COMM FROM SE COR OF SD LOT

Attachment/l
Page 4 of 5

1 TH 60D 17M 141.87 TH 29D 39M 538 299.52 TH 60D 17M 160 TH
26D 12M 018 300.08 FT TO POB 1.037 ACRES ON 02/09/2018

FROM 01000883-8, 01004187., 01004188.

Attachment A
Page 5 of 5

Attachment 

Parcel Map

 ?.11515rskine

35 Woodward \?5?46

.?$?6-31 Erskinr-i-f?r

If . 

- 81 Erskine 
. t.
is

 

Attachment 

Paid Receipt of Current Taxes

2l6l2019 Record Details City of Detroit Online

3500 WOODWARD AVENUE DETROIT, Mi 48201
Parcel Number: 01004187006

(Property Address)

Property Owner: WOODWARD MACK 22. LLC.

Summary information

Assessed Value: $13,100 Taxable Value: $13,100 Property Tax information found

No images Found

Owner and Taxpayer Information

WOODWARD MACK 22, LLC. SEE OWNER INFORMATION
115 W. BROWN ST

BIRMINGHAM. MI 48009

Owner Taxpayer

Legal Description

VAC ELIOT ST (60 FT WD), LYING BTW WOODWARD AVE (120 FT WD) 8i. JOHN ST (60 FT WD) .757 ACRES ON 02/09/2018 FROM
01000883-8. 01004187., 01004188.;

Recalculate amounts using a different Payment Date

You can change your anticipated payment date in order to recalculate amounts due as of the specified date for this property.

Enter a Payment Date [23532519 . Recalculate 1
Tax History
Year Season Total Amount Total Paid Last Paid Total Due
2018 Winter $124.21 $124.21 12/19/2018 $0.00

General Information for 2018 Winter Taxes

School District 82010 0.000096

Taxable Value $13,100 S.E.V. $11100

Property Class 202 - 202-COMMERCIAL Assessed Value $13,100

VACANT

Tax Bill Number 002013 Last Receipt Number 00021773

Last Payment Date 12/19/2018 Number of Payments 1

Base Tax $122.99 Base Paid $122.99

Admin Fees $1.22 Admin Fees Paid $1.22

interest Fees $0.00 Interest Fees Paid $0.00

Total Tax 8: Fees $124.21 Total Paid $124.21

Renaissance Zone NotAvaiIable Mortgage Code NotAvailabie

Tax Bill Breakdown for 2018 Winter



Taxing Authority Millage Rate Amount Amount Paid
WAYNE COUNTY 0.989700 $12.96 $12.96
0.938100 $12.28 $12.28
PARKS 0.245900 $3.22 $3.22
HCMA 0.212900 $2 78 $2.78
RESA 0.096500 $1.26 $1.26

9.391700 $124.21 $124.21


1/3

2/6/2019
Taxing Authority
RESA SP ED
COMM COLLEGE
200
DIA
Admin Fees

Interest Fees

2018 Summer

Record Details I City of Detroit Onllne

$1,008.60

Installment Information for 2018 Summer

First Payment

Second Payment

General information for 2018 Summer Taxes

School District
Taxable Value
Property Class

Tax Bill Number
Last Payment Date

Base Tait

Admin Fees
Interest Fees
Total Tax 8: Fees

Renaissance Zone

82010

$13,100

202 - 
VACANT

002412
00/24/2018

$998.62
$9 98
$0.00
$1,000.60

Not Available

Tax Bill Breakdown for 2018 Summer

Taxing Authority
STATE EDUCATION
GENERAL CITY

DEBT SERVICE
LIBRARY

SCHOOL DEBT
SCHOOL OPERATING
COUNTY TAX

WC RESA ENH
Admin Fees

Interest Fees



?Disclaimer: BSHA Software provides 3551A Oniine as a way for municipalities to display information online and is not responsible for the content or accuracy of the data herein This data is provided for



Millage Rate
3.367800
3.240800
0.100000
0.200000

9.391700

$1,000.60 08/24/2013

BT
S.E.V.
Assessed Value

Last Receipt Number
Number of Payments

Base Paid

Admin Fees Paid
Interest Fees Paid
Total Paid

Mortgage Code

Millage Rate
6.000000
19 952000
7.000000
4.630700
13.000000
18.000000
5.648300
2.000000

76.231000

.. 

0.000096
$13,100
$13,100

00117753
1

$998.62
$9.90
to 00
51.00060

Not Available

Amount
$44.11
$42.45

$1.31
$2.62
$1.22
$0.00
$124.21

$0.00

Amount
$78 60
$261.37
$91.70
$60.66
$170.30
$235.00
$73.99
$26.20
$9.98
$0.00
31.008.60

reference only and WITHOUT WARRANTY of any kind. expressed or interred. Please contact your local municipality if you believe there are errors in the data



Copyright 0 2019 any! 3115mm. Inc

Amount Paid
$4411

542 45
$1.31

$2.62

$1.22

$0.00
$124.21

Amount
$504.30
$504.30

Amount Paid
$78.60
$261.37
$91.70
$60.66
$170.30
$235.80
$73.99
$26.20
$9.98
$0.00

$1,000.60

2/3

Record Details Clty of Detroltl Onllne

31 ERSKINE DETROIT, Ml48201 (Property Address)

Parcel Number: 01004187001

Property Owner: WOODWARD MACK 22, LLC.

Summary information

Assessed Value: $158,100 Taxable Value: $158,100 Property Tax information found

No Images Found

Owner and Taxpayer Information

Owner WOODWARD MACK 22, LLC SEE OWNER 
115 BROWN ST

BIRMINGHAM, Ml 48009

Taxpayer

Legal Description

PT OF LOT 3. ALL OF LOTS 4-7 at 14-16, PT OF E-W VAC ALLEY ADJ TO SD LOTS, BLK 10 SUB LE 12 DESC AS: COMM FROM 26D 12M 015 300.08 FT: TH 60017114 161 Fl600171171 60D 17M 229.13 FT TO POE 1.341 ACRES ON 02/09/2018 FROM 01000883-8, 01004187 . 01004180:

Recalculate amounts using a different Payment Date

You can change your anticipated payment date in order to recalculate amounts due as of the specified date for this property

Enter a Payment Dale 2/5/2019 I i Recalculate 3
Tax History 
1? Year 1 Season Total Amount Total Paid Last Paid Total Due I
2018 Winter 31.499.63 $1,499.63 12/19/2018 3000

General information for 2018 Winter Taxes

School District 82010 BT 0.000096

Taxable Value 1158.100 S.E.V. $158,100

Property Class 202 - 202-COMMERCIAL Assessed Value $158,100

VACANT

Tax Number 002008 Last Receipt Number 00021768

Last Payment Date 12/19/2018 Number of Payments 1

Base Tax $1,484 .79 Base Paid $1,484.79

Admin Fees $14.64 Admin Fees Paid $14.84

Interest Fees $0.00 Interest Fees Paid $0.00

Total Tax at Fees $1,499.63 Total Paid $1,499,63

Renaissance Zone Not Available Mortgage Code NorAVaiiable

Tax Bill Breakdown for 2018 Winter

Taning Authority Millage Rate Amount: Amount Paid
WAYNE COUNTY 0.939700 $156.4? $156.47
0.938100 $145.31 $145.31
PARKS 0.245900 $38.87 $38.87
HCMA 0.212900 $33.65 $33.65

9.391700 $1,499.63 $1,499.63

Sea 1/3

2/6/2019

2018

Record Details City 01 Detroit Online

Taxmg Ily

RESA

RESA SP ED

COMM COLLEGE
ZOO

DIA

Admin Fees

Interest Fees

Summer $12,172.63

Installment Information for 2018 Summer

First Payment

Second Payment

General information for 2018 Summer Taxes

School District 82010

Taxable Value $158,100

Property Class 202 - 202-COMMERCIAL
VACANT

Tax Bill Number 002407

Last Payment Date 08/24/2018

Base Tax $12,052.11

Admin Fees $120.52

Interest Fees $0.00

Total Tax 8: Fees $12,172.63

Renaissance Zone Not Available

Tax Bill Breakdown for 2018 Summer

Taxing Authority
STATE EDUCATION
GENERAL CITY
DEBT SERVICE
LIBRARY
SCHOOL DEBT
SCHOOL OPERATING
COUNTY TAX
WC RESA ENH
Admin Fees

Interest Fees

I. - . 

Millage Rate I
0.096500
3.367800
3.240800
0.100000
0.200000
9.391700
$12,172.63 08/24/2018

S.E.V.
Assessed Value

Last Receipt Number
Number of Payments

Base Paid

Admin Fees Paid
Interest Fees Paid
Total Paid

Mortgage Code

Millage Rate
6.000000
19.952000
7.000000
4.630700
13.000000
18.000000
5.648300
2.000000

76.231000

0.000016
5158.100
$158,100

00117748
1

$12,052.11
$120.52
$0.00
$12,172 63

NotAvailobIe

Amount
$15.25
$532.44
$512.37
$15.81
$31.62
$14.84
$0.00
$1,499.63

$0.00

Amount
$948.60
$3154.41
$1,106.70
$732 11
$2,055.30
$2345.80
$892.99
$316.20
$120.52
$0.00
$12,172.63

Amount Paid
$15.25
$532.44
$512.37
$15.81
$31.62
$14.84
$0.00
$1,499.63

Amount
$6,056.32
$6,086.31

Amount Paid
$948.60
$3,154.41
$1,106.70
$732.11
$2,055.30
$2,345.80
$392.99
$316.20
$120.52
$0.00
$12,172.63

?DlIel-lmor: 8581A Software provides 8581A Online as a way for municipalities to display information online and is not responsible for the content or accuracy of the data herein. This data is provided for
reierence only and WITHOUT WARRANTY of any kind, expressed or inferred Please contacl your local municipality if you believe there are errors in the data.

2/3

Record Details City of Detrolt  Online

81 ERSKINE DETROIT, Ml 48201 (Property Address)

Parcel Number: 01004187007

Property Owner: WOODWARD MACK 22, LLC.

Summary Information

a Assessed Value: $7,500 Taxable Value: $7,500 Property Tax information found

No lmages Found

Owner and Taxpayer Information 

Owner WOODWARD MACK 22. LLC SEE OWNER INFORMATION
115 W. BROWN ST

BIRMINGHAM. Ml 48009

Taxpayer

Legal Description I

ERSKINE 104.04 Fi' OF VAC ALLEY LYING BTW VAC ELIOT ST (60 FT WD) 81. ERSKINE ST (60 FT WD) ADJ TO LOTS 12-.064 ACRES ON 02/09/2013 FROM 01000883-3. 01004187.. 01004138.,

Recalculate amounts using a different Payment Date

You can change your anticipated payment date in order to recalculate amounts due as of the specified date for this property

Entera Payment Date lye/2019 i Recalculate 1

Tax History 1
1 Year Season Total Amount Total Paid Last Paid Total Due
2018 Winter $71.10 $71 10 12/19/2018 $000

General Information for 2018 Winter Taxes

School District 32010 0.000096

Taxable Value $7,500 S.E.V. $7,500

Property Class 202 - 202-COMMERCIAL Assessed Value $7,500

VACANT

Tax Bill Number 002014 Last Receipt Number 00021774

Last Payment Date 12/19/2018 Number of Payments i

Base Tax $70.40 Base Paid $70.40

Admln Fees $0.70 Admin Fees Paid $0.70

Interest Fees $0.00 Interest Fees Paid $0.00

Total Tax 5: Fees $71.10 Total Paid $71.10

Renaissance Zone NotAvailable Mortgage Code Not A reliable

Tax Bill Breakdown for 20 78 Winter

Taxing Authority Millage Rate Amountl Amount Paid
WAYNE COUNTY 0.989700 $7.42 $7.42
0.938100 $7.03 $7.03
PARKS 0.245900 $1.54 $1.84
WC HCMA 0.212900 $1.59 $1.59
RESA 0.096500 $0.72 $0.72

9.391700 $71.10 $71.10

1/3

216/2019

2018

?Disclalmer: BSGIA Software provides Onllne as a way for municipalities to display information online and is not responsible lorthe content or accuracy of the data herein. This data is provided for

Record Details City of Detroit Online

Taxing Authority

RESA SP ED

COMM COLLEGE
200

DIA

Admin Fees

Interest Fees

Summer $577.44

Installment Information for 2078 Summer

First Payment

Second Payment

General Information for 2078 Summer Taxes

School District 82010

Taxable Value $7.500

Property Class 202 - 202-COMMERCIAL
VACANT

Tax Bill Number 002413

Last Payment Date 08/24/2018

Base Tax $571.73

Admin Fees $5.71

Interest Fees $0.00

Total Tax 8: Fees $577.44

Renaissance Zone Not Available

Tax Bill Breakdown for 2078 Summer

Taxing Authority
STATE EDUCATION
GEN ERAL CITY
DEBT SERVICE
LIB RARY
SCHOOL DEBT
SCHOOL OPERATING
COU NTY TAX
WC RESA ENH
Admin Fees

Interest Fees

Millage Rate 
3.367800
3.240800
0.100000
0.200000
9.3 91700
9.1.
$577.44 08/24/2018
BT 0.000056
S.E.V. $7.500
Assessed Value 37,500
Last Receipt Number 00117754
Number of Payments 1
Base Pald $571.73
Admin Fees Pald $5.71
Interest Fees Paid $0.00
Total Paid $577.44
Mortgage Code Not Available
Millage Rate 
6.000000
19.952000
7.000000
4.630700
13.000000
18.000000
5.648300
2.000000
76.231000

Amount
525.25
$24.30

$0.75
$1.50
$0.70
$0.00
$71.1 0

$0.00

Amount
$45.00
$149.64
$52.50
$34.73
$97.50
$135.00
$42.35
$15.00
$5.71
$0.00
$577.44

reference only and WITHOUT WARRANTY olany Itind, expressed or inferred Please contact your local municipality ilyou believe there are errors in the data



Copyright 0 2019 [:33 Inc

Amount Paid
$25.25
$24.30

$0.75
51.50
$0.70
$0.00
$71.10

Amount
$238.72
$258.72

Amount Paid
$45.00
$149.64
$52.50
$34.73
$97.50
$135.00
$42.36
$15.00
$5.71
$0.00
$577.44

273

Attachment 

Incentive Information Chart

6in of Barrett
CITY COUNCIL

Comm BRENDA JONES

 

 

 

 


Project Type Incentive Type I Investment Amount District
Mixed-Use - Commercial hard cost $20- Midtown
Retail/Parking Tax Abatement] 2 million total
Brownfield Plan

 

 

 

 

 

Jobs Available 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Construction Post Construction
Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled
Professional Labor Labor Professional Labor Labor
90 10 20-30 FTE Retail 0 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and zoo FTE Office!

 

1. What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

The development team will present at a D2D session following determination of the bid needs and procedures to
obtain Detroit-based contractors for this project. The development team plans to also present at a Skilled Trades
Task Force, to assist in connecting with additional Detroiters for the project.

2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e: job type, job
quali?cations, etc.

In the short?term, approximately 100 construction jobs are anticipated to be created. The proposed
redevelopment will create space for up to 20?30 jobs associated with retail. Upon rehabilitation, 115 Erskine will
create space for approximately 200 of?ce jobs.

The Construction jobs will consist of;

Demolition - Laborers

Civil Engineers

Architectural/Interior Buildouts Laborers, Carpenters, Cement Masons, Bricklayers, Glaziers. Iron
Workers, Roofers, Painters

Elevators Elevator Constructors

Fire Protection Pipe Fitters

Mechanical Pipe Fitters, Sheet Metal Workers

Plumbing - Plumbers

Electrical Electricians

3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents?

This development is not anticipated to cause any relocation as the property is not occupied by any tenants.

4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential

jobs?

The Developer intends to utilize D2D sessions to ensure Detroit?based contractors and workers benefit from

the project. Support letters have also been received by neighborhood organizations including Midtown Inc.,
and Brush Park.

5. When is construction slated to begin?
April/May 2019

6. What is the expected completion date of construction?
December 2020

*Please contact Linda Wesley at (313) 628-2993 or to schedule a date to attend the
Skilled Trades Task Force.

Attachment 

Support Letters

BRODER
SACHSE

January 31, 2018

Mr. Adam Nyman

Woodward Mack 22 LLC

Professional Property Management inc
115 West Brown

Birmingham, Mi 48009

Re: Brush Park CDC Letter of Support for Brush Park Mixed Use Project

Dear Mr. Nyman:

On behalf of Woodward 8: Erskine LLC, we enthusiastically support the proposed SOMA development that
is planned for the southeast corner of Woodward and Mack Avenue, immediately north of our
development, the Scott at Brush Park.

We understand that the first phase of the project consists of a 550+ car parking deck and that a future
phase will include a vertical expansion for construction of residential units above. The proposed design
of the deck presents a thoughtful response to the neighborhood's form-based code, providing an
activated alley with retail shops and pedestrian circulation access, restored Eliot Street connecting
Woodward with John R, and providing new landscaping and recreation space between existing of?ce,
historic home and the proposed parking deck.

We believe that this development will continue to generate further investment in the Midtown area. We
look forward to being neighbors across Erskine Street.

Sincerely,

BRODER SACHSE REAL ESTATE, Agent for
WOODWARD 



Richard Broder
CEO

Cc: City of Detroit Planning Development

260 East Brown Street Suite 280 I Birmingham, MI 48009
P: 248.647.4100 Fax: 248.647.4180
BroderSachse.com

 

Wm.

January 10, 2018

Scott Gustafson

Newmann Smith Architecture
400 Galleria, Suite 555
Southfield, Ml 48034

RE: Support of SOMA Development
Dear Mr. Gustafson:

On behalf of Midtown Detroit, Inc. (MDI), I would like to express our support for phase one ofthe
proposed SOMA Development, located at 3150 Woodward Avenue in the Brush Park neighborhood. This
development will provide a number of benefits, while enhancing the overall character of the

neighborhood.

Phase one of the project will be the development of a mixed-use parking structure located on Erskine.
This structure will provide six levels of parking, and ground level retail spaces. Future phases will call for
the construction of residential units above this parking structure. The overall plan calls for over 400,000
square feet of mixed-use development that will bring new office/retail space, hundreds of new
residential units, and plenty of parking.

This overall development will increase density and significantly add to the number of residential units
within the Midtown district. The addition of new commercial spaces will provide more economic
opportunity for new and growing businesses. The construction of contiguous urban wall space will
increase walkability of the area and add to the urban character of the neighborhood.

The SOMA development aims to transform an important corner along a busy corridor, and MDI offers its
full support. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me at our MDI office.

Best regards,

94w? 

Susan T. Mosey
Executive Director

MIDTOWN DETROIT, INC. 1 3939 Woodward, Sulte 100 I Midtown Co-Lab
Detroit I MI I 48201 . P: 313.420.6000 F: 313.420. 6200

Attachment 

Resolution for CRD District Establishment

is;



PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

June 8, 2016

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

 

RE: Resolution Approving a Commercial Rehabilitation District, in the Area generally
bounded by Woodward Avenue, Mack Avenue, St. Aubin, Gratiot Avenue, and the
Fisher Freeway, Detroit, Michigan, in Accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005
for the Planning 8: Development and Housing Revitalization Departments (Petition

#1074)

Hanorable City Council:

On June 9, 2016, a public hearing in connection with establishing a Commercial Rehabilitation
District was held before your Honorable Body?s Planning and Economic Development
Committee. No impediments to the establishment of the District were presented at the public

hea?ng

Please ?nd attached, a resolution and legal description, which will establish a Commercial
Rehabilitation District in the area bounded area generally bounded by Woodward Avenue,
Mack Avenue, St. Aubin, Gratlot Avenue, and the Fisher Freeway, Detroit. Michigan

in accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005 ("the Act?). Such establishment will materially assist
in the development of the site in accordance with the plans of the preprietor of the property.

We request your Honorable Body's approval of the resolution.

Re ectf?ully submitted,

    

 

 

John Saad
Manager -Development Division

 

 

Lelamk

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 210 of Public Acts of 2005 (?Act 210?), this City Council
has the authority to establish "Commercial Rehabilitation Districts? within the boundaries of

the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Development and Housing Revitalization Departments have
requested that this City Council establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District in the area
generally bounded by Woodward Avenue, Mack Avenue, St. Aubin, Gratlot Avenue, and the
Fisher Freeway, Detroit, Michigan, the area being more particularly described in the
map and legal description attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, the aforesaid property Is in a duly designated business area, and is contiguous
commercial property or commercial housing property; and

WHEREAS, Act 210 requires that, prior to establishing a Commercial Rehabilitation District, the
City Council shall provide an opportunity for a hearing on the establishment of the District, at
which a representative of any Jurisdiction levying ad valorem taxes, or any owner of real
property within the proposed District, or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit
may appear and be heard on the matter; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was conducted before City Council on June 9, 2016 for the purpose
of considering the establishment of the proposed Commercial Rehabilitation District described

in the map and legal description attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, no impediments to the establishment of the proposed District were presented at
the public hearing.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that the Commercial Rehabilitation District, more particularly described in the map
and legal description attached hereto, is hereby approved and established by this City Council
in accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005.

 

Land situated in the ('in ol' [JulmiL Wag. m: C?uunly. Michigan. as described in the attached map.

03.6: ozo?m 

 

Iu??lIHIll II..Ihhl?llp.151"#313. I. II
INK. . . 3.1...L. I . I. Puma??..iliptill
.. oIlIIo 

I . . gra- 
I .I.I..I-I.IIII. Ifrlily-IO.
I

 



 

filly: In: II All. I 

Dmnmimmn .

ADOPTED AS FOLLOWS
COUNCIL MEMBERS

 

YEAS NAYS 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

janea AYERS

?Scou BENSON I
Raquel 
7&0er 
Gabe LELANDI 
Mary SHEFFIELD i?L 
Andra - 
James TATE L/r 

 

 

 



PRO TEM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Attachment 

Parcel Map

 a:



f,



?If. I . .3 
4:50:24.?
I, . r.

 

Attachment 

LegalDesc?p?on

Leqal Description

81 Erskine

Parcel: 01004187.001

ERSKINE PT OF LOT 3. ALL OF LOTS 4-7 14-16, PT OF E-W VAC ALLEY ADJ TO SD
LOTS, BLK 10 SUB L.8 P.12 DESC AS: COMM FROM 12M 018 300.08 TH 60D 17M 161 TH 29D 39M 538 149.78
TH 60D 17M 50 TH 29D 35M 538 149.74 TH 8 60d 17m 229.13 FT TO
POB- 1.341 ACRES ON 02/09/2018 FROM 01000883-8, 01004187.,

01004188.

Attachment/l
Page 1 of 1



 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

808

25

 

July 12, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
8539 W. Grand River, Detroit, MI 48204

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Flaming and Development Department has received an Offer from
Cadillac FTC LLC, a Michigan Limited Liability Company, to purchase certain City-owned real
property at 8539 W. Grand River, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?) for the purchase price of Ten
Thousand and 00/100 Dollars 

The Property is located on W. Grand River between Heritage and Quincy, consisting of vacant
land totaling approximately 17,500 square feet and zoned B4 (General Business District). The
principal member of Cadillac FTC is Mr. Timothy Tharp. Mr. Tharp is the owner of the Grand
Trunk Pub, Checker Bar and other establishments within the City. Together with adjacent
properties that they own in the area, Cadillac FTC proposes to develop event space, restaurants
and other commercial activity along this corridor. Cadillac proposed use of the Property
shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of

to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property to Cadillac FTC LLC.

Respectfully submitted,

    

 

 

Maurice D. Cox
Director



Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 8539 W. Grand River, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more
particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Cadillac FTC LLC, a
Michigan Limited Liability Company, for the purchase price of Ten Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his or her
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other documents necessary or convenient
for the consummation of the transaction pursuant to and in accordance with the Purchase
Agreement; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

GRAND RIVER LOTS 38 THRU 31 JOHN TIREMANS SUB L32 P10 PLATS,


a/k/a 8539 W. GRAND RIVER
WARD l6 ITEM 004863

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By: 
Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224.1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

July 3, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
16431 W. Seven Mile Detroit, MI 48235

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Flaming and Development Department has received an offer from
Rodrick Hagood (the ?Purchaser?), to purchase certain City-owned real property at 16431 W.
Seven Mile, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?) for the purchase price of Nineteen Thousand and 00/100

Dollars 

The Property consists of a 2600 square feet commercial structure in need of repair. It is situated
on a total area of land measuring approximately 7086 square feet and zoned B4 (General
Commercial District). The Purchaser owns Hagood Construction Company and proposes to
rehabilitate the property for use as Of?ce space. Any proposed use of the Property shall be
consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is zoned.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the

Director of to execute a deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Rodrick Hagood.

Respectfully subm

Maurice D. Cox
Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 16431 W. Seven Mile, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more
particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Rodrick Hagood (the
?Purchaser?), for the purchase price of Nineteen Thousand and 00/100 Dollars and

be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department or his
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary
or convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and

be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($2500.00) shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Nine Hundred Fifty and 00/ 100 Dollars ($950.00) shall be paid to
the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to
Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIB ET A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

8 SEVEN MILE 61 FT OF 93.REAR MILE RD AS WD OF FERGUSON AVE SEC 12 [2 221? 6]

ERREG
Street Addressks}: 16431 7 Mile Rd

Property Tax Parcei nun1ber(s): 220 P6266.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT In

 

July 9, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Amendment and Extension of Development Agreement
Petit Bateau, LLC
Development: generally bound by Kirby Avenue, St. Antoine St., Frederick Ave.
and Beaubien St.

Honorable City Council:

The above captioned property is located within the Art Center Rehabilitation Project Area. On
November 9, 2016, your Honorable Body authorized an amendment to the Development
Agreement with Petit Bateau, LLC. The amendment allowed for the proposed development of
approximately twenty (20) townhouse units and two (2) multi-family buildings containing
approximately ?fty-one (51) units, with optional retail space and parking. The completion of the
construction was extended to December 31, 2018.

The principal of Petit Bateau LLC is Mr. Julio Bateau. He has worked to ?nalize and complete
the construction of the nearby Nailah Commons multi-family residential development located
north of Kirby Avenue. Petit Bateau, however, has been unable to complete this development as
proposed due to market and ?nancial constraints. They are currently working with the Detroit
Economic Growth Corporation (DEGC) to ?nalize a Brown?eld plan for submission and a Tax
Incremental Financing (TIF) work plan, inclusive of environmental components such as solar
power and variable refrigerant/heating systems. In addition, they have acquired an Option to
purchase adjacent property at 511 Frederick Ave. to be included in the development.

The project area is zoned SD1 (Special Development District Small Scale, Mixed Use). Final
site and landscape plans are subject to review by the Flaming and Development Department
other City Departments where applicable) and approval by the Building, Safety,
Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) prior to submission for building permits.

Accordingly, Petit Bateau LLC is now requesting to extend the completion period for the
development until December 31, 2021. The Flaming and Development Department has
reviewed the request of Petit Bateau LLC and determined it to be reasonable and consistent with
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Agreement.

 

Honorable City Council
July 9, 2019
Page 2

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution authorizing a
modi?cation to the Development Agreement and an extension of the completion period of the
development.

Respectfully submilt

  
   

 

  

Maurice Cox
Director

 

MC: ajm

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

By Council Member

 

RESOLVED, That in accordance with the foregoing communication, the agreement to purchase
and develop property described on the tax rolls as:

(See Attached Exhibit A)

Be modi?ed and amended to re?ect that the completion of construction be extended to
December 31, 2021;

And be it further,

RESOLVED, That the amendment to the agreement to purchase and develop be considered
con?rmed when signed and executed by the Flaming Development Department?s Director, or
his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

Exhibit A

Land in the City of Detroit. County of Wayne and State of Michigan being the West 38 feet of the East 213 feet of the South145.09

feet of Lot 195, the West 45 feet of the East 135 feet of the South 145.09 feet of Lot 195. and the East 90 feet of the South 145.09 feet

of Lot 195, all lying North of and adjacent to Frederick Avenue 60 feet wide; ?Plat of a part of the Beaubien Farm in the City of
Detroit as surveyed into town lots for the proprietors by John Mullen. Surveyer." July. 1831. Rec'd 6, P. 4?5-4?8. City 
Also. Lot 10 and the West 16 feet of but 9. Block 36; ?Ferry Lysler's Sub. of Blocks 32. 34. 35. 36, 37 and 35. Antoine Beuubicn

Farm," between Ferry Ave. and Theodore St.. City of Detroit. Wayne County. Michigan. (As recorded in Liber 12 of Plats. Page 42.

Wayne County Records.)

DESCRIPTION CORRECT
ENGINEER OF SURVEYS



METCO Services, Inc.

503. 525, 541 555 Frederick
Ward 03 Items 1481. 1483. 1484-6 1437-3


w?s/ggag

2006

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

June 7, 2019

 

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Amendment of Legal Description and Extension of Development Agreement
Development: West Portion of 5622 Kopernick (a/k/a 5408 Kopernick)

Honorable City Council:

On January 12, 2011, the Municipal Parking Department declared a portion of the parking lot
behind 4835 through 5517 Michigan Avenue (the West portion of 5622 Kopernick - a/k/a 5408
Kopernick), surplus to their needs and your Honorable Body authorized the transfer of
jurisdiction to the Planning and Development Department. Subsequently, on March 8, 2011, your
Honorable Body authorized the execution of a deed to the property to Mr. Noberto Garita,
together with the execution of a Development Agreement. Mr. Garita proposed to pave the
property for it to be used as a surface parking lot by customers and employees of his existing
business, El Barzon Restaurant, located at 3710 Junction.

The sale to Mr. Garita was transacted and he has almost ?nalized construction. It has been
determined, however, that the legal description issued was in error and requires revision.
Although he has not done so, based on the footprint outlined in the original legal description, the
reconstruction of the parking lot would negatively impact the adjoining public parking area by
shutting off vehicular turn-around access along the western perimeter. Also, public access to the
surrounding concrete walkway is eliminated by the original legal description.

To correct this situation, the Municipal Parking Department has agreed, via a transfer of
jurisdiction to the Flaming and Development Department to transfer two (2) sections
of land to Mr. Garita; approximately 1875 square feet of land located immediately east of his
current parking area (Area A), and an additional 647 square feet along the southwest boundary
(Area D). In exchange, upon the revision of the legal description, would reacquire
approximately 1376 square feet of land, located at the southeast portion of the El Barzon parking
lot (Area B). This recon?guration will open up the vehicular tum-around access within the
public parking area adjacent to the El Barzon parking lot.

 

Detroit City Council

RE: Amendment of Legal Description and Extension of Development Agreement
June 7, 2019

Page 2

Additionally, the concrete walkway surrounding the El Barzon parking lot (Area B) would be
reacquired, re-establishing safe public access to the neighboring businesses. These changes result
in an adjustment of the overall size of the E1 Barzon parking area from 19,776 to 19,139 square
feet (Area C). Further, Mr. Garita has committed to allow the community access to the E1 Barzon
parking lot during non?peak business hours, generally Monday thru Friday 9:00 am - 5:00 pm,
Saturday 9:00 am 3:00 pm and Sunday 9:00 am 2:00 pm.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution authorizing the
exchange of the jurisdiction of land between the Flaming and Development Department and the
Municipal Parking Department. Further, we request that your Honorable Body authorize the
Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized designee, to execute an
amendment to the Development Agreement or such other documents as may be necessary, to
re?ect the revision of the legal description for the sale of 5622 Kopernick (a/k/a 5408
Kopernick), to capture in writing the commitments of Mr. Garita, to address the issues as
outlined and to extend the completion of the development to September 30, 2019.

{54229?713 Ll)
Director

Flaming and Development Department

Respectfull submitted,

  
    

urice Co


Attachments

Stephanie Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
Donald Rencher, HRD

 

By Council Member

WHEREAS, on January 12, 2011, the Municipal Parking Department declared the
parking lot behind 4835 through 5517 Michigan avenue (the West portion of 5622 Kopernick -
afk/a 5408 Kopernick) surplus to their needs and your Honorable Body authorized the transfer of
jurisdiction to the Flaming and Development Department; and

WHEREAS, on March 8, 2011, your Honorable Body authorized the execution of a deed
to the property to Mr. Garita, together with the execution of a Development Agreement. Mr.
Garita proposed to reconstruct and pave the property for it to be used as a surface parking lot by
customers and employees of his existing business, El Barzon Restaurant, located at 3710

Junction; and

WHEREAS, the sale to Mr. Garita was transacted and he has ?nalized construction. It
has been determined, however, that the legal description issued was in error and requires
revision. Based on the footprint outlined in the original legal description, the reconstruction of
the parking lot would negatively impact the adjoining public parking area by shutting off
vehicular tum?around access. Also, public access to the surrounding concrete walkway is

eliminated; and

WHEREAS, to correct this situation, the Municipal Parking Department has ageed, via
a transfer of jurisdiction to the Flaming and Development Department to transfer two
(2) sections of land to Mr. Garita; located immediately east of his current parking area and
another section along the southwest boundary. In exchange, would reacquire land located
at the southeast portion of the El Barzon parking lot, opening up vehicular turn around access
within the public parking area. Additionally, the concrete walkway surrounding the El Barzon
parking lot would also be reacquired, allowing safe pedestrian access via the walkway to
neighboring businesses; and

WHEREAS, the Finance Director has agreed to the aforementioned transfers of
jurisdiction and declaration of the properties to be transferred to the Flaming and Development
Department as surplus, subject to your Honorable Body?s approval;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT REOLVED, that in accordance with the foregoing
communication, the authority to sell for development the West Portion of 5622 Kopernick (a/k/a
5408 Kopernick), more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A-l, to Norberto Garita, be
amended to re?ect the revised legal description as described in the attached Exhibit and

RESOLVED, that the exchange of jurisdiction of properties and the declaration of these
properties as surplus, as more particularly described in the attached Exhibits A and D, from the
Municipal Parking Department to the Flaming and Development Department, is hereby

approved; and

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his
authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to execute an Amendment to the Agreement to
Purchase and Develop the West Portion of 5622 KOpernick (a/k/a 5408 Kopernick), with
Norberto Garita, or such other documents as may be necessary, to re?ect the revision of the legal
description and an extension of the time period for completion to September 30, 2019; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development
Department, or his authorized designee is authorized to execute any required instruments to
make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to such aforementioned documents
(including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions) to correct
minor inaccuracies or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Property,
provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale;

and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Amendment to the Agreement to Purchase and
Develop be considered con?rmed when executed by the Director of the Flaming and
Development Department, or his authorized designee and approved as to form.

 

 

 

233.4

(?Pm 

?ed 9 
1 4.36
0 1&3

.59
mine
?30.
c- 001
1? 
I: 099?39, 
A. 1?









 

 

 

 

20 ft

Imagery @201 9 Google. Map data @201 9 Google

Exhibit A
Area A
Western portion to El Barzon

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, and State of Michigan being part of Lots 80 through
33, both inclusive and part of vacated Sarvis Place adjoining ?Greusel and Kittelberger?s
Subdivision of Lots 77 to 86 inclusive of the Subdivision of Lots A, and 16 of Brush's
Subdivision of part of RC. 260" as recorded in Liber 19, page 53 of Plats, Wayne County Records,
and being more particularly described as: Commencing at the intersection of the northerly line of
Kopernick Avenue, 60 feet wide and the easterly line of Junction, 66 feet wide, said point also
being ?e _so_uthwest corner o_f I?t_40 ?Greusel?s_Subdivision of Lots A, and 16 of Brush?s
Subdivision of part of PC. 260" as recorded in Liber 19, Page 7 of Plats, Wayne County Records;
thence N61 along the northerly line of Kopernick Avenue, 147 feet to the easterly line of
a public alley, 27 feet wide; thence along the easterly line of the public alley 67
feet; thence 107.12; thence 35.30 feet to the Point of Beginning;
thence N28?l 113.72 feet; thence 19.60 feet; thence 104.32
feet; thence 17.20 feet to the Point of Beginning; containing 1,875 square feet, more
or less. Parcel subject to easements of record and easements for any existing utilities.

DESCRIPTION CORRECT
ENGINEER OF SURVEYS,



,1 .1 i

(it: if. if

.- 
3" I

55025, 3 5a 

Aka 5408 Kopernick (West portion of 5622 Kopemick)
Ward 16 Item 001558 (part of)

Exhibit 
Area 
Turn Around Access

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, and State of Michigan being part of Lots 79 and 80,
?Greusel and Kittelberger?s Subdivision of Lots 77 to 86 inclusive of the Subdivision of Lots A,
and 16 of Brush?s Subdivision of part of RC. 260? as recorded in Liber 19, page 53 of Plats,
Wayne County Records, and being more particularly described as: Commencing at the intersection
of the northerly line of Kopernick Avenue, 60 feet wide and the easterly line of Junction, 66 feet
wide, said point also being the southwest corner of Lot 40 ?Grensel?s Subdivision of Lots A, 
and 16 of Brush?s Subdivision of part of P.C. 260? as recorded in Liber 19, Page 7 of Plats, Wayne
County Records; thence along the northerly line of Kopernick Avenue, 147 feet to
the easterly line of a public alley, 27 feet wide; thence along the easterly line of the
public alley 67.00 feet; thence 68.02 feet to the Point of Beginning; thence
N61 39.00 feet; thence i 35.30 feet; thence 39.00 feet; thence
35.30 feet to the Point of Beginning; containing 1,376 square feet, more or less.
Parcel subject to easements of record and easements for any existing utilities.

DESCRIPTION CORRECT
ENGINEEV OF 

. 

I
. I



WHY

Bets?; fix-{hm H95

Aka 5408 Kopernick (West portion of 5622 Kapernick)
Ward 16 Item 001558 (part of)

Exhibit 
Area 
Revised El Barzon Parking Area

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, and State of Michigan being part of Lots 78 through
83, both inclusive, and part of vacated Sarvis Place adjoining ?Greusel and Kittelberger?s
Subdivision of Lots 77 to 86 inclusive of the Subdivision of Lots A, and 16 of Brush?s
Subdivision of part of PC. 260? as recorded in Liber 19, page 53 of Plats, Wayne County Records,
and being more particularly described as: Commencing at the intersection of the northerly line of
Kopernick Avenue, 60 feet wide and the easterly line of Junction, 66 feet wide, said point also
being the southwest corner of Lot 40 ?Greusel?s Subdivision of Lots A, and 16 of Brush?s
Subdivision of part of RC. 260? as recorded in Liber 19, Page 7 of Plats, Wayne County Records;
thence N61 along the northerly line of Koperniclc Avenue, 147 feet to the easterly line of
a public alley, 27 feet wide; thence along the easterly line of the public alley 56.7
feet; thence 5.25 feet to the Point of Beginning; thence along a line
5.25 feet easterly of and parallel to said easterly line of a public alley 214.91 feet; thence
along a line being 4.5 feet south of and parallel to the south line of a public alley, 27
feet wide, 135.56 feet; thence 104.32 feet; thence 56.20 feet; thence
45.60 feet; thence 62.77 feet to the Point of Beginning; containing
19,139 square feet, more or less. Parcel subject to easements of record and easements for any

existing utilities.

DESCRIPTION CORRECT
or suavzags

1



'lrt? 

330531 ?ned/y 

Aka S408 Kopernick (West portion of 5622 Kopernick)
Ward 16 Item 001553 (part of)

 

86'93

 

29
"m 28?.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NVOIHOHN

Exhibit 
Area 
Southern Portion to El Barzon

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, and State being part of Lots 78 and 79
?Grousel and Kittelberger?s Subdivision of Lots 77 to 86 inclusive of the Subdivision of Lots A,
and 16 of Brush?s Subdivision of part of P.C. 260? as recorded in Liber 19, page 53 of Plats,
Wayne County Records, and being more particularly described as: Commencing at the intersection
of the northerly line of Kopernick Avenue, 60 feet wide and the easterly line of Junction, 66 feet
wide, said point also being the southwest corner of Lot 40 ?Greusel?s Subdivision of Lots A, 
and 16 of Brush?s Subdivision of part of RC. 260? as recorded in Liber 19, Page 7 of Plats, Wayne
County Records; thence along the northerly line of Kopernick Avenue, 147 feet to
the easterly line of a public alloy, 27 feet wide; thence along the easterly line of the
public alley 56.7 feet; thence 5.25 feet to the Point of Beginning; thence
N28?l along a line 5.25 feet easterly of and parallel to said easterly line of a public alley
10.30 feet; thence 62.77 feet; thence 10.30 feet; thence 
62.77 feet to the Point of Beginning; containing 647 square feet, more or less. Parcel subject to
easements of record and easements for any existing utilities.

DESCRIPTION CORRECT
ENGINEEROF SURVEYS

Aka 5408 Kopernick (West portion of 5622 Kopernick}
Ward l6 Item 001558 (part of)

Exhibit 
Area 
Sidewalk

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, and State of Michigan being part of Lots 78 through
83, both inclusive, and part of vacated Sarvis Place adjoining ?Greusel and Kittelberger?s
Subdivision of Lots 78 to 86 inclusive of the Subdivision of Lots A, and 16 of Brush?s
Subdivision of part of RC. 260? as recorded in Liber 19, page 53 of Plats, Wayne County Records,
and being more particularly described as: Commencing at the intersection of the northerly line of
Kopemick Avenue, 60 feet wide and the easterly line of Junction, 66 feet wide, said point also
being the southwest corner of Lot 40 ?Greusel?s Subdivision of Lots A, and 16 of Brush?s
Subdivision of part of RC. 260? as recorded in Liber 19, Page 7 of Plats, Wayne County Records;
thence along the northerly line of Kopemick Avenue, 147 feet to the easterly line of
a public alley, 27 feet wide; thence N28?l along the easterly line of the public alley 56.7
feet to the Point of Beginning; thence continuing along said easterly line of public
alley 222.90 feet; thence along the south line of a public alley, 27 feet wide, 147.01
feet; thence 828?] along the westerly line of a public alley, 27 feet wide, 106.83 feet; thence
4.80 feet; thence 104.52 feet; thence 135.56 feet;
thence 528?] l?20"E 214.91 feet; thence 5.25 feet to the Point of Beginning;
containing 2,292 square feet, more or less. Parcel subject to easements of record and easements

for any existing utilities.

DESCRIPTION CORRECT
ENGINEER SURVEYS

 

Ec?sit Emmi?, 

Aka 5408 Kopemick (West portion of 5622 Kopemick)
Ward 16 item 001558 (part of)

EXHIBIT A-l

Land in the City of Detroit, County ofWayne and State ofMichigan being part of Lots 79
through 83, both inclusive ?Greusel and Subdivision" of Lots, 77 to 86
inclusive ofthe Subdivision ofLots A and and 16 ofBrush's Subdivision ofpart ofP.C.
260" as recorded in Liber 19, Page 53 of Plats, Wayne County Records and being more
particularly described as: commencing at the intersection of the northerly line ofKopernicl:
Avenue, 60 feet icle and the easterly line oflunction Ave, 66 feet wide, said point also
being the southn est corner ofLot 40 of?GreuseI Subdivision" L. 19, P. 7 thence 
along said northerly line ofKopemick Avenue l47.00 feet to the easterly line efa
public alley. 27 feet it ide, thence l?20"W along said easterly line of a public alley
67.00 feet to the Point ofBeginning; thence N28?l 1 continuing along said easterly line
of a public alley 212.60 feet to the southerly line ofa public alley, 27 feet wide; thence
along said southerly line ofa public alley 123.06 feet; thence 82801 
153.6l feet; thence S?ln48?40"W l08.00 feet to the Point of Beginning. Parcel subject to
easements ofrecord and easements for any existing utilities. Parcel contains l9,776 square
feet more or less.

5
$550?
?g DESCRIPTION CORRECT

[ll it ENGINEER or SURVEYS

9M 79/?

METCO Services.

 

a a 5408 Kopemtck :1 Ma (West portion of 5622 Kopcrnick}

Ward 10 item (partof)



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   

 

July 12,2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Acquisition of Wayne County Tax Foreclosed Properties
Right of Refusal 2019

Honorable City Council:

Under the General Property Tax Act (1893 PA 206) (the the City of Detroit (?City?) has
an annual right of refusal to acquire tax foreclosed property from Wayne County (the ?County?)
upon payment of a minimum bid determined by the County pursuant to the Act (?Purchase Price?).
Such right of refusal allows the City to acquire tax foreclosed properties prior to any sale by the
County through auction.

Based on the City?s review of the properties available from the County, the City has identi?ed
certain properties that we wish to acquire (the Properties?) for the purposes of stabilizing
communities and curtailing the potential for further blight in the City of Detroit. Provided with
the attached resolution is a list of the ROR Properties that includes a total Purchase Price. Funding
for this proposed acquisition was included in the Housing Revitalization Department budget
approved by your Honorable Body for this current 2019-20 Fiscal Year.

We hereby respectfully request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution that
authorizes the City to acquire the ROR Properties from the County for the Purchase Price.

Respectfully submittc

    

 



  

Mal. rice Cox, Direc Donald Rencher, Director
Planning Development Dept. Housing Revitalization Dept.

?34 cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER: 

 

WHEREAS, the General Property Tax Act (1893 PA 206) (the ?Act?) allows the City of Detroit
(?City?) an annual right of refusal to acquire tax foreclosed property from Wayne County (the
?County?) upon the City?s payment of a minimum bid determined by the County pursuant to the
Act; and

WHEREAS, the County has provided the City with a 2019 list of available properties that is
updated by the County from time to time (the ?2019 ROR List?); and

WHEREAS, the City has budgeted Seven Hundred Twelve Thousand Four Hundred Seventy Four
and 00/100 Dollars in funding in the Housing Development Department?s
Appropriation No. 00014 for use by the City in acquiring properties from the County under the
aforementioned right of refusal (the ?Acquisition Funds?); and

WHEREAS, attached hereto in Exhibit A is a list of the properties that the City wishes to acquire
(the ?2019 ROR Properties?) through its right of refusal for the offer price stated for each
respective property on the list (the ?Purchase Price?); now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves acquisition of the 2019 ROR Properties
from the County in exchange for the City?s payment of the Purchase Price; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Purchase Price shall be paid by the City with funds from Appropriation No.
00014; and be it further

RESOLVED, that in the event the County modi?es the 2019 ROR List at any time up to August
02, 2019 by either adding or removing properties from such list, then the Director may
modify the ?nal 2019 ROR Properties by either adding or removing properties at the 
Director?s sole discretion provided that the revised total Purchase Price does not exceed the
Acquisition Funds amount; and be it further

RESOLVED, that in accordance with the foregoing, the Director, or his authorized
designee, be and is hereby authorized to accept and record deeds to the City of Detroit for the 2019
ROR Properties, as well as execute any such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate
transfer of the 2019 ROR Properties from the County to the City of Detroit for the Purchase Price;

and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Finance Director is hereby authorized to increase the
necessary accounts and honor expenditures and vouchers when presented in accordance with the
foregoing communication and standard City procedures.

A WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED





BR

8138
7228
6257
5986
6041
6042
6043
6070
6491
6520
6446
8384
8515
6640
6587
8109
8104
8105
8094
8095
7311
6300
6246
6859
7814
7631
7632
7633
5600
8509
7045
7199
5744
5745
5746
6130
6427
6428
6429
6430
7232
6558
7044
7202
7217
7239
7056
6932
5556
5582
5583
5657
5658
5749
5750
5752
5747





EXHBIT A
2019 Righ of Refusal Parcel List - City of Detroit

RARCELJD 
3,036.38 22007038. 14915 GRAND RIVER
305397 20005770. 8557 DEARBORN
1,441.16 14001618. 8448 GRAND RIVER
94101 12000936. 2930 STANLEY
318011 12005406. 2915 PURHAN
1,092.57 12005407. 2923 PURITAN
L59645 12005408. 2931 PURWAN
L09913 12010535. 12526 DEXTER
5,230.07 16005837.002L 8100 SCHOOLCRAFT
16,311.54 16008268-73 7326 MCNICHOLS
10,855.64 16002119. 6000 TIREMAN
28,907.60 22038877. 12400 STRATHMOOR
2506362 22050981. 12843 GREENFELD
873.41 16023241. 16939 PRAIRIE
631111 160190411001 16916 STOEPEL
4,062.90 22002871. 18500 JOY RD
627984 22002326. 18201JOYRD
451856 22002384. 18701JOYRD
888.19 22000132. 16305 WWARREN
836.87 22000133. 16309 WARREN
6,362.91 21002306-7 16620 EWARREN
2,203.50 14005424001 4059 DAVISON
2,849.82 14000389. 1901 VERNOR
217588 17000374. 8419IWACK
4,025.74 21056426-31 11200 HAYES
5,524.56 21029141.002L 14695 GRATIOT
7,714.57 21029145-7 14721 GRATIOT
3,840.23 21029148. 14725 GRATIOT
&13146 01009291001 19640 CHARLESTON
696036 2204992430 14240 GREENFELD
671312 18009635. 1500 CENTRAL
1,146.67 20001738.003L 7969 FISHER
937.56 09001806. 2209 MACK
921.79 09001807. 2217 MACK
2,260.14 09001808-9 2223 MACK
9,382.35 13009875. 3627 MT ELLIOTT
1,259.19 15013260002 3199 BELLEVUE
3,532.96 15013260003 3195 BELLEVUE
1,398.38 15013260004 3185 BELLEVUE
216868 15013260005L 3171 BEUEVUE
101605 20007097. 2540 CARSON
L50328 16015144. 1563 CAVALRY
1,652.00 18008182. 1663 WATERMAN
1,722.47 20002328. 8147 CHAMBERLAIN
L87009 20003919. 8336 NAVY
3,212.69 20008422. 1640 WOODMERE
2,874.69 18011361. 4349 APPLE
90520 17010391. 2520 BEALS
1,672.94 01004426. 623 MCNICHOLS
2,849.82 01006974. 435 WSEVEN MILE
5,225.92 01007066. 138 SEVEN MILE
866.06 07001519. 1568 LYMAN PL
866.06 07001520. 1562 LYMAN PL
88193 09003716. 5745 CHENE
87300 09003882. 3479 CHENE
795.16 09004553. 4410 ST AUBIN
93654 09002217. 2228 ECANFELD


48227
48209
48204
48208
48238
48238
48238
48238
48238
48221
48204
48227
48227
48221
48221
48228
48228
48228
48228
48228
48224
48238
48209
48214
48213
48205
48205
48205
48203
48227
48209
48209
48207
48207
48207
48207
48207
48207
48207
48207
48209
48209
48209
48209
48209
48209
48210
48214
48203

48203
48211
48211
48211
48207
48207
48207

5971
5972
5973
5974
5975
5976
5977
6882
6883
6880
6881



EXHBIT A

2019 Righ of Refusal Parcel List - City of Detroit

1,356.57
1,642.10
1,464.50

789.57

841.63
3,772.87
1,738.46
2,009.07
1,701.47
1,529.97
1,662.64

248,654.75

11002950-3
11003007.
11003059-60
11003074.
11003103.
11003107.
11003127.
17003604.
17003609.
17002359.
17002596.

3448 CHENE
4200 CHENE
5114 CHENE
5310 CHENE
5550 CHENE
5706 CHENE
5866 CHENE
8346 ALMONT
8312 ALMONT
8226 MOLENA


48207
48207
48211
48211
48211
48211
48211
48234
48234
48234
48234

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARO AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313)224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

 

July 10, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Sale of Wayne County Tax Foreclosed
Non-owner Occupied Homes

Honorable City Council:

Under the General Property Tax Act (1893 PA 206) (the the City of Detroit
(?City?) has an annual right of refusal to acquire tax foreclosed property from Wayne
County (?County?) upon payment of a minimum bid determined by the County pursuant
to the Act. Such right of refusal allows the City to acquire tax foreclosed properties prior
to any sale by the County through auction.

In 2017, the City instituted a pilot program to help stabilize Detroit neighborhoods by
providing assistance to those who found themselves occupying a tax foreclosed home
(the ?Program?). Under the Program, the City acquires certain residential properties that
are subject to foreclosure and that are occupied by quali?ed Program participants who are
vetted by the United Community Housing Coalition The City then transfers
such residential properties to UCHC for potential transfer to the Program participants.
Up from 95 quali?ed Program participants in 2017, the Program was able to assist a total
of 519 quali?ed participants in 2018 that occupied properties saved from foreclosure.
The success of the Program has helped occupants remain in their homes and worked to
stabilize the surrounding community by eliminating the potential for further blight in the
respective neighborhoods. Administration of the Program by UCHC was further
supported by philanthropic funding and assistance from the Quicken Loans Community
Investment Fund.

UCHC is a Michigan nonpro?t corporation that specializes in homeless prevention and
has worked with the City in the past through Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG) and Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) funding programs to provide tenants
with eviction and other landlord/tenant related assistance, homeless individuals/families
with housing assistance and homeowners with mortgage, tax foreclosure and other
housing support. UCHC provides housing assistance at all stages, however its programs
are particularly aimed at preventing low income households from losing their homes by
eviction or foreclosure.

?10

 

Detroit City Council

Sale of Wayne County Tax Foreclosed Non-owner Occupied Homes
July 10, 2019

Page 2

To qualify for the Program, residents must either be renters, victims of property scams,
those with solvable probate issues or those who would have quali?ed for property tax
reductions as veri?ed by the City Assessor. The Program requires participants to sign a
statement of commitment to purchase the home for the minimum bid price paid by the
City plus UCHC administrative costs, pay $500.00 into escrow with UCHC, pass a police
clearance to determine if they were a problem in the neighborhood and agree to a home
inspection by UCHC. The Program also has a zero percent interest 12?18 month
land contract option for those participants unable to meet the purchase price
requirements. Those seeking the land contract option must also pay a amount to
a non-interest bearing escrow account for property taxes and home repairs. 
payment amounts are affordable to each household.

For 2019, the City wishes to capitalize on the success of the Program by transferring to
UCHC additional tax foreclosed residential properties acquired by the City under its 2019
right of refusal. UCHC will purchase the properties from the City at the City?s
acquisition cost, less a discount, with partial funding support provided by the Quicken
Loans Community Investment Fund and other partners. For this year, Program
participants who previously owned their home, still occupy it, and should have quali?ed
for a property tax reduction due to income can acquire it back from UCHC for the
purchase price of $1,000. All other participants can purchase from UCHC the home that
they currently occupy for an affordable price based on several factors related to the total
participants and homes in the pool.

At or around the end of July 2019, UCHC will provide the City with a list of residential
Program properties (the ?Properties?) that the City will acquire from the County under its
2019 right of refusal. The City and UCHC will close in escrow for such Properties, with
the sales price being the amount of funds required by the County for the City to acquire
the Properties under the right of refusal less a discount of up to $250,000 (the ?Offer
Price?). The City will be allowed, pursuant to an escrow agreement, to release 
purchase money from escrow for purposes of paying the Offer Price to acquire the
Properties from the County. Upon transfer of title from the County to the City, the City?s
deeds for the Properties will be released from escrow to UCHC. The attached resolution
includes a full list of all the properties available to the City from the County - from which
UCHC will select speci?c Properties for the Program. For this year, it is estimated that
UCHC may acquire as many as 1000 occupied residential tax foreclosed properties for
the Program.

 

Detroit City Council
Sale of Wayne County Tax Foreclosed Non-owner Occupied Homes
July 10, 2019

Page 3

We, therefore, respectfully request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached
resolution that: 1) authorizes the City to transfer the Properties to UCHC for the Offer
Price listed in Exhibit A to the resolution, 2) authorizes the City to utilize the purchase
money from UCHC to acquire the Properties from the County under the City?s 2019 right
of refusal and 3) authorizes the City to acquire the Properties.

Respectfully submitted,

  
   

 

  

Mauri Cox
Director

 

cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
D. Rencher, HRD

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, in accordance with the foregoing communication and in furtherance of the City of
Detroit?s initiatives to help stabilize neighborhoods and combat blight, the City of Detroit
(?City?) wishes to transfer certain occupied foreclosed homes acquired from Wayne County
(?County?) through the City?s 2019 right of refusal (the ?Properties?) to the United Community
Housing Coalition a Michigan nonpro?t corporation; and

WHEREAS, UCHC will then transfer the Properties to current occupants that qualify under
program to help stabilize Detroit neighborhoods by providing assistance to those who
found themselves occupying a tax foreclosed home (the ?Program?); and

WHEREAS, attached hereto in Exhibit A is a comprehensive list of all real property available to
the City under the 2019 right of refusal (the ?2019 ROR List?) that includes the acquisition cost
to the City for each respective property labeled as ?Offer Price?; and

WHEREAS, UCHC will provide the City with a list of the residential Properties chosen from
the 2019 ROR List that UCHC wishes to acquire from the City in furtherance of the Program;
now therefore be it

RESOLVED, the City is hereby authorized to sell any and all Properties to UCHC for the
purchase price identi?ed as ?Offer Price? in such 2019 ROR List, less a discount of up to Two
Hundred Fifty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars (?Discount?) in support of
eliminating blight and stabilizing neighborhoods in the City of Detroit; and be it further

RESOLVED, that conveyance of the Properties to UCHC may be on multiple quit claim deeds
that shall each re?ect an appropriate share of the Purchase Price, less a prorated share of the
Discount for the portion of Properties conveyed in the respective quit claim deed; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute quit claim deeds to the Properties, as well as execute such
other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of the Properties to
UCHC consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that sale of the Pr0perties to UCHC may close in escrow prior to the City?s
acquisition of the Properties from the County; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the City is hereby authorized to acquire the Properties from the County; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the City may utilize the purchase money from UCHC that is held in escrow to
acquire the Properties from the County; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, be and is hereby authorized to execute any required instruments to make or incorporate
technical amendments or changes to the deeds and such other documents as may be necessary to
effectuate the sale (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal
descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are
required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or
technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Properties, provided that the
changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale.

(See attached Exhibit A)

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

 

 

July 12, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Submission of the 2019-2020 HUD Annual Action Plan

Honorable City Council:

In conformance with the requirements Of the US. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD), the Housing Revitalization Department respectfully requests that
Your Honorable Body authorize the submission of the 2019-2020 HUD Annual Action
Plan. It is also requested that you designate the Mayor, or his designee, to be the authorized
representative to act in connection with the Plan. The Plan re?ects the 2019-2020
OF narrative and proposal ?nal recommendations.

It is respectfully requested that you approve the attached resolution with a waiver of

reconsideration, to ensure approval and funding availability in a timely manner.

Respectfully submitted,

Donald Rencher
Director


Attachment

cc S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

 

BY CONCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council hereby authorized the submission of the 2019-
2020 HUD Annual Action Plan in accordance with the foregoing communication; and

RESOLVED, that the Mayor of the City of Detroit, Michael E. Duggan or his designee,
is hereby authorized to submit the 2019-2020 Annual Action Plan including all
understandings and assurances contained therein, to the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in accordance with the foregoing communication; and,

RESOLVED, that the Mayor of the City of Detroit, Michael E. Duggan, or his designee,
is hereby designated to act in connection with the aforesaid submission, and provide the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) such additional information
as may be required.

