?Fmvrals

 

V/Ilp/Iq

INTERNAL
OPERATIONS
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 452209
PHONE 313-224-4550

Ef't'

   
 
  

CITY OF DETROIT 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 
June 28, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: James Franklin City of Detroit, et at
Case No.: 18-007466-NI
File No.: LIB-00439 (GBP)

We have reviewed the above-captioned lawsuit, the facts and particulars of which are set forth in a
con?dential memorandum that is being separately hand-delivered to each member of Your
Honorable Body. From this review, it is our considered opinion that a settlement in the amount of
Thirty Thousand Dollars and Zero Cents is in the best interest of the City of Detroit.

We, therefore, request authorization to settle this matter in the amount of Thirty Thousand Dollars
and Zero Cents and that Your Honorable Body direct the Finance Director to issue a
draft in that amount payable to James Franklin, his attorneys, Reifman Law Firm, PLLC, and
Bristol West Preferred Insurance Company (as lienholder), and Relief Physical Therapy (as
lienholder) to be delivered upon receipt of properly executed Releases and Stipulation and Order of
Dismissal entered in Lawsuit No.: appro ed by the Law Department.

Rdspegfull :pijed,

(Katmai .Paddison

Assistana? orporation Counsel
APPROVED: JUL 08 2019

LAWRENCE GARCIA
Corporation Counsel

@7644 V2

Krys?l A. CritteIIdon/ka/
Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

Attachments

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLVED, that settlement of the above matter be and is hereby authorized in the amount
of Thirty Thousand Dollars and Zero Cents and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Finance Director be and is hereby authorized and directed to draw
a warrant upon the proper account in favor of James Franklin, his attorneys, Reifman Law Firm,
PLLC, and Bristol West Preferred Insurance Company (as lienholder), and Relief Physical
Therapy (as lienholder) in the amount of Thirty Thousand Dollars and Zero Cents 
in full payment for any and all claims which James Franklin may have against the City of Detroit
by reason of alleged injuries sustained when the DOT coach on which he was a passenger struck
a Parking Enforcement Vehicle, on or about July 27, 2017, and that said amount be paid upon
receipt of properly executed Releases and Stipulation and Order of Dismissal entered in Lawsuit

18-007466-NI, approved by the Law Department.

APPROVED:

LAWRENCE GARCIA
Corporation Counsel


?Bgil-r/ - /i 'r?l
Ki'ysjill A. 
Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 5
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT mmuv

 
 
 
 
  

   

 

July 9, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: SEAN LOCKETT v. CITY OF DETROIT, et al
CASE No. 19?10133
FILE No. L19-00047 (MA)

We have reviewed the above-captioned lawsuit, the facts and particulars of which are set forth in
a con?dential memorandum that is being separately hand-delivered to each member of Your
Honorable Body. From this review, it is our considered opinion that a settlement in the amount of
Seventeen Thousand Five Hundred Dollars and No Cents is in the best interest
of the City of Detroit.

We, therefore, request authorization to settle this matter in the amount of Seventeen Thousand
Five Hundred Dollars and No Cents and that Your Honorable Body direct the
Finance Director to issue a draft in that amount payable to Sean Lockett and his attorney Law
Of?ce of Matthew S. Kolodziejski, PLLC, to be delivered upon receipt of a properly executed
Release and Order of Dismissal entered in Case NO. 19-10138, approved by the Law Department.

Respectfully submitted,

Watt-um?

MICHAEL L. AUTEN (P81884)
Assistant Corporation Counsel

APPROVED: My 2019

LAWRENCE T. GARCIA
Corporation Counsel


BY: I if L?jlf
James D. Noseda
Supervi, ing Assistant Corporation Counsel
1

L,

 

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

RESOLVED, that settlement of the above matter be and is hereby authorized in the amount of Seventeen

Thousand Five Hundred Dollars and N0 Cents and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Finance Director be and is hereby authorized and directed to draw a warrant upon
the proper account in favor of Sean Lockett and his attorney Law Office of Matthew S. Kolodziejski, PLLC,
in the amount of Seventeen Thousand Five Hundred Dollars and No Cents in full payment for
any and all claims which Sean Lockett may have against the City of Detroit and any City of Detroit employees
by reason of alleged injuries or property damage sustained by Sean Lockett on or about October 11, 2018 as
otherwise set forth in Case No.19-10138 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan,
and that said amount be paid upon receipt of properly executed Releases and Order of Dismissal entered in Case

No. 19-10138, approved by the Law Department.

APPROVED:
LAWRENCE T. GARCIA
Corporation Counsel



BY: x6? 
James D. Ngiseda
Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel




Approved by City Council:

 

Approved by the Mayor:

 



1319 4.City of Detroit Of?ce of Inspector General

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
DEBARMENT APPEAL HEARINGS

Monday, July 15, 2019

OIG SUMMARY POSITION

 

Ellen Ha, ESQ.
INSPECTOR GENERAL

Debarment Appellants:
Parimal (Perry) Mehta
FutureNet Group, Inc.

5

The standard of City Council?s review in these debannent appeal hearings is ?abuse of
discretion.? Merriam-Webster de?nes ?abuse of discretion? as ?a ruling that is clearly
unreasonable, erroneous, or arbitrary and not justi?ed by the facts or the law. . It is the position
of the Of?ce of the Inspector General (OIG) that it has not abused its discretion on the debarments
of Parimal (Perry) Mehta and FutureNet Group, Inc. (FutureNet). Moreover, the length of
debarment for each appellant is within the guidelines provided under the City?s Debarrnent
Ordinance. Therefore, we urge this honorable body to af?rm the ?nal decisions on these
matters.

Appellants, Perry Mehta and utureN et Do Not Contest the Findings

Perry Mehta and FutureNet, through their attorney Steve Fishman, state in their letter to
Detroit City Council, dated June 27, 2019, that they concur with the ?ndings as reported in
the report dated June 7, 2019. Speci?cally, Mr. Fishman states that his arguments on behalf
of Perry Mehta and FutureNet ?are accurately summarized in the OIG report. I adopt those
arguments and incorporate them by reference for purposes of this appeal.?

Based on Mr. Fishman?s letter to Council, his primary argument for FutureNet is based on
the Final Recommendation of Debarrnent of Computech for ten (10) years which became
the City?s Final Decision when Computech elected not to appeal the OlG?s ?nal recommendation.
While Charles Dodd, former Deputy Director, engaged in bribery with both Computech
and FutureNet, the reasons for the reduced years of debannent for Computech (10 years) is clearly
Outlined in the report dated May 7, 2019. Likewise, the justi?cation of increased
years of debarment for FutureNet (15 years) is clearly outlined in the report dated June 7,
201 9.

While debannent serves as a punishment for individuals and companies for their

misconduct, in determining the length of the debarment, we take into consideration the level of

cooperation with the investigations and remedial action(s) taken to prevent future
misconduct after the individuals were made aware of the illegal conduct. Computech, in response
to Ram Kancharla (former CEO of Computech)?s guilty plea, took immediate remedial action to
supplement the company?s policy and procedures to ensure that its executives and employees do
not engage in criminal conduct of bribery in the future. In addition, Computech provided the OIG
with evidence of training its employees pertaining to the same.

FutureNet took similar remedial actions to prevent future wrongdoing. However, these
actions were not taken on FutureNet?s own initiative. The changes were made as a condition of
an Administrative Agreement between the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and
FutureNet dated April 17, 2017. Therefore, FutureNet changed its policy and procedures only
when they were required that FutureNet could become eligible to bid on
future federal contracts after their federal debarment ended.

Conclusion

Debarment serves not only as a punishment of wrongdoings by contractors, but also as a
warning to other contractors who wish to bid or remain on City contracts. Every time we issue a
debarrnent, it sends a message to the community that the City will conduct its business only with
those who are honest and have integrity; and that the City we will not tolerate abuse, waste, fraud
or corruption.

In determining the length of debannent, we take into consideration whether the individuals
and/or companies take full responsibility of their misconduct and cooperate with our investigation.
In addition, we distinguish those who act on their own volition to rectify the wrong and take
appropriate and necessary remedial actions to prevent future wrong doings.

While punishment and deterrence serve their intended purposes, we also believe

redemption is important. Those contractors who recognize and take responsibility of the

wrongdoings and take remedial actions to prevent future wrongdoings are rewarded by lessening
the years of debarment. After all, the purpose of debarment is to ensure that the City does business
with responsible contractors only. Regaining the public?s trust and respect in how we govern the
City is by far more important than the appellants? desire to conduct business as usual. Wherefore,

we respectfully request that this honorable body affirm the ?nal decisions.

Respectfully submitted by:


Ellen Ha
City of Detroit Inspector General Dated: 20/7

 

