
IMPACT 

STRATEGIC PLAN

 

COOK COUNTY



WA:

5144': ?5 I 


 

CONTENTS
Table of Contents

About Cook County Health

3

Letter from the CEO

5

Healthcare Landscape

6

Mission & Vision

7

Focus Area 1: Deliver High Quality Care

FT

2

Focus Area 2: Grow to Serve and Compete

18

Focus Area 3: Foster Fiscal Stewardship

23

Focus Area 4: Leverage and Invest in Assets

28

Focus Area 5: Impact Social Determinant and Advocate for Patients

33

Appendices

34

Glossary

38

Organization Structure

39

Demographics, Utilization and Membership Data

45

Community Town Hall Summary

46

Employee Town Hall Summary

47

Employee Survey

51

Timeline

52

Presentation List

53

Enabling Ordinance

D

RA

14

Note to the reader: IMPACT 2023 provides strategic concepts and initiatives to guide CCH through the next three years recognizing that the System
is operating in an extremely dynamic local, state and federal environment that may result in adjustments and reprioritizations to ensure success for the
organization. The organization of the plan should not be seen as a prioritization of initiatives and objectives; rather, it is intended to describe how CCH
will adapt and respond to the new health care landscape.
Once adopted, progress toward attainment of the objectives in IMPACT 2023 will be monitored by the CCH Board of Directors. Tactics, measurements
and milestones will be incorporated into the budget approval process over the next three years.
Please see the glossary for definitions of select health care terms used in this report. Underlined terms are hyperlinked in the electronic PDF.
For more information, please visit www.cookcountyhealth.org.

1  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 ABOUT
About Cook County Health
Cook County Health (CCH or System) is one of the largest

public health systems in the United States, providing a range of
health services regardless of a patient’s ability to pay. Through
the health system and the health plan, CCH serves more than

FT

500,000 unique individuals annually. The System operates:

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, a 450bed tertiary, acute care hospital in the Illinois Medical
District;

• 

Provident Hospital of Cook County, 79-bed
community acute care hospital on the South Side;

• 

More than a dozen community health centers,
which offer primary and specialty care, along with
diagnostic services;

• 

The Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center, a
comprehensive care center for patients with HIV and
other infectious diseases. The CORE Center is the
largest provider of HIV care in the Midwest and one
of the largest in the nation;
Cook County Department of Public Health, a state
and nationally certified public health department
serving suburban Cook County;

Correctional Health Services, which provides health
care services to the detainees at the Cook County Jail
and residents of the Juvenile Temporary Detention
Center every year; and

D

• 

• 

In fall 2012, leveraging the Affordable Care Act (ACA), CCH
launched CountyCare as a demonstration project through a
U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) 1115
Waiver granted to the state of Illinois to early-enroll newly
eligible low-income Cook County adults into a Medicaid
managed care program. Many of CountyCare’s 300,000+
members are long-standing CCH patients who previously
received care, in keeping with CCH’s mission to care for all
regardless of their ability to pay.

RA

• 

• 

The Cook County Department of Public Health (CCDPH) serves
2.5 million residents in 124 municipalities and serves the public
health needs of its jurisdiction through effective and efficient
disease prevention and health promotion programs. CCDPH’s
approach to protecting and promoting health brings residents,
partners and resources together to address issues facing the
communities it serves. The department is responsible for the
prevention of the spread of nearly 70 reportable communicable
diseases and the enforcement of Cook County and Illinois
public health laws, rules and regulations.

CountyCare, the largest Medicaid managed care plan
in Cook County.

The System’s hospitals and ambulatory network, including
its Primary Care Medical Home model, are Joint Commission
accredited. Stroger Hospital also holds certifications in stroke,
burn, perinatal and oncology care.

CountyCare is (a Managed Care Organization) operated by
CCH. Through CCH, CountyCare receives a capitated permember per-month payment and pays for services rendered to
members within the network. CountyCare’s provider network
includes all CCH facilities, every Federally Qualified Health
Center in Cook County, community mental health centers and
drug treatment centers, 4,000 primary care providers, 16,000
specialists and more than 50 hospitals.
CountyCare also covers approved home- and communitybased services, vision and dental services, and allows members
to fill prescriptions at local pharmacies or use CCH pharmacy
services, including a mail-order system.

2  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 LETTER FRO

FT

Letter from the CEO

and the creation of CountyCare, our Medicaid health plan.
When I rejoined the System in 2013 and was subsequently
named CEO in 2014, strategic transformation was well
underway. CountyCare was growing and Illinois was moving
rapidly toward mandated managed care for Medicaid enrollees.
And while the plan was working, other external realities were
crying for attention. Gun violence, a growing epidemic of
opioid-related fatalities, food insecurity, threats to the ACA
and other forms of inequity were increasingly challenging the
communities we have long served. 2016 was a good time for us
to convene and plan the best we could for the next several years
of our ongoing transformation.

D

RA

In 2016, Cook County Health (CCH) embarked on a threeyear strategic plan amidst the most dramatic changes the
health care industry had seen in decades. The Affordable Care
Act (ACA) was the single most transformative social policy
change health care has seen since the introduction of Medicare
and Medicaid in the 1960s. With the ACA came continued
evolution of managed care, new reimbursement models and
most importantly coverage for millions of Americans. CCH
faced an uncertain future if it did not respond boldly to these
new circumstances. Our 180-year legacy of caring for the most
vulnerable was challenged by a groundbreaking policy that
would extend coverage to many of our previously uninsured
patients yet leave others behind. There would still be a need for
a public safety net system to care for the 150,000 individuals
who would remain uninsured in Cook County, but would there
be the resources to pay for their needs at a time when we were
trying to stand on our own financial feet? These newly covered
“legacy” CCH patients could now choose to go elsewhere and
take the accompanying reimbursements with them or we could
develop a plan that would allow us to compete for patients
and families we have long served. To succeed would require
multiple strategies to address access and capacity, finances,
equipment, staffing and quality. Failure was not an option.
As always, our patients were relying on us.
Now almost 10 years after the signing of the ACA, CCH is
proudly carrying out its mission with a renewed sense of
commitment and confidence in a far more complex local and
national environment. We have accomplished a great deal since
the ACA was adopted by Congress, but without question two
things stand out: the willingness of the System, our board and
the County board to adapt in a rapidly changing environment

IMPACT 2020, our 2017-2019 strategic plan, provided the
roadmap we needed to focus on our future while remaining
true to our historical mission. To shift Cook County Health
from a provider of sick care to a provider of health care. To
focus on quality and safety, every patient, every encounter. To
reconsider our system’s role in the larger health care market.
To integrate our component parts and partner with others.
To grow. To serve. To compete. To advocate. To leverage. To
invest. With the strong direction and support of our board,
we developed a plan that does not sit on a shelf but rather has
served as a guide when our board has contemplated strategic
initiatives designed to protect our mission and better meet the
needs of our patients and communities. We anticipated the
need to be nimble, understanding that significant changes at
the local, state and national levels of government and in health
care could require significant shifts in strategy or at least
temporary distractions.
In the end, IMPACT 2020 prioritized critical initiatives like
improving quality and safety, modernizing our facilities and

3  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 investing in our employees. The most tangible result of IMPACT
2020 was the opening of the new Professional Building on
our central campus. With the steadfast commitment of Cook
County Board President Preckwinkle and the support of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners, we replaced the circa
1959 Fantus Clinic with a beautiful, modern facility our patients
and staff deserve. This building is a testament both physically
and symbolically of our commitment to the patients we serve.
Following the opening of the Professional Building in Fall 2018,
we opened a new health center in Arlington Heights in January
2019, and by the end of 2019 we will open new facilities in
North Riverside and Blue Island.

FT

We built the largest Medicaid health plan in the county despite
competing with national brands. We celebrated the 20th
Anniversary of the CORE Center and the 50th Anniversary of
our Trauma Unit. We raised the bar in correctional health and
now serve as a national model for the delivery of high quality
care to the detained. We earned the highly coveted Health
Information Management Systems Society Level 7 designation
for the full integration of our electronic medical record, an
honor that few other systems in the nation have achieved.
We continued to welcome Navy medical personnel into our
renowned trauma unit to exchange knowledge and skills with
our heroes in combat. We attacked the opioid epidemic from
multiple angles and continue to address food and housing
insecurity in meaningful ways. We fought (and will continue
to fight) at every level of government to protect the Affordable
Care Act and expand access to populations it has left behind.
We have leveraged the strengths and expertise of our public
health department to drive strategic decisions that will guide
our population health strategies for years to come. And
importantly, we did all of this (and more) while remaining
responsible stewards of local tax dollars.

partner with others to best utilize limited resources and make
a measurable impact on the communities we serve? Where are
the gaps in services for the communities that rely on us? What
will happen if the ACA is repealed, in part or in whole? How
will inevitable hospital closures impact our communities and
how should CCH respond? How do we supply the increasing
demand for charity care with limited resources? How do we
recruit physicians, nurses and others who reflect the patients
we serve? How do we evolve as both a provider-of-choice and
an employer-of-choice? Can we serve as a catalyst for the type
of large-scale changes that are needed to decrease adverse
childhood events, improve maternal outcomes, improve
health equity and change the trajectory of chronic diseases like
hypertension and diabetes?
These are hard questions without the environmental, socioeconomic and political considerations that exist in our county,
state and nation today. IMPACT 2023 provides some of the
answers and recommendations for the future while recognizing
that unanticipated changes in the environment will require us
to pivot. The coming years will no doubt continue to challenge
us, but there are few organizations that have survived the test
of time with the same core mission as we have.

RA

I am honored to serve as the Chief Executive Officer of this
important community asset, but this is a group effort. It
is a shared commitment to our 180-year-old mission that
has allowed us to be so successful over this last decade.
The support of President Toni Preckwinkle and the Cook
County Board of Commissioners coupled with the vision and
commitment of our independent Board of Directors, has
allowed us to accomplish much to be proud of. I want to thank
our staff for their compassion, their commitment and their
resilience on this journey to transform Cook County Health
into a patient-centered organization that is recognized as the
community asset it is. But most importantly, I want to thank
our patients and our health plan members for placing their
continued trust in us.

D

IMPACT 2023 requires us to reflect on the past three years
with the future in mind. What’s next? What drives us to
provide the highest quality, most culturally competent care
to every patient, every day with a commitment that fosters
an environment committed to zero harm? What must we do
to thrive in an environment where reimbursements will be
driven by outcomes regardless of how sick the patient was
when they presented to us or the complexity of their social
structures? What is our competitive edge against local and
national systems who enjoy greater brand recognition and far
greater resources? What programs and services do we offer
that will set us apart? How do we advocate for universal access
to affordable, high quality health care for all? How do we

We hope that the ambitious plans we have laid out in
IMPACT 2023 demonstrate our continued commitment to the
communities and patients we serve and appropriately honor
the legacy of this noble organization.
Sincerely,

John Jay Shannon, MD     
Chief Executive Officer

4  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 NAVIGATIN
Healthcare Landscape

RISING UNINSURED NUMBERS

Cook County Health holds a unique position in the local, state
and national health care landscape. As such, the decisions,
policies and actions of public officials, private
health systems, insurance carriers and others must be
carefully monitored and used to inform strategies that will
enable CCH to stay true to its 180-year-old mission to care
for all County residents regardless of income, insurance or
immigration status.

In 2016, the number of uninsured individuals in Cook County
(9%), the state of Illinois (7%) and the country (10%) were at a
historic low; a direct result of the Affordable Care Act. Despite
this, CCH has continued to provide more than 50% of all the
charity care in Cook County. In fact, CCH’s proportion of
charity care since the enactment of the ACA has risen despite
decreases experienced by other health care systems. In the
years following the ACA, state and federal actions resulted in
fewer people with coverage, which placed additional demands
on CCH for charity care.

FT

NAVIGATING EXTERNAL REALITIES

The Affordable Care Act allowed CCH to implement strategies
designed to ensure its financial stability in a local environment
where fewer tax dollars have been available.

$481

$389

$276

In 2016, 35% of CCH patients were
uninsured, a historic low. In 2018, due to
actions at the state and federal level, that
number increased to 43%.

CHANGING LANDSCAPE

$254

$252

$175

$164

$121

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

D

2009

 
 
 
 

RA

County Health Fund Allocation to CCH Operating Expenses

$105

$102

$102

2017

2018

2019

Efforts and attempts to erode tenets of the ACA at the state
and federal level have had an impact on CCH resulting in an
increased demand for health care by the uninsured. CCH’s
2017-2019 Strategic Plan, IMPACT 2020, contemplated the
need to remain nimble in a highly dynamic environment.
As CCH completes its 2020-2022 strategic plan, continued
attention and responsiveness to external realities will be
required. The following are just a few of the local, state and
federal considerations that CCH will monitor and adapt to over
the course of the next several years.

IMPACT 2020 recognized that the local health care landscape
would face continued consolidations and even some hospital
closures. As health systems consolidate and expand operations
in areas with attractive payor mixes, traditional safety net
institutions will be stressed trying to fill in the gaps. Additional
safety net closures are probable, placing increased expectations
and demands on CCH. Furthermore, consolidations, market
entrances and exits in the managed care space, as well as
changes in Medicaid policy at the state and federal level, will
pose unique challenges or opportunities to CCH as both a
provider of care and a provider-led health plan.
Over the course of IMPACT 2023, additional changes at the
local, state and federal level are fully expected. Policy changes
that impact immigration, chip away at the Affordable Care
Act or even shift the country toward a single payor system
will have enormous impacts on CCH. The ability to leverage
positive changes, pivot where necessary and limit risk will be
key to the future of CCH.

5  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 MISSION
Mission

FT

To deliver integrated health services with dignity
and respect regardless of a patient’s ability to pay;
foster partnerships with other health providers and
communities to enhance the health of the public;
and advocate for policies that promote and protect
the physical, mental and social well-being of the
people of Cook County.

VISION

RA

Vision

D

In support of its public health mission, Cook County
Health will be recognized locally, regionally and
nationally – and by patients and employees – as
a progressively evolving model for an accessible,
integrated, patient-centered and fiscally-responsible
health care system focused on assuring high quality
care and improving the health of the residents of
Cook County.

6  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 FOCUS AREA 1
Deliver High
Quality Care

HIGH QUAL
Deliver High Quality Care

Care managers are often nurses or social workers who are
supported by a cadre of professionals from case managers to
community health workers. The addition of more than 200
care managers and community health workers in the past three
years has enabled CCH to offer care management services to
over 8,000 individuals at any given time. Care management
also addresses cultural, legal and linguistic barriers that might
otherwise impede the progress of a patient and links patients
with social services that may improve outcomes such as food
support or housing.

FT

There is nothing more fundamental in health care than the
delivery of safe, high quality care for every patient at every
encounter. Over the past three years, intense focus has been
placed on implementing evidence-based, highly reliable
systems to ensure that all patients are provided the same
opportunity to heal regardless of the complexities of their
individual needs. Accreditation by The Joint Commission
(TJC) signifies compliance with standards of care established
by the U.S. Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS).
In the past three years, Stroger and Provident hospitals as
well as CCH’s ambulatory network and Primary Care Medical
Homes have been reaccredited by TJC. In a highly competitive
environment, accreditation must be viewed as the minimum
standard. At CCH, efforts to improve quality and ensure
patient safety are about raising the bar.

RA

Since the adoption of IMPACT 2020, more than 90% of CCH
employees – from physicians to food service workers – have
been trained in “high reliability” practices designed to ensure
that all employees understand how attention to detail, clear
communication, and a questioning attitude assure safe care
of the patient. High reliability training empowers staff at all
levels in the organization to ask questions and raise concerns
where patient and employee safety may be compromised. Daily
safety huddles are now the organizational norm throughout
CCH, providing a scheduled opportunity for multidisciplinary
groups to discuss any matter that may impact patient safety
whether on a specific unit, at a clinic or in correctional health.

Significant progress has been made in providing care
coordination services at CCH to assist with opioid discharges
and other behavioral health needs. And while today, our care
coordinators have a full panel of patients, the full value of care
coordination will be realized in the coming years as CCH fully
integrates the model across the System connecting all relevant
areas from correctional health to public health, from the
emergency department to inpatient and outpatient settings.

D

Quality initiatives come in all shapes and sizes. They include
large-scale systematic efforts as well as individualized plans
designed to address the needs of our most complex patients
through the vast expansion of care coordination activities over
the past three years.
The needs of a 45-year-old diabetic with heart disease are
vastly different from those of a 30-year-old pregnant woman
with a substance use disorder. One may have a strong family
network that can assist them post-discharge while the other
may not have stable housing or access to healthy foods.
Care management provides patients and health plan members
with a “back-stop” by ensuring that they have access to the
medical and social services needed to improve their health.

Expert staff and modern facilities are at the core of providing
high quality care.

Specific investments in nursing in the coming years will
move CCH closer to Magnet® Status. A shared governance
model is being implemented that will give frontline nurses
the opportunity to share in decision making that impacts
patient care practices and the work environment. Leadership
development programs will provide critical training to enable
nurses to advance their career at CCH and a nurse residency
program will expose new nurses to CCH earlier in their careerseeking process.
In 2018, CCH finished construction on its first new building
since Stroger Hospital opened in 2002. The 282,000 square
foot professional building at the corner of Polk Street and
Damen Avenue did far more than provide a modern space to
match the care CCH has long provided. It delivered on the
promise to provide high quality care with dignity and respect
and is critical to the System’s growth strategy. It allowed CCH
to create interdisciplinary teams around complex conditions
like cancer. It also enabled the decommissioning of the Fantus
Clinic and the construction of a new parking lot designed to
provide expanded parking for patients.

8  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Significant investments have been made in existing facilities
over the past several years including the renovation of the
fourth floor of Stroger Hospital to create a Women’s and
Children’s Center offering inpatient and outpatient services
in a multi-disciplinary model. Strengthening maternal/
child health services throughout the System with linkages to
additional support services will be imperative as CCH seeks to
improve maternal/child health outcomes in the coming years.

Regardless of these investments, CCH’s ability to compete
in the health care environment will depend almost entirely
on its ability to deliver an excellent patient experience as
reflected by our patients and benchmarked by external rating
organizations. IMPACT 2020 set out a number of strategies
to improve the patient experience including increasing the
number of bilingual staff, reducing wait times, providing
cultural competency and customer service training and
launching its own transportation fleet. These are imperative
in a modern health system and IMPACT 2023 recognizes
a number of new opportunities for further improvement
including additional efforts to improve cultural competency.

FT

New facilities throughout Cook County will provide much
needed comprehensive services closer to our patients,
including dental and behavioral health, and will include
important linkages to programs like the Women, Infant and
Children’s Supplemental Nutrition Program (WIC). IMPACT
2023 continues to advance an ambitious capital improvement
strategy in new buildings and new equipment.

in 2016 which allows a primary care physician the ability to
electronically submit questions or images to a CCH specialist
who reviews and responds to the request in less than 48 hours.
Nearly half the time, the use of eConsult avoids an unnecessary
office or emergency room visit for the patient, thus ensuring
the System has capacity for those who most need it.

Health care is dependent on technology. At CCH, this is
best demonstrated by the 1.4 million computer transactions
occurring every day that are dependent on a complex integration
of more than 300 computer applications across the System.

RA

CCH’s journey to providing the highest level of technology
available began in 2002 when the first electronic medical
record (EMR) was implemented. Since that time, CCH has
literally moved from paper medical records to a fully integrated
electronic system across the inpatient, outpatient and
correctional health arenas. An individual who accesses services
at Cook County Jail may see a CCH primary care physician
months after discharge. That patient will have a digital file
that the care team can immediately access, saving time and
money while preventing unnecessary and duplicative testing.

There is perhaps no clinical service that embodies the mission
of CCH better than Correctional Health. It is where one can
witness firsthand the intersection of multiple inequities in our
society. Caring for the detained populations at the Cook County
Jail and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center is a complex
yet incredibly rewarding endeavor. The past few years have
brought the opioid and mental health epidemics to the front
door of these facilities. CCH has responded with innovative
programs to care for detainees while in the jail and provides
warm hand-offs to community partners for individuals at
discharge. Since initiating Medicaid applications at the jail
in 2013, more than 20,000 detainees have been enrolled,
providing them with continued access to critical communitybased services upon release. In 2018, CCH realized its goal to
markedly improve the care and services provided to detainees.
Achieving this goal led to the dissolution of a 10-year old U.S.
Department of Justice consent decree. In 2018, CCH began
providing mental health services at the Juvenile Temporary
Detention Center (JTDC) as part of its commitment to provide
comprehensive and integrated behavioral health services
across the organization. Today, the efforts and commitment of
the correctional health team stand as a national model for the
delivery of care to the justice-involved.

D

CCH’s commitment to meeting technology advances and
demands was recognized in 2018 by the Health Information
Management Systems Society (HIMSS) as a Stage 7
organization – an honor bestowed on health systems reflecting
the highest standards in the implementation, integration and
execution of the electronic medical record. Less than 10% of
health systems in the United States have earned this distinction.
As technology continues to advance, health care Information
Technology (IT) must keep pace at all levels from online
scheduling of appointments to revenue cycle to security to
artificial intelligence and everything in between. Evaluating,
understanding and executing IT strategies to ultimately
improve health outcomes is a constant process that requires
both human and financial resources.
CCH has also made investments in technology to improve the
patient experience. The health system introduced eConsult

Delivering high quality care requires a multi-disciplinary
approach and organizational commitment that extends beyond
the life of any one strategic plan. It is the core of what every
health system sets out to do and CCH is no different.

9  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 DELIVER HIGH QUALITY CARE
IMPACT 2020 ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
The Joint Commission (TJC) accreditation for Stroger, Provident and Ambulatory Health Centers; TJC Primary
Care Medical Home certification

• 

Implemented training in safety culture and high reliability throughout the organization

• 

Established a Women’s and Children’s center in Stroger Hospital

• 

Behavioral health integrated into primary care health centers

• 

Increased patients assigned to a Primary Care Medical Home (PCMH) each year

• 

Added CLAS cultural competence item to patient satisfaction surveys

• 

Established care coordination program to provide health risk and social determinant screening and connection to
community-based support services

• 

Opened new outpatient health centers on the Central Campus (Professional Building) and in Arlington Heights

• 

Substantial progress on replacement health centers for Oak Forest, Cicero, Logan Square and Provident

• 

Achieved substantial compliance with US Department of Justice at Cook County Jail

• 

Correctional Health implemented Naloxone distribution at the jail

• 

Assumed responsibility for mental health services at the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center

• 

Attained National Commission on Correctional Health Care Certification for the Juvenile Detention Center

• 

Implemented connectivity HUB to facilitate orders/results between system and community-based providers,
compatible with varied electronic medical record systems

• 

Supported the creation of Community Triage Centers for individuals with urgent behavioral health needs in
Roseland and West Garfield Park

• 

Obtained Health Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) Level 7 designation

• 

Increased “Willingness to Recommend” from first quarter 2017 to first quarter 2019 by 9%

D

RA

FT

• 

10  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Focus Area 1: Deliver High Quality Care
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

1.1 Continuously
improve clinical
operations, practices
and procedures across
CCH to enhance
quality, reliability,
safety and efficiency.

1.1 A Develop specific strategies and implementation
plans related to the quality pillars (patient experience,
readmissions, safe processes of care, clinical documentation,
ambulatory pay for performance and mortality).

Achieve targets established by the High Reliability
Organization (HRO) Committees. Exceed average/median
external rating.

1.1 B Establish maternal/child health services at the
community centers as key providers of maternal/child
services. Assess and pilot additional strategies to support
the continuum of maternal health services throughout
the System.

Implement new maternal health navigator program
at every Health Center that provides prenatal care.
Increase 3% year-over-year prenatal visits; deliveries;
newborn visits from a FY18 baseline of 6,205 prenatal visits;
987 deliveries; and 1,087 newborn visits.

1.1 C Enhance and reinforce organizational practices
that improve a culture of safety and result in safe
patient outcomes.

10% reduction in harm index over next three years.

FT

OBJECTIVE

Achieve benchmarks for HEDIS and Pay for Performance.

1.1 E Improve inpatient and ambulatory patient care
by adopting strategies that move towards nursing
Magnet® certification.

Achieve nursing-sensitive safety outcomes and process
metrics (NDNQI Metrics) to allow consistent and
meaningful progress towards Magnet®.

1.1 F Assure reliable supply chain to provide timely and safe
clinical practice.

Streamline procurement process to reduce time to enter
into contracts.

1.1 G Deploy appropriate emerging technology to improve
portability and functionality.

Achieve HIMSS for Infrastructure certification; Implement
Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) system-wide.

1.1 H Leverage IT in the clinical environment by using
artificial intelligence and predictive analytics to improve
patient care. Review the electronic medical record and
determine if there are any untapped management tools
to activate.

Finalize a plan on using artificial intelligence and
predictive analytics by the 2nd quarter of 2020 that includes
areas of focus and relevant metrics. Complete assessment
of the Cerner Electronic Medical Record platform for
additional management tools.

1.1 I Implement data governance model to improve data
integrity and provide meaningful and timely reports to
measure service performance against external benchmarks.
Increase independent user access to data dashboards to
improve knowledge, decision making and patient care.

Establish definitions and requirements for data input
and provide routine reporting and real-time dashboards
available for managers and for quality/performance
oversight activities. Ability to produce ad hoc reports and
generate data within established timelines. Increase number
of dashboard users. Increase number of standard Cerner
reports useful to local managers.

1.1 J Optimize health system integration and care transitions
to benefit patients and the health system using an approach
that is consistent with evidence-based practices.

Improved discharge planning that includes engaging the
Patient Support Center. Reduce length of stay and improved
utilization of appropriately reimburseable admission status.

D

RA

1.1 D Improve the health status of patients by implementing
the tenets of the medical home at CCH outpatient centers
and practices that provide value.

1.1 K Modernize information technology infrastructure to
improve the patient experience.

Implement free guest Wi-Fi across CCH where practical;
strengthen cybersecurity; Refresh network infrastructure
enabling faster network speeds, high availability, and next
generation technologies; Fully optimize existing technology
such as Tele-Tracking, TIGR to enhance patient care.
Implement systems to ensure external providers can easily
refer patients to CCH and receive results following new and
follow up appointments.

1.1 L Assess contribution of Race, Ethnicity, and Language
(REaL) factors to adverse events and develop mitigation
strategies. Assess the contribution of disparities to health
outcomes and adverse events. Determine if a patient’s
cultural or racial factors contribute to adverse outcomes and
evaluate the causes of these outcomes. Focus quality efforts
in areas that are directly impacted by disparities.

100% of intake staff are trained on how to accurately input
race, ethnicity and language (REaL) data by 2022. Begin to
validate and stratify outcomes data by REaL.

11  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 OBJECTIVE

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

1.1 M Deploy applications that enhance services and
facilitate exchange of clinical and public health data.

Analyses of clinical conditions informed by public health
data sets to integrate into clinical practice strategies.

1.1 N Launch culturally-tailored health promotion
programming and interventions. Shape our health centers
to be culturally and linguistically sensitive.

Implement new health promotion program within
community health centers by December 2020.

1.2 Develop systems
that meet or exceed
expectations and
enhance the patient
experience.

1.2 A Implement best practices to enhance patient
experience using data from patient satisfaction surveys. Use
improvement strategies and support leadership strategies at
the unit, department and site levels.

Continue to produce an annual patient experience plan
informed by survey results. Improve patient ratings yearover-year.

1.2 B Develop comprehensive cultural competency strategy.

Train 100% of employees in cultural competency. Facilitate
hiring of additional bi-lingual employees by increasing the
number of bilingual job descriptions to 50, 75, 100 for 2020,
2021 and 2022 respectively, from a current baseline of 20.

1.2 C Launch initiatives focused on customer service, patient
conveniences (e.g. Quiet Campaign).

Increase “willingness to recommend” to 60th percentile by
2022, up from the current 51st percentile.

1.3 A Enhance strategic partnerships with community
providers.

CCH patient population meets HEDIS Medicaid target for an
agreed upon set of metrics.

1.3 B Develop a roadmap of service needs by conducting a
geographic analysis of providers, income, disease prevalence,
etc., throughout the County to determine gaps in health
services and recommend a service delivery plan.

Finalize comprehensive review of health care services (in
2020) in the County by provider type and population that
can be updated, but would also include model/formula to
explore and evaluate various expansion and/or partnership
opportunities. Develop a multi-year strategy to grow CCH
specialty services to meet community needs in a financially
viable manner. Establish effective strategies that meet
community needs and bring value to CCH.

RA

1.3 Improve the
availability of and
access to health care,
especially preventive
care, for Cook County
residents.

FT

1.1 Continuously
improve clinical
operations, practices
and procedures across
CCH to enhance
quality, reliability,
safety and efficiency.

Complete master facilities plan. Open new health facilities at
Hanson Park, North Riverside, Blue Island, Harrison Square
and the new Provident facility. Identify additional locations
for health center expansions or replacements.

1.3 D Develop a comprehensive patient education strategy
(e.g. diabetes prevention training, prenatal education, blood
pressure self testing).

Establish inter-professional Patient Education committee for
the System and establish metrics first quarter of 2020. 100%
of diabetic patients are offered diabetic education, and 30%
of diabetic patients receive diabetes management education
by 2022. 100% of prenatal patients are offered prenatal
education, and 30% complete entire prenatal education
curriculum by 2022.

1.3 E Take advantage of state and federal initiatives to
innovate care delivery services and programs, beneficial to
patients and members.

Implement Integrated Health Homes if approved by
the state.

1.3 F Mature behavioral health portfolio.

Full integration of behavioral health into primary
care. Enhance Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT)
infrastructure with workflow/pathway creation of level 1, 2,
and 3 Behavioral Health services. Secure grant funding for
opioid treatment and engage law enforcement partners in
the development of deflection to treatment programs.

D

1.3 C Complete a master facilities plan and make investments
to make CCH more competitive.

1.3 G Implement operational improvements to tap into
unused capacity and create more access.

Set target of “third next available” appointments to less
than 14 days for new specialty referrals. Target increase
in eConsult use by 10%. Increase in-care list by 25% from
FY2019 baseline. Pilot use of in-home monitoring for
selected patient population (e.g. diabetes and hypertension).

12  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 OBJECTIVE

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

1.4 A Conduct analysis of services and identify gaps in the
continuum of care to build valuable strategies for special
populations (e.g. elderly, disabled, etc.).

Complete analysis and implementation plans on service gaps
with recommendations on services to be provided by CCH or
through partner organizations. Develop recommendations
including on long-term care (including nursing home care),
embedded care coordinators and senior care services in
outpatient centers, home-based connections, telehealth,
community-based care in lieu of institutionalization for
eldery and special needs populations.

1.5 Integrate services
with correctional
health to improve
health outcomes
by ensuring
continuation of care
when individuals
are released from
correctional or
detention facilities and
reside in Cook County.

1.5 A Improve transitions of care to the community through
enhanced discharge planning.

Increase discharge planning such as the Naloxone Program
and other warm hand-offs in the community by 20%.
Expand transitions into community-based services through
partnerships with CCH care management and PCMH
providers, including linkages to housing, community
based mental health providers. Establish community care
coordination for justice-involved youth.

D

RA

FT

1.4 Ensure a
continuum of services
to meet evolving needs
to ensure continuity of
care and meet patient
needs at all stages of
their lives.

13  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 FOCUS AREA 2
Grow to Serve
and Compete

GROW TO S
Grow to Serve and Compete

diagnostics or routine treatments. In 2019, Provident Hospital
reopened its Intensive Care Unit and plans to reopen its busy
emergency room to ambulance runs.

IMPACT 2020 also contemplated a growth strategy for the
System’s health plan. As the result of effective acquisition and
marketing strategies and the addition of a member reward
program, today CountyCare stands as the largest Medicaid
managed care plan in Cook County with more than 300,000
members or 30% of the market share. Maintaining market
share in an environment where continued contraction among
managed care plans is likely will require increased focus
on member services, benefits and marketing. Critical to
CCH’s success will be the ability to serve more CountyCare
members at CCH health centers and hospitals and with
various telehealth strategies. IMPACT 2023 lays out a series
of strategies to provide a greater proportion of services to
CountyCare members while keeping CCH doctors and facilities
as network providers in the other Medicaid managed care
plans operating in Cook County. CCH must also effectively
assist members with redetermination and advocate for
systematic improvements in processing eligibility and
redetermination applications at the state level.

FT

The implementation of the Affordable Care Act and mandatory
managed care in Illinois’ Medicaid program were the catalyst
for CCH to build a comprehensive strategy shifting from
the provision of sick care to the provision of health care.
Reimbursements were no longer based on the number of
individuals seen in a clinic or the procedures performed.
Capitation and value-based reimbursement models
incentivized providers to keep their patients healthy and out
of expensive inpatient settings.

RA

As a provider of complex specialty care operating in a managed
care environment, CCH has developed a growth strategy to
increase the number of patients it serves in a primary care
capacity and to increase services to those referred by external
primary care providers. To accomplish this, CCH is in the
midst of a multi-year capital program to renovate, relocate or
rebuild its community health centers using a model that allows
for the expansion of primary care and the integration of more
specialty care in the community. Services such as dental and
behavioral health will be standard in new facilities to address
glaring health inequities in access to these critical services.
Furthermore, prioritizing important relationships with Federally
Qualified Health Centers will require additional specialty care
responsiveness from the System.

D

On the inpatient side, CCH is planning to build a new, modern
facility on the Provident campus that will consolidate inpatient
and outpatient services to provide exceptional care and attract
new patients. Provident Hospital typically cares for an older
population. A new facility focused on specific service lines
provides CCH with an opportunity to grow both inpatient
and outpatient volumes and offer state-of-the-art diagnostic
services, relieving patients of travel to Stroger for common

More than 14,000 CCH patients or health plan members are
aging into Medicare every year. These are patients who have
established relationships with providers but in the absence of
a specific strategy around aging patients, many historically left
CCH when they transitioned into Medicare coverage. In the
coming year, CCH will execute an innovative strategy that will
provide these patients with coverage options that will enable
coordinated care management, improve transitions of care,
promote timely follow-up and build engagement.

GROW TO SERVE AND COMPETE

IMPACT 2020 ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
• 

Acquired former Family Health Network and Aetna Better Health members, doubling the CountyCare
membership we serve to over 300,000

• 

CCH is on pace to increase unique primary care patients seen at CCH by 10%, to at least 96,669 by the end
of FY2019

• 

CountyCare domestic spend increased from $187 million in FY2016 to $200 million in FY2018

• 

The health plan achieved NCQA accreditation in 2017

15  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Focus Area 2: Grow to Serve and Compete
OBJECTIVE

EXPECTED OUTCOME

2.1 A A Grow services lines that are needed by the
community and deploy them geographically, in a patientcentered way to ensure CCH is providing the “right care at
the right time and right place.”

Primary Care: Volume of primary care patients increase by
3% year-over-year from a baseline of 92,143 primary care
patients in FY2018.
Specialty Care: Stroger Campus to provide for key
specialties minimum 4 days/week, evening and Saturday
hours. Provident Campus to provide full array of specialties
minimum 3 days/week and evening hours. Provide selected
specialties for new and expanded outpatient locations.
Review all community locations to determine increased
deployment of specialists for greater access to specialists.

2.1 B Maximize use of services and overall utilization.

Overall: Achieve 80% facility capacity utilization. Achieve
80% of primary care providers at productivity of 10 patients
per session by 2022.;
Provident: Reinstitute ambulance runs; Average Daily Census
increase from 12 by 1.3% each year. ER Growth by 1.3% in FY
2020, 1% increase in FY 2021, 1% increase in FY 2022.

FT

2.1 Establish CCH as a
provider of choice.

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

Create an operational efficiency dashboard to include:
Average time from ED arrival to ED departure for admitted
ED patients; Average time from admit decision to ED
departure time for admitted patients; Average arrival to ED
departure for discharged ED patients; Physician discharge
orders before 9:00 am; ED Left Without Being Seen (LWBS)
to 2% by 2022.

2.1 D Market CCH services and strengthen the CCH brand.

Position CCH providers/leadership as thought leaders
on quality and population health management. Complete
rebranding process. Conduct market research. Develop
consumer and non-consumer facing strategies to raise
awareness of specialty care. Develop sponsorship strategy.
Develop strategies to maintain CountyCare market share.

RA

2.1 C Improve Stroger and Provident Hospital Emergency
Department throughput.

Collaborate with Cook County Risk Management
Department to explore feasibility, timing, and tactics to
make CCH services a health service alternative.

2.1 F Minimize external referrals for care.

Internal referrals increase; eConsults increase (including by
CCH providers); third next available is less than 14 days for
new and follow up.

2.1 G Establish additional specific programs at Provident to
maximize meeting the community needs.

Create Centers of Excellence for women’s health
(gynecology, cardiology, breast, endocrine), lifestyle center
(dietary, fitness, chronic disease management), orthopedic
center (podiatry, joints, hand), and men’s health programs
(urology, cardiology, endocrine).

D

2.1 E Explore opportunities for CCH to be a provider for
County employees as well as other employers.

2.1 H Maximize value of CCH resources (people, technology)
to provide greater access to benefit patients.

Create an operaring room dashboard to include: first case
start times (target 80%), growth targets (10% per year),
case cancellations rates (less than 5%), block utilization
(95%) and operating room hours (80% utilization).
Utilization of operating rooms at Provident and Stroger
(80% of all operating room capacity). Implement
telemedicine/tele psychiatry.

16  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 OBJECTIVE
2.2 Retain and
grow CountyCare
market share.

EXPECTED OUTCOME

2.2 A Explore options in acquiring additional members
through changes in the marketplace.

Gain auto-assignment for eligible justice-involved
individuals in Cook County.

2.2 B Continue to implement a strong member retention
and growth strategy to retain market share. Advocate
for state policy changes that result in a simpler
redetermination process.

Achieve plan redetermination at least 20% greater
than the State.

2.2 C Enhance incentive programs and member benefits for
improved health outcomes and member retention.

Offer a value-added benefit package that ties to quality
outcomes, increases member engagement,
and improves member retention.

2.3 A Execute Medicare Advantage strategy that includes
Chronic Conditions Special Needs Plan (C-SNP)persons
with HIV; Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP);
Institutional Equivalent Special Needs Plan (IE-SNP);
Medicare-Medicaid Alignment Initiative (MMAI).

Approval by CMS with Model of Care and Network for all
three lines of business.

FT

2.3 Grow market
share in nontraditional CCH
populations.

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

Develop competencies in-house to evaluate and negotiate
risk arrangements, and ensure CCH has the ability to accept
managed care patients who are part of risk arrangements.

D

RA

2.3 B Migrate to managed care capability including
accepting risk.

17  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 11
FOCUS AREA 3

Foster Fiscal

Stewardship

FISCAL STE
Foster Fiscal Stewardship

and matured over decades of caring for a mainly insured
population. In 2013, CCH had one main payor and by 2018
had more than 20, each with its own processes. Significant
investment in infrastructure, technology, staff and training
was required to succeed in an environment that now includes
multiple Medicaid and Medicare managed care organizations.
From 2013 to 2017, the number of bills generated and the
charges associated with them increased by 50%, a testament
to how far the organization has come in developing a modern
revenue cycle system. The collection of billions of dollars in
earned patient service revenue is what has allowed CCH to
reduce its reliance on local taxpayers over the past 10 years.

FT

As a public institution competing with private health systems,
CCH has to carefully balance every strategy to succeed.
Through the improvements in operations and several
dimensions of the revenue cycle, CCH is proud that it has
reduced its reliance on local taxpayers to fund its operations.
In fact, today the only operating revenue CCH receives
from local taxpayers funds the Cook County Department
of Public Health and Correctional Health Services wherein
CCH provides services that do not have reimbursement. The
remaining 97% is generated by the health system.

CCH’s local tax support is one of the lowest in the nation when
compared with other large public health systems. Yet without
the financial resources to invest in infrastructure, technology
and employees, CCH will be at a competitive disadvantage,
making it even more critical for CCH to collect every dollar
possible to protect the mission of the organization.

RA

This has been at the center of CCH’s financial strategy over the
past several years. Prior to the enactment of the Affordable
Care Act, CCH had served mostly uninsured individuals and
those in fee-for-service Medicaid. Medicaid reimbursement
was based on the number of individuals cared for in the
inpatient or outpatient setting. Most of our uninsured patients
qualified for charity care, which in 2017 exceeded $296M and
represented 53% of all the charity care provided by hospitals
in Cook County. Without patient fees and other revenues that
assist in covering the uninsured, CCH’s ability to carry out its
mission is seriously threatened.

Further illustrating CCH’s success since the adoption of
IMPACT 2020, CCH has assumed a significant portion of the
current pension liability for its 6,700 employees and beginning
in 2019, has assumed all debt service on new capital projects.
CCH is working closely with Cook County government on
strategies that will allow it to assume a greater proportion of
its current pension obligations.

Controlling expenses through the utilization of acuity and
clinical activity based staffing models, maximizing automation
and tracking out-of-network expenses, coupled with
advocating for the continuation of important programs like the
Affordable Care Act and the 340B Drug Discount program will
ensure CCH’s continued financial success.

D

The simplicity of that historical payor mix did not require
the sophisticated systems that private hospitals had built

CCH has successfully secured more than $23 million in grant
funding since 2016 and the continued maturity of the Cook
County Health Foundation promises additional non-tax
revenue to support CCH initiatives.

19  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 FOSTER FISCAL STEWARDSHIP
IMPACT 2020 ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
Achieved 97% self-funding for operations, minimizing the local taxpayer burden

• 

Increased CountyCare member volume to over 300,000

• 

Began funding a portion of the current annual pension payments

• 

Increased Medicaid and Medicare Managed Care revenue from 2016 to 2018 by 8.2%

• 

Self-funding capital equipment and improvements from the operating budget

• 

Secured $77 million in financial support for Graduate Medical Education

• 

Secured $23 million in grant funds between 2016 and July, 2019

• 

Implemented the Countywide ERP system at CCH

• 

Improvements implemented in provider documentation

• 

Executed marketing and branding strategy

• 

Reduced “bad debt allowance” by 22% or $69 million from 2017 to 2018 by improving the quality and
collectability of payments owed

D

RA

FT

• 

20  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Focus Area 3: Foster Fiscal Stewardship
OBJECTIVE

EXPECTED OUTCOME

3.1 A Maximize reimbursements from payors by
continuing to improve operations, including revenue cycle
improvements.

Increase MCO revenue by 10% each year from FY2019
baseline. Achieve 60% Pay for Performance (P4p) targets
and benchmarks; Increase provider empanelment for
MCOs to 80% of Medical Group Management Association
(MGMA) or the FQHC benchmark. Reduce claims denials
for managed care organizations by 80% from current levels
and reduce accounts receivable. Improve authorization
process for inpatient/observation care by Inpatient Care
Coordination team for CountyCare members.

3.1 B Maximize extramural grant sources in alignment
CCH initiatives, including primary care, maternal/child
health, workforce development, behavioral health, HIV,
social determinants of health and capital improvements;
capture 10% indirect cost. Continue to build out the grants
administrative infrastructure and increase the funds
managed by CCH.

Increase extramural support by $5M annually, including
capital. Increased alignment and coordination of extramural
activities to improve impact.

3.1 C Continually improve documentation through ongoing
provider feedback and provider education to support timely,
complete and accurate billing.

Write and implement a three-year plan to improve
documentation.

3.1 D Maximize auto-assignment for CountyCare.

Improve health plan quality and operational performance
to assure maintaining and improving auto-assignments.

3.1 E Increase CountyCare membership in the Integrated
Care Program (ICP) by assisting members with disabilities
attain Social Security Income/Social Security Disability
Income (SSI/SSDI).

Have RFP and procurement complete by 10/1/19 and
vendor selection and engagement by FY2020. CountyCare
will report on SSI/SSDI enrollment in Q2 2020.

3.1 F Identification of Skilled Nursing Facility and Home
Health Partners for CountyCare members.

CountyCare SNF quality program requiring HFS approval
has been submitted and is being reviewed by the State.

3.1 G Advocate for local government financial support of
unfunded mandates such as correctional health and public
health services.

Public and Correctional Health expenses continue to be
covered by local taxpayer support.

3.1 H Optimize information technology infrastructure to
improve revenue capture.

Successful implementation of patient accounting system,
online bill payment, online financial counseling.

3.2 A CountyCare to continue implementation of Medical
Cost Action Plan that all CountyCare departments articipate
in to reduce costs through a combination of operational
efficiencies and recontracting.

Achieve $30 million in savings to CountyCare plan,
while preserving excellence in clinical services and
plan operations.

3.2 B Increasing full-time employees, reducing agency and
overtime costs.

Streamline and automate processes that reduce time to hire
and expedite other human resource processes. Reduction in
vacancies to 10% of workforce.

3.2 C Maximize lab automation.

Achieve 95% error free rate.

3.2 D Utilize data (volume, unit costs) to ensure staffing is
in-line with appropriate best practices.

Establish annual targets based on industry benchmarks for
overall staffing, including overtime and agency staffing that
align with volumes and clinical complexity.

RA

FT

3.1 Optimize CCH
revenue.

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

D

3.2 Control costs and
maximize efficiencies.

21  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 3.1 Optimize CCH
revenue.

EXPECTED OUTCOME

3.2 E Evaluate training programs to determine optimal size
and CCH strategic and fiscal value.

Assessment of 2 physician training programs with
recommendations to leadership about strategic and
financial attributes to inform organizational planning.

3.2 F Conduct event review and overall analysis for all
litigation and implement and communicate lessons learned
to mitigate financial risks through employee training.

With Risk Management, identify litigation trends and
implement strategic interventions where appropriate
to minimize risk. Continue trainings for staff across the
organization on topics like litigation, informed consent,
following event reporting and evaluation protocols in order
to preserve privileges in litigation matters.

3.2 G Reduce facility expenses.

Complete close out of health system operations at the
Oak Forest property and fully transferred Oak Forest
maintenance to the County. Establish internal
construction team to reduce facility rehab costs. Move
all remaining employees out of the Polk Administration
building to allow the County to proceed with building
decommissioning. Integrate CORE facility maintenance
into CCH portfolio. Review the structure of the building and
maintenance division and leverage these resources across
all of CCH locations.

3.2 H Transition high volume network providers to valuebased contracts for CountyCare.

Execute at least one significant contract with a network
provider that transfers risk while preserving excellence in
member services in 2020.

3.2 I Improve competition for CCH contracted work
by increasing transparency of what we plan to procure
each year.

Establish Annual Buying Plan and increase MBE/WBE
contract participation.

3.3 A Optimize pharmacy economics.

Revenue optimize: Identify contractual opportunities to
increase pharmacy reimbursement for current formulary
products. Insource specialty pharmaceuticals creating
opportunity to generate revenue.
Minimize Expenses: Maximize use of programs available
that will reduce medication expense (such as 340B
program) or that will allow eligible patients to obtain
required medications through external programs (such
as insurance Medication Assistance Programs). Reduce
practice variation, especially around chronic disease
management, to ensure prescriptions are evidence-based,
decreasing variation of drug uses among expense classes.

D

RA

3.3 Pharmaceutical
Management.

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

FT

OBJECTIVE

22  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 FOCUS AREA 4
Leverage and
Invest in Assets

LEVERAGE
Leverage and Invest in Assets

Agreements, CCH must work with its labor partners to identify
and implement tactics that respect these requirements but
that allow CCH to operate in a competitive environment where
employees can be recruited and on-boarded quickly and where
compensation is aligned with role complexity, market realities,
and performance.

CCH has recently introduced a catalogue with dozens of
training opportunities for leaders and employees and looks
forward to expanding educational opportunities across
the organization regardless of position or grade. These
opportunities must focus on operational and individual skillbuilding as well as large-scale organizational imperatives from
retaining insured populations to improving maternal-child
health outcomes.

FT

Employees are the heart of any organization and the primary
determinant of its success. With more than 6,000 employees
working in a 24-7 operation spread across one of the nation’s
largest counties, CCH must be intentional in leveraging and
investing in a workforce that is committed to the historical
mission of the organization, while applying modern
business practices that will achieve success in a competitive
environment and establish CCH as an employer of choice.

The implementation of the county-wide performance
management system will provide additional opportunities
for employees and their managers to discuss professional
development as well as individual goals and objectives on a
routine basis. CCH seeks to work with its labor and county
partners to identify growth opportunities that recognize
employment longevity as well as specific union seniority.

RA

Leveraging the workforce starts with a genuine interest in
understanding the workforce. To that end, CCH conducted
an employee engagement survey in 2018 to understand
everything from what motivates them to what frustrates them;
from how they view the organization to how they envision their
future. More than 3,000 employees completed the survey.
The results of the survey have been used to develop strategies
to better engage employees at both the department and
system level. Departments will report out on their strategies
at monthly leadership meetings, sharing ideas, successes and
challenges across the organization. Additionally, a multidisciplinary employee engagement committee is working on a
number of system-wide strategies including formal ‘employee
of the month’ and service anniversary programs.

D

Fundamental to staffing an efficient, modern and complex
health care system is the ability to recruit and retain top
talent and to prioritize workforce training and development,
offer a competitive compensation structure and provide an
environment that allows professionals the opportunity to
work at the top of their license. Today’s health care systems,
including CCH, are leveraging the skills and talents of new roles
like care coordinators and community health care workers to
complement the work of others and, meet the needs of patients
in the most culturally sensitive and convenient manner possible.
CCH is fortunate that its employees are deeply committed to
the mission but has been challenged in providing education,
career development and other investments that are customary
in private health systems. Timely recruitment is an important
consideration as the health care workforce remains competitive
yet CCH faces a number of requirements that increase the time
it takes to hire; competitors can hire a health care worker in a
fraction of the time. From compliance with the employment
plan and requirements from the Collective Bargaining

CCH will continue to tackle serious public health concerns
from lead poisoning and violence to sexually transmitted
infections using evidence-based approaches, community
outreach and even traditional marketing strategies to ensure
that the communities impacted have a deep understanding
of the issues and access to a portfolio of services designed to
prevent and/or mitigate injury and disease. These efforts will
require CCH to collaborate with other organizations including
the Chicago Department of Public Health to maximize
resources and impact.
CCH has historically been an insular organization focused on
sick care. In recent years, efforts have been made to broaden the
understanding and promotion of the health system and health
plan throughout the county. CCH’s Community Affairs team
participates in approximately 400 events annually. Additionally,
CCH staff across multiple areas chair or sit on the boards and
committees of dozens of community-based organizations
in an effort to raise awareness of the programs and services
and identify opportunities to link patients or individuals to

24  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 additional services. IMPACT 2023 contemplates a multidisciplinary Community Affairs plan that includes health and
educational programming at CCH sites based on community
needs, participation in additional outreach events and increased
collaboration between CCH’s community health centers and
the communities they serve. IMPACT 2023 will also see the
completion the of implementation of Community Advisory
Councils (CACs) at all its centers. The CACs are designed to
ensure that CCH has a deep understanding of the communities
with the goal of providing additional programs and services
tailored to the needs of the individual communities.

LEVERAGE AND INVEST IN ASSETS
IMPACT 2020 ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

CCH aspires to create a Center for Health Equity and
Innovation which will enable it to house several component
parts of the organization, creating an intentional and
collaborative strategy around health equity and advocating for
innovative approaches to addressing existing and emerging
population health challenges.

FT

Perhaps CCH’s best kept secret is the research it has long
conducted to discover or improve treatments, identify linkages
between health and social determinants and offer clinical trials
to its patients. In recent years, CCH has worked to leverage
the expertise of its clinical and social research teams beyond

these traditional avenues. Establishing CCH physicians and
operational leaders as experts in areas beyond the traditional
care setting has broadened awareness of the important
research that CCH has conducted. Taking this to the next
level, in 2019, CCH began a series of Research & Innovation
Summits. The Summits provide an opportunity to organize
and elevate CCH’s research, clinical and advocacy efforts
into a half-day learning and sharing session for interested
stakeholders. The Summits have proven invaluable to foster
collaboration and further potential funding opportunities.

Achieved substantial compliance on the employment plan

• 

Added extended hours at health centers

• 

Completed the employee engagement survey and established a structure for implementation of the results

• 

Implemented online annual performance evaluations

• 

Implemented Clinical Learning Environment (CLER) Pathways to Excellence

• 

Conducted analyses of CountyCare claims data on homelessness and opioids

• 

Maximized the efficiency of care plans for patients with chronic disease by implementing HealtheIntent

• 

Initiated collaboration between Care Coordination and CCDPH’s Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes Reporting System
(APORS) to improve outcomes

• 

Established clinical effort agreements for each provider and department

• 

Hosted innovation summits on opioids and homelessness

D

RA

• 

25  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Focus Area 4: Leverage and Invest in Assets
OBJECTIVE
4.1 Recruit, hire
and retain the best
employees, who are
committed to the
CCH mission.

EXPECTED OUTCOMES

4.1 A Finalize implementation of online
performance evaluations.

Performance evaluations done online for all personnel.

4.1 B Develop an industry-based class and compensation
strategy to recruit, hire and retain the best employees to
support the continued transformation of the organization.

Create performance-based pay plan for
non-union employees.

4.1 C Analyze and develop solutions for employee
transportation needs.

Complete analysis of actionable recommendations,
considerate of other local employers.

4.2 A Enhance workforce training opportunities.

Develop curriculum for CCH employee to develop/enhance
skill sets. Training catalogue created detailing all training
available across CCH.

4.2 B Conduct an analysis of organizational leadership by
span of control, bench strength and develop an approach to
succession planning.

Complete analysis of actionable recommendations,
considerate of other local employers.

4.2 C Review of competency-based, “top of license” model of
care across the System.

Update Advanced Practice Provider job descriptions to
have more defined requirements and clinical activity
expectations. Implement plan to optimize roles of
Community Health Workers and Psychologists.

4.2 D Develop strategies that foster flexibility and career
development for unionized employees.

Establish career ladders within specialized technical
positions. Increase online and interactive training courses to
enhance supervisory skills. Develop opportunities for entry
level positions to train for more technical positions (e.g.
Building Service Worker to Medical Assistant).

RA

FT

4.2 Strengthen
the CCH Workforce.

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

Establish one partnership and complete a cost/benefit
analysis of a nursing residency program. Relevant metrics
to gauge success are: nursing turnover rate by tenure,
number of new hires by colleges and number of schools of
nursing partnerships.

4.2 F Improve the continuous learning environment of
CCH and conduct an ongoing review of the effectiveness of
academic affiliations.

Identify benefits resulting to both CCH and University
of Illinois with a finalized agreement with University of
Illinois School of Public Health. Assess master affiliation
agreements in alignment with clinical priorities.

4.3 A Develop and execute employee engagement action
plans based on learnings from the employee engagement
survey. Enhance collaboration with labor to further
employee engagement.

Establish employee recognition/awards program.

4.3 B Strengthen inter-departmental communications and
collaboration better-coordinated services and improved
patient outcomes.

Improve patient outcomes and Hospital Consumer
Assessment of Healthcare Providers and System (HCAHPS)
scores related to teamwork. Decrease in number of patient
grievances and increase in employee satisfaction.

4.3 C Support an environment of continuous process
improvement by increasing managers’ competencies using
process improvement and project management tools.

Standardize process improvement approach to projects.
Identify professional membership(s) to support ongoing
process improvement. Train all managers on process
improvement.

4.3 D Support board development and leverage CCH Board
of Directors as resources.

Create an annual calendar that anticipates strategic
presentations to the Board. Board to complete an annual
self-assessment process regarding best governance practices
and incorporates opportunities identified into changes in
board practices.

D

4.3 Leverage CCH
workforce.

4.2 E Pursue partnerships with nursing schools to foster
and grow recruitment of excellent and culturally-competent
nurses to CCH.

26  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 4.4 Utilize industry
benchmarking and
tools to improve
quality, cost,
utilization and
patient outcomes.

EXPECTED OUTCOMES

4.4 A Establish staffing productivity model to optimize
efficiency and effectiveness for key areas (e.g. nursing,
environmental services). Develop a predictive staffing
model/variable workload staffing model.

Reduce nursing overtime by 25%, decrease agency usage by
50% by 2021.

4.4 B Develop the ability to analyze specific initiatives to
determine mission alignment and attainment of outcomes.

Establish defined process for approval of new programs and
initiatives.

4.4 C Evaluate outcome data and utilization patterns to
determine the efficacy of various system strategies (e.g.
care coordination).

Provided actionable analysis of the efficacy of care
coordination strategies.

4.4 D Update Clinical, Administrative, Research and
Teaching (CART) process to review and standardize
expectations and that actuals are aligned with these
expectations. Distribute dashboards to benchmark
performance on CART and Relative Value Units (RVU) at
the physician and department level.

Annual review of CART expectations to be part of the annual
performance appraisal of clinical chairs as a routine review
of results against expectations. Provide and mature Relative
Value Units (RVUs) reports for providers and managers.
Establish RVU reporting with accurate information
routinely reported using data in Cerner system.

4.4 E Mature health plan network strategy to assure access,
quality, and value.

Develop and implement a managed care strategic roadmap
to address payor prioritization/portfolio, matching the
delivery system to managed care opportunities to increase
year-over-year increase in utilization of CCH as a provider.

4.5 A Develop system-wide strategies to reduce
transmissible infections.

Pilot two mass screenings events in high-risk communities
by 2021. Institute expedited partner therapy in 100% of
CCH community health centers by 2020. Establish media/
social media campaign to raise awareness and promote
testing of sexually active adolescents and adults. Establish
walk-in diagnostic and treatment capacity at all CCH
primary care sites with expedited results.

RA

4.5 Utilize CCDPH
data and experience
to address health
inequities to
conceptualize
and plan robust
interventions to
improve population
health.

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

FT

OBJECTIVE

Continue collaborative work on public health initiatives and
identify additional areas for collaboration and/or synergy of
efforts at shared objectives.

4.5 C Explore establishing additional injury-prevention
partnerships and programs.

Develop program to reduce injuries, improve population
health and identify external funds.

4.6 A Leverage outpatient health centers as community
anchors by partnering with community organizations.
Continue rolling out community advisory boards for all
outpatient health centers. Develop a strategy to ensure
community engagement across the county.

Establish community advisory boards at all outpatient
health centers.

4.7 A Mature grant opportunity review process to include
an evaluation of potential grants based on CCH strategy,
expected cost/benefit and clinical or research alignment.

Establish process to evaluate grant opportunities to
ensure alignment with strategic priorities, organizational
leadership and cost/benefit. Establish a minimum grant
value.

D

4.6 Increase
community
engagement.

4.5 B Maximize local health collaboration, partnership and
alignment in Cook County to inform services, with local
health departments such as City of Chicago Department of
Public Health and local resources such as the University of
Illinois School of Public Health.

4.7 Align extramural
funding efforts with
core competencies
and strategies.

27  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 FOCUS AREA 5
Impact Social
Determinants and

Advocate For Patients

LEVERAGE
Impact Social Determinants
and Advocate for Patients

victims, their families and their communities. Healing Hurt
People (HHP), CCH’s violence prevention program, provides
violently injured youth with support and addresses the
psychological trauma that can drive or result from the cycle of
violence. HHP makes a positive impact on patients: increasing
their safety, providing opportunities for support and peer
learning, helping them to enroll in or stay in school, find jobs,
navigate medical systems and link them to social services and
trauma-specific mental health services. For participants who
received HHP services for at least six months, 84% experienced
decreases in Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
symptoms, 89% exhibited increased self-efficacy, 80% engaged
in less aggressive behavior and 8% were reinjured, far below
historical reinjury rates. Gun violence and injury prevention
require a multi-faceted approach. CCH intends to leverage the
work of its Trauma-informed Taskforce, an IMPACT 2020
initiative, to broaden its efforts in the coming years.

FT

Health equity has been at the center of CCH’s mission for more
than 180 years. CCH is proud of its work to provide care to
all regardless of a patient’s income, insurance or immigration
status and will continue to advocate at all levels of government
until everyone has adequate coverage for comprehensive care
including access to preventive care.

RA

Rather than waiting for uninsured patients to present with
acute needs in the emergency room, CCH expanded its charity
care program, CareLink, to provide enrollees with primary care,
behavioral health and care management for the most complex
patients with the goal of preventing expensive emergency room
visits and improving outcomes. More than 31,000 Cook County
residents have been enrolled in the program since it started
in 2017. CCH has seen a concerning increase in its uninsured
population since the individual mandate under the Affordable
Care Act was repealed in 2017. This is an area that CCH is
monitoring closely. Local, state and federal policy changes
should be enacted to ensure that CCH can continue to deliver
care to all who need it in a timely fashion.

D

CCH fully recognizes that health equity goes beyond the
walls of a hospital or the doors of a clinic. Providing “whole
person” care means understanding the circumstances of every
individual and working to address the issues that impact their
health status. Access to nutritious food and stable housing,
economic opportunity, safe neighborhoods with access to
public transportation, education and gender equity are all
social determinants of health impacting the health status of an
individual. CCH has expanded efforts in addressing food and
housing insecurity over the past three years and has ambitious
plans for the next three years including placing hundreds of
individuals in stable housing.

Perhaps there is nothing that illuminates the intersection of
social determinants of health and CCH’s role in advocating
for its patients more than the epidemic of gun violence in the
communities CCH serves. As the busiest trauma center in
Illinois, Stroger Hospital cares for approximately 1,000 victims
of gun violence each year at an annual cost upwards of $50
million, yet the real cost of violence is the impact it has on the

CCH’s work in the justice-involved population is making a
difference in the lives of individuals who find themselves
incarcerated as the result of undiagnosed or untreated
mental health or substance abuse disorders. From increased
services in the community to prevent unnecessary detention,
comprehensive care during detention and connections to care
upon release, CCH believes there is a real chance to break the
cycle of recidivism.
In 2020, the U.S. Census will take center-stage throughout
the country. The importance of an accurate “count” is critical
to CCH and its patients therefore CCH will work closely with
the Cook County Complete Count Committee to identify
opportunities to engage patients and staff in the process.
Ultimately, there must be large-scale efforts that provide
solutions, improvements and opportunities for all residents
of Cook County to achieve their highest potential. To that end,
Cook County Health is committed to advancing a Health In All
Policies (HIAP) approach that incorporates health, equity and
sustainability considerations into decision-making across sectors
and policy areas to improve the quality of life for its residents.

29  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 IMPACT SOCIAL DETERMINANTS OF HEALTH AND ADVOCATE FOR PATIENTS
IMPACT 2020 ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
Established the direct access plan for CCH CareLink patients

• 

Started developing a program to address medical needs of children who have experience ACEs

• 

Expanded “Food as Medicine” to all outpatient sites

• 

Aligned WIC services with health center locations

• 

Partnered with other organizations to established a flexible housing pool to address homelessness issues of
patients/members

• 

Established pilot program to improve the health status of African American men at Woodlawn Health Center

• 

Established four community health center advisory boards

• 

Legislation to require influenza vaccines for all health care workers passed and was implemented

• 

Establish care coordination program in bond court to link individuals with services

D

RA

FT

• 

30  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Focus Area 5: Impact Social Determinants
and Advocate for Patients
OBJECTIVE

EXPECTED OUTCOMES

5.1 A A Establish cross-departmental stakeholder group to
create a plan to address social determinants of health for
CCH populations.

Create work group. Understand the needs of specific
populations and develop tailored service plans.

5.1 B Leverage CountyCare data, including Health Risk
Assessments (HRAs) to identify needed value-added
benefits to membership related to social determinants of
health and serve that improve health status.

Routine review of CountyCare data to make
recommendations on additional value-added benefits
that may be needed.

5.1 C Partner with other organizations to address population
health care needs outside of the health care system,
including those related to food insecurity.

Continue “Food as Medicine” program to all outpatient
sites. Evaluation complete related to onsite food pantries.
Increase clients receiving Women, Infants and Children
(WIC) services by 3% year over year. Convene CCDPH
Food Summit and develop and distribute CCDPH Food
Summit report. Organize and facilitate quarterly Cook
County Good Food Task Force meetings and implement
recommendations.

FT

5.1 Tailor Social
Determinant of Health
strategies to achieve
the most impact on
CCH patients and
Health Plan members.

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

Create criteria for long-term care (custodial) admissions to
divert to housing with support services. Facilitate housing for
CCH patients in CCH permanent supportive-housing models.
Reduce unnecessary visits to the Emergency Department by
homeless individuals by partnering with community-based
organizations on innovative care solutions.

5.1 E Educate local, state and federal officials on policies and
practices that affect CCH populations.

Gain auto-assignment for eligible justice-involved in
Cook County.

5.1 F Collaborate nationally with county government
stakeholders and large urban health care systems to garner
congressional support to garner support for legislation that
furthers the mission of CCH on shared policy priorities and
targeted advocacy efforts.

Advocate for reinstating county eligibility in the National
Health Services Corps (NHSC) loan forgiveness program.

5.1 G Utilize CCH data and experience to address health
inequities to conceptualize and plan robust interventions
to improve population health and trauma-informed
approaches.

Successfully implement strategies identified in the CCH
Trauma-Informed Approaches Taskforce report. Track
the number of staff trained in trauma-informed approaches
and the number of designated trauma champions in each
department.

5.1 H Develop focused program on populations that would
benefit from better engagement in health care who are less
likely to engage in appropriate preventive care.

Expand pilot program to provide outreach and engagement
of 100 African American men by 2023 on hypertension and
apply lessons learned across all outpatient sites.

5.2 A Maximize external recognition of CCH best practices.

Establish center for Health Equity and Innovation. Convene
quarterly research and innovation summits. Present CCH
correctional best practices to other correctional health
departments (e.g. Naloxone distribution, dental health,
women’s health).

RA

5.1 D Grow and mature the housing strategy to improve
patient outcomes.

D

5.2 Elevate
organizational
contributions to
mitigate disparities.

5.2 B Work with Cook County government to advance a
Health in All Policies (HiAP) approach that incorporates
health, equity and sustainability considerations into
decision-making across sectors and policy areas to improve
the quality of life of its residents.

Convene internal CCDPH team to lead research and process
development and implementation. Outreach to other local
governments implementing HiAP to obtain lessons learned.
Propose process to Cook County government to explore
advancement of HiAP. Implement process with Cook
County government to identify best mechanism to
advance HiAP.

5.2 C Support the Cook County Complete Count Census
Commission in their efforts to ensure that all Cook County
residents are counted in the 2020 Census.

Share CCH and CCDPH information with patients,
providers, and community stakeholders on the importance
of Census participation.

31  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 OBJECTIVE

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOMES

5.2 D Increase MBE/WBE participation on contracts.

Steadily increase MBE/WBE participation annually through
an enhanced CCH outreach efforts and targeted programs
with Group Purchasing Organizations (GPOs).

5.3 Utilize CCH
data and experience
to address health
inequities to
conceptualize and plan
robust interventions
to improve population
health.

5.3 A Advocate for the adoption of a Cook County Lead
Poisoning Prevention Ordinance.

Complete steps necessary for adoption, approval and
implementation.

5.3 B Expand the use of population and epidemiologic
data to identify upstream drivers of chronic diseases and
conditions, improve birth outcomes and enhance childhood
development.

Increase resources for patients and the community. Develop
new partnerships to address key drivers of health inequity.

5.3 C Identify opportunities to partner with other
governments and organizations to address gun violence,
opioid abuse, and sexually transmitted infections.

Develop two initiatives that promote partnership with
shared objectives.

D

RA

FT

5.2 Elevate
organizational
contributions to
mitigate disparities.

32  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 APPENDIX
Appendices
Glossary

38

Organization Structure

39

Demographics, Utilization and Membership Data

45

Community Town Hall Summary

46

Employee Town Hall Summary

47

Employee Survey

51

Timeline

52

Presentation List

53

Enabling Ordinance

D

RA

FT

34

33  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 GLOSSARY
Glossary

Federal 1115 Waiver – A demonstration waiver approved by

Capital Improvement – Investment in upgrades on existing
initiatives or service lines, providing added value to a business.
Cerner – CCH’s electronic medical record that enables

physicians, nurses and other authorized users to securely
share patient data electronically across an organization. An
online “digital chart” displays up-to-date patient information
in real time, complete with decision-support tools for
physicians and nurses.

FT

the US Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to
expand Medicaid coverage to adults in Cook County whose
income was at or below 133% of the federal poverty level
(FPL). This waiver allowed CCH to begin enrolling these
individuals in CountyCare before Medicaid expansion in
Illinois took effect.

Certified Public Health Department – A local health

department that has received certification from the Illinois
Department of Public Health (IDPH) after meeting its
requirements for employing a qualified executive officer
and achieving public health practice standards (including,
completion of an internal organizational capacity assessment
and a community health needs assessment, development of a
community health plan and compliance with required activities).

RA

Accredited Public Health Department – A public health
department that has had its performance measured against a
set of nationally recognized, practice-focused and evidencebased standards that include an issuance of recognition of
achievement of accreditation within a specified time frame
by a nationally recognized entity as well as the continual
development, revision and distribution of public health
standards. The Cook County Department of Public Health is
accredited by the Public Health Accreditation Board (PHAB).
Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) – A traumatic

experience in a person’s life occurring before the age of 18 that
the person remembers as an adult.

Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes Reporting System (APORS)

D

– This reporting system collects information on Illinois infants
born with birth defects or other abnormal conditions. The
purpose of APORS is to conduct surveillance on birth defects,
to guide public health policy in the reduction of adverse
pregnancy outcomes and to identify and refer children who
require special services to correct and prevent developmental
problems and other disabling conditions.

Behavioral Health – Includes both mental health and

substance use-related issues and describes the connection
between behaviors and health and well-being.

Benefits Improvement and Protection Act (BIPA) –

Additional funding provided to health centers or clinics that
service medically underserved areas and populations to
operate in a financially efficient manner.

CareLink – CCH’s charity care program that extends financial
assistance based on income.

Capital – Investment made in a brand-new initiative, program

Charity Care – Services rendered to a patient where the
hospital did not receive nor expected payment, based on the
patient’s inability to pay.
Chronic Conditions Special Needs Plan (C-SNP) – C-SNPs

enroll special needs individuals who have one or more
comorbid and medically complex chronic conditions that are
substantially disabling or life threatening; have a high risk of
hospitalization or other significant adverse health outcomes;
and require specialized delivery systems across domains
of care. One example would be someone living with HIV.
(Source: Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services)

Clairvia™ – An information technology program that focuses
on nurse scheduling management.
CLAS – The National Standards for Culturally and Linguistically
Appropriate Services in Health and Health Care (the National
CLAS Standards) are intended to advance health equity, improve
quality, and help eliminate health care disparities by providing
a blueprint for individuals and health care organizations to
implement culturally and linguistically appropriate services.
Adoption of these standards are intended to help advance better
health and health care in the United States.

or service line.

34  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Clinical Trials – Research using participants (human

volunteers) to advance medical knowledge

Community Acute Care Hospital – An acute care hospital
where patients receive active, but short-term care for a
condition and are discharged once they are healthy.
Data Warehouse – A combination of many different databases

across an entire enterprise. It serves as a centralized repository
of data generated by all units within an enterprise optimized
for and dedicated to analytics.

Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) – Disproportionate

Dwell Time – Length of time spent during one specific stage or
interaction of a visit.

Health Risk Assessment (HRA) – A survey-based screening

tool designed to evaluate patients’ health attitudes, behaviors,
risks and quality of life.

Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society
(HIMSS) – The entity that specifies a way to measure the

FT

Share Hospitals serve a significantly disproportionate number
of low-income patients and receive payments from the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services to cover the costs of
providing care to uninsured patients. Disproportionate share
hospitals are defined in Section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Social
Security Act.

facilitating health and care at a person and provider level. This
cloud-based platform enables health care systems to aggregate,
transform and reconcile data across the continuum of care. A
longitudinal record is established, through that process, for
individual members of the population that the organization is
held accountable for; helping to improve outcomes and lower
costs for health and care. It enables organizations to identify,
score and predict the risks of individual patients, allowing
them to match the right care programs to the right individuals.

Electronic Medical Records (EMR) – A digital version of the

Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) – An organization
interposed between providers and payers that attempts to
“manage the care” on behalf of the health service consumer
and payor. HMOs usually limit coverage to care from doctors
who work for or contract with the HMO. It generally does not
cover out-of-network care except in an emergency. An HMO
may require a member to live or work in its service area to be
eligible for coverage. HMOs often provide integrated care and
focus on prevention and wellness.

RA

traditional paper-based medical record for patients that resides
in a system specifically designed to support users by providing
access to medical history, diagnoses, medications, allergies,
alerts, reminders, decision support systems, links to medical
knowledge and other aids. CCH uses Cerner’s EMR.

progress of health care organizations towards achieving the
ideal paperless patient record environment.

Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) – Health

D

centers or clinics that serve medically-underserved areas
and populations. Federally Qualified Health Centers provide
primary care services on a sliding scale fee basis or regardless
of one’s ability to pay. FQHC is a reimbursement designation
from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) Bureau of Primary Health Care and CMS. This
designation is significant for several health programs funded
under the Health Center Consolidation Act (Section 330 of the
Public Health Service Act).

Food Insecurity – A set of circumstances where an individual
lacks consistent access to enough food, affordable food, or
healthy food.

Goal – An aspirational statement that combines an indicator
with a desired level of achievement.
Health Equity – The opportunity for every person to attain his
or her full health potential regardless of socioeconomic status
and other factors.

HealtheIntent™ – A multi-purpose, programmable Cerner
platform designed to scale at a population level while

High-Reliability Organizations – Organizations that operate
under challenging conditions yet experience fewer problems
than would be anticipated as they have developed ways of
“managing the unexpected” better than most organizations.
(Source: Patient Safety Primer, U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services)
Institutional Equivalent Special Needs Plan (IE-SNP) –

Medicare plan designed for people living in their own homes
who require a higher level of care similar to services provided
at a long-term care facility.

Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP) – Medicare plan

specific to those needing specialized care for 90 days or more
in a long-term care facility such as a nursing home.

Intensive Care Unit (ICU) – A unit that provides intensive/
complex care to patients with critical injuries or illnesses.

Intergovernmental Transfers (IGTs) – Transfers of funds from

one level of government to another. IGTs may be used to fund
general government operations or for specific purposes.

35  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Joint Commission – The Joint Commission is a national

independent organization that accredits and certifies health
care organizations.

Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS) – Long-term services
and supports encompasses the broad range of paid and unpaid
medical and personal care assistance that people may need –
for several weeks, months, or years – when they experience
difficulty completing self-care tasks as a result of aging, chronic
illness, or disability. (Source: Kaiser Family Foundation)

Magnet Recognition Program® – A designation from the

specified time.

Outpatient Services – Medical services or procedures that do
not require a patient to stay overnight in a health care facility.
Primary Care Medical Home (PCMH) – A care delivery

model whereby patient treatment is coordinated through a
primary care team to ensure the patient receives the necessary
care when and where they need it, in a manner they can
understand. Patients are ‘empaneled’ or part of a ‘panel’ with a
specific provider.

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) –

The comprehensive health care reform law enacted in March
2010. The law was enacted in two parts: The Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act was signed into law on March 23,
2010 and was amended by the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act on March 30, 2010. The name “Affordable
Care Act” is used to refer to the final, amended version of the law.
The law seeks to decrease the number of uninsured, improve
health outcomes and streamline the delivery of health care.

FT

American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) that represents
nursing excellence and high quality care delivery. Only 8% of
US hospitals have earned this designation.

Objective – Total or partial attainment of a goal within a

Medicaid – A state and federal program that provides health
coverage for those with very low income.
Medicaid Managed Care – Services provided through an

Payer Mix – The distribution of revenue across payer sources
– e.g., Medicare, Medicaid, private, or commercial insurance.

Per-Member-Per-Month (PMPM) – One of the most

RA

arrangement between a state Medicaid agency and managed
care organizations (MCOs) that accept a set payment –
“capitation” – for these services. The state pays the MCO
a monthly premium to cover the services provided to a
beneficiary. There are two main forms of Medicaid managed
care, “risk-based MCOs” and “primary care case management
(PCCM).” In a risk-based MCO system, the State pays a flat
per-member-per-month rate and the MCO pays for health care
services rendered to the member. In a PCCM system, the State
pays for services on a fee-for-service basis as well as a monthly
fee to a contracted primary care provider to coordinate care for
the beneficiary.

Medicare – A federal health insurance program for people age
65 or older, people under age 65 with certain disabilities, and
people of all ages with end-stage renal disease (permanent
kidney failure requiring dialysis or a kidney transplant);
coverage is regardless of income.

common payment arrangements for managed care. A PMPM
agreement is when a health care provider is paid a set amount
for each individual enrolled or “empaneled” with them. The
PMPM remains the same for an individual whether they
receive no health care services in a month, or very intensive
health care services.

Population Health – The health outcomes of an entire
population or an approach that aims to improve the health of
an entire population.

National Health Service Corps – A federal program that

Shakman Decrees – A series of Federal court orders regarding
government employment in Chicago, which were issued in
1972, 1979, and 1983, in response to a lawsuit filed by civic
reformer Michael Shakman. The decrees barred the practice of
political patronage, under which government jobs are given to
supporters of a politician or party, and government employees
may be fired for not supporting a favored candidate or party.

D

Medicare-Medicaid Alignment Initiative (MMAI) – One

Relative Value Units (RVU) – An RVU is a dollar amount
that is assigned to each encounter, procedure, or surgery.
The value is standardized, but the way the value is used in the
compensation formula may vary from employer to employer.

of Illinois’ managed care programs, specifically designed for
seniors and individuals with disabilities receiving full Medicare
and Medicaid coverage, that wraps coverage into one health
plan, including prescription drugs.

promotes improved access to primary care by providing
scholarships and loan repayment for medical professionals
who have committed to working in underserved urban, rural
and frontier areas.

Network – The group of providers in a plan. A network may

include physicians, physician groups, hospitals, clinics, etc.

Six Sigma – A process-improvement methodology that relies
on a collaborative team effort to improve performance by
systematically removing waste.

36  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Social Determinants of Health – According to the World

Health Organization (WHO), the social determinants of health
are the conditions in which people are born, grow, work, live,
and age, and the wider set of forces and systems shaping the
conditions of daily life. These forces and systems include
economic policies and systems, development agendas, social
norms, social policies and political systems.

Tertiary Care – Health care delivered by specialists. Patients

are often referred to these specialists by their primary care
physicians for consultations on advanced medical treatments.

hospitals or health care providers that are not reimbursed
from the patient or from third-party payers. Often
uncompensated care arises when people are uninsured or
underinsured and cannot afford to pay the cost of care. Some
costs for these services may be covered through cost shifting.

Underinsured – People with public or private insurance policies
that do not cover all necessary health care services, resulting in
out-of-pocket expenses that exceed their ability to pay.

Vizient™ – A company that focuses on health care data sharing
to allow health care providers relevant benchmarking data.

Wait Time – Period of time before a patient is seen by a
medical professional.

FT

Trauma Center – A hospital equipped and staffed to provide
care for patients suffering from major traumatic injuries such
as falls, motor vehicle collisions, or gunshot wounds. Trauma
centers vary in their specific capabilities and are identified
by the Illinois Department of Public Health by “Level”
designation: Level-I (Level-1) being the highest, to Level-III
(Level-3) being the lowest (some states have five designated
levels, in which case Level-V (Level-5) is the lowest). Stroger
Hospital is home to the busiest Level-I trauma center in
Illinois and one of the busiest in the nation.

Uncompensated Care – Health care or services provided by

Triple Aim – The Institute for Healthcare Improvement’s

WEPlan – A process mandated by the State of Illinois for local
health department certification conducted every five years.

WIC – The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for

Women, Infants, and Children offers grants to States to
provide pregnant and postpartum women and children up to
age 5 at nutritional risk with supplemental foods, health care
referrals and nutrition education.

D

RA

(IHI) Triple Aim is a framework that describes an approach to
optimizing health system performance. It includes designs that
must be developed to simultaneously pursue three dimensions
to: 1) improve the patient’s experience including quality and
satisfaction; 2) improve the population’s health; and 3) reduce
the per capita cost of health care.

37  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 ORGANIZA
Organization Structure

CCH Board of Directors

Cook County
Health
& Hospitals
Cook
County
Health System

FT

Stroger HospitalBased Services

Health Plan
Services

Direct
Clinical Care

Public Health

Provident HospitalBased Services

Ambulatory
Services

Primary Care
Medical Homes

Correctional
Health Services

Inpatient

Operative
Services

Operative
Services

Diagnostics

Diagnostics

Stroger
Campus

Stroger
Campus

Emergency
Services

Emergency
Services

Provident
Campus

Provident
Campus

Blue Island
Health Center *

Blue Island
Health Center *

R.M.R. CORE
Center

R.M.R. CORE
Center

Morton East
Health Center

Chicago Children’s
Advocacy Center

Community
Sites

RA

D

Labor &
Delivery

* Opening in 2019

Cook County
Jail

Specialty Care
Services

Inpatient

Juvenile Temp.
Detention Center

Integrated Care Management
Advocacy
Communications
Community Affairs
Innovation
38  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 DEMOGRA
Demographics, Utilization
and Membership Data
OVERVIEW OF CCH PATIENT DEMOGRAPHICS *

RA

FT

FY2018

* Self Reported

D

FY2018 CCH VISITS BY PAYER GROUP
PAYER

44%

TOTAL VISITS

Commercial

4.4%

Medicaid*

35.4%

Medicare*

15.9%

Others

1.8%

Uninsured

42.5%

42.5%

35.4%

15.9%
1.8%

*Medicaid and Medicare include Fee For Service and Managed Care

39  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 FT

FY2018 SUMMARY OF CCH UNINSURED PATIENTS*

RA

*Self Reported

COUNTYCARE YEAR END MEMBERSHIP
350,000

295,627

300,000

330,782

250,000
200,000

164,579

144,639

D

150,000

100,000

80,330

86,647

50,000

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

40  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 EMERGENCY SERVICES

180,000
160,000
In
70 140,000
.2
120,000
100,000
0
I13 80,000
.D
60,000
3
40,000
20,000
0

2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
SERVICES

35,000

30,000

25,000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

COOK COUNTY 4 IMPACT 2023

A LT 1 I Strategic Plan

TOTAL OUTPATIENT VISITS

1,000,000
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000

500,000

Visits

400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000

0
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

PRIMARY CARE PROVIDER VISITS

250,000
200,000
3 150,000
. 2
100,000
50,000
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
COOK COUNTY IMPACT 2023

A LT 42 Strategic Plan

FY2018 VOLUME BY ENCOUNTER TYPE

CORRECTIONAL HEALTH
CATEGORY

FT

SPECIALITY CARE PROVIDER VISITS

VOLUME
41,730

Detoxification

10,619

Mental Health Visits

27,401

Dental Visits

13,685

Medication Orders

693,737

Medication Doses Dispensed

5,378,941

Methadone Doses Dispensed

14,287

Suboxone

15,550

Naloxone

2,332

873,822

Emergency

142,735

Inpatient

18,146

Observation

10,971

D

RA

Intake Screenings

Outpatient Registrations

Radiology

45,931

*Calendar Year 2018

43  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 CCH OPERATING ROOM PROCEDURES – FY2018
STROGER

PROVIDENT

Breat Oncology

255

–

Burn

158

–

Cardiac Surgery

227

–

Colorectal

600

49

Ear Nose Throat

691

4

Gastroenterology

10

514

General Sugery

1,525

236

Neuro Surgery

310

–

1,288

306

Obstetrics/Gynecology
Oncology

FT

MODALITY

134

–

Ophthalmology

1,315

1,115

Oral Maxillofacial

395

50

1,660

–

Orthopedics
Other

126

62

Pediatrics General

70

–

PEDS Urology

123

RA

–

Plastics

471

–

Podiatry

176

216

Thoracic

189

–

Trauma

505

–

Urology

1,425

244

Vascular

658

–

TOTAL

12,311

2,796

DIAGNOSTIC, THERAPEUTIC AND PROCEDURAL SERVICES – FY2018

D

Radiology

Ultrasound

31,408

Lab Studies Performed

1,570,040

Nuclear Medicine

6,518

Cardiac Catheterization

1,144

Mammography

16,852

Deliveries

1,002

Magnetic Resonance Imaging

9,135

Dialysis Treatments

3,059

Interventional Radiology

3,540

Outpatient Infusion Center

14,160

Diagnnostic Radiology

175,300

Laser Eye Treatments

1,170

Computerized Tomography

58,970

Gastrointestinal Procedures

7,046

Pain Management

4,076

TOTAL

301,723

44  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 COMMUNIT
Community Town Hall Summary
As part of the community input process, Cook County Health
(CCH) hosted four Strategic Planning Town Halls. CCH sent
out more than 12,000 Town Hall email invites though our
community email distribution list. In addition, Community
Affairs staff contacted partner organizations to ensure that they
would disseminate the schedule to their constituencies and to
encourage their participation at these meetings.

One audience member mentioned that CCH needs
to be a leader in ensuring that minorities, enter the
medical field.

• 

Dr. Shannon emphasized that Provident Hospital is
not closing and that CCH is planning a new facility on
the campus with expanded services.

CICERO COMMUNITY CENTER TOWN HALL

FT

Torrential rains and storms affected the participation at
the Central Campus and Provident Town Halls. The Town
Halls brought a mixture of community members, partner
organizations and representatives from different health
care entities and medical insurance plans. At each town
hall, Dr. Shannon presented an overview of the focus areas
and major initiatives the system has identified for 20202023. Participants were able to make comments and/or ask
questions at each of the events.

• 

(MAY 7, 2019)
• 

23 people attended the Town Hall.

• 

This Town Hall sought input from residents from a
Latino/Hispanic background, mostly encompassing
the CCH North West Cluster. The presentation was
presented and distributed in Spanish to attendees.

• 

Enlace Chicago brought several representatives who
advocated for health insurance coverage for the
undocumented and those who do not have access to
health insurance.

RA

STROGER HOSPITAL/CENTRAL CAMPUS TOWN
HALL (APRIL 30, 2019)
• 
• 

• 

The Chicago Hispanic Health Coalition brought 3
representatives who spoke about access to medical
insurance by the uninsured.
7th District Commissioner Alma Anaya attended
the meeting.

Dr. Shannon stressed that Stroger and Provident
Hospitals provide 50% of the uncompensated care in
Cook County.

D

• 

7 people attended the Town Hall.

PROVIDENT HOSPITAL TOWN HALL (MAY 2, 2019)
• 

14 people attended the Town Hall.

• 

This Town Hall sought input from residents in the
southern portions of the City of Chicago, mostly
encompassing the CCH South Cluster.

OAK FOREST HEALTH CENTER TOWN HALL

(MAY 9, 2019)
• 

12 people attended the Town Hall.

• 

This Town Hall sought input from residents in the
southern suburban portions of Cook County, mostly
encompassing the CCH South Suburban Cluster.

• 

6th District Commissioner Donna Miller attended the
meeting.

• 

A representative of National Alliance on Mental
Illness (NAMI) was concerned about where people
with mental illness can obtain the help that they need.

45  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Employee Town Hall Summary

 

 

EMPLOYEE SURVEY AND TOWN HALL MEETINGS

SUMMARY

Tu Human-gin 

Harman-s

Waumyloc?mmnabbmm





- WWITMHIEME. 2015

Elm

- 
55mm
- 
58mm
Emplumsmay

Emwmm?my.
- 


dilemma-cl.


?chufmlm from 1 h: 5.

PRJCIHITY




HUHEIE 
WITH A scam: 0F

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

- 



w.



muthsupamm??hadmaw
m-

- 

communmm.m49?m?m

Haip?nl.
mmeWudmm-u
Mum-dim.

. Fan-udkic?rdu:



1iu13??mmyam


10131935me

 

COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

6 IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 

 

Employee Survey
Confidential

CCH Strategic Plan - Employee Feedback Survey

Page 1 of 4

CCH is in the process of developing its 2020-2022 strategic plan. In addition to more than 20 presentations to the
CCH Board of Directors, CCH has held town hall meetings for staff and the community.

It is important for us to hear from as many employees as possible as we develop specific strategies to guide our
success in the coming years. Additionally, the strategic plan will serve as the foundation for our 2020-2022 budgets.

Thank you!
Are you in a supervisory role?

FT

This survey should take no longer than 20 minutes and does not require any personal contact information. Your
engagement and feedback are greatly appreciated. Please complete this survey by 5/27/2019.

No

Daily
Weekly
Every other week
Monthly
Every other month
Quarterly
Twice a year
Once a year
As needed
Never

RA

If yes, how often do you hold regular meetings with
your team?

Yes

Daily
Weekly
Every other week
Monthly
Every other month
Quarterly
Twice a year
Once a year
As needed
Never

D

If no, how often does your supervisor hold regular
meetings with your team?

07/02/2019 4:53pm

projectredcap.org

47  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Confidential
Page 2 of 4

Do you consider your role:

Clinical

Non-Clinical

Nurse
Pharmacist
Physician
Physician Assistant/Nurse
Technician/Aide
Practitioner
Others, please specify:

RA

If clinical, what is your role?

Administration Building
Arlington Heights Health Center
Austin Health Center
Cermak Health Services
Central Campus Specialty Care Clinics
Central Campus Primary Care
Children's Advocacy Center
Cicero Health Center
CORE Center
Cottage Grove Health Center
Englewood Health Center
JTDC
Logan Square Health Center
Morton East
Near South Health Center
Oak Forest Health Center
Prieto Health Center
Professional Building
Provident Hospital
Public Health
Robbins Health Center
Sengstacke Health Center
Stroger Hospital
Woodlawn Health Center

FT

Where do you primarily work?

Others, please specify:

Please choose your clinical department (if
applicable)

D

Other Clinical Department

Please choose your non-clinical department (if
applicable)

Other Non-Clinical Department

07/02/2019 4:53pm

__________________________________
Anesthesiology
Cermak
Employee Health Services
Emergency Medicine
Family Medicine
General Medicine
Lab
OBGYN
Oral Health
Pediatrics
Pharmacy
Psychiatry
PT/OT/Speech
Radiology
Surgery
Trauma
Other, please specify:

__________________________________
Administration- System
Administration- CountyCare
Care Coordination
Facilities (B&G,
environmental service, police, etc.)
Finance
Human Resources
IT
Support Services (transport,
etc.)
interpreters,
Other, please specify:
__________________________________

projectredcap.org

48  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Confidential
Page 3 of 4

How long have you worked at Cook County Health?

What one word comes to mind when you think about CCH?

What one word comes to mind when you think about your
role at CCH?

Less than 1 year
1-5 years
5-10 years
10-20 years
More than 20 years
__________________________________
(Type in one word here)
__________________________________
(Type in one word here)

FT

What can you do to contribute to the success of CCH?

__________________________________________

Have you attended a recent Town Hall meeting?

Yes

No

If yes, did you find it informative?

Yes

No

The 2020-2022 strategic plan will have six focus areas. Please rate how important each of the CCH focus areas are to
you personally - - 1 being the least important, 5 being the most important.
1
2
3
4
5
(1 - Least important, 5 - Most important)

RA

Deliver High Quality Care

1
2
3
4
5
(1 - Least important, 5 - Most important)

Foster Fiscal Stewardship

1
2
3
4
5
(1 - Least important, 5 - Most important)

Invest in Resources

1
2
3
4
5
(1 - Least important, 5 - Most important)

Leverage Valuable Assets

1
2
3
4
5
(1 - Least important, 5 - Most important)

Impact Social Determinants of Health/Advocate for
Patients

1
2
3
4
5
(1 - Least important, 5 - Most important)

D

Grow to Serve and Compete

The population is aging. What are we doing to attract
these patients?

07/02/2019 4:53pm

__________________________________________

projectredcap.org

49  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Confidential
Page 4 of 4

How do we stay true to our mission to care for all
under these circumstances:
• Uninsured volumes are up (charity care and
self-pay)
• No additional local tax payer support can be
expected
• Competition for Medicaid exists
• Patient experience is not helping volumes

__________________________________________

FT

What should CCH's highest priority be in the next
three years?

__________________________________________

What services are needed in the community?

__________________________________________

What are we doing well? Not so well?

__________________________________________

How do we treat patients who come from different
races, religions and ethnicities?

__________________________________________

RA

What must we do to thrive in an environment where
reimbursements will be driven by outcomes without
regard for how sick the patient is or his/her social
supports?

__________________________________________

What programs and services do we offer that set us
apart?

__________________________________________

Other comments:

D

__________________________________________

07/02/2019 4:53pm

projectredcap.org

50  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Timeline
2008
• 

  ook County Board of Commissioners adopt enabling ordinance
C
to create the Cook County Health & Hospital Systems (CCHHS)
and its independent Governance Board referred to as the CCHHS
Board of Directors.  

• 

 Insular safety net provider with little to no competition.

• 

  ajority of patients uninsured. Provision of more than $600 million
M
in uncompensated care annually.

• 

 Focus on sick care.

• 

 Reliant on more than $500 million in local tax allocation
supporting operations.

2009
• 

2010

2011
I  llinois General Assembly mandates that 50% of Illinois
Medicaid beneficiaries move into managed care by 2015.
To achieve this, nearly all Cook County Medicaid beneficiaries
are required to enroll in a managed care health plan.

2013
• 

• 

ACA takes full effect.

• 

1  115 Waiver ends and CountyCare transforms into a County
Managed Care Community Network (MCCN) allowing
traditional Medicaid populations to enroll in the plan.

• 

  ffordable Care Act (ACA) passed by Congress and signed
A
by President Obama.

Majority of CCHHS patients insured.

• 

  CHHS and CountyCare competing with private health
C
care providers and commercial insurance plans for CCHHS’
traditional patients.

• 

  tate of Illinois changes rules for Accountable Care Entities
S
and causes significant consolidation in the Medicaid market.

• 

  tate of Illinois and Cook County granted a federal 1115 Waiver to
S
create CountyCare to enroll those newly eligible for Medicaid prior
to the full implementation of the ACA.

• 

  CHHS moves from provider role to provider and plan, expanding
C
patient reach.

2015

• 

 CountyCare membership approximately 160,000.

• 

  urther consolidations in the Managed Care Organization
F
market occur.

RA

• 

2017

  doption of Vision 2015 with increased focus on
A
ambulatory services.

2012

CCHHS provides 37% of all charity care in Cook County.

2014

• 

FT

• 

  irst budget created by independent CCHHS Board of Directors.
F
Cook County tax allocation supporting operations was $480
million representing nearly half of its operating revenues.

  ook County tax allocation supporting operations decreases to
C
$102M representing less than 5% of CCHHS operating revenues.

• 
 

CCHHS expands CareLink program to provide
emphasis on care-coordinated primary care.

• 

CCHHS provides 53% of all charity care in Cook County.

• 
 
 
 

State of Illinois issues Medicaid Managed Care Organization
Request for Proposals and subsequently awards seven four-year
contracts for Medicaid Managed Care services in Cook County
effective January 1, 2018.

• 
 

CountyCare acquires Medicaid members of Family
Health Network.

D

• 

• 

Bruce Rauner sworn in as Illinois Governor.

2016

• 
 

Uninsured rate dips to 6% in Illinois, a historic low yet 40%
of CCHHS’ patients are uninsured.

• 
 

Hospital industry sees decrease in charity care and increase
in bad debt as a result of the ACA.

• 

CCHHS provides 49% of all charity care in Cook County.

2018

• 
 

Cook County tax allocation supporting operations remains flat at
$102M representing less than 3% of CCH operating revenues.

• 

CountyCare acquires Medicaid members of Aetna Better Health.

• 

JB Pritzker sworn in as Illinois Governor.

2019

• 
 

Cook County tax allocation supporting operations remains flat at
$102M representing less than 3% of CCH operating revenues.

• 
 

More than 31,000 individuals enrolled in CCH’s expanded
CareLink program.

• 
 
 
 
 

Medicaid enrollment in Cook County declines to fewer than
one million. Media reports indicate that initial eligibility and
redetermination application backlogs at state contributing
to decline. Slow gains in April, May and June as new leadership
prioritizes eligibility and redetermination application processing.

• 
 

With 316,000 members (April, 2019), CountyCare is largest
Medicaid managed care plan in Cook County.

• 
 

Repeal of the Affordable Care Act’s Individual Mandate takes
effect January 1, 2019.

• 
 
 
 

Centene announces plans to acquire WellCare/Meridian. If
approved by regulators, this would reduce the number of Medicaid
plans operating in Cook County to five, down from seven when the
state awarded contracts in 2017.

51  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Presentation List
DATE

TOPIC

PRESENTER

Population Overview and Projections

Doug Elwell

December 21, 2018

Environmental Assessment: Epidemiology, Health Status and Disparities in Cook County

Terry Mason, MD

December 21, 2018

Information Technology Overview

Donna Hart

January 18, 2019

Financial Status and Pressures

Ekerete Akpan

January 25, 2019

State and Federal Issues

Paul Beddoe, Letty Close

February 19, 2019

Human Resources

Barbara Pryor

February 22, 2019

Pension Overview

Ammar Rizki, CFO

February 22, 2019

Quality and Reliability

February 27, 2019

Extramural Funding

February 27, 2019

Health Equity and Social Determinants

Dr. Mason, Mary Sajdak

February 27, 2019

Correctional Health

Linda Follenweider

February 27, 2019

Behavioral Health

RA

FT

November 30, 2018

Ron Wyatt, MD

Leticia Reyes Nash

Diane Washington, MD

Safety Net Strategies/Vulnerabilities, Local Market Realities, Partnerships

John Jay Shannon, MD

March 15, 2019

Integrated Care Management

Mary Sajdak

March 15, 2019

Medicaid Managed Care

Jim Kiamos

March 22, 2019

Research

William Trick, MD

March 29, 2019

Clinical Activity, Utilization & Operational Efficiency

Debra Carey

March 29, 2019

Medical Practice

Claudia Fegan, MD

April 16, 2019

Nursing Management

Beena Peters, DNP, RN

April 18, 2019

Graduate Education

John O’Brien, MD

April 18, 2019

Capital Equipment

Ekerete Akpan

April 18, 2019

Primary Care/Maternal Child Care

Iliana Mora

April 18, 2019

Diagnostic/Specialty Services

Jarrod Johnson

April 26, 2019

Marketing, Communication, Branding

Caryn Stancik

April 26, 2019

Cook County Department of Public Health

Dr. Mason

May 31, 2019

Strategic Planning -- Priorities, Financial Impact

Dr. Shannon

D

February 28, 2019

52  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 Enabling Ordinance

ARTICLE V.–- COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND
HOSPITALS SYSTEM[1]

Sec. 38-70. - Short title.
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the
“Ordinance Establishing the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System.”
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-71. - Declaration.
(a) The County Board hereby establishes the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System (“CCHHS or System”) which
shall be an agency of and funded by Cook County. All
personnel, facilities, equipment and supplies within the
formerly constituted Cook County Bureau of Health Services
are now established within the CCHHS. Pursuant to the
provisions contained herein, the CCHHS and all personnel,
facilities, equipment and supplies within the CCHHS shall be
governed by a Board of Directors (“System Board”) as provided
herein. The System Board shall be accountable to and shall be
funded by the County Board and shall obtain County Board
approval as required herein. The County Board hereby finds
and declares that the CCHHS shall:
(1) Provide integrated health services with dignity and
respect, regardless of a patient’s ability to pay;
(2) Provide access to quality preventive, acute, and chronic
health care for all the People of Cook County, Illinois
(the “County”);
(3) Provide quality emergency medical services to all the
People of the County;
(4) Provide health education for patients, and participate
in the education of future generations of health care
professionals;
(5) Engage in research which enhances its ability to meet
the healthcare needs of the People of the County; and,
(6) Perform, through the Cook County Department of
Public Health, essential services of a local public health
authority as provided in the Cook County Board of Health
Ordinance, Sections 38-26 through 38-40 of the Cook
County Code, other Cook County Ordinances imposing
duties upon the Cook County Department of Public Health,
and the regulations of the Cook County Department of
Public Health promulgated thereunder; the Department
of Public Health Act, 20 ILCS 2305/1 et seq.; the Civil

Administrative Code of Illinois, 20 ILCS 2310/2310-1 et
seq.; and as further detailed in regulations promulgated by
the Illinois Department of Public Health under the Certified
Local Health Department Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 600.110
et seq.; provided, however, that the County Board shall
continue to serve as the Board of Health of Cook County.
(b) This article recognizes the essential nature of the Mission
of the CCHHS as set forth in Section 38-74, and the need for
sufficient and sustainable public funding of the CCHHS in
order to fulfill its mission of universal access to quality health
care.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-72. - Definitions.
For purposes of this article, the following words or terms
shall have the meaning or construction ascribed to them in
this section:
Chairperson means the chairperson of the System Board.
Cook County Code means the Code of Ordinances of Cook
County, Illinois.
Cook County Health and Hospitals System also referred
to as “CCHHS”, means the public health system comprised
of the facilities at, and the services provided by or through,
the Ambulatory and Community Health Network, Cermak
Health Services of Cook County, Cook County Department
of Public Health, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County,
Provident Hospital of Cook County, Ruth M. Rothstein
CORE Center, and John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County, (collectively, the “CCHHS Facilities”).
County means the County of Cook, a body politic and
corporate of Illinois.
County Board means the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County, Illinois.
Director means a member of the System Board.
Fiscal Year means the fiscal year of the County.
Ordinance means the Ordinance Establishing the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System, as amended.
President means the President of the Cook County Board
of Commissioners.
System Board means the 11-member board of directors
charged with governing the CCHHS.

[1] Editor’s note— Ord. No. 08-O-35, adopted May 20, 2008, set out provisions intended for use as Art. IV, §§ 38-70—38-93. Inasmuch as this article so
numbered already exists, to avoid duplication and at the editor’s discretion, these provisions have been included as Art. V, §§ 38-70—38-93.

53  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 (Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-73. - Establishment of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System Board of Directors (“System Board”).
(a) The System Board is hereby created and established. The
System Board shall consist of 11 members called Directors.
The County Board delegates governance of the CCHHS to the
System Board. The System Board shall, upon the appointment
of its Directors as provided herein, assume responsibility for
the governance of the CCHHS.
(b) Notwithstanding any provision of this article, the Cook
County Board of Health Ordinance, Sections 38-26 through
38-40 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, and other
provisions of the Cook County Code of Ordinances conferring
authority and imposing duties and responsibilities upon the
Board of Health and the Cook County Department of Public
Health, shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-74. - Mission of the CCHHS.
(a) The System Board shall have the responsibility to carry out
and fulfill the mission of the CCHHS by:
(1) Continuing to provide integrated health services with
dignity and respect, regardless of a patient’s ability to pay;
(2) Continuing to provide access to quality primary,
preventive, acute, and chronic health care for all the People
of the County;
(3) Continuing to provide high quality emergency medical
services to all the People of the County;
(4) Continuing to provide health education for patients,
and continuing to participate in the education of future
generations of health care professionals;
(5) Continuing to engage in research which enhances the
CCHHS’ ability to meet the healthcare needs of the People
of the County;
(6) Ensuring efficiency in service delivery and sound fiscal
management of all aspects of the CCHHS, including the
collection of all revenues from governmental and private
third-party payers and other sources;
(7) Ensuring that all operations of the CCHHS, especially
contractual and personnel matters, are conducted free
from any political interference and in accordance with the
provisions of the Supplemental Relief Order and Consent
Decree established in the federal civil litigation filed in the

Northern District of Illinois under Case No. 69 C 2145 and
titled Shakman, et al. v. Democratic Organization, et al. and
all applicable laws; and,
(8) Perform, through the Cook County Department of
Public Health, essential services of a local public health
authority as provided in the Cook County Board of Health
Ordinance, Sections 38-26 through 38-40 of the Cook
County Code, other Cook County Ordinances imposing
duties upon the Cook County Department of Public Health,
and the regulations of the Cook County Department of
Public Health promulgated thereunder; the Department
of Public Health Act, 20 ILCS 2305/1 et seq.; the Civil
Administrative Code of Illinois, 20 ILCS 2310/2310-1 et
seq.; and as further detailed in regulations promulgated by
the Illinois Department of Public Health under the Certified
Local Health Department Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 600.110
et seq.; provided, however, that the County Board shall
continue to serve as the Board of Health of Cook County.
(b) The System Board shall be responsible to the People of
the County for the proper use of all funds appropriated to the
CCHHS by the County Board.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-75. - Nomination and appointment of directors.
(a) Upon confirming that a vacancy in the office of Director has
occurred or will occur, a Nominating Committee of 14 persons
including a Chair shall be appointed by the President and
convene to prepare a list of nominees consisting of a total of
three nominees per vacancy. This list shall be provided within
45 days of the President’s request. If the number of nominees
accepted by the President is fewer than the number of
vacancies, the Nominating Committee will submit replacement
nominees until the President has accepted that number of
nominees that corresponds to the number of vacancies.
(b) Nominating Committee.
(1) The Nominating Committee shall consist of one
representative from the following organizations:
a. Civic Federation of Chicago;
b. Civic Committee of the Commercial Club of Chicago;
c. Chicago Urban League;
d. Healthcare Financial Management Association;
e. Suburban Primary Healthcare Council;
f. Illinois Public Health Association;

54  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 g. Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council;
h. Health and Medicine Policy Research Group;
i. Chicago Department of Public Health;
j. Cook County Physicians Association;
k. Chicago Federation of Labor;
l. Chicago Medical Society;
m. Association of Community Safety Net Hospitals; and
n. Midwest Latino Health Research Center.
(2) All decisions of the Nominating Committee shall be by
majority vote of the membership.
(c) The President shall submit the nominees he/she selects to
the County Board for approval of appointment. The President
shall exercise good faith in transmitting the nomination(s) to
the County Board.
(d) Appointment of Directors. The County Board shall approve
or reject each of the nominees submitted by the President
within 14 days from the date the President submitted the
nominees, or at the next regular meeting of the County Board
held subsequent to the 14-day period. Where the County
Board rejects the President’s selection of any nominee for
the office of Director, the President shall within seven days
select a replacement nominee from the remaining nominees
on the list received from the Nominating Committee. There
is no limit on the number of nominees the County Board
may reject. The County Board shall exercise good faith in
approving the appointment of Directors as soon as reasonably
practicable. In the event the nominees initially submitted to
the President by the Nominating Committee are exhausted
before the county Board approves the number of nominees
required to fill all vacancies, the President shall direct the
nominating Committee to reconvene and to select and submit
an additional three nominees for each Director still to be
appointed.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008;
Ord. No. 11-O-55, 5-17-2011.)
Sec. 38-76. - Members of the System Board.
(a) General. The appointed Directors are not employees of the
County and shall receive no compensation for their service,
but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses
while serving on the System Board. Directors shall have a
fiduciary duty to the CCHHS and the County; and Directors
shall keep confidential information received in close sessions

of Board and Board Committee meetings and information
received through otherwise privileged and confidential
communications.
(b) Number of Directors. There shall be 11 Directors of the
System Board.
(c) Ex Officio Director. One of the 11 Directors shall be the
Chairperson of the Health and Hospitals Committee of the
County Board who shall serve as an ex-officio member with
voting rights. This Director shall serve as a liaison between the
County Board and the System Board.
(d) Terms of Directors .
(1) Ex Officio Director. Upon appointment or election of
a successor as Chairperson of the health and Hospitals
Committee of the County Board, the successor shall
immediately and automatically replace the prior Director as
ex officio Director with voting rights.
(2) The Remaining Directors . The remaining ten Directors
of the System Board shall serve terms as follows. For
purposes of this section, Initial Directors means the
Directors who were appointed to serve on the System Board
when it was first established:
a. For the initial Directors,
1. Three of the Initial Directors serving at the
time this amendment is enacted, other than the
ex officio Directors, shall serve terms that expire
June 30, 2012.
2. Three of the Initial Directors serving at the
time this amendment is enacted, other than the
ex officio Directors, shall serve terms that expire
June 30, 2013.
3. Four of the Initial Directors serving at the
time this amendment is enacted, other than the
ex officio Directors, shall serve terms that expire
June 30, 2014.
4. The System Board shall vote upon and submit
the list of names of the Directors whose terms
shall expire June 30, 2012, the list of names of the
Directors whose terms shall expire June 30, 2013,
and the list of names of Directors whose terms shall
expire June 30, 2014, to the President for approval
and subsequent recommendation to the County
Board for its approval.

55  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 b. Thereafter: Directors appointed shall serve
four-year terms.
1. Each appointed Director, whether Initial
or subsequent, shall hold office until a successor
is appointed.
2. Any appointed Director who is appointed to
fill a vacancy, other than a vacancy caused by the
expiration of the predecessor’s term, shall serve until
the expiration of his or her predecessor’s term.
(e) Vacancy . A vacancy shall occur upon the:
(1) Expiration of Director’s Term,
(2) Resignation,
(3) Death,
(4) Conviction of a felony, or
(5) Removal from the office of an appointed Director as set
forth in paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) Removal of Directors . Any appointed Director may be
removed for incompetence, malfeasance, neglect of duty, or
any cause which renders the Director unfit for the position.
The President or one-third of the members of the County
Board shall provide written notice to that Director of the
proposed removal of that Director from office; which notice
shall state the specific grounds which constitute cause for
removal. The Director, in receipt of such notice, may request
to appear before the County Board and present reasons in
support of his or her retention. Thereafter, the County Board
shall vote upon whether there are sufficient grounds to remove
that Director from office. The President shall notify the subject
Director of the final action of the County Board.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008; Ord. No. 08-O-37, 6-32008; Ord. No. 11-O-55, 5-17-2011.)
Sec. 38-77. - Qualifications of appointed directors.
(a) The appointed Directors shall include persons with the
requisite expertise and experience in areas pertinent to the
governance and operation of a large and complex healthcare
system. Such areas shall include, but not be limited to, finance,
legal and regulatory affairs, healthcare management, employee
relations, public administration, clinical medicine, community
public health, public health policy, labor affairs, patient
experience, civil or minority rights advocacy and community
representation.
(b) Criteria to be considered in nominating or appointing
individuals to serve as Directors shall include:

(1) Background and skills needed on the Board;
(2) Resident of Cook County, Illinois;
(3) Available and willing to attend a minimum of nine
monthly Board meetings per year, and actively participate
on at least one Board committee; and
(4) Willingness to acquire the knowledge and skills required
to oversee a complex healthcare organization.
The Nominating Committee, the President and the County
Board shall take this section into account in undertaking their
respective responsibilities in the recommendation, selection
and appointment of Directors.
(c) Duties of individual Directors include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following:
(1) Regularly attend Board meetings including a minimum
of nine meetings per year;
(2) Actively participate on and attend meetings of
committee(s) to which the Director is assigned;
(3) Promptly relate community input to the Board;
(4) Represent the CCHHS in a positive and effective
manner;
(5) Learn sufficient details about CCHHS management
and patient care services in order to effectively evaluate
proposed actions and reports; and
(6) Accept and fulfill reasonable assignments from the Chair
of the Board.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008;
Ord. No. 11-O-55, 5-17-2011.)
Sec. 38-78. - Chairperson/officers of the System Board.
(a) The Directors shall select the initial Chairperson of
the System Board from among the initial Directors. The
Chairperson shall serve a one-year term and, thereafter, the
System Board shall annually elect a chairperson from among
the Directors.
(1) The Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the System
Board, and is entitled to vote on all matters before the
System Board.
(2) A Director may be elected to serve successive terms
as Chairperson.
(b) The Directors may establish such additional offices and
appoint such additional officers for the System Board as they
may deem appropriate.

56  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 (Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-79. - Meetings of the System Board.
(a) The President shall call the first meeting of the System
Board. Thereafter, the Directors shall prescribe the times and
places for their meetings and the manner in which regular and
special meetings may be called.
(b) Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson,
however, no less than 12 meetings shall be held annually.
(c) A majority of the voting Directors shall constitute a
quorum. Actions of the System Board shall require the
affirmative vote of a majority of the voting members of the
System Board present and voting at the meeting at which the
action is taken.
(d) To the extent feasible, the System Board shall provide for
and encourage participation by the public in the development
and review of financial and health care policy. The System
Board may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the
performance of any of its responsibilities.
(e) The System Board shall comply in all respects with “An Act
in relation to meetings,” as now or hereafter amended, and
found at 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
(f) The System Board shall be an Agency to which the Local
Records Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found at 50
ILCS 205/1, et seq. applies.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-80. - General powers of the System Board.
Subject to the Mission of the CCHHS and consistent with this
article, the System Board shall have the following powers and
responsibilities:
(a) To appoint the Chief Executive Officer of the CCHHS
(“CEO”) or interim CEO, if necessary, as set forth in Section
38-81 hereinafter, to hire such employees and to contract
with such agents, and professional and business advisers as
may from time to time be necessary in the System Board’s
judgment to accomplish the CCHHS’ Mission and the purpose
and intent of this article; to fix the compensation of such CEO,
employees, agents, and advisers; and, to establish the powers
and duties of all such agents, employees, and other persons
contracting with the System Board;
(b) To exercise oversight of the CEO;
(c) To develop measures to evaluate the CEO’s performance
and to report to the President and the County Board at sixmonth intervals regarding the CEO’s performance;

(d) To authorize the CEO to enter into contracts, execute all
instruments, and do all things necessary or convenient in the
exercise of the System Board’s powers and responsibilities;
(e) To determine the scope and distribution of clinical services;
provided, however, if the System Board determines that it
is in the best interest of the CCHHS to close entirely one of
the two CCHHS hospitals, such closure will require County
Board approval; provided further, however, that if the System
Board determines it is in the best interest of the CCHHS to
purchase additional hospitals, or to add or reduce healthcarelicensed, risk-bearing entities in CountyCare, the CCHHS
shall, 15 calendar days before final approval, provide notice to
the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners,
informing such persons as to the basic nature of any such
transaction and shall offer to meet with such persons to brief
them in more detail on specifics relating to such a transaction;
(f) To provide for the organization and management of the
CCHHS, including, but not limited to, the System Board’s
rights and powers to approve all personnel policies, consistent
with existing state laws, collective bargaining agreements, and
court orders;
(g) To submit budgets for the CCHHS operations and capital
planning and development, which promote sound financial
management and assure the continued operation of the
CCHHS, subject to approval by the County Board;
(h) To accept any gifts, grants, property, or any other aid in
any form from the federal government, the state, any state
agency, or any other source, or any combination thereof, and
to comply with the terms and conditions thereof;
(i) To purchase, lease, trade, exchange, or otherwise
acquire, maintain, hold, improve, repair, sell, and dispose
of personal property, whether tangible or intangible, and
any interest therein;
(j) In the name of the County, to purchase, lease, trade,
exchange, or otherwise acquire, real property or any interest
therein, and to maintain, hold, improve, repair, mortgage,
lease, and otherwise transfer such real property, so long as
such transactions do not interfere with the Mission of the
CCHHS; provided, however, that transactions involving real
property valued at $100,000.00 or greater shall require
express approval from the County Board;
(k) To acquire space, equipment, supplies, and services,
including, but not limited to, services of consultants for
rendering professional and technical assistance and advice on
matters within the System Board’s powers;

57  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 (l) To make rules and regulations governing the use of property
and facilities within the CCHHS, subject to agreements with or
for the benefit of holders of the County Board’s obligations;
(m) To adopt, and from time to time amend or repeal bylaws
and rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this
article;
(n) To encourage the formation of a not-for-profit corporation
to raise funds to assist in carrying out the Mission of the
CCHHS;
(o) To engage in joint ventures, or to participate in alliances,
purchasing consortia, or other cooperative arrangements, with
any public or private entity, consistent with state law;
(p) To have and exercise all rights and powers necessary,
convenient, incidental to, or implied from the specific powers
granted in this article, which specific powers shall not be
considered as a limitation upon any power necessary or
appropriate to carry out the CCHHS’ Mission and the purposes
and intent of this article;
(q) To perform, through the Cook County Department of
Public Health, essential services of a local public health
authority as provided in the Cook County Board of Health
Ordinance, Sections 38-26 through 38-40 of the Cook County
Code, other Cook County Ordinances imposing duties upon
the Cook County Department of Public Health, and the
regulations of the Cook County Department of Public Health
promulgated thereunder; the Department of Public Health
Act, 20 ILCS 2305/1 et seq.; the Civil Administrative Code of
Illinois, 20 ILCS 2310/2310-1 et seq.; and as further detailed in
regulations promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public
Health under the Certified Local Health Department Code, 77
Ill. Adm. Code 600.110 et seq.; provided, however, that the
County Board shall continue to serve as the Board of Health of
Cook County; and
(r) To be the governing body of the licensed hospitals or other
licensed entities within the CCHHS.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008;
Ord. No. 18-1126, 9-12-2018.)
Sec. 38-81. - Chief executive officer.
(a) The System Board shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer of
the CCHHS (“CEO”) or an interim CEO as necessary.
(b) The System Board shall conduct a nationwide search for a
CEO which shall be concluded no later than 180 days from the
date of the County Board’s approval of the appointment of the
initial System Board.

(c) The CEO shall have the responsibility for:
(1) Full operational and managerial authority of the
CCHHS, consistent with existing federal and state laws,
court orders and the provisions of this article;
(2) Preparing and submitting to the System Board the
Budgets and Strategic and Financial Plans required by
this article;
(3) Operating and managing the CCHHS consistent with the
Budgets and Financial Plans approved by the County Board;
(4) Overseeing expenditures of the CCHHS;
(5) Subject to Subsection 38-74(a)(7) of this article,
hiring and discipline of personnel in conformity with the
provisions of this article, all state laws, court orders, and
collective bargaining agreements;
(6) Negotiating collective bargaining agreements as set
forth in Section 38-84(c); and
(7) Carrying out any responsibility which the System
Board may delegate; however, said delegation shall not
relieve the System Board of its responsibilities as set forth
in this article.
(d) The CEO shall report to the System Board.
(e) The CEO shall provide, through the System Board,
quarterly reports to the County Board concerning the status
of operations and finances of the CCHHS.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-82. - Strategic and financial plans.
(a) As soon as practicable following the establishment of the
System Board, the President shall provide to the System Board
copies of the audited financial statements and of the books
and records of account of the Bureau of Health Services for the
preceding five Fiscal Years of the County.
(b) The System Board shall recommend and submit to the
President and the County Board Strategic and Financial Plans
as required by this section.
(c) Each Strategic and Financial Plan for each Fiscal Year, or
part thereof to which it relates, shall contain:
(1) A description of revenues and expenditures, provision
for debt service, cash resources and uses, and capital
improvements, each in such manner and detail as the
County’s Budget Director shall prescribe;

58  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 (2) A description of the strategy by which the anticipated
revenues and expenses for the Fiscal Years covered by the
Strategic and Financial Plan will be brought into balance;
(3) Such other matters that the County Board, in its
discretion, requires; provided, however, that the System
Board shall be provided with a description of such matters
in sufficient time for incorporation into the Strategic and
Financial Plan.
(d) Strategic and Financial Plans shall not have force or
effect without the approval of the County Board and shall be
recommended, approved and monitored in accordance with
the following:
(1) The System Board shall recommend and submit to the
President and the County Board, on or before 180 days
subsequent to the date of the appointment of the initial
Directors or as soon as practicable thereafter, an initial
Strategic and Financial Plan with respect to the remaining
portion of the Fiscal Year ending in 2008 and for Fiscal
Years 2009 and 2010. The Board shall approve, reject or
amend this initial Strategic and Financial Plan within 45
days of its receipt from the System Board.
(2) The System Board shall develop a Strategic and
Financial Plan covering a period of three Fiscal Years.
(3) The System Board shall include in each Strategic and
Financial Plan estimates of revenues during the period for
which the Strategic and Financial Plan applies. In the event
the System Board fails, for any reason, to include estimates
of revenues as required, the County Board may prepare
such estimates. In such event, the Strategic and Financial
Plan submitted by the System Board shall be based upon
the revenue estimates prepared by the County Board.
(4) The County Board shall approve each Strategic and
Financial Plan if, in its judgment, the Strategic and
Financial Plan is complete, is reasonably capable of being
achieved, and meets the requirements set forth in this
section. After the System Board submits a Strategic and
Financial Plan to the President and the County Board,
the County Board shall approve or reject such Strategic
and Financial Plan within 45 days or such Strategic and
Financial Plan is deemed approved.
(5) The System Board shall report to the President and
the County Board, at such times and in such manner as
the County Board may direct, concerning the System
Board’s compliance with the Strategic and Financial Plan.

The President and the County Board may review the
System Board’s operations, obtain budgetary data and
financial statements, require the System Board to produce
reports, and have access to any other information in the
possession of the System Board that the President and
the County Board deem relevant. The County Board may
issue recommendations or directives within its powers to
the System Board to assure compliance with the Strategic
and Financial Plan. The System Board shall produce such
budgetary data, financial statements, reports and other
information and comply with such directives.
(6) For each Strategic and Financial Plan applicable to
a Fiscal Year subsequent to the current Fiscal Year, the
System Board shall regularly reexamine the revenue and
expenditure estimates on which it was based and revise
them as necessary. The System Board shall promptly notify
the President and the County Board of any material change
in the revenue or expenditure estimates in that Strategic
and Financial Plan. The System Board may submit to the
President and the County Board, or the County Board may
require the System Board to submit, modified Strategic and
Financial Plans based upon revised revenue or expenditure
estimates or for any other good reason. The County
Board shall approve or reject each modified Strategic and
Financial Plan pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-83. - Preliminary CCHHS budget and annual
appropriation ordinance.
(a) The System Board shall not make expenditures unless
such expenditures are consistent with the County’s Annual
Appropriation Bill (“Annual Appropriation Ordinance”) as
provided in 55 ILCS 5/6-24001 et seq.
(b) The System Board may, if necessary, recommend and
submit to the President and the County Board, for approval by
the County Board, a request for intra-fund transfers within the
Public Health Fund to accommodate any proposed revisions
by the System Board to the line items set forth for the Bureau
of Health Services in the existing Fiscal Year 2008 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance.
(c) For Fiscal Year 2009 and each Fiscal Year thereafter, the
System Board shall recommend and submit a Preliminary
Budget for the CCHHS to the President and the County Board,
for approval by the County Board, not later than 45 days prior
to the first date for submission of budget requests set by the
County’s Budget Director.

59  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 (d) Each Preliminary Budget shall be recommended and
submitted in accordance with the following procedures:
(1) Each Preliminary Budget submitted by the System Board
shall be based upon revenue estimates contained in the
approved Strategic and Financial Plan applicable to that
budget year.
(2) Each Preliminary Budget shall contain such information
and detail as may be prescribed by the County’s Budget
Director. Any applicable fund deficit for the Fiscal Year
ending in 2008 and for any Fiscal Year thereafter shall be
included as an expense item in the succeeding Fiscal Year’s
Budget.
(e) The County Board shall approve each Preliminary Budget
if, in its judgment, the Budget is complete, is reasonably
capable of being achieved, and will be consistent with the
Strategic and Financial Plan in effect for that Fiscal Year.
The Board shall approve or reject each Preliminary Budget
within 45 days of submission to the County Board or such
Preliminary Budget is deemed approved. Such Preliminary
Budget shall be included in the President’s Executive Budget
Recommendation.
(f) The CCHHS’s Annual Appropriation shall be monitored
as follows:
(1) The County Board may establish and enforce such
monitoring and control measures as the County Board
deems necessary to assure that the revenues, commitments,
obligations, expenditures, and cash disbursements of the
System Board continue to conform on an ongoing basis with
the Annual Appropriation Ordinance. If, in the discretion
of the County Board, and notwithstanding the approved
Annual Appropriation Ordinance, the County Board
imposes an expenditure limitation on the System Board,
the System Board shall not have the authority, directly or by
delegation, to enter into any commitment, contract, or other
obligation that would result in the expenditure limitation
being exceeded. Any such commitment, contract or other
obligation entered into by the System Board in derogation
of this section shall be voidable by the County Board. An
expenditure limitation established by the County Board
shall remain in effect for that Fiscal Year or unless revoked
earlier by the County Board.
(2) The System Board shall report to the President and
the County Board at such times and in such manner as the
County Board may direct, concerning the System Board’s
compliance with each Annual Appropriation Ordinance.

The President and the County Board may review the
System Board’s operations, obtain budgetary data and
financial statements, require the System Board to produce
reports, and have access to any other information in the
possession of the System Board which the President and
the County Board deem relevant. The County Board may
issue recommendations or directives within its powers to
the System Board to assure compliance with the Annual
Appropriation Ordinance. The System Board shall produce
such financial data, financial statements, reports and other
information and comply with such directives.
(3) After approval of each Annual Appropriation Ordinance,
the System Board shall promptly notify the President and
the County Board of any material change in the revenues
or expenditures set forth in the Annual Appropriation
Ordinance. In Fiscal Year 2009 and thereafter, the System
Board has the authority to make intra-fund transfers within
the Public Health Fund, if necessary, to accommodate any
proposed revisions by the System Board to the line items
set forth in the Annual Appropriation Ordinance. Such
transfers shall be reported by the CEO in the quarterly
reports required in Subsection 38-81(e) of this article.
(4) The County Comptroller is hereby authorized to
process invoices and make payments against line items
set forth in the Annual Appropriation Ordinance at the
direction of the System Board or, if authorized by the
System Board, at the direction of the CEO. The System
Board shall provide the Comptroller with all documentation
necessary for the Comptroller to perform this accounts
payable function and to perform the budget control
function. The Comptroller shall also issue payroll checks
for employees within the CCHHS.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-84. - Human resources.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Cook County
Code, including, but not limited to, provisions pertaining to
Personnel Policies, the System Board shall have authority
over all human resource functions currently performed by
the Cook County Bureau of Human Resources with regard to
all employees, including physicians and dentists, within the
CCHHS, including, but not limited to, position classification,
compensation, recruitment, selection, hiring, discipline,
termination, grievance, affirmative action, performance
management, probationary periods, training, promotion
and maintenance of records. The System Board shall adopt

60  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 written rules, regulations and procedures with regard to these
functions. Until such time as the System Board adopts its own
rules, regulations or procedures with regard to these functions,
the existing Personnel Rules, regulations and procedures of
the County shall apply. The System Board may exercise the
authority granted in this section, in whole or in part, pursuant
to its discretion and consistent with existing collective
bargaining agreements and obligations.
(b) Employees within the CCHHS are employees of the County,
and as such, shall be free from any political interference in
accordance with the Supplemental Relief Order and Consent
Decree established in the federal civil litigation filed in the
Northern District of Illinois under Case No. 69 C 2145 and
titled “Shakman, et al. v. Democratic Organization, et al.”
(c) The CEO shall participate with the County in negotiating
collective bargaining agreements covering CCHHS employees.
All such collective bargaining agreements must be approved by
the System Board and the County Board.
(d) The System Board or the CEO shall not hire or appoint any
person in any position in the CCHHS unless it is consistent
with the Annual Appropriation Ordinance in effect at the time
of hire or appointment.
(e) Nothing herein shall diminish the rights of Cook County
employees who are covered by a collective bargaining
agreement and who, pursuant to this article, are placed
under the jurisdiction of the System Board, nor diminish the
historical representation rights of said employees’ exclusive
bargaining representatives, nor shall anything herein change
the designation of “Employer” pursuant to the Illinois Public
Labor Relations Act. The System Board shall honor all existing
collective bargaining agreements, between Cook County and
exclusive bargaining representatives, which cover employees
under the jurisdiction of the System Board.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-85. - Procurement and contracts.
(a) The System Board shall have authority over all
procurement and contracts for the CCHHS. The System Board
shall adopt written rules, regulations and procedures with
regard to these functions, which must be consistent with the
provisions set forth in the Cook County Code on Procurement
and Contracts; provided, however, that approval of the County
Board or County Purchasing Agent required under the Cook
County Code on Procurement and Contracts is not required
for procurement and contracts within the CCHHS. The System

Board shall act in place of the County Board in any contract,
bylaws or agreement with the County which requires the
approval or other action of the County Board unless expressly
prohibited otherwise in this article or unless the contract
expressly provides that the System Board shall not have such
authority. Until such time as the System Board adopts its own
rules, regulations or procedures with regard to Procurement
and Contracts, the existing provisions of the Cook County
Code pertaining to Procurement and Contracts shall apply.
The System Board may exercise the authority granted in this
section, in whole or in part, pursuant to its discretion.
(b) No contract or other obligation shall be entered into by
the System Board unless it is consistent with the Annual
Appropriation Ordinance in effect.
(c) Any multiyear contracts entered into by the System
Board must contain a provision stating that the contract is
subject to County Board approval of appropriations for the
purpose of the subject contract; and that in the event funds
are not appropriated by the County Board, the contract shall
be cancelled without penalty to, or further payment being
required by, the System Board or the County. The System
Board shall give the vendor notice of failure of funding as
soon as practicable after the System Board becomes aware of
the failure of funding. Multiyear contracts shall also contain
provisions that the System Board’s or County’s obligation to
perform shall cease immediately upon receipt of notice to the
vendor of lack of appropriated funds; and that the System
Board’s or County’s obligation under the contract shall also
be subject to immediate termination or cancellation at any
time when there are not sufficient authorized funds lawfully
available to the System Board to meet such obligation.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-86. - Disclosure of interests required.
(a) Any Director, officer, agent, or professional or business
adviser of the System Board, or the CEO who has direct
or indirect interest in any contract or transaction with the
CCHHS, shall disclose this interest in writing to the System
Board which shall, in turn, notify the President and the County
Board of such interest.
(b) This interest shall be set forth in the minutes of the System
Board and the Director, agent, or professional or business
advisor or CEO having such interest shall not participate on
behalf of the CCHHS in any way with regard to such contract
or transaction unless the System Board or County Board
waives the conflict.

61  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 (c) The Cook County Board of Ethics shall have jurisdiction
over the investigation and enforcement of this section and over
the sanctions for violations as set forth in Sections 2-601 and
2-602 of the Cook County Code of Ethical Conduct.
(d) Employees of CCHHS shall be bound by the Cook County
Code of Ethical Conduct set forth in the Cook County Code,
Article VII, Ethics.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-87. - Annual report of the System Board.
(a) The System Board shall submit to the President and the
County Board, within six months after the end of each Fiscal
Year, a report which shall set forth a complete and detailed
operating and financial statement of the CCHHS during such
Fiscal Year.
(b) Included in the report shall be any recommendations
for additional legislation or other action which may be
necessary to carry out the mission, purpose and intent of
the System Board.

inefficiencies or uneconomical practices, including
inadequacies in internal and administrative procedures,
organizational structure, uses of resources, utilization of
real property, allocation of personnel, purchasing policies
and equipment.
(4) The County Board may direct the System Board to
reorganize the financial accounts and management and
budgetary systems of the System Board or CCHHS in
a manner that the County Board deems appropriate to
achieve greater financial responsibility and to reduce
financial inefficiency.
(b) The System Board and the CCHHS shall be subject to
audit in the manner now or hereafter provided by statute or
ordinance for the audit of County funds and accounts. A copy
of the audit report shall be submitted to the President, the
Chairperson of the Finance Committee of the County Board,
the Chairperson of the Health and Hospitals Committee, and
the Director of the County Office of the Auditor.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)

(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)

Sec. 38-89. - Indemnification.

Sec. 38-88. - Managerial and financial oversight.

(a) The County shall defend and indemnify patient care
personnel and public health practitioners, including, but not
limited to, physicians, dentists, podiatrists, fellows, residents,
medical students, nurses, certified nurse assistants, nurses’
aides, physicians’ assistants, therapists and technicians
(collectively “practitioners”) acting pursuant to employment,
volunteer activity or contract, if provided for therein, with the
County with respect to all negligence or malpractice actions,
claims or judgments arising out of patient care or public health
activities performed on behalf of the CCHHS. The County shall
also defend and indemnify such practitioners against liability
arising out of the preparation or submission of a bill seeking
payment for services provided by such practitioners for the
CCHHS, to the extent such liability arises out of the negligent
or intentional acts or omissions of a person or persons, other
than the practitioner, acting on behalf of the CCHHS. The
County shall also defend and indemnify the members of the
Nominating Committee and the System Board with respect
to all claims or judgments arising out of their activities as
members thereof which defense and indemnification shall be
subject to the same provisions which apply to the defense and
indemnification of practitioners as set forth below.

(a) The County Board may conduct financial and managerial
audits of the System Board and the CCHHS.
(1) The County Board may examine the business records
and audit the accounts of the System Board or CCHHS
or require that the System Board examine such business
records and audit such accounts at such time and in such
manner as the County Board may prescribe. The System
Board shall appoint a certified public accountant annually,
approved by the County Board, to audit the CCHHS’
financial statements.
(2) The County Board may initiate and direct financial
and managerial assessments and similar analyses of the
operations of the System Board and CCHHS, as may be
necessary in the judgment of the County Board, to assure
sound and efficient financial management of the System
Board and the CCHHS.
(3) The County Board shall initiate and direct a
management audit of the CCHHS at least once every
year. The audit shall review the personnel, organization,
contracts, leases, and physical properties of the CCHHS
to determine whether the System Board is managing
and utilizing its resources in an economical and efficient
manner. The audit shall determine the causes of any

(b) The County shall not be obligated to indemnify a
practitioner for:

62  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 (1) Punitive damages or liability arising out of conduct
which is not connected with the rendering of professional
services or is based on the practitioner’s willful or
wanton conduct.
(2) Professional conduct for which a license is required but
the practitioner does not hold a license.
(3) Conduct which is outside of the scope of the
practitioner’s professional duties.
(4) Conduct for which the practitioner does not have clinical
privileges, unless rendering emergency care while acting on
behalf of the CCHHS.
(5) Any settlement or judgment in which the County did
not participate.
(6) The defense of any criminal or disciplinary proceeding.
(c) To be eligible for defense and indemnification, the
practitioner shall be obligated to:
(1) Notify, within five days of receipt, the Cook County
Department of Risk Management and the Civil Actions
Bureau of the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office of any
claim made against the practitioner and deliver all written
demands, complaints and other legal papers, received
by the practitioner with respect to such claim to the
Department of Risk Management.
(2) Cooperate with the State’s Attorney’s Office in the
investigation and defense of any claim against the County
or any practitioner, including, but not limited to, preparing
for and attending depositions, hearings and trials and
otherwise assisting in securing and giving evidence.

(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008;
Ord. No. 11-O-90, 10-18-2011.)
Sec. 38-90. - Applicability of the Cook County Code.
Except as otherwise provided herein, provisions of the
Cook County Code shall apply to the System Board and the
CCHHS and their Directors, officers, employees and agents.
To the extent there is a conflict between the provisions of this
article and any other provision in the Cook County Code, the
provisions in this article shall control.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-91. - Transition.
(a) The County Board recognizes that there will be a necessary
transition period between the adoption of this article and the
point at which the System Board is capable of assuming all of
its powers and responsibilities as set forth in this article. The
Office of the President shall cooperate with the System Board
during this transition to enable the System Board to assume
fully its authority and responsibilities in as timely a manner
as practicable. Such cooperation shall include accommodating
requests from the System Board to provide adequate staffing
at the CCHHS through the transfer or reassignment of
personnel to the CCHHS, including, but not limited to,
personnel to perform human resource and procurement/
contracting functions.

(3) Promptly notify the Cook County Department of Risk
Management and the Civil Actions Bureau of the Cook
County State’s Attorney’s Office of any change in the
practitioner’s address or telephone number.

(b) In order to avoid unnecessary duplication of services, the
System Board, on behalf of the CCHHS, may, at its discretion,
continue to utilize various ancillary services provided through
the Office of the President, including, but not limited to, those
services provided by the Office of Capital Planning and Policy,
the Bureau of Information Technology, the Department of
Risk Management, the Department of Facilities Management,
the Department of Real Estate Management, the Office of the
Comptroller, and the Office of the County Auditor.

(d) All actions shall be defended [by] the Cook County
State’s Attorney. Decisions to settle indemnified claims shall
be made by the County or the State’s Attorney’s Office, as
delegated by the County, and shall not require the consent
of the indemnified practitioner. If a practitioner declines
representation by the State’s Attorney’s Office, the County shall
have no obligation to defend or indemnify the practitioner.

(c) Any contracts entered into by the County on behalf of the
Bureau of Health prior to the adoption of this article shall
remain in effect; provided, however, that the System Board
shall act in place of the County Board in any contract, bylaws
or agreement with the County which requires the approval or
other action of the County Board unless expressly prohibited
otherwise in this article.

63  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 (Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-92. - Severability.
Any provision of this article declared to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid shall not impair the remaining provisions of
this article.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008.)
Sec. 38-93. - Making CCHHS permanent.
The Cook County Health and Hospitals System and this
article shall continue, unless the Cook County Board of
Commissioners acts to revoke its powers and responsibilities.
(Ord. No. 08-O-35, 5-20-2008;
Ord. No. 10-O-30, 6-1-2010.)
Sec. 38-94. - Quarterly reporting.
(a) The Health and Hospitals System shall report to the Board
of Commissioners quarterly on the cost that the office incurs
due to processing medical cases involving firearms.
(Ord. No. 18-1750, 2-7-2018.)
Secs. 34-95—34-108. - Reserved.

64  

IMPACT 2023
Strategic Plan

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH

FT

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

D

RA

M. Hill Hammock, Chair
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry, Vice Chair
Hon. Dr. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC
Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH
Ada Mary Gugenheim
Mike Koetting
David Ernesto Munar
Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH
Robert G. Reiter, Jr.
Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD
Sidney A. Thomas, MSW

 