 at ?ett?lt Brenda (loss Andreas
ltatrperson

Lisa hitmorc Davis
Lauren llood, MCI) . . . Damion Ellis
Vice Chair Scercuu?} DJ?id LFED
208 Coleman Young. Municipal Center ski
\lgrcel: R. Youth-11'- Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, .lr.
.1 
Phone: (313) 22-4-6223 Fax: (313) 22-1-4336 

e-mail: 

NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING

The City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing in the Committee of the Whole Room. 13 floor of the
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, on

AUGUST 1. 2019 AT 6:30 PM

to considera request f-ira PD (Planned Development) Modification from Jerry Pattah. Timothy Pattah and Rodney
Guppy by amending Ordinance No. 30-03 which amended .\rticle XVII. District _\1.tp 6?3 of Chapter 61 of the
198-1 Detroit City Code. 7oning, on land bounded on the north by lhatcher entte. on the east by llarlovv enue
(extended), on the south by W. Outer Drive and on the vv est by the Sautlatield 1 reevvay north service driv c. The
subject property is indicated on the accompanying map.

The proposed PD modi?cation would modify the prev iously approv ed site plans and allow for the establishment
of a two-sided monopole digital advertising billboard. measuring 70 feet in height vv ith a total of approximately
1,363 additional square feet of signage.

The zoning district is generally de?ned by the Zoning Ordinance as follovv s:

PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

This district vv i11 permit planned developments throughout the City and vv ill be particularly useful in urban
renevv a1 areas. Such planned developments shall be substantially in accord vv ith the goals and objectives
of the Master Plan, by having a major land use that corresponds to the mOst general category of land ttse.
which are Residential, Public Civ ie Institutional. Retail Service Commercial. Manufacturing and
Industrial, and Other. proposed in the Master Plan for the area inv olv ed. Such planned developments shall
provide a desirable environment for the uses proposed and shall not be out of harmony with their general
surroundings. The regulations of the district are designed to accomplish this by permitting flexibility in
overall development while ensuring adequate safeguards and standards for public health. safety,
convenience, and general welfare and, where applicable, encouraging historic preservation.

The proposed modification is being considered by the City Planning Commission in accordance with the
provisions of Article 111, Division 4 ofthe Detroit Zoning Ordinance. PD rezoning requires the approval of

the City Council after a public hearing and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning
Commission.

You may present your view 5 on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to represent you, or
by writing to this office prior to the hearing: 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX:
313-22443 36). Because it is possible that some who are affected by this proposal may not have been notified, it
is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days. the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services at public
meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please contact the ivil

Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at 313-224-4950, through the TTY number 711, or
email criOi?it dctroitmigov to schedule these services.

 

For further information or.- this pmposal or the public hearing. please cull (3 13) 224-6223.

PROPOSED PD MODIFICATION

 


1?1 7-DUTER 
'