





TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Resolved,

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 


37th Annual Metro Detroit Youth Day

On Wednesday, July 10, 2019, the 37th Annual Metro Detroit Youth Day, will be held at Belle Isle Park in
the City of. Detroit. Metro Detroit Youth Day, the largest youth event in Michigan, has drawn over 1 million
youngsters since its inception. Metro Detroit Youth Day is a great way to channel children?s energies in a
positive and constructive setting. Youngsters look forward to Metro Detroit Youth Day each year; and

This event united the community and brought peace and tranquility to Detroit following altercations in 1980
between youth and area retailers on Livernois Ave. between Six and Seven Mile Roads. Then-Mayor
Coleman A. Young met with community leaders to calm tensions and asked Ed Deeb to work with retailers
to ?do something to help resolve the problem.? Mr. Deeb did so and urged the retailers to be more sensitive
to customers. Metro Youth Day was formed with the original goal of fostering goodwill and harmony. But,
in 1991 Metro Youth Day became more than fun and games. It was expanded to include youth guidance,
mentors, role models, anti-substance abuse activity, motivational speakers, entertainment, and awarding
college scholarships -- beginning with two given out the ?rst year. They now average more than 120
scholarships yearly and honor outstanding students for academic excellence and community service. Sports
stars, government of?cials, College Row, media celebrities and others attend the event and provide upbeat
messages and encouragement to the youth; and

Metro Detroit Youth Day has grown annually. It takes more than 1,800 volunteers to supervise the sports
clinics, games, contests, luncheon, and various other activities held at this exciting event. The Metro Detroit
Youth Day event has received countless honors and proclamations from all areas of our state and nation.
Since 1991, more than 2,000 scholarships have been awarded to graduating high school seniors in
metropolitan Detroit; and

Metro Detroit Youth Day is a special day of games, fun, Sports clinics, entertainment, and motivational speakers.
It emphasizes the need for physical education, ?tness, good Sportsmanship, community service, college
scholarships, role models, and guidance from mentors. It has been acknowledged that our youth are a valuable
asset to our communities and the foundation of our future. Metro Detroit Youth Day brings together the total
community and the private sector to enhance relationships, and improve community cooperation and harmony;
and

Numerous corporations, community groups, and institutions of higher education have demonstrated their
belief in and support of Metro Detroit?s youth by sponsoring the Metro Detroit Youth Day. These
outstanding and dedicated leaders shown that they know the children really are our future. NOW,
THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones do hereby support the 37??
Annual Metro Detroit Youth Day event. Each year Metro Detroit Youth Day gets better and the 2019
event will be no exc

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GOUN IL MEM ER

July 10, 201 -

DATE

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED



ILDETROIT CITY COUNCIL 

1 L, *3 .


Walter Dougfas Hac?ef

Walter Douglas Hackel, was born on Independence Day, July 4, 1939, the middle son of
Walter and Lolse Hackel in Detroit ,Michigan. He grew up in Detroit and attended the
Detroit Public Schools. Walter Douglas Hackel, was a champion swimmer who won all of
the swimming meets at the Balch Recreation Center, and also at his junior and high
schools swimming meets; and

Walter Douglas Hackel, married his high school sweetheart, Hester Yvonne Johnson, in
1955, before going off to serve in the United States Air Force in 1956. He selected to work
in communications as a member of the Secret Service. He was a radio operator during his
deployments at Karamursel Air Force Base near lstanbul, Turkey, and had crucial
moments during the early 1960's when the Cuban Missile Crisis occurred, where his
bravery was tested; and

Walter Douglas Hackel, having served eight years in the United States Air Force, was
honorably discharged in 1964 and returned home where he was hired as a General
Foreman, and became one of the first African-American white-collar worker at 
Corporation. After an early retirement from he realized his entrepreneurial
dreams by owning and operating a maintenance company and pursued his leisure lifestyle
by becoming an avid golfer, who not only enjoyed playing the game, but was financially
rewarded; and

Walter Douglas Hackel, is the Patriarch of five generations. His achievements, strong
civic and military image, and his undying devotion to his community are forever
appreciated. He is a shining example of the power of love and compassion. NOW,
THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council, Office of Council President Brenda Jones along with
family and friends would like to take this time to honor Walter Douglas Hackel. May
God continue to bless him in abundance!

 

 

?hr OUNGILF-


I COUNI 
olLMEMBEH . "t I
19. 1 . in" hill. i'gcfiu 

COUNCIL EMBEH I co IL MEMBER 1

July 13,2019

 

DATE

Whereas

Whereas

Whereas

Whereas

Whereas

Resolved

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL SIG/(ltd! 044/

In Memoriam

LEE A. IACOCCA

Lido Anthony "Lee? Iacocca was born in Allentown, on October 15, 1924 to the late Nicola Iacocca
and Antonietta Perrotta. Lee graduated with honors from Allentown High School in 1942 and Lehigh University,
with a degree in industrial engineering. After graduating from Lehigh, Lee was awarded the Wallace Memorial
Fellowship, sending him to Princeton University where he earned a master?s degree in engineering; and

Upon graduation from Princeton, Lee's automotive career began at Ford Motor Company in August 1946 as an
engineer. The ambitious Iacocca was transferred to sales and marketing, where he quickly rose through the
ranks. He became vice-president and General Manager of Ford Division in 1960 and, ten years later, was
appointed President of Ford Motor Company. Iacocca had a great impact at Ford, known as ?The Father of the
Mustang", he brought the world-famous line to market, along with the Continental Mark and the Ford Escort.
The visionary Iacocca forecasted the need for small, fuel-ef?cient vehicles and became the moving force behind
the Ford Pinto. A strong-willed leader, Iacocca frequently clashed with Ford Chairman Henry Ford II. He was
?red in july 1978, despite the company posting a $23 profit for the year; and

Iacocca was courted by the struggling Corporation. Never one to back down from a challenge, Iacocca
accepted and began to restructure the company. Bringing in seasoned associates from Ford, Iacocca launched a
series of products he previously tried to produce, most namely the "Mini-Max? minivan and the small,
affordable K-car. Iacocca realized needed an in?ux of cash to continue operations or the company
would fold. In an unprecedented move, he appealed to the US. Congress for a loan bailout. Due to his
manufacturing experience, automotive reputation and leadership confidence, he was able to negotiate a deal
and keep the company a?oat. The Iacocca-led resurgence resulted in the loan being repaid seven years before it
was due. At the height of his career in the 1980's, Iacocca was arguably the best-known businessman in the
nation. He became characterized by the marketing slogan, "If you can ?nd a better car, buy it!? He retired as
President and CEO Chairman of in 1992; and

Still yearning to have an impact on the business world, Iacocca joined the board of MGM Grand and founded
Olivio Premium Products in 1993. In 1995, Iacocca joined the board of K00 K00 Roo, leading a merger with Chi
Chi?s and El Torito?s restaurants. In 1999, he became the head of EV Global Motors, a company formed to create
electric bicycles. Iacocca authored three books during his business career, Iacocca: An Autobiography (co-
authored with William Novak), Talking Straight [co-authored with Sonny Kleinfeld) and Where Have All the
Leaders Gone (co-authored with Catherine Whitney). He was appointed by President Ronald Reagan to lead the
board of the Statue of Liberty/ Ellis Island and its restoration project. He was an advocate and fundraiser for
numerous charities and foundations,- and

Iacocca was preceded in death by his beloved wife, Mary. She was the love of his life and Lee was devastated
when she succumbed to diabetes. Upon her death, Lee became an active supporter of diabetes research,
founding the Iacocca Family Foundation with proceeds from his ?rst book. Their union bore two daughters,
Iacocca Hentz (Ned Carlton] and Lia Iacocca Assad (Victor). He was also married two other times.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and the Of?ce of Council President Brenda Iones, hereby joins the Iacocca
family, members of Fiat Automobiles, Ford Motor Company and all Detroiters in honoring the memory
of Mr. Lee A. Iacocca, on Wed y, july 10, 2019.

   
  

 

COUNCIL 

20

CI MEMBER

 

 

 

    

 

co CILMEMBEH 
luly 10,2019

DATE

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,



0' PHESA. ?0 -M
. 

NFIWW 
. .r

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 

- . 7 .
$395Mmamas-g? 97x 050344451 on:

Reverend Dr. Isaiah Tilmon, Jr.
25?? Pastoral Anniversary

It is with great pleasure and privilege that we, the members of the Detroit City Council, recognize and
bestow ho?nor upon Reverend Dr. Isaiah Tilmon Jr., the Pastor of Morning Star Missionary Baptist
Church, as he celebrates his 25?? Pastoral Anniversary; and

Reverend Tilmon is an anointed man of God. Through his years of preaching and pastoring, Reverend
Tilmon has been a great inspiration to many and continues to be an avid supporter of the eastside
community. He is actively engaged in community outreach and recruits members of his congregation every
year to serve as volunteers to patrol the streets on Angel?s Night to keep the community safe. On
Halloween, Morning Star provides a Fun Night at the church for neighborhood children to keep them safe
and off the streets. For several years, Reverend Tilmon has assisted Blue Cross/Blue Shield in distributing
Thanksgiving and Christmas holiday food baskets to residents in need of support; and

Reverend Tilmon does not hesitate to provide services for bereaved families, whether they are part of his
congregation or not. He opens the church doors to let families have a place to hold funeral services for
their loved ones and accommodates them for a repast dinner, when needed. Reverend Tilmon always
makes himself available to unite couples in marriage or to facilitate ceremonies for families that want to
dedicate their children and grandchildren to God. His work in the ministry has always gone beyond the
walls of the church. After returning back home to Michigan from the seminary, Reverend Tilmon became
a part of the city?s Empowerment Zone committee in an attempt to help improve the community; and

As a member of the clergy, Reverend Tilmon has executed many administrative and ministerial duties.
He is also a mentor to many young pastors. Reverend Tilmon is a certi?ed/licensed Drivers Education
instructor and the owner of Holman Road Testing Services LLC. The business is certi?ed and licensed by
the state of Michigan. He is a member of the Westside Ministers Alliance of Detroit and the Council of
Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity. Reverend Dr. Isaiah Tilmon Jr. is a man of great spiritual depth,
faith and obedience who uses his gifts and talents to empower and encourage the people of God. NOW,
THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, joins with family, friends
and members to extend congratulations to Reverend Dr. Isaiah Tilmon Jr. on this momentous occasion
celebrating his 25th Pastoral Anniversary.


COUNCIL 

 

mm? 4.4

u-?E

   
 
   



 

 

 

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

Mr. Wilmer Otis ?Pete? Wilson

WHEREAS, We, the members of the Detroit City Council, solemnly pause today to recognize and bestow homage upon
the late, MR. WILMER OTIS WILSON, who made his heavenly transition on June 23, 2019;
and 

 

 

 

WHEREAS, WILMER OTIS WILSON was born on January 28, 1927, in Mocksville, North Carolina, to Annie
Elizabeth and Daniel Raymond Wilson. He was the youngest of seven children. PETE accepted Christ as his
savior at an early age. He received his adolescent education at the Davie County Training School in
Mocksville. In 1945, PETE enlisted in the United States Army and received an honorable discharge.
Following his military service, PETE returned to North Carolina and was able to get a job in the logging
industry in the Mocksville area; and

WHEREAS, Following a brief courtship, PETE was united in marriage to Lois Gaither, the love of his life, on August 17,
1948. To this union, they were blessed with two children, a beautiful daughter, Gail Susan and a handsome
son, Michael Anthony. In 1950, PETE and Lois relocated to Detroit, Michigan, to seek employment in the
thriving automotive industry. PETE worked for the Corporation, US Steel and Ellis Steel; and

WHEREAS, In 1992, PETE retired to enjoy spending more leisure time with his family and friends. His favorite past
times were cooking, baking and gardening. Most of all, PETE enjoyed helping his Northwest Detroit
neighbors with landscaping and using his snow blower to clear their sidewalks and driveways. On January
15, 2003, the Lord called home Lois, soulmate. Following this life altering event, PETE moved to
Ellis Manor Apartments, a senior living community in Detroit. He loved living there and looked forward to
visits from family and friends. PETE participated in various activities with fellow residents and the staff,
including prayer sessions, bible study classes and birthday socials. His daily activities kept his spirits high
and his mind alert. PETE lived independently until April 23, 2019; and

WHEREAS, PETE was preceded in death by his loving and devoted wife of 54 years, Lois; a precocious infant son,
Michael Anthony; a darling step-granddaughter, Joi Elane Turner; two sisters, Helen Turner and Hazel
Wilson; and four brothers, Allen, Raymond, Glen and Jessie. PETE leaves to mourn and cherish his memory:
a caring and devoted daughter, Gail Wilson Turner (Joseph); and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins and
friends, especially his Ellis Manor family. MR. WILMER OTIS WILSON has been a good
servant and ensured that his impact would be forever embedded in the hearts of those he cherished for years
to come. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, hereby joins with family and
friends to honor the life of MR. WILMER OTIS WILSON. He will be greatly missed.


.3 . scoring


- -
A .. 
[?634 COUNCIL EMBER couwcf MEMBER .13.
July 2, 2019

DATE 

 

 

 

