Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
May 21, 2019, 8:00 a.m.
Minutes for May 21, 2019
Commissioners present: Neville Reid, John Cooke, Juan Morado, Jr., Everett Rand and Cory
Foster
Others present: Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage, Kate Schellinger, Tom Strachan, Denielle Mathys
(Court Reporter), Jeanne Cotini, Judy Salgado and Nicole Vahl, Paul Cogan; John Higgins, Eileen
Rhodes, Benjamin Schuster
Approval of Minutes
President Reid called the meeting to order and took the roll call of Commissioners.
Commissioner Morado moved and Commissioner Foster seconded that the minutes from the
November 20, 2018 and March 19, 2019 meetings be approved.
Executive Director Report
Kate Schellinger provided the following report:
Innovation District & Life Science – First white paper titled The IL Medical District
Releases a Roadmap for Innovation District to Keep Chicago from Losing Ground was
published. A second publication was published titled A Solution for Illinois’ Sagging Life Sciences
Sector.
General Counsel Search – Search for General Counsel has been ongoing for past two
months. Offer should be extended to one of the candidates in early June.
Financial Report
Mr. Strachan provided a financial report and noted the following:
•
•
•
•

Looking at investment strategies for cash balance;
Receivables are in good shape;
Payables are in great shape
An operating budget will be put together for 2020

The Commissioners then engaged in a discussion regarding parking lot.

 New Business
Gateway - President Reid asked the Gateway team to provide an update. Eileen Rhodes from
East Lake provided an update.
Director of External Affairs – President Reid introduced newest member of the IMD, John
McIlwain. He is the new Director of External Affairs. Mr. McIlwain introduced himself and
provided a summary of his relevant experience.
Executive Session
Upon motion by President Reid seconded by Commissioner Morado the Commission went
into executive session.
Open Session (Resumed)
The Commission returned to open session. President Reid mentioned that the Commission
will resume to approve the following resolution:
FY2020 Budget – Mr. Strachan presented the FY2020 Budget. Mr. Schuster read the
resolution. Commissioner Rand moved that the resolution be approved and Commissioner
Foster seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.

Commissioner Morado moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Rand and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Cory Foster
Secretary

 