th
June 12
, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.

Noticed for 10:35 AM: Commenced at 10:35 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (6/12/2019)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda”.

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin Irvin
Johnny Miller, and Alejandro Silva.

CITIZENS ADVISORY BOARD PRESENTATION: CAB member Deborah Spencer-Gordon made a brief
presentation regarding the board’s activities.
UPDATE ON STATE CAPITAL BILL: President Carter and Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Fine gave a
presentation on the recent State Capital Bill.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Deferred to the Finance, Audit and Budget Committee.

Chairman Peterson then asked for a motion to recess the Board meeting, in order to conduct the
meeting of the Committee on Finance, Audit and Budget. After the motion was moved and second
the Board approved the motion with five yes votes.
(30 minute recess)

At the conclusion of the Finance, Audit, and Budget Committee proceedings, Chairman Peterson a
th
for a motion to reconvene the regular CTA Board meeting
of June
12 the motion was
, 2019.
After
moved and seconded, the board approved the motion with five yes votes.

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
th
May 8
, 2019. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with five yes votes.

EXECUTIVE SESSION: The Board convened into Executive Session, pursuant to Section 2-C (sub-se
1 and 5) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.

Upon re-convening from executive session, the Board took up the two executive session agenda it

Chairman Peterson first asked for consideration of Board Agenda Item # 6-A. After a brief present
by General Counsel Karen Seimetz, Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve an
authorizing the acquisition of a construction easement on property located at 5343 North
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, for the Red and Purple Modernization Project. After being moved
seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.

Chairman Peterson next addressed Board Agenda Item #6-B. After a brief presentation by
Counsel Karen Seimetz, Chairman Peterson called for a motion to approve an ordinance sustaining
discharge of Gregory C. Middleton, Jr. After the motion was approved and seconded, the motion w
approved with five yes votes.
1

 BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson then asked Gregory Longhini to read the resolutions
AgendaItems 7-Aand 7-B, honoringrecentCTA BoardmembersAndre Youngbloodand Robert
Patterson. After the resolutions were entered into the record, Chairman Peterson asked for a moti
approve both resolutions. After being moved and seconded, the resolutions were approved with fi
yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Chairman Silva presented the report. The commi
reviewed the monthly (June) report on Finance, approvedth, the
May
8
2019
committee
meeting
minutes, and reviewed the independent audit report for Fiscal Year 2018. Mr. Silva also stated tha
other Committee agenda items, listed on the Committee Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discu
placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.
Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Irvine. After
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.

All approved June 2019 Board ordinances are available on-line, www.transitchicago.com
. “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 019-48 through 019-57. All appro
2019 Board Resolutions are available www.transitchicago.com
on line,
“Chicago Transit Board”, “Board
Resolutions”, Resolution Numbers 019-2 and 019-3.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Bill Mooney presented the Construction Repo
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (June 2019), “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None
th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn
, 2019
the June
Chicago
12
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 