Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Real Estate Committee
Tuesday, July 23, 2019

9:45 AM

3300 Golf Road, Brookfield, IL
Brookfield Zoo-Wild Encounters,
White Oak Room

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0339
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/21/2019
19-0281
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
EASEMENT REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) to
grant a permanent easement to the Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”) at Roosevelt Road

Page 1 of 2

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

July 23, 2019

and IL 171 (1st Avenue) for 0.032 acre or 1,390 square feet.
Reason:
As part of planned intersection improvements at Roosevelt Road and IL 171 (1st Avenue)
IDOT proposes to construct 350 linear feet of 7-foot-wide concrete sidewalk along the south side of
Roosevelt Road from 1st Avenue to the existing Pace bus shelter. The sidewalk will be constructed
adjacent to the curb to minimize the required easement area. The proposed sidewalk will improve safety
and accessibility for pedestrians from the bus shelter to the crosswalks at the signalized intersection. The
Village of Forest Park has requested the sidewalk and will be responsible for its maintenance.

The planned intersection improvements are within the existing IDOT right of way. Only the sidewalk is
proposed to be built on Forest Preserves land.
The area for the permanent easement is 0.032 acres. IDOT indicates that no trees are expected to be
removed for this project.
Easement Fee: $300.00
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
District(s): 1
Legislative History: 6/25/2019 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Real Estate Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Moore
Vice-Chairman: K. Morrison
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 2 of 2

 