CTA ADA Advisory Committee
Meeting Minutes
Monday, April 8 2019
Members Present
Committee Members:

Facilitator:
CTA Staff
Excused Absence:

Angela Davis (Chairman)
Melissa Fuller (Vice Chairman)
Adam Ballard
Pamela Berman
Phyllis Buchanan
Whitney Hill
Donna K. Shaw
Gary Walley
Amy Serpe, Manager, ADA Compliance Programs
Michael Connelly, Chief Planning Officer
Bridget Hayman
Michele Lee

Chairman Angela Davis called the meeting to order at 1:33 p.m.
Roll Call
 Meeting members introduced themselves and their affiliations if any.
Announcements
 Vice Chairman Fuller asked if anyone had any announcements.
 Facilitator Serpe informed the Committee that Ms. Laura Isaacs has resigned the Committee.
 Ms. Pam Berman stated that she is doing an outreach presentation for Guide Dogs for the Blind
on Saturday, April 13 th at 10 a.m. at Second Sense, 65 E. Wacker Place, Chicago.
 Vice Chairman Fuller announced that the National Federation of the Blind in IL (NFBI) is having
a fundraiser at Beggars Pizza, 310 S. Clinton, Chicago, this Wednesday, April 10, 2019 from 11
a.m. to 7 p.m. A portion of your bill will be donated to the NFB.
 Ms. Whitney Hill announced during the month of April into May, Blind Services is sponsoring
some resume writing workshops. The sessions are free but registration is required. They are
also having a fundraiser April 12 and 13 for the organization’s summer programs.
 Mr. Mike Connelly stated that he has sent all Committee members CTA’s Standard Operating
Procedures (SOPs) for Bus and Rail. These are living documents and are updated periodically.
Approval of Minutes
 The Meeting Minutes for the January 14, 2019 meeting were sent to all Committee members in
advance for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Vice Chairman Fuller asked that moving forward, no italics should be used when the transcript is
being directly quoted. She explained that her screen reader has difficulty interpreting this.
Facilitator Serpe said that she will only use quote marks and no italics if taking information
verbatim from the transcript. Vice Chairman Fuller said it was not necessary to change the
Minutes sent just use the quote marks for future Minutes.
 As there were no corrections to the Meeting Minutes, Chairman Davis asked for a motion to
approve the minutes as submitted.
 Vice Chairman Fuller moved and Ms. Shaw seconded the motion.
1

 

Everyone voted to approve the Minutes as written.

Public Comment
 Vice Chairman, Fuller called forth the one speaker for Public Comment.
 Mr. Garland Armstrong is concerned about the bus islands at the Cumberland Station Bus
Terminals on the Blue Line and wants to know if there is a date to work on this project.
 Mr. Mike Connelly, CTA Chief Planning Officer explained that as of now, it is not determined as
to when such construction will move forward due to the fact that, as of yet, there is no State
Capital Budget Program.
Red-Purple Modernization (RPM) Project
 Mr. Jeff Wilson, Director of Community Relations for the RPM project was unavailable but did
provide the following notes which were delivered by Facilitator Amy Serpe.
 Procurement: Design-Build contract was issued to Walsh-Flour, the notice to proceed was
issued on February 8, 2019.
 Outreach: CTA’s Government and Community Relations (GCR) Department participated in
Lawrence to Bryn Mawr Modernization meetings and events with 48th Ward Alderman
Osterman, business owners and community members on February 1, 6, 7, 9 and 14, 2019 to
provide information about the project.
 Utility work continues within both the Red Purple Bypass area as well as the Lawrence to Bryn
Mawr Modernization area.

General Construction Report Update
 Ms. TaNesheha Marshall, Vice President, Capital Construction presented project updates.
 95th Street Station: The North Terminal, which was open in January has 2 new elevators. There are also 2 elevaotrs
the South Terminal, one of which is under construction and there is other “punch list” work going on in that termina
95th Station also has a total of 7 escalators.
 Garfield Green Line Station: Now has 2 elevators that have been refurbished. A second escalator was also added so there
are now also 2 escalators at that station. Additional “punch list” work is also happening.
 Illinois Medical District (IMD): Has one elevator (at Ogden) and 2 ramps (at Paulina and Damen).
 Quincy: This historical station now has 2 elevators (one on each side of the street with direct access to the
Station House on the Platform level).
 Jefferson Park: The rail terminal has 1 elevator and 2 escalators. Work on the north and south bus terminals which are be
rehabbed to better facilitate individuals who use mobility devices will include an audio bus tracking component in addition
tracking information. This is still a work in progress.
two
 Ms. Marshall also reported that, “Belmont currently hastwo escalators. Wilson, we were able to add
elevators and twoescalators.We have upcoming projects whichLogan
is
Squarealong the BlueLine.We will
modernizetwo elevators. It is currently there, but we
will upgrade those twoelevators.Also our next upcoming project is
GrandChicago Division.We will be rehabbingthe escalator at Grand Avenue.Chicago andDivisioncurrently have
escalators, and we will not
be rehabbingthose.”
 Vice Chairman Fuller raised the issue of more contrast on rail station stairs. Ms. Marshall said
that her team was working with the Planning and Engineering Departments to identify a station
from which to conduct a Pilot Program related to providing more contrast on stairs. She said that
no particular station has yet to be identified. Vice Chairman Fuller suggested somewhere
downtown such as on State Street and Ms. Marshall will take the suggestion under advisement.
CTA Capital and Operating Budget Information
 Mr. Michael Fitzsimons, Manager CIP Development provided an overview of the budget.
2

 


















Mr. Fitzsimons explained that, “The CTA operating budget is $1.55
billionAt this point in time, based on the 2018
countsthrough the bus system, we serve 238
millionpassenger trips and this requires 1,550
buses.These buses
transverse over 10,500 bus stops
in addition to 128 bus routes they
serve.On the rail side, we serve 223
million
passengertrips.That requires 1,115 rail cars
that transverse 145 stations over eight rail
lines”.
“CTA has basicallythe operating revenues divided in two
sections.Those revenues provided by the system and
then
those revenues that are provided by the
public subsidies.
The vast amount and majority revenue
of
come from fare and
passes and a few othersourcessuch as the State subsidy and the Cook County
and City of Chicagosubsidies”.
“The other sides of the revenue
streamcomes from public funding.There's basicallythreecategories within the public
funding. There isthe RTA sales tax receipt, it is collected by tax
for Cook County, suburban Cook, and the
collarcounties.
The CTA gets the full share of the
City portion. They get 30 percent of the
suburbanCook County portion.They do not
get a shareof the collarcounties.The State of Illinois matches these
salestax receipts and we have the Illinois
Public
TransportationFund.There's a smaller realestatetransfer tax that's just focused on the City
of Chicago, which the CTA
receives all ofthose.So if you look at the general makeup
of the revenue source, about 45 percentsystem
is
generated
and about 55 percent comes from
public subsidies”.
“The operating expenses.The vastmajorityof the operating expenses, 70 percent,from
is laborcost.The other main
category here iseveryother expense category … [pension, technology, legal, utility and debt services on CTA capital bond
and that takes upabout18 percent”
Budget challenges include, “…
substantial State cuts to
the operating and capital budgets since 2014 afortotal on the
operating side of $135 million.And then on the capital side, the CTA has not
receivedwhat we traditionally expected of
an annualtransportation benefit for the total
of $1 billion since2014.The totality of that is almost $2 million
of potential
capital from the State CTA can use over
a 15-yearperiod”.
“One other interesting note, the
Statecontributes essentially about $0.57 per
ride. Thiscompares nationally to the next
level, NewYork City, which gets about double that, $1.12
per ride.Places like Boston and Philadelphia [also receive
more]. The CTA is truly underfunded whencomes
it
to State funding for transportation”.
“Ridershiptrends are down dramatically since
2012. They'redown 14 percent for a total of 76.8 million
rides.Now, this
is not just theCTA. All acrossthe nation, all the transit agencies
are experiencing this mostly due to the
mobilityservices
such as ride hailing services, Uber
and Lyft”.
“The 2019 capital program
invested$2.9 billion. The primary source are
Federal funds. … The
Red Purple
Modernization [RPM Program], the Red Line
extension [RLE],
and theGreen [Line projects] …
are setto have a
transformation impact on CTA
operationsgoing forward over the next
decade”.
“Even with the limited funding, the
CTA does have an investment plan on the bus side
and the railside.On the bus side,
we justreceived25 new standard 40-foot
buses.We havea procurement for 20 electric buses and
associatedpower
infrastructure forthat.Those buses areto go into service in 2020 on the Chicago
Avenueroute,66. We also have two
dedicatedoverhaulprograms that will allow for the overhaul530
of buses”.
“On the rail side, we continue to invest
in our fleet where we'll have 400 new rail cars
in service in the near future and we are
purchasingfour diesel locomotives [to] replace
locomotivesoperating throughout the system to move work trains.
These
[older] diesel locomotives are over 40 years
old”.
Other current and future projects include Your New Blue working on 5 of the remaining 13 stations,
modernizing our signal system of Jefferson Park to O’Hare,
the RPM Project, Red Line Extension Project
(RLE). The plan for RLE is to extend the the Red Line at 95th 130
to th – five miles – by buildingnew stationsat
103rd, 111th, Michigan, and
130th Streets.
Chairman Davis asked about how much money is lost due to the fact that the state subsidy
didn’t come through to which Mr. Fitzsimons responded about $14M. It used to be $28M which
has been cut in half the last 5 years.
Ms. Buchanan asked why there is a short fall in regards to getting money from the state. Mr.
Fitzsimons stated that, “…we need aStatebonds transportation program annuallysupport
to
our Federal
program, which is what all the
transitagencies across the country expect
too. We have been lacking that recently
because of theobviousState budget problems.They haven't been ableto initiate a program because generally the
3

 


programneeds to be introduced by the legislatoropposed
as
to a direct annually occurring
source.Therefore, because
of the Statebudgetproblems over the last ten years, there has been
a great hesitancy and ability to find a sourceafor
bonds program and, therefore, they haven't
been able to do a traditional five-year bond
program.Normally it comes in fiveyear increments.For example, we missed that increment
in 2004 and'08. We got some State funds in
2009 through
'14. We wereokay. But then since2014 and '15, we haven't had a State program.
That has led to CTA doing some
additional bonding tosupportthose capitalprojects.But yes, we really …wouldexpect hopefully there would be a
traditionalprogram in thefuture.
Chairman Davis pointed out that people can go online to a site, getonboardil.org, through the
RTA, to send a form letter to their representative and the Governor letting them know that there
needs to be money to support access to transportation.
People were also concerned about funding for the RPM and RLE Programs. It was explained
that funding has been designated for the RPM Phase One Project which is for the rebuild of 4
stations (Lawrence, Argyle, Berwyn and Bryn Mawr), as well as the Belmont Fly-Over. RLE
planning has begun but this is a ten year project and additional funding is needed.

Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Report
 The Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance for
review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Mr. Nicholas Labus, Manager, Facilities Maintenance was available to answer any questions
and presented information regarding upcoming maintenance work..
 Mr. Labus reported that the 203 N. LaSalle Elevator at the Clark & Lake Station, north side of
LaSalle Street, which was out for a cylinder replacement was back up last Friday.
 Mr. Labus also stated that the, “… 35th and
Archer Elevator on the
Orange line, that's going through some repairs and
won't be back in service until April
26th”. Additionally, the elevatorthe
at 63rd and KingDriveGreen Line station is
having a floor replacement. “Wefoundextensive water damage to the bottom and
underneaththe sub-floor. So that
will be estimated tocome back into service April 26th as
well.That's allI have for elevators at this
time.For escalators,
[we] just recentlycompleted35th Dan Ryan Red Line escalator.We reconditioned that.
That went back into service I
believetwo weeks ago. …We began a recondition of Grand and Halsted
Blue Line.Monroe/Adams Blue, we're
reconditioningthat and that's scheduled to return to service May
24th“.
 For the 1st quarter of 2019 vs. Q-1 in 2018, the following reflects Elevator Efficiencies:

January 2019 = 93.1% vs. January 2018 = 98.9% (-5.7%)

February 2019 = 93.1% vs. February 2018 = 97.2% (-4.1%)

March 2019 = 94.0% vs. March 2018 = 99.0% (-5.0%)
 For the 1st quarter of 2019 vs. Q-1 in 2018, the following reflects Escalator Efficiencies:

January 2019 = 94.7% vs. January 2018 = 95.3% (-0.6%)

February 2019 = 95.1% vs. February 2018 = 95.2% (-0.1%)

March 2019 = 93.0% vs. March 2018 = 97.5% (-4.5%)
 Mr. Labus added information on the following Escalator Reconditioning Projects.

Grand/Halsted – Blue Line: Anticipated completion, August 12, 2019.

Monroe/Adams – Blue Line: Anticipated completion, May 24, 2019.
Customer Service Report
 The Customer Service Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance for review in
addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Kate Kennelly, Manager of Customer Feedback Programs was available to answer any
members’ questions.

There were no questions from Committee members.
4

 


























Customer Service Statistics for the 1st quarter of 2019 are as follows.
Total CTA complaints for all three months of Q-1 2019 (January, February and March
2019), = 4,035 of which 178 were ADA related complaints.
January 2019 complaints = 43
February 2019 complaints = 58
March 2019 complaints = 77
Q-1 2019 Bus Related Complaints: January = 37, February = 48 and March = 62 totaling
147.
Q-1, 2019 Rail Related Complaints: January = 6, February = 10 and March = 15 totaling
31. (147 + 31 = 178 bus & rail complaints).
During the 3 month 2019 Q-1 period, there were a total of 27 ADA Compliance
Complaints which include things such as: *Employee failing to assist customers with
disabilities or help with securement of wheelchairs, not complying with ADA rules and
fare discrepancies involving passengers identifying as having a disability.
Below is a breakdown of ADA related complaint categories for Q-1 2019 vs Q-1 2018:
Total disability-related complaints for Q-1 2019 = 178 complaints vs. 188 in 2018. Of that
total:
ADA Compliance (categories listed above) = 27 in 2019 vs. 70 in 2018.
Rude Operator totaled 26 complaints in 2019 vs. 49 in 2018.
Pass up totaled 29 complaints in 2019 vs. 16 in 2018.
Ramps totaled 5 complaints in 2019 vs. 11 in 2018.
Malfunctioning/Inoperable AVAS (automated stop announcements) totaled 4
complaints in 2019 vs 8 in 2018.
Priority Seating issues totaled 1 complaints in 2019 vs. 3 in 2018.
Stroller issues totaled 5 complaints in 2019 vs. 4 in 2018.
Failure to Kneel Bus totaled 9 complaints in 2019 vs. 8 in 2018.
Refusal to allow service animal on board totaled 1 complaints in 2019 vs. 5 in
2018.
Failure/Refusal to Deploy Gap Filler totaled 3 complaints in 2019 vs. 4 in 2018.
Elevator malfunction complaints totaled 3 in 2019 vs. 6 in 2018.
Escalator malfunction complaints totaled 0 in 2019 vs. 0 in 2018.
Failure to announce stops complaints totaled 0 in 2019 vs. 4 in 2018.
Accessible Service complaints totaled 1 in 2019 vs. 0 in 2018.
Touching passenger/equipment/service animal complaints totaled 0 in 2019 vs. 0
in 2018.

ADA Advisory Committee Sub-Committees
 Chairman Davis reminded Committee members that the purpose of the Sub-Committees is to
provide time between the quarterly meetings for members “to keep active and engaged”
regarding topics of importance to the Committee. Participation is optional and may also include
individuals outside of the CTA ADA Advisory Committee.
decidedwould be -- one would be
 Chairman Davis explained that, “The three subcommittees that we [the Committee]
safety and training. … The second is wayfinding and technology.
That is especiallynow that we have all these construction,
rehabbing,and the All Stations Accessibility Project [ASAP] going
on, it's a great time for us to kind of maybe
recommendsome innovative technology that's either
helpingwith the hearing impaired and Deaf
communities,blind
communities just to make it easier for to
uswayfind and get around stations and etc. Then the last is, of course,
funding
advocacy, which is really critical because want
we to make sure all these projects get the
fundingthey need. ….Melissa
5

 





and I will doa follow-up … to reach outand see where your interests might lie, if you
are interested in serving on a [Sub]
Committee, you canlet us know and we'll go from
there”.
Vice Chairman Fuller explained, “I am the Chair for the Sub-Committee
on safety and training.With this SubCommittee,what we do is focus primarily on safety for the
disabledcommunity and training.Training from CTA,how
does it reach out to the disability community,
and we do that by getting together once a month and
we pick a topic and kind
of focus on that topic,go out in our community -- disabled community and
get suggestions, ideas on how we can improve
certainareas, improve orenhance.For example, the last meeting
was March 19th and we selected the web pagethe
–
accessibilities web page on CTA's website.
Rightnow, what we're doing is reaching outthe
to community to find out, hey,
you know, if youwere to go on this web page and read it, would you
feel confident in traveling the CTA system based on
the information that wasgiven?If you don'tfeel confident, what information would you
input? Whatdo you suggest that
we give to the CTA tohelp enhancethat?So once [we have] that information -- we come
back together, we compile those
suggestionsand determine which questions we want to present
to you, the Committee, and also turn it over to Amy
so she
can internalize through CTA, go through
that process internally and hopefully updateadvance
or
whatever that topic or
suggestion is for themonth”. She invited anyone interested in joining this Sub-Committee to contact her.
Ms. Shaw was concerned how she could participate in a Sub-Committee meeting and Facilitator
Serpe assured her and the Committee that accommodations such as sign language interpreting
or anything else needed for a member to participate would be provided.
Ms. Hill expressed interest in joining the Wayfinding Sub-Committee.
Chairman Davis explained that that Committee has yet to meet but she will definitely be included
in that outreach and on the Committee.

Facilitator’s Report
 Facilitator, Amy Serpe, Manager ADA Compliance Programs provided a brief update from the
ADA Unit.
 She explained that all CTA Board Meetings, which are streamed llive on YouTube, will
have American Sign Language (ASL) Interpreters.
 Facilitator Serpe stated that she was asked to provide a couple of examples of how CTA goes above and beyond
basiccompliance in terms of what we
do? She explained that, “I happened to have beenaatconference and I
was talking with the person
that basically does the accessibility for New York
and we started comparing notes,
what do you do, whatdo you do? And in terms of at their
rail stations, they have nobody to help
you. They have
somebody that is there selling tickets, but
in terms of if you were to walk in and say, I'm blind,
I need you to get me
to the train or I need you
to get me off the train or I need to get to the
frontof the station, they don't have anybody
that does that and we actuallydo. Our CSAs, [which are] not
withinthe FTA requirements that we have those
CSAs atour stations, but that's important to CTA because
we want to be able to provide really good
customer
service.Another thing that we have, all our
of rail cars are accessible [to people who use wheelchairs or other
mobility devices].Again, in New York,they have one rail car that's accessible and you have
to be in one particular
place on the platform in
orderto get in thatcar. There is sometimes someone in the
rail car that works with the gap
filler kind ofthing,but if you were to say I don't
want to sit in this car, you want to sit in the
thirdcar or whatever, it's
not accessible. So only oneof the cars isaccessible”.
 Ms. Hill wanted to add that in Boston, especially on their Green Line, only the last rail car
is accessible and you need the Conductor to assist in getting off the train. Ms. Buchanan
added that she has been to New York and the city is not very accessible such as
providing curb cuts, etc.
 Facilitator Serpe said that she had also heard that someone at an RTA meeting had
asked why CTA had selected the #20 Bus Route as the route for the Extended
Information Tracking Signs that provide transfer and other information related to bus
service. This route was chosen because it is a very long route as it goes all the way east
6

 








and all the way west so travels through many neighborhoods and the CTA thought that
was a good route to pilot these extended information signs.
She added that, “The pilot is running now, so you may
catcha bus at some point on the 20 route that has
those signs.Also, they are really instrumental
in helping our Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing
community,which is we
realize an underservedcommunitysometimes. So that's also some of the
reasonswe're part of this program
now. Another thing too, just so people
don'tpanic, is that none of the audio is going
away. The signs,the
information that is already therestill
is going to bethere.This is in addition tothat.”
Facilitator Serpe explained that there is a State of Financial Interest Form that all
Committee members will be asked to complete to ensure that there is no conflict of
interest in participating as a member of the ADA Advisory Committee. Accommodations
will be provided to assist anyone who needs help in completing the form.
There will be an upcoming Rail Car Familiarization Training for anyone who wants to
participate. The purpose is to allow people to explore the overall accommodations of a
CTA rail car and practice boarding, alighting, etc., at a pace that helps them feel more
comfortable traveling on the “L”. This will most likely happen during the summer when the
weather improves.
Lastly, again in answer to a request, Facilitator Serpe explained that approximately 11%
of all weekday rides on the CTA system in 2017, as well as 2018 were taken by people
who use the Reduced Fare Program Cards.
Facilitator Serpe is still waiting for the wrap-up completion of the 95th Street Station project to
arrange for a familiarization training.

Old Business
 Vice Chairman Fuller noted that there is standing water near a passenger pass-through
between the Blue and Red Line trains at Adams. Mr. Connelly stated that there had been
construction there and will check on the current situation.
New Business
 Chairman Davis stated that there will be an ASAP program update at the July 8, 2019 meeting.
 Vice Chairman Fuller would like some kind of written information regarding what various
departments do and how they relate to accessibility and/or customers with disabilities.
Adjournment
 Chairman Davis noted the next meeting will be Monday, July 8, 2019 from 1:30 – 4 p.m.
 Chairman Davis asked for a motion to adjourn. Vice Chairman Fuller moved to adjourn the
meeting and Ms. Berman seconded the motion. All voted, “Aye,” and the public part of this
meeting adjourned at 2:52 p.m.
Ethics Training:
 Committee members then moved to the Board Conference Room to receive Ethics Training
from CTA’s Deputy General Counsel, Compliance, Policy & Appeals.
 This portion of the meeting’s Executive Session ended at 4 p.m.
ajs 7-2-19
Approved as submitted at 7-8-19 meeting

7

 