Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: June 19, 2019
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Victor M. Gonzalez
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Board Members Absent
Juan M. Calderon
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D

For the Department
Allison Arwady, M.D., Acting Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: June 19, 2019
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:02 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: May 15, 2019 minutes were unanimously approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Allison Arwady, M.D., Acting Commissioner provided the following
updates: She has agreed to serve as acting commissioner for CDPH while the new administration
conducts a national search for Dr. Morita’s replacement. Dr. Arwady has served as the Chief Medical
Officer for CDPH since 2015, where she oversees activities in the Health Protection (Communicable
Disease, Immunization, Tuberculosis, Environmental Health) and Behavioral Health (Substance Use,
Mental Health and Violence Prevention) bureaus. She is excited to take on this new role and is looking
forward to the opportunity of working collaboratively with this board on public health initiatives.
Healthy Chicago 2025: Over the past few years, Healthy Chicago 2.0 has been embraced by partners
citywide to improve health every day, as we focus on delivering services and changing policies with a
strong focus on health equity. Now, with a new mayoral administration, we are ready to refresh our
plan. While our work on Healthy Chicago 2.0 continues, it's time to be even bolder about how we
tackle issues of institutional racism and increase our impact on the root causes of health. So CDPH is
working on the next Community Health Assessment and Community Health Improvement Plan,
Healthy Chicago 2025. Community voice must guide our approach. Throughout the assessment
process we obtained feedback from community members and community organizations through
surveys, focus groups, meetings and a review of local plans. To make sure we got the key takeaways
right, CDPH presented findings at three community meetings. We conducted feedback sessions at the
I AM ABLE meeting in North Lawndale, the Network of Woodlawn meeting in Woodlawn and the
Family Focus meeting in Humboldt Park. The feedback received will help us identify the action areas
for Healthy Chicago 2025.
Community Health Center Learning Collaborative - Substance Use Program: CDPH Substance Use
program’s Community Health Center Learning Collaborative was selected as a Promising Practice by
the National Association of County and City Health Officials' (NACCHO) Model Practice Program.
The Learning Collaborative is for health center decision makers and providers to increase capacity for
prescribing medications to treat opioid use. The selection of this program as a Promising Practice
means that it demonstrates exemplary and replicable qualities in response to a local public health need.
The Learning Collaborative program reflects a strong local health department role, collaboration and
innovation
Public Health Emergency Planning for Faith-Based Communities: The CDPH Emergency
Preparedness team wrote and produced their first video training, "Public Health Emergency Planning
for Faith- Based Communities." This video training was created to teach Faith-Based organizations the
basics of public health, public health emergencies, preparedness and how it applies to and affects their
congregations. This training allows our team to spread a cohesive message and reach a larger pool of
people to ensure that the public is more informed and know how to prepare for a public health
emergency.
Black Women's Expo: The CDPH HIV/STI Bureau along with their Project PrIDE partners conducted
condom demonstrations, distributed approximately 10,000 insertive and male condoms and provided
education about PrEP and U=U at the Black Women's Expo. In collaboration with the HIV/STI
Bureau's health promotion efforts, the CDPH nutrition and emergency preparedness team also
participated to provide information on healthy nutrition and exercise, and how to prepare for and
survive a public health emergency.
Chicago LGBT Community Needs Assessment: CDPH was a contributor and advisory committee
member of the 2019 Chicago LGBT Community Needs Assessment, commissioned by the Steering
Committee of the LGBT Community Fund. The Chicago LGBT Community Needs Assessment was
conducted by the Morten Group of Chicago, in order to gather data on current needs, issues, strengths
and resources of the Chicagoland LGBTQ community. The Morten Group conducted the first needs
assessment of this nature for The LGBT Community Fund in 2012. The purpose of this new
assessment was to provide an updated snapshot of the community's needs for 2019.

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: June 19, 2019
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Emergency Preparedness: The CDPH Emergency Preparedness team presented to a group of students
at the University of Illinois’ School of Public Health during their class, Public Health Systems, Policy
and Management. The CDPH team presented on public health emergency preparedness, followed by
the facilitation of breakout sessions with students on different emergencies and planned events CDPH
has responded to.
Illinois Alliance for Welcoming Health Care: The CDPH Planning team participated in a press
conference of the Illinois Alliance for Welcoming Health Care to release the Model Policies and
Protocol. The Illinois Alliance for Welcoming Health Care, of which CDPH is a member, released the
Model Policies and Protocol to help healthcare organizations be more welcoming to all clients,
especially immigrants. The document contains information about designating safe spaces, interaction
with immigration enforcement, along with talking points for frontline staff. This document also
integrates a trauma-informed approach.
Measles: Due to ongoing measles outbreaks in the US and the high volume of international travelers
in Chicago, which escalates the high risk of measles transmission in the city, CDPH launched a public
education awareness campaign and developed a new web-based application that helps Chicago
residents locate where they can receive the Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) vaccine. In midMay, CDPH identified an individual with a confirmed measles infection in Chicago and worked closely
with the highest-risk locations to contact exposed individuals. Chicago has one of the highest MMR
vaccination rates in the nation. Most individuals in Chicago are protected from measles because they
were vaccinated as children. Ninety-four percent of children between 19 months and three years have
received at least one dose of the MMR vaccine.
West Nile Virus: The CDPH Vector Control team has started dropping larvicide in catch basins
throughout the city. CDPH places larvicide in catch basins to decrease the number of mosquitoes that
can transmit the West Nile virus. CDPH will continue this mosquito prevention program over the next
several weeks. CDPH yearly treats over 80,000 catch basins with larvicide, performs field surveillance
across Chicago to monitor and test mosquitoes for West Nile and other viruses, sprays to kill adult
mosquitoes in targeted areas when West Nile Virus‐infected mosquitos are in abundance, distributes
information to the public about personal protection and water source reduction, and disseminates
reports highlighting weekly mosquito activity and testing results during the mosquito season.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez proudly reported all board members completed their
City of Chicago ethics forms. She welcomed the students in the audience and provided them with an
overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of public health.
Presentation: “Exploring Health Inequities in Chicago: Results from the Community Health
Assessment” Nik Prachand, Director of Epidemiology, Chicago Department of Public Health
New Business: Dr. Lopez challenged board members to think on how to disseminate today’s
presentation to other individuals and organizations. She would like to have a discussion on this topic
at the next BOH meeting. Dr. Lopez also invited board members to participate in the upcoming
Partnership for Health Chicago meeting.
Old Business: None
Public Comment: None
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:55 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, July 17, 2019 at 9:00 A.M.

 