Employee Retirement Review Committee
Meeting Minutes
April 22, 2019
Members Present
Tom McKone
Andrew Fuller

Mike Bowen
April Morgan

Non-Members Present
Kweku Obed
Rachel Yarch
Janice Irving

Jesus Jimenez
David Biggs

Call to Order
The April 22, 2019 meeting was called to order at 12:33 p.m.
Minutes
Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Ms. Morgan, minutes of the March 20, 2019 regular meeting were
approved as amended with the following correction under Old Business: replace “have been” with “can be”.
Old Business
Over/Underpayments – Mr. McKone reported that signed releases have been received from Cary Morgen and
Terry Luckman. Upon a motion by Mr. McKone and seconded by Mr. Fuller the committee authorized an increase
in payments for Cary Morgen and Terry Luckman. Upon a motion by Mr. McKone and seconded by Mr. Fuller the
committee granted the authority to process the lump sum payments to Cary Morgen and Terry Luckman.
New Business
1Q2019 Performance Update – Mr. Obed of Marquette Associates presented the 1Q2019 performance report
dated March 31, 2019. He reported very strong results at the end of the first quarter.
Supplemental Investment Policy - Mr. Obed of Marquette Associates presented a draft of the updated investment
policy statement. After a brief discussion, a motion was made by Mr. Fuller and seconded by Ms. Morgan to
approve the amendments to the investment policy with an effective date of April 22, 2019.
General Administration
Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. Fuller an invoice for Burke, Warren, McKay & Serritella was
approved for February, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Fuller and seconded by Mr. Bowen an invoice for Burke,
Warren, McKay & Serritella was approved for March, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Ms.
Morgan invoices for Burke, Warren, McKay & Serritella were approved for the Wheatley Case for February and
March, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. Fuller an invoice for Burke, Warren, McKay &
Serritella was approved for the Snow Case for February, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr.
Fuller and invoice or Marquette Associates was approved for February, 2019.
Executive Session – Litigation Matters
Upon a motion by Mr. McKone and seconded by Mr. Bowen, the committee voted to move into executive session
for discussion of matters covered by 5 ILCS 120/20(c)(11) (litigation exception to the Open Meetings Act).
After a short time, the committee returned from executive session and resumed the regular meeting. During the
executive session, the committee discussed pending and potential litigation with respect to the offer tendered by
John Paquet regarding the underpayment of benefits. Upon a motion by Mr. McKone and seconded by Mr. Bowen
the offer was rejected.
Adjournment
Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. Fuller, the meeting adjourned at 1:42 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,
Janice Irving
Plan Administrator

 