 

Hm? 

1c_w_._n mgr?v.20
knozzaeoz?? wok?: 

 

 

2017-201 CAFR 
2019 Mid Year Update

"a 5 . 1)}de . .f 

 

 

 

2019 Mid Year Update

 



 

 

misreportserves asa reminder that the Public,
Building Commission otChicago [Fact is uniq uely able and quali?ed to deliver improve.
ments to capital and infrastructure irl every neighborhood and co mmu area in the city

otchicago; and the PBC will successfully deliver two Design-Build projects in 1019.


1 ?1 .
:t A Message from Carma
1 
. i:
?k Aswe reach the mid-pointol?the year,
?71 I The PBC has taken the Design-Buitdconceptand applied it tomeconstruction ofthe award-winning Man ufacturing

 

Technology a Engineering Center at Richard J. Daley College and the soon-to-he-opened South Side High
School {also known as En glewood STEM High Schooli-

with all PBC's delivery methods, the Design-Build process includes small and minority?
women business enterprises, opportunities for local businesses and the creation of jobs for Chicago residents

through various outreac events.

Even as we highlight the various integrative phases of the Design-Build process for two projects, we would be
remiss if we did not call attention to the other 13 projects we've completed halfway through another successful
year of delivering high-quality public facilities.

Early this year, the Pat: was excited to substantialiv complete a new school building at South Loop Elementary
School and an annex at SkinnetWest Elementary School. These new facilities will contribute to the fabric of their

communities and provide
students with the facili-
ties to learn and succeed.

We also completed proj-
ects under the umbrella
of the Chicago Park
District's Save Chicago's
Treasures initiative. While
the scope of ea ch project
varied, the initiative
aimed to enhance the
qualityI of life of Chicago
residents by providing
safe, inviting park facil-
ities that prioritize the
needs of children and
families.

   
 
   
 

     

As the PBC continues

traits: ?in -

hurt 

  

  
    

none-i?


?u t"

     
     
     
     
  
 



Fe


understand that PBC projects touches the lives of Chicagoans
for generations to come and our work reaches into every corner
of this city. The facilities that we construct act as anchors for this
City's diverse neighborhoods, and our work presents tremendous
opportunities to transform the spaces where residents of all ages
play, learn and grow.

Therefore, it is with greatpridethat, through his report, we resent
Our efforts thus far in 2019 and hope the news that we share illus-
trates our excellent stewardship of public funds and demonstrates
howwe are creatingquality spacesthat every Chicagoan can enjoy.

Sincerely,

Carina E. S?nchez
PBC Executive Director

 

l.nn:

. 3"

Procurement

 

 

 

 

our 2019 campaign, we

1919 Mid 

 

Public BuildingCom 5st: 

              


Monitor

 

 

it'll-El rd 'f'E-Jf 

a .
Public on

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Design~Build Method

Daley MTEC
South Side High School

Completed Projects

Active Projects

WHY 

Final
Acceptance
8- Closeout

4


12

18

23

 

PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION OF HICAGO: A FULL SERVICE PUBLIC DEVELOPER


MISSION F. UBIECTWES

 

 

 

2019 Mid Year Update

 

 

 

   



  

An Overview of the

Design-Build Method 2019 Design'BUild 2020 Design-Build Projects

 

 

 

 

When it comes to building or
renovating public lacillties. the
list at available construction

methods ranges from well-known
peg 7 and widely used to techniques

I steadily gaining popularity. like
the Design-Build method.

Design-Build is a method of

project delivery in which one

entity?the Design-Build team??

works under a single contract with
the PBC to provide design and A . -



 

construction services. One entity,
one contract. one unified flow of
. work from initial concept through
completion.

Hancock College Prep

Replacement High School

5423 West 64th Place Ward 13: Clearing

after completing a risk assess Design-Build Team: Jointlfenture
merit and discussing provided

3 requirements from City Colleges

at Chicago and Chicago Public

Schools respectively. the mac

i selected the Design-Budd delivery

method for the delivery of the

i Manufacturing Technology 8.

Engineering Center at ..
Richard J.DaleyCollegeand South mm -- ?lemme?
Side High School {also known as
Englevrood STEM High School}.

Engine Company 115
1024 West 119th Street Ward 34: West Pullman
Design-B uild Tea m: Joint Venture

 

This process entailed the PBC to request quali?cations from ardritectural firms and general contractors who 
worktogether for theduratron of the project. In addition. this process allows for many subcontractors or to nsu [ta 5
to build their capacity and serve as ?Prime Trade" contractors or consultants.

Since their appointments. both Design-Build teams have assembled dynamic teams
and we are pleased to share that the Design-

additional PBC projects, scheduled for completion in

to complete their respective
Build delivery System is currently being implemented on two
2?20: ??80 Public Schools' replacament Hancock College
Engine Company 115 fire station.

Prep facility and Chlca go Fire Department's

201-; who ?reat Update 

Public tic-mums no

 

 

 

Projects in Planning, Design & Construction
Chicago Fire Department
1.  Engine Company 115 Fire Station
Chicago Park District
2.  Williams Park Fieldhouse
Chicago Public Library
3.  Legler Branch Library Reno
4.  Merlo Branch Library Reno & Modernization
Chicago Public Schools
5.  Belmont Cragin Replacement ES
6.  Brooks College Prep Athletic Amenities
7.  Corliss HS Reno
8.  Decatur Classical Annex & Reno
9.  Dirksen ES Annex & Reno
10.  Dore ES Pre-K Expansion
11.  Hancock Replacement HS
12.  Kenwood Academy HS Reno
13.  Lake View HS Reno
14.  Locke ES Reno
15.  Lovett ES Reno
16.  McCutcheon ES Annex & Reno

17.  McDade Classical Annex & Reno
18.  Palmer ES Annex & Reno
19.  Poe Classical Annex & Reno
20.  Prosser Career Academy Reno
21.  Read Dunning School
22.  Rickover HS Education Program
23.  Rogers ES Annex & Reno
24.  South Side High School
25.  Washington High School Renovations
26.  Waters ES Annex & Reno
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
Energy Conservation Program (multiple locations)

 