POLICE BOARD
CITY OF CHICAGO
REPORT OF COMMUNITY INPUT RECEIVED
AT THE PUBLIC MEETING ON JUNE 20, 2019
Seven members of the public spoke during the public comments portion of the meeting. See the
transcript of the meeting, posted on the Board’s website, for a complete report of each speaker’s
remarks.
The Chicago Police Department responded to the remarks made by Staci Love and Bishop Greg
Greer about the many young missing and murdered women of color in Chicago (see below).
The Civilian Office of Police Accountability responded to the remarks made by Octavia Mitchell
about the DNA evidence from the investigation of the police-involved shooting of her son, Izeal
Jackson (see below).
The Office of the Police Board determined that the remarks made by Crista Noel, Queen Sister,
George Blakemore, and Robert More did not require a response in addition to that provided at
the meeting.

  

Lori Lightfoot Department of Police - City of Chicago Eddie T. Johnson
Mayor 3510 S. Michigan Avenue - Chicago, Illinois 60653 Superintendent of Police

 

July 12, 2019
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL

Max A. Caproni

Executive Director

Chicago Police Board

30 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1220
Chicago, IL 60602
Max.Caproni@city0fchicago.org

Re: Rosconse to Community Input Received at the June 20 Police Board Meeting
Dear Mr. Caproni,

Thank you for forwarding the transcript of the June 20, 2019 Police Board Meeting so
that the community comments can be reviewed and the Chicago Police Department (CPD) can
provide a report of the work it has done on the requested topics. This report is speci?cally in
response to the public comments from Staci Love and Bishop Greg Greer addressing concerns
about the young missing and deceased women of color in Chicago. The Department appreciates
their willingness to appear at the Police Board Meeting and raise this very important issue and
we are dedicated to ?nding a solution to this issue. The Chief of the Bureau of Detectives was
consulted in drafting this report. First, it is important to note that there is no evidence indicating
a serial killer is involved in these cases. That said, the Bureau of Detectives is carefully
reanalyzing each of these cases to ensure that no stone has gone unturned in each investigation.

Approximately four months ago the Bureau of Detectives assigned these cases to an FBI Violent
Crimes Task Force (FBI Task Force) that includes ten CPD Homicide detectives. This FBI Task
Force has reviewed 51 cases that have occurred over the last 18 years involving 36 African-
American, 1 Hispanic and 14 White women. All evidence has been reconciled and 21 of the 51
cases have DNA present or discovered. All 21 of these unknown DNA pro?les belong to 21
different men.

This FBI Violent Crimes Task Force will continue to re-review these cases and follow up on any
additional leads that may present themselves during this review. The Chief of Detectives,
Melissa Staples receives regular updates from this FBI Task Force.

During his statement at the Police Board, Bishop asked that the public be informed about these
murders and that a public service announcement be issued. First, there have been numerous
public forums and community meetings on this topic, most recently a forum was hosted by Mary
Mitchell that included Chief Melissa Staples, Alderman Pat Dowell and Representative Bobby
Rush. Additionally, there have been numerous news reports on this topic in the Chicago
Tribune, WBEZ, Block Club Chicago as well as several other news sources. A Public Service
Announcement will be a repeat of much of the information contained in these articles.
Moreover, the issuance of a PSA could cause panic and add to the promulgation of exaggeration
and misinformation.

In an effort to fully address the concerns raised by Ms. Love and Bishop Greer, Chief Staples
plans to attend the next Police Board meeting and will be available to answer questions from
these and other citizens concerned on this topic after the meeting.



General Counsel
Of?ce of the Superintendent

July 12, 2019
COPA Remarks Regarding Comments of Ms. Octavia Mitchell
Chicago Police Board Meeting
June 20, 2019
At the Chicago Police Board’s June 20, 2019 meeting, Ms. Mitchell commented about the
circumstances related to the shooting death of her son Izael Jackson by Chicago Police Officers in
April 2010 (Log #1035738).
In December 2018, Ms. Mitchell, through her attorney Phillip Aaron of Spokane, Washington,
contacted COPA to request that it reopen the investigation closed by IPRA in August 2012. In closing
the inquiry into the shooting, IPRA investigators determined that the Officers’ conduct was within
Chicago Police Department (Department) policy. No administrative disciplinary action was taken
against either Officer as a result of the shooting. A jury later returned judgment in favor of the City of
Chicago (City) in the civil action Ms. Mitchell brought following her son’s death. Ms. Mitchell has
alleged the commission of numerous wrongful acts by the Department, the City, and her attorneys in
the years following the jury’s verdict.
Following discussion with Ms. Mitchell and Mr. Aaron and a review of the closed file, COPA staff
determined that certain DNA evidence taken from a weapon found near Mr. Jackson at the scene of
the shooting had not been analyzed prior to IPRA’s closure of the investigation. COPA staff determined
that the Department had failed to convey the samples collected from the weapon to the Illinois State
Police, Division of Forensic Services (ISP Lab) for testing.
COPA policy requires its investigators to review and analyze all available evidence prior to closing an
investigation. COPA therefore determined to seek the necessary Superintendent’s authorization to reopen the matter as under COPA policy the investigation could not have been closed without the benefit
of an analysis of the DNA evidence. While it is far from certain that analysis of DNA testing results
would have changed the outcome of IPRA’s investigation, COPA staff was troubled that the prior
investigators did not have access to all physical evidence that should have been available to them prior
to concluding their work.
COPA therefore requested and the Superintendent duly authorized re-opening the matter for purposes
of obtaining and analyzing the DNA testing results. This evidence, which had been held by the
Department’s Evidence Recovery Property Storage unit since initial collected, was delivered to the ISP
Lab for testing by the Department on May 20, 2019. After ISP investigators obtain and evaluate the
test results, COPA may request that the Superintendent authorize further investigation of the matter.
It is important to note that neither IPRA nor COPA ever took physical possession of the DNA evidence
in this case. As indicated above, the evidence was held by the Department’s Evidence Recovery
Property Storage unit, which conveyed it directly to the ISP Lab in May 2019. COPA therefore has not
had an opportunity to determine the condition of the DNA material, or even whether the samples taken
more than 9 years ago are suitable for testing purposes. It is also important to note that even if the
material is accessible for testing purposes, it may be entirely consumed in the testing process.
1615 WEST CHICAGO AVENUE, 4TH FLOOR, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60622
312.743.COPA (COMPLAINT LINE)   312.746.3609 (MAIN LINE)   312.745.3598 (TTY)   WWW.CHICAGOCOPA.ORG

 