Towal?

V/?l/m

 

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE



Christopher Gulock, AICP

David Whitaker, Esq. @it? at Btr?it Derrick Headd

Director Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Irvin Corleer. CITY COUNCIL Kimani Jeffrey
Executive Policy Manager 

Marcell R. Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION An?? MW Lang?
Senior City Planner 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 233"?: My??
3232:? Detroit, Michigan 48226 

3? Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Anal,? Powers, PM,
John Alexander Jennifer Reinhardt
LaKisha Barclift, Esq. Sabrina Shockley
M. Rory Bolger, AICP Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter
Tasha Cowen Theresa Thomas
Richard Drumb Underwood
George Etheridge Ashley A. Wilson

Deborah Goldstein
TO: Detroit City Council 

FROM: David Whitaker, Directo 
Legislative Policy Divisiion 

DATE: July 1, 2019
RE: 12th Street Secondary Street Naming

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has been requested to provide a report regarding the
proposed resolution to provide a secondary street name for a segment of Rosa Parks Blvd, to

12th Street, which was its former name. LPD notes that the proposed resolution cites the Home
Rules City Act as the grant of authority to City Council to issue the secondary street name, which
creates a separate issue in and of itself.

LPD also notes that the reason for the request for 12th street to be added as a secondary street is
based upon the unique history regarding the area. The segment of Rosa Parks of historic
concern are the blocks between Grand Boulevard to Clairmount. While the area has a distinct
history dating back to the 1930?s, its national and internationally known history relates to the
area being the epicenter of the 1967 uprising (or riots). Although the name has been changed to
honor the late civil rights icon, the community and many Detroiter?s would like to have a way of
recognizing the historic event that occurred in 1967, by requesting the secondary street name of
12th Street be restored.

The primary issue addressed in this report is not whether the secondary name should be provided
as a matter of public policy, but the process necessary to implement the policy should it be the
desire of the City Council to do so.

As previously indicated, the proposed resolution provides that the City Council is acting under
the authority granted under the Home Rule City Act (the Act). However, the provision of the Act
addressing streets is under MCL 117.4h, provides in pertinent part:

Each city may in its charter provide:
(1) For the use, regulation, improvement and control of the surface of
its streets, alleys and public ways, and of the space above and beneath
them;

(3) For a plan of streets and alleys within and for a distance of not more than 3 miles
beyond its limits;

The Act states that the City may in its charter provide for the use, regulation, improvement and
control of the surface, as well as for a plan of streets and alleys within its limits. This is a grant of
authority to the City to provide in the charter the mechanism for carrying out these provisions.
Pursuant to Section 117.4h, the City has exercised its grant of authority by enacting in its
Charter, Article VII, Chapter 4, Public Works, Section 7.401, which provides in pertinent part:

The Department of Public Works shall:

(3) Provide for the construction, maintenance, demolition and engineering
design of streets, alleys and public buildings

The City further exercise the authority granted by the Home Rule City Act, by implementing the
City Code provisions under Article VII, Opening, Closing, Extending, Widening, Vacating,
Naming, and Renaming 0f Streets, and Assigning Secondary Names to Streets. Division 2-
Renaming Streets, setting forth the requirements for renaming streets; and Division 3-Secondary
Naming of Streets, setting forth the requirements for providing secondary names to streets.

LPD notes that at the time the instant petition was filed regarding 12th street secondary street
name, the ordinance language for secondary street names only applied to honorary signs for
persons. The language did not provide a method for a non-person secondary street Sign under
Section which stated:

 

A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize a person who
has achieved prominence as a result of his or her significant, position,
contributions to the City of Detroit, State of Michigan, United States of America,
or the international community.

The 12th Street secondary Sign request did not comply with the ordinance. Since the initiation of
the request the ordinance provision for secondary street name signage has been repealed. The
ordinance provisions for secondary street names are currently being revisited. The language is
being drafted by the Law Department for consideration by City Council. It is opinion that
there is nothing in the Home Rule City Act that gives City Council the authority to simply grant
by resolution a secondary street name, nor allow the City Council to bypass its own Charter and
City Code provisions to provide a secondary street name.

Finally, in order for the 12th Street secondary street sign request to be approved, the revised
secondary street name ordinance provision would have to include non-persons as an appropriate

designee for secondary street signage.

If we can be of further assistance, please call upon us.

2

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE. SUITE 601

 

CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS PHONE: (313) 224-3949 . 
CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION FAX: (313)224-3471

June 26, 2019
Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition No. 856 Greektown Preservation Society, request a Seasonal Outdoor Caf?
Permit on Monroe Street between Beaubien Street and St. Antoine Street.

Petition No. 856 Greektown Preservation Society, request for an encroachment with the existing
wood decks installed in the parking bays on the north side of Monroe Avenue, 50 feet wide between
Beaubien Street, 60 feet wide and St. Antoine Street, 50 feet wide.

The petition was referred to the City Engineering Division DPW for investigation and report. This
is our report.

The Greektown Preservation Society is making the request as part of the proposed changes to the
outdoor caf? seating at this location. The plans call for the sidewalk caf?s to be adjacent to the
buildings with the decking area to be used for pedestrian travel. The individual restaurants will submit

their requests for the seasonal outdoor caf?s.

The request was approved by City Engineering Division DPW, and Traf?c Engineering Division 
DPW (T ED).

The DWSD encroachment provisions have been made a part of the resolution.

All other involved City Departments, including the Public Lighting Authority and Public Lighting
Department; also privately owned utility companies have reported no objections to the encroachment.
Provisions protecting all utility installations are part of the attached resolution.

I am recommending adoption of the attached resolution.

Res ctfully submitted,

  
  

2., City Engineer
ivision DPW


Cc: Ron Brundidge, Director, DPW
Mayor?s Of?ce City Council Liaison

COUNCIL MEMBER

RESOLVED, that the Department of Public Works, City Engineering Division is hereby authorized
and directed to issue permits to the Greektown Preservation Society for an encroachment with the
existing wood decks installed in the parking bays on the north side of Monroe Avenue, 50 feet wide
between Beaubien Street, 60 feet wide and St. Antoine Street, 50 feet wide further described as:

Land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan being part of Monroe Avenue lying
southerly of the southerly line of Lots 140, 141, and 142 ?Plat of part of L. Beaubien Farm in the City
of Detroit as surveyed into town lots for the proprietors? as recorded in Liber 6 of City Records,
pages 475-478 Wayne County Records; also lying southerly of Lots 6, 7, 8, and 9 said lots north of
and adjoining Monroe ?Plat of the Antoine Beaubien Farm as recorded in Liber 27, Page 197 of
Deeds, Wayne County Records; more particularly described as follows:

(Parking bay 1) Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 139 of ?Plat of part of L.
Beaubien Farm in the City of Detroit as surveyed into town lots for the proprietors? as recorded in
Liber 6 of City Records, pages 475?478 Wayne County Records; thence 78.37 feet;
thence 9.00 feet to the point of Beginning; thence 70.00 feet; thence
13.18 feet; thence 90.00 feet; thence 13.18 feet to the point
of beginning.

(Parking bay 2) Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot 139 of ?Plat of part of L.
Beaubien Farm in the City of Detroit as surveyed into town lots for the proprietors? as recorded in
Liber 6 of City Records, pages 475?478 Wayne County Records; thence 218.37 feet;
thence 9.00 feet to the point of Beginning; thence 140.00 feet; thence
13.18 feet; thence 160.00 feet; thence 13.18 feet to the point
of beginning.

PROVIDED, that if there is any cost for the removing and/ or rerouting of any utility facilities, it shall
be done at the expense of the petitioner and/ or property owner; and be it further

PROVIDED, that each business wishing to install a modi?ed outdoor seating would be required to
maintain 6 feet wide clear sidewalk that is ADA compliant in front of the outdoor seating area at all
times. The petitioner shall also be responsible for maintaining the wooden decking in good condition
for pedestrian access at all times, and further

PROVIDED, that access is maintained for Fire Department vehicles to all ?re hydrants, buildings
and Fire Department Connections, and further

PROVIDED, that any area being used as an Outdoor Cafe shall obtain City Council permission and
shall meet the general requirements set by the ?Outdoor Caf? Guidelines? as adopted by the City
Council and guided by Section 50?2?20 (aka code 1964 58?2?81) of the City Code; and further

PROVIDED, that by approval of this petition the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD)
does not waive any of its rights to its facilities located in the right?of?way, and at all times, DWSD, its
agents or employees, shall have the right to enter upon the right?of?way to maintain, repair, alter,
service, inspect, or install its facilities. All costs incident to the damaging, dismantling, demolishing,
removal and replacement of structures or other improvements herein permitted and incurred in
gaining access to facilities for maintenance, repairing, alteration, servicing or inspection
caused by the encroachment shall be borne by the petitioner. All costs associated with gaining access

to facilities, which could normally be expected had the petitioner not encroached into the
right-of?way, shall be borne by and be it further

PROVIDED, that all construction performed under this petition shall not be commenced until after
(5) days written notice to DWSD. Seventy?two (72) hours? notice shall also be provided in accordance
with PA. 53 1974, as amended, utilizing the MISS DIG one call system; and be it further

PROVIDED, that construction under this petition is subject to inspection and approval by DWSD
forces. The cost of such inspection shall, at the discretion of DWSD, be borne by the petitioner; and
be it further

PROVIDED, that if DWSD facilities located within the right?of-way shall break or be damaged as
the result of any action on the part of the petitioner, then in such event the petitioner agrees to be
liable for all costs incident to the repair, replacement or relocation of such broken or damaged DWSD
facilities; and be it further

PROVIDED, that the petitioner shall hold DWSD harmless for any damages to the encroaching
device constructed or installed under this petition which may be caused by the failure of 
facilities; and be it further

PROVIDED, Greektown Preservation Society or their assigns shall apply to the Buildings and Safety
Engineering Department for a building permit prior to any construction. Also, if it becomes necessary
to open cut public streets, bore, jack, occupy or barricade city rights?of?way for maintenance of
encroachments such work shall be according to detail permit application drawings submitted to the
City Engineering Division DPW prior to any public right-of?way construction; and further

PROVIDED, that the necessary permits shall be obtained from the City Engineering Division DPW
and the Buildings and Safety Engineering Department. The encroachments shall be constructed and
maintained under their rules and regulations; and further

PROVIDED, that all cost for the construction, maintenance, permits and use of the encroachments
shall be borne by Greektown Preservation Society or their assigns, and further

PROVIDED, that all costs incurred by privately owned utility companies and or city departments to
alter, adjust, and/ or relocate their existing utility facilities located in close proximity to the
encroachments shall be borne by Greektown Preservation Society or their assigns. Should damages to
utilities occur Greektown Preservation Society or their assigns shall be liable for all incidental repair
costs and waives all claims for damages to the encroaching installations; and further

PROVIDED, that no other rights in the public streets, alleys or other public place shall be considered
waived by this permission which is granted expressly on the condition that said encroachments shall
be removed at any time when so directed by the City Council, and the public property affected shall
be restored to a condition satisfactory to the City Engineering Division and further

PROVIDED, that Greektown Preservation Society or their assigns shall ?le with the Department of
Public Works City Engineering Division an indemnity agreement in form approved by the Law
Department. The agreement shall save and protect the City of Detroit from any and all claims,
damages or expenses that may arise by reason of the issuance of the permits and the faithful or

unfaithful performance of Greektown Preservation Society or their assigns of the terms thereof.
Further, Greektown Preservation Society or their assigns shall agree to pay all claims, damages or
expenses that may arise out of the use, repair and maintenance of the proposed encroachments; and

further

PROVIDED, this resolution or part thereof is revocable at the will, whim or caprice of the City
Council, and Greektown Preservation Society acquires no implied or other privileges hereunder not
expressly stated herein; and further

PROVIDED, that the encroachment permits shall not be assigned or transferred without the written
approval of the City Council; and be it further

PROVIDED, that the City Clerk shall within 30 days record a certi?ed copy of this resolution with
the Wayne County Register of Deeds.

 

PETITION NO. 856

GREEKT OWN PRESERVATION SOCIETY
541 MONROE STREET

DETROIT MICHIGAN 48226

WARN

PHONE NO. (3 R13) 300-0393



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I


I





I
I

I






-- REQUEST ENCROACHMENT
(With Existing Wooden Decking) (FOR OFFICE USE 

3"1?814 95.ITEI
I I
I
I

 

 

20
20

     

999??

I


.I.

II 38
3mmr
09

BIG



II 

UT

 

105.ST. ANTOINE ST. 50 FT. WD.

CARTO 28 A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CITY OF DETROIT
A REQUEST EN CROACH MEN CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
AFPD MONRE ST SURVEY BUREAU
MN .Y ??35;an BETWEEN BEAUBIEN ST AND ST. ANTOINE SI
SA KSM (With Existing Wooden Decking) 07-07
DATE APPROVED
06-07-19 856

 

 

?fty of mart-nit

Janice M. Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CETY CLERK ?atten West
?fty Gem Deputycity 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, May 13, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council. 

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
Within four (4) weeks.

 

DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

856 Greektown Preservation Society, request a Seasonal Outdoor Cafe? Permit on
Monroe Street between Beaubien Street and St. Antoine Street.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
(313) 224 3260 0- Fax (313) 224-1466

were

The Honorable City Council
Attn: Of?ce of the City Clerk
2 Woodward Avenue

200 CAYMC

Detroit, MI 48226

May 8, 2019
To Whom It May Concern:

On behalf of the Greektown Preservation Society and our membership, I wish to submit a
petition regarding an amendment to the cafe seating program on Monroe Street between
Beaubien Street and St. Antoine Street.

In light of consultation from individuals from The City of Detroit Planning 
Development Department, as well as the Department of Public Works, and in an effort to
validate and implement aspects of the 2018 Greektown Neighborhood Framework Plan,
we request approval for the cafe seating along Monroe Street to be moved from its
current location on the street edge to the building edge. These changes will create a
simpler, safer, and more enjoyable overall experience for Greektown?s patrons as well as
for business operators and staff.

Attached to this letter please find a schematic that visualizes our proposed plan. The
existing parking spots along Monroe Street were ?lled in several years ago with wood
decking to provide foundation for the existing patio design. With the support of PDD 
DPW we are proposing to maintain the currently installed decking, which will now serve
as the primary pedestrian right of way.

Each business Wishing to install a modi?ed patio using this schematic will submit
individual caf? seating permit requests as soon as possible.

Please contact Athina Papas (President, Greektown Preservation Society) or Tasso Teftsis
(Vice President, Greektown Preservation Society) with any questions or concerns. Their
contact information is listed below.

Athina Papas: (313) 300?0393
Tasso Teftsis: (313) 732-5171

Sincerely,

(HOW

John Warner

Greektown Preservation Society
Director of Neighborhood DeveloPment


 

 




SNIAOWEIH

 

  
    

 

 

 

 

 



I I M-IWF- 

Va
. .

STREET (60 F7: W0.) 6

Irma? -

 

   




GHVM

In.
.
h?

"Id.
I
#43

 
 

501 MONROE
RD 03 ITEM 000793.001


1% WA PPERS 050150723"; 

   





r?T.

   

.4

   



45--
'5

  
   

Il?u' -

  


TI I

313005:4; 0.
OJ 
n. . 
1?1; Fn'ur??ancb

In. 

d.

.. .

 



if525 MONROE 
WARD 03 ITEM 000194
OWNER. Maw

  

   

 

 

 

 

    

A,
.. 

.?xll'i'f' OJ ITEM 0
. 0019
.547 MONROE 

 
   
    
 
 

.l

  
   
 

  
 

 

 
 




 
 

   

 



- i 
c1? 
.m . 
Oin'a'nrrf' 5; dc
51.1.00? a: 

    
 

11?

  
      

 


:l'ih" 11:" 
. 

. m. 
55.2101? - I.

   

 

   
   
   
     
 

       

.J

?v'yr?i :Thm??
102450 03 HEM (James: I 1- 
GUST (373 5V5 I

   

 

     

 

     

 

 

 
  



 

 

 

 

 


. 19:41? 1- 
I @0040?


8338i 

   
 

 

