r? 

INTERNAL
OPERATIONS

COMMITTEE



  

City of ?etroit It!
COUNCILMAN sons-Era. BENSON 



TO: David Whitaker, Director, LPD 

FROM: Hog;l Scott Benson, City Council District 3 
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison
VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President

DATE: 3 July 2019
RE: MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION RESOLUTION

The Governor will be making her second appointment to the Michigan Public Service
Commission soon and I am requesting LPD draft a resolution, which provides suggested
characteristics of the next MPSC member for her consideration. I have attached my letter
to the Governor?s of?ce as a template that can be used to draft the resolution.

Please provide the draft resolution 8 July 2019. If you have any questions do not hesitate
to contact my of?ce at, 313-224?1198.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

 

JCity of Detroit

COUNCILMAN SCOTT R. BENSON in



MEMORANDUM {If
TO: David Whitaker, Director, LPD 
FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

Joel Howrani Heeres, Director, Of?ce of Sustainability
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President

DATE: 3 July 2019

RE: GREEN TASK FORCE SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE MOU

The Green Task Force (GTF) is currently working with the Office of Sustainability to
enter into a formal nonbinding relationship where the GTF plays an advisory role on
greenhouse gas reduction initiatives. Please draft an MOU that achieves this goal

keeping in mind the Detroit Charter?s mandate about separation of powers.

Please provide the draft MOU by 10 July 2019. If you have any questions do not hesitate
to contact my office at, 313-224-1198.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov



Referral

Jasmine Barnes
Thu 7/4/2019 3:10 PM

To: Deonte Agee Louise Jones Andre Gilbert

<gilbertand@detroitmi.gov>
Cc: Brenda Jones Marcell Todd Paul Corbett
Laurie?Anne Sabatini <sabatinil@detroitmi.gov>

2 attachments (172 KB)
RESUME JANUARY 2019-1.pdf; RESUME JANUARY 2019.pdf;

Greetings!

Please refer the attached resume to on the July 9 New Business Agenda as the 
At?large CPC nominee.

Thank you.

Get Outlook for 

 

LAUREN A. HOOD

LaurenAHood.com


EDUCATION

University of Detroit Mercy
Bachelor of Business Administration
Master of Community Development

AFFILIATIONS

Policy Link
Detroit Equity Delegate

Detroit Sound Conservancy
Board of Directors

Detroit Regional Chamber
Leadership Detroit Class

City of Detroit Council Appointee
City Planning Commissioner

University of Detroit Mercy
Masters of Community Development
Program Advisory Board

RECOGNITION

Harvard Business School
Young American Leaders Program

PlaceLab Chicago
Ethical Redevelopment Fellowship

Preservation Detroit
Board of Directors

City of Detroit Mayoral Appointee
Historic District Commissioner

Damon J. Keith Center
Detroit Equity Action Lab Fellowship

SELECT EXPERIENCE

Deep Dive Detroit, LLC (Detroit, MI) 2012-Present

Consu/tant

Serve as local context expert and engagement strategist for design
teams working on development projects in Detroit. Leverage place
based knowledge, experience and social capital to design and
execute robust and inclusive citizen engagement plans. Projects
include City of Detroit's Sustainability Action Agenda and Wayne
State University's Master Plan.

Facilitator

Design curriculum and moderate group dialogues on issues
pertaining to racial equity privilege. equitable development, and
community engagement. Have successfully engaged close to 1000
participants at more than a dozen organizations. Previous clients
have included the Skillman Foundation, EcoWorks, Challenge
Detroit, Detroit Revitalization Fellows, and Wayne State University
among others.

Live6 (Detroit, MI) 2015-2017

Found/r79 Director

Successfully launched place based, anchor institution partnership
organization convened to create and implement community
development activities in Northwest Detroit. Designed multiple
platforms for gleaning input from residents, business owners,
property owners, and neighborhood leaders at levels to create a
shared vision for recruiting new businesses, sustaining exiting
businesses, vacant property activation and community
programming. Served as convening partner connecting community
members to philanthropic and financial institutions, city
government, service providers and anchor institution leadership.
Over the course of a 2 year period, engaged over 1000 residents
in public dialogues. advisory meetings, quarterly
cultural events and bi?weekiy peacemaking initiatives.

Loveland Technologies (Detroit, MI) 2013?2015

Director of Community Engagement

Partnered with community organizations to develop and execute
neighborhood specific outreach strategies to engage residents in
a city wide property mapping process. Produced workshop
materials, convened and trained over 700 residents on data
collection applications.

City of Highland Park (Highland Park, MI) 2010, 2012?2013
Project Manager: Community/Economic De ve/opment
Responsible for the execution of citywide economic development
programs. Managed initiatives in demolition, deconstruction,
housing rehabilitation, public works, and business attraction.
Negotiated on behalf of the municipality in grant related hearings
with federal, state, and county representatives. Worked to establish
the City?s Historic District Commission and served as the City Hall
liaison to the Planning Commission.

