 

 

1"
Focus Area 1
Deliver 

 

COOK COUNTY

EALTH

 

Objective 1.1
Continuously improve clinical operations, practices and procedures across CCH to
enhance quality, reliability, safety and efficiency.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

1.1 A Develop specific strategies and implementation plans related to the quality pillars
(patient experience, readmissions, safe processes of care, clinical documentation,
ambulatory pay for performance and mortality).

Achieve targets established by the High Reliability Organization (HRO) Committees.
Exceed average/median external rating.

1.1 B Establish maternal/child health services at the community centers as key providers of
maternal/child services. Assess and pilot additional strategies to support the continuum of
maternal health services throughout the System.

Implement new maternal health navigator program at every health center that provides
prenatal care. Increase 3% year-over-year prenatal visits; deliveries; newborn visits from a
FY18 baseline of 6,205 prenatal visits; 987 deliveries; and 1,087 newborn visits.

1.1 C Enhance and reinforce organizational practices that improve a culture of safety and
result in safe patient outcomes.

10% reduction in harm index over next three years.

1.1 D Improve the health status of patients by implementing the tenets of the medical
home at CCH outpatient centers and practices that provide value.

Achieve benchmarks for HEDIS and Pay for Performance.

1.1 E Improve inpatient and ambulatory patient care by adopting strategies that move
towards nursing Magnet® certification.

Achieve nursing-sensitive safety outcomes and process metrics (NDNQI Metrics) to allow
consistent and meaningful progress towards Magnet®.

1.1 F Assure reliable supply chain to provide timely and safe clinical practice.

Streamline procurement process to reduce time to enter into contracts.

1.1 G Deploy appropriate emerging technology to improve portability and functionality.

Achieve HIMSS for Infrastructure certification; Implement Voice Over Internet Protocol
(VOIP) system-wide.

3

 Objective 1.1 Continued
Continuously improve clinical operations, practices and procedures across CCH to
enhance quality, reliability, safety and efficiency.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

1.1 H Leverage IT in the clinical environment by using artificial intelligence and predictive analytics to improve
patient care. Review the electronic medical record and determine if there are any untapped management tools
to activate.

Finalize a plan on using artificial intelligence and predictive analytics by the 2nd quarter of 2020 that includes
areas of focus and relevant metrics. Complete assessment of the Cerner Electronic Medical Record platform for
additional management tools.

1.1 I Implement data governance model to improve data integrity and provide meaningful and timely reports to
measure service performance against external benchmarks. Increase independent user access to data dashboards
to improve knowledge, decision making and patient care.

Establish definitions and requirements for data input and provide routine reporting and real-time dashboards
available for managers and for quality/performance oversight activities. Ability to produce ad hoc reports and
generate data within established timelines. Increase number of dashboard users. Increase number of standard
Cerner reports useful to local managers.

1.1 J Optimize health system integration and care transitions to benefit patients and the health system using an
approach that is consistent with evidence-based practices.

Improved discharge planning that includes engaging the Patient Support Center. Reduce length of stay and
improved utilization of appropriately reimbursable admission status.

1.1 K Modernize information technology infrastructure to improve the patient experience.

Implement free guest Wi-Fi across CCH where practical; strengthen cybersecurity; Refresh network
infrastructure enabling faster network speeds, high availability, and next generation technologies; Fully optimize
existing technology such as Tele-Tracking, TIGR to enhance patient care. Implement systems to ensure external
providers can easily refer patients to CCH and receive results following new and follow up appointments.

1.1 L Assess contribution of Race, Ethnicity, and Language (REaL) factors to adverse events and develop
mitigation strategies. Assess the contribution of disparities to health outcomes and adverse events. Determine if
a patient’s cultural or racial factors contribute to adverse outcomes and evaluate the causes of these outcomes.
Focus quality efforts in areas that are directly impacted by disparities.

100% of intake staff are trained on how to accurately input race, ethnicity and language (REaL) data by 2022.
Begin to validate and stratify outcomes data by REaL.

1.1 M Deploy applications that enhance services and facilitate exchange of clinical and public health data.

Analyses of clinical conditions informed by public health data sets to integrate into clinical practice strategies.

1.1 N Launch culturally-tailored health promotion programming and interventions. Shape our health centers
to be culturally and linguistically sensitive.

Implement new health promotion program within community health centers by December 2020.

4

 Objective 1.2
Develop systems that meet or exceed expectations and enhance the patient experience.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

1.2 A Implement best practices to enhance patient experience
using data from patient satisfaction surveys. Use improvement
strategies and support leadership strategies at the unit,
department and site levels.

Continue to produce an annual patient experience plan informed
by survey results. Improve patient ratings year-over-year.

1.2 B Develop comprehensive cultural competency strategy.

Train 100% of employees in cultural competency. Facilitate
hiring of additional bi-lingual employees by increasing the
number of bilingual job descriptions to 50, 75, 100 for 2020,
2021 and 2022 respectively, from a current baseline of 20.

1.2 C Launch initiatives focused on customer service, patient
conveniences (e.g. Quiet Campaign).

Increase “willingness to recommend” to 60th percentile by
2022, up from the current 51st percentile.

5

 Objective 1.3

Improve the availability of and access to health care, especially preventive care, for
Cook County residents.

HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

1.3 A Enhance strategic partnerships with community providers.

CCH patient population meets HEDIS Medicaid target for an agreed upon set of metrics.

1.3 B Develop a roadmap of service needs by conducting a geographic analysis of providers, income,
disease prevalence, etc., throughout the County to determine gaps in health services and recommend
a service delivery plan.

Finalize comprehensive review of health care services (in 2020) in the County by provider type and
population that can be updated, but would also include model/formula to explore and evaluate
various expansion and/or partnership opportunities. Develop a multi-year strategy to grow CCH
specialty services to meet community needs in a financially viable manner. Establish effective
strategies that meet community needs and bring value to CCH.

1.3 C Complete a master facilities plan and make investments to make CCH more competitive.

Complete master facilities plan. Open new health facilities at Hanson Park, North Riverside, Blue
Island, Harrison Square and the new Provident facility. Identify additional locations for health
center expansions or replacements.

1.3 D Develop a comprehensive patient education strategy (e.g. diabetes prevention training,
prenatal education, blood pressure self testing).

Establish inter-professional Patient Education committee for the System and establish metrics first
quarter of 2020. 100% of diabetic patients are offered diabetic education, and 30% of diabetic
patients receive diabetes management education by 2022. 100% of prenatal patients are offered
prenatal education, and 30% complete entire prenatal education curriculum by 2022.

1.3 E Take advantage of state and federal initiatives to innovate care delivery services and programs,
beneficial to patients and members.

Implement Integrated Health Homes if approved by the state.

1.3 F Mature behavioral health portfolio.

Full integration of behavioral health into primary care. Enhance Medication Assisted Treatment
(MAT) infrastructure with workflow/pathway creation of level 1, 2, and 3 Behavioral Health services.
Secure grant funding for opioid treatment and engage law enforcement partners in the development
of deflection to treatment programs.

1.3 G Implement operational improvements to tap into unused capacity and create more access.

Set target of “third next available” appointments to less than 14 days for new specialty referrals.
Target increase in eConsult use by 10%. Increase in-care list by 25% from FY2019 baseline. Pilot use
of in-home monitoring for selected patient population (e.g. diabetes and hypertension).

6

 Objective 1.4
Ensure a continuum of services to meet evolving needs to ensure continuity of care
and meet patient needs at all stages of their lives.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

1.4 A Conduct analysis of services and identify gaps in the
continuum of care to build valuable strategies for special
populations (e.g. elderly, disabled, etc.).

Complete analysis and implementation plans on service gaps
with recommendations on services to be provided by CCH or
through partner organizations. Develop recommendations
including on long-term care (including nursing home care),
embedded care coordinators and senior care services in
outpatient centers, home-based connections, telehealth,
community-based care in lieu of institutionalization for elderly
and special needs populations.

7

 Objective 1.5
Integrate services with correctional health to improve health outcomes by ensuring
continuation of care when individuals are released from correctional or detention
facilities and reside in Cook County.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

1.5 A Improve transitions of care to the community through
enhanced discharge planning.

Increase discharge planning such as the Naloxone Program and
other warm hand-offs in the community by 20%. Expand
transitions into community-based services through partnerships
with CCH care management and PCMH providers, including
linkages to housing, community based mental health providers.
Establish community care coordination for justice-involved
youth.

8

 Focus Area 2

COOK COUNTY

Cook

0

I 
?w


 

Objective 2.1
Establish CCH as a provider of choice.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

2.1 A Grow services lines that are needed by the
community and deploy them geographically, in a patient-centered way to ensure CCH is providing the
“right care at the right time and right place.”

Primary Care: Volume of primary care patients increase by 3% year-over-year from a baseline of 92,143
primary care patients in FY2018. Specialty Care: Stroger Campus to provide for key specialties minimum 4
days/week, evening and Saturday hours. Provident Campus to provide full array of specialties minimum 3
days/week and evening hours. Provide selected specialties for new and expanded outpatient locations.
Review all community locations to determine increased deployment of specialists for greater access to
specialists.

2.1 B Maximize use of services and overall utilization.

Overall: Achieve 80% facility capacity utilization. Achieve 80% of primary care providers at productivity of
10 patients per session by 2022.;
Provident: Reinstitute ambulance runs; Average Daily Census increase from 12 by 1.3% each year. ER
Growth by 1.3% in FY 2020, 1% increase in FY 2021, 1% increase in FY 2022.

2.1 C Improve Stroger and Provident Hospital Emergency Department throughput.

Create an operational efficiency dashboard to include: Average time from ED arrival to ED departure for
admitted ED patients; Average time from admit decision to ED departure time for admitted patients;
Average arrival to ED departure for discharged ED patients; Physician discharge orders before 9:00 am;
ED Left Without Being Seen (LWBS) to 2% by 2022.

2.1 D Market CCH services and strengthen the CCH brand.

Position CCH providers/leadership as thought leaders on quality and population health management.
Complete rebranding process. Conduct market research. Develop consumer and non-consumer facing
strategies to raise awareness of specialty care. Develop sponsorship strategy. Develop strategies to
maintain CountyCare market share.

2.1 E Explore opportunities for CCH to be a provider for County employees as well as other employers.

Collaborate with Cook County Risk Management Department to explore feasibility, timing, and tactics to
make CCH services a health service alternative.

2.1 F Minimize external referrals for care.

Internal referrals increase; eConsults increase (including by CCH providers); third next available is less
than 14 days for new and follow up.

2.1 G Establish additional specific programs at Provident to maximize meeting the community needs.

Create Centers of Excellence for women’s health (gynecology, cardiology, breast, endocrine), lifestyle
center (dietary, fitness, chronic disease management), orthopedic center (podiatry, joints, hand), and
men’s health programs (urology, cardiology, endocrine).

2.1 H Maximize value of CCH resources (people, technology) to provide greater access to benefit patients.

Create an operating room dashboard to include: first case start times (target 80%), growth targets (10%
per year), case cancellations rates (less than 5%), block utilization (95%) and operating room hours (80%
utilization).Utilization of operating rooms at Provident and Stroger (80% of all operating room capacity).
Implement telemedicine/tele psychiatry.

10

 Objective 2.2
Retain and grow CountyCare market share.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

2.2 A Explore options in acquiring additional members through
changes in the marketplace.

Gain auto-assignment for eligible justice-involved individuals in
Cook County.

2.2 B Continue to implement a strong member retention and
growth strategy to retain market share. Advocate for state policy
changes that result in a simpler redetermination process.

Achieve plan redetermination at least 20% greater than the
State.

2.2 C Enhance incentive programs and member benefits for
improved health outcomes and member retention.

Offer a value-added benefit package that ties to quality
outcomes, increases member engagement, and improves
member retention.

11

 Objective 2.3
Grow market share in nontraditional CCH populations.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

2.3 A Execute Medicare Advantage strategy that includes
Chronic Conditions Special Needs Plan (C-SNP) persons with
HIV; Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP); Institutional
Equivalent Special Needs Plan (IE-SNP); Medicare-Medicaid
Alignment Initiative (MMAI).

Approval by CMS with Model of Care and Network for all three
lines of business.

2.3 B Migrate to managed care capability including accepting
risk.

Develop competencies in-house to evaluate and negotiate risk
arrangements, and ensure CCH has the ability to accept
managed care patients who are part of risk arrangements.

12

 Focus Area 3

COOK COUNTY

Cook

0

I 
?w


 

Objective 3.1
Optimize CCH revenue.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

3.1 A Maximize reimbursements from payors by continuing to improve operations,
including revenue cycle improvements.

Increase MCO revenue by 10% each year from FY2019 baseline. Achieve 60% Pay for
Performance (P4p) targets and benchmarks; Increase provider empanelment for MCOs to
80% of Medical Group Management Association (MGMA) or the FQHC benchmark.
Reduce claims denials for managed care organizations by 80% from current levels and
reduce accounts receivable. Improve authorization process for inpatient/observation care
by Inpatient Care Coordination team for CountyCare members.

3.1 B Maximize extramural grant sources in alignment CCH initiatives, including primary
care, maternal/child health, workforce development, behavioral health, HIV, social
determinants of health and capital improvements; capture 10% indirect cost. Continue to
build out the grants administrative infrastructure and increase the funds managed by
CCH.

Increase extramural support by $5M annually, including capital. Increased alignment and
coordination of extramural activities to improve impact.

3.1 C Continually improve documentation through ongoing provider feedback and provider
education to support timely, complete and accurate billing.

Write and implement a three-year plan to improve documentation.

3.1 D Maximize auto-assignment for CountyCare.

Improve health plan quality and operational performance to assure maintaining and
improving auto-assignments.

3.1 E Increase CountyCare membership in the Integrated Care Program (ICP) by assisting
members with disabilities attain Social Security Income/Social Security Disability Income
(SSI/SSDI).

Have RFP and procurement complete by 10/1/19 and vendor selection and engagement by
FY2020. CountyCare will report on SSI/SSDI enrollment in Q2 2020.

3.1 F Identification of Skilled Nursing Facility and Home Health Partners for CountyCare
members.

CountyCare SNF quality program requiring HFS approval has been submitted and is being
reviewed by the State.

3.1 G Advocate for local government financial support of unfunded mandates such as
correctional health and public health services.

Public and Correctional Health expenses continue to be covered by local taxpayer support.

3.1 H Optimize information technology infrastructure to improve revenue capture and
financial reporting.

Successful implementation of patient accounting system, online bill payment, online
financial counseling and routine financial reporting.

14

 Objective 3.2
Control costs and maximize efficiencies.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

3.2 A CountyCare to continue implementation of Medical Cost Action Plan that all CountyCare departments
participate in to reduce costs through a combination of operational efficiencies and recontracting.

Achieve $30 million in savings to CountyCare plan, while preserving excellence in clinical services and plan
operations.

3.2 B Increasing full-time employees, reducing agency and overtime costs.

Streamline and automate processes that reduce time to hire and expedite other human resource processes.
Reduction in vacancies to 10% of workforce.

3.2 C Maximize lab automation through cross-training and filling vacant positions.

Achieve 98% error free rate.

3.2 D Utilize data (volume, unit costs) to ensure staffing is in-line with appropriate best practices.

Establish annual targets based on industry benchmarks for overall staffing, including overtime and agency
staffing that align with volumes and clinical complexity.

3.2 E Evaluate training programs to determine optimal size and CCH strategic and fiscal value.

Assessment of 2 physician training programs with recommendations to leadership about strategic and financial
attributes to inform organizational planning.

3.2 F Conduct event review and overall analysis for all litigation and implement and communicate lessons learned
to mitigate financial risks through employee training.

With Risk Management, identify litigation trends and implement strategic interventions where appropriate to
minimize risk. Continue trainings for staff across the organization on topics like litigation, informed consent,
following event reporting and evaluation protocols in order to preserve privileges in litigation matters.

3.2 G Reduce facility expenses.

Complete close out of health system operations at the Oak Forest property and fully transferred Oak Forest
maintenance to the County. Establish internal construction team to reduce facility rehab costs. Move all
remaining employees out of the Polk Administration
building to allow the County to proceed with building decommissioning. Integrate CORE facility maintenance
into CCH portfolio. Review the structure of the building and maintenance division and leverage these resources
across all of CCH locations.

3.2 H Transition high volume network providers to value-based contracts for CountyCare.

Execute at least one significant contract with a network provider that transfers risk while preserving excellence in
member services in 2020.

3.2 I Improve competition for CCH contracted work by increasing transparency of what we plan to procure each
year.

Establish Annual Buying Plan and increase MBE/WBE contract participation.

15

 Objective 3.3
Pharmaceutical Management.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

3.3 A Optimize pharmacy economics.

Optimize Revenue: Identify contractual opportunities to
increase pharmacy reimbursement for current formulary
products. Insource specialty pharmaceuticals creating
opportunity to generate revenue. Minimize Expenses: Maximize
use of programs available that will reduce medication expense
(such as 340B program) or that will allow eligible patients to
obtain required medications through external programs (such as
insurance Medication Assistance Programs). Reduce practice
variation, especially around chronic disease management, to
ensure prescriptions are evidence-based, decreasing variation of
drug uses among expense classes.

16

 
Focus Area 

Leverage and Inves? Asse?s

 

COOK COUNTY

EALTH

 

Objective 4.1
Recruit, hire and retain the best employees, who are committed to CCH’s mission.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

4.1 A Finalize implementation of online performance
evaluations.

Performance evaluations done online for all personnel.

4.1 B Develop an industry-based class and compensation strategy
to recruit, hire and retain the best employees to support the
continued transformation of the organization.

Create performance-based pay plan for non-union employees.

4.1 C Analyze and develop solutions for employee transportation
needs.

Complete analysis of actionable recommendations, considerate
of other local employers.

18

 Objective 4.2
Strengthen the CCH Workforce.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

4.2 A Enhance workforce training opportunities.

Develop curriculum for CCH employee to develop/enhance skill sets.
Training catalogue created detailing all training available across CCH.

4.2 B Conduct an analysis of organizational leadership by span of control,
bench strength and develop an approach to succession planning.

Complete analysis of actionable recommendations, considerate of other
local employers.

4.2 C Review of competency-based, “top of license” model of care across the
System.

Update Advanced Practice Provider job descriptions to have more defined
requirements and clinical activity expectations. Implement plan to optimize
roles of Community Health Workers and Psychologists.

4.2 D Develop strategies that foster flexibility and career development for
unionized employees.

Establish career ladders within specialized technical positions. Increase
online and interactive training courses to enhance supervisory skills.
Develop opportunities for entry level positions to train for more technical
positions (e.g. Building Service Worker to Medical Assistant).

4.2 E Pursue partnerships with nursing schools to foster and grow
recruitment of excellent and culturally-competent nurses to CCH.

Establish one partnership and complete a cost/benefit analysis of a nursing
residency program. Relevant metrics to gauge success are: nursing turnover
rate by tenure, number of new hires by colleges and number of schools of
nursing partnerships.

4.2 F Improve the continuous learning environment of CCH and conduct an
ongoing review of the effectiveness of academic affiliations.

Identify benefits resulting to both CCH and University of Illinois with a
finalized agreement with University of Illinois School of Public Health.
Assess master affiliation agreements in alignment with clinical priorities.
19

 Objective 4.3
Leverage CCH workforce.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

4.3 A Develop and execute employee engagement action plans
based on learnings from the employee engagement survey.
Enhance collaboration with labor to further employee
engagement.

Establish employee recognition/awards program.

4.3 B Strengthen inter-departmental communications and
collaboration better-coordinated services and improved patient
outcomes.

Improve patient outcomes and Hospital Consumer Assessment
of Healthcare Providers and System (HCAHPS) scores related to
teamwork. Decrease in number of patient grievances and
increase in employee satisfaction.

4.3 C Support an environment of continuous process
improvement by increasing managers’ competencies using
process improvement and project management tools.

Standardize process improvement approach to projects. Identify
professional membership(s) to support ongoing process
improvement. Train all managers on process improvement.

4.3 D Support board development and leverage CCH Board of
Directors as resources.

Create an annual calendar that anticipates strategic
presentations to the Board. Board to complete an annual selfassessment process regarding best governance practices and
incorporates opportunities identified into changes in board
practices.
20

 Objective 4.4
Utilize industry benchmarking and tools to improve quality, cost, utilization and
patient outcomes.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

4.4 A Establish staffing productivity model to optimize efficiency and
effectiveness for key areas (e.g. nursing, environmental services). Develop a
predictive staffing model/variable workload staffing model.

Reduce nursing overtime by 25%, decrease agency usage by 50% by 2021.

4.4 B Develop the ability to analyze specific initiatives to determine mission
alignment and attainment of outcomes.

Establish defined process for approval of new programs and initiatives.

4.4 C Evaluate outcome data and utilization patterns to determine the
efficacy of various system strategies (e.g. care coordination).

Provided actionable analysis of the efficacy of care coordination strategies.

4.4 D Update Clinical, Administrative, Research and Teaching (CART)
process to review and standardize expectations and that actuals are aligned
with these expectations. Distribute dashboards to benchmark performance
on CART and Relative Value Units (RVU) at the physician and department
level.

Annual review of CART expectations to be part of the annual performance
appraisal of clinical chairs as a routine review of results against
expectations. Provide and mature Relative Value Units (RVUs) reports for
providers and managers. Establish RVU reporting with accurate
information routinely reported using data in Cerner system.

4.4 E Mature health plan network strategy to assure access, quality, and
value.

Develop and implement a managed care strategic roadmap to address
payor prioritization/portfolio, matching the delivery system to managed
care opportunities to increase year-over-year increase in utilization of CCH
as a provider.

21

 Objective 4.5
Utilize CCDPH data and experience to address health inequities to conceptualize and
plan robust interventions to improve population health.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

4.5 A Develop system-wide strategies to reduce transmissible
infections.

Pilot two mass screenings events in high-risk communities by
2021. Institute expedited partner therapy in 100% of CCH
community health centers by 2020. Establish media/social
media campaign to raise awareness and promote testing of
sexually active adolescents and adults. Establish walk-in
diagnostic and treatment capacity at all CCH primary care sites
with expedited results.

4.5 B Maximize local health collaboration, partnership and
alignment in Cook County to inform services, with local health
departments such as City of Chicago Department of Public
Health and local resources such as the University of Illinois
School of Public Health.

Continue collaborative work on public health initiatives and
identify additional areas for collaboration and/or synergy of
efforts at shared objectives.

4.5 C Explore establishing additional injury-prevention
partnerships and programs.

Develop program to reduce injuries, improve population health
and identify external funds.

22

 Objective 4.6
Increase community engagement.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

4.6 A Leverage outpatient health centers as community anchors
by partnering with community organizations. Continue rolling
out community advisory boards for all outpatient health centers.
Develop a strategy to ensure community engagement across the
county.

Establish community advisory boards at all outpatient health
centers.

23

 Objective 4.7
Align extramural funding efforts with core competencies and strategies.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

4.7 A Mature grant opportunity review process to include an
evaluation of potential grants based on CCH strategy, expected
cost/benefit and clinical or research alignment.

Establish process to evaluate grant opportunities to ensure
alignment with strategic priorities, organizational leadership
and cost/benefit. Establish a minimum grant value.

24

 '11

Impact Social Determinants

and Advocate for Patients

Objective 5.1
Tailor Social Determinant of Health strategies to achieve the most impact on CCH
patients and Health Plan members.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

5.1 A Establish cross-departmental stakeholder group to create a plan to address social determinants of health for
CCH populations.

Create work group. Understand the needs of specific populations and develop tailored service plans.

5.1 B Leverage CountyCare data, including Health Risk Assessments (HRAs) to identify needed value-added
benefits to membership related to social determinants of health and serve that improve health status.

Routine review of CountyCare data to make recommendations on additional value-added benefits that may be
needed.

5.1 C Partner with other organizations to address population health care needs outside of the health care system,
including those related to food insecurity.

Continue “Food as Medicine” program to all outpatient sites. Evaluation complete related to onsite food pantries.
Increase clients receiving Women, Infants and Children (WIC) services by 3% year over year. Convene CCDPH
Food Summit and develop and distribute CCDPH Food Summit report. Organize and facilitate quarterly Cook
County Good Food Task Force meetings and implement recommendations.

5.1 D Grow and mature the housing strategy to improve patient outcomes.

Create criteria for long-term care (custodial) admissions to divert to housing with support services. Facilitate
housing for CCH patients in CCH permanent supportive-housing models. Reduce unnecessary visits to the
Emergency Department by homeless individuals by partnering with community-based organizations on
innovative care solutions.

5.1 E Educate local, state and federal officials on policies and practices that affect CCH populations.

Gain auto-assignment for eligible justice-involved in Cook County.

5.1 F Collaborate nationally with county government stakeholders and large urban health care systems to garner
congressional support to garner support for legislation that furthers the mission of CCH on shared policy
priorities and targeted advocacy efforts.

Advocate for reinstating county eligibility in the National Health Services Corps (NHSC) loan forgiveness
program.

5.1 G Utilize CCH data and experience to address health inequities to conceptualize and plan robust interventions
to improve population health and trauma-informed approaches.

Successfully implement strategies identified in the CCH Trauma-Informed Approaches Taskforce report. Track
the number of staff trained in trauma-informed approaches and the number of designated trauma champions in
each department.

5.1 H Develop focused program on populations that would benefit from better engagement in health care who are
less likely to engage in appropriate preventive care.

Expand pilot program to provide outreach and engagement of 100 African American men by 2023 on
hypertension and apply lessons learned across all outpatient sites.

26

 Objective 5.2
Elevate organizational contributions to mitigate disparities.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

5.2 A Maximize external recognition of CCH best practices.

Establish center for Health Equity and Innovation. Convene quarterly
research and innovation summits. Present CCH correctional best practices
to other correctional health departments (e.g. Naloxone distribution, dental
health, women’s health).

5.2 B Work with Cook County government to advance a Health in All
Policies (HiAP) approach that incorporates health, equity and sustainability
considerations into decision-making across sectors and policy areas to
improve the quality of life of its residents.

Convene internal CCDPH team to lead research and process development
and implementation. Outreach to other local governments implementing
HiAP to obtain lessons learned. Propose process to Cook County
government to explore advancement of HiAP. Implement process with
Cook County government to identify best mechanism to advance HiAP.

5.2 C Support the Cook County Complete Count Census Commission in
their efforts to ensure that all Cook County residents are counted in the
2020 Census.

Share CCH and CCDPH information with patients, providers, and
community stakeholders on the importance of Census participation.

5.2 D Increase MBE/WBE participation on contracts.

Steadily increase MBE/WBE participation annually through an enhanced
CCH outreach efforts and targeted programs with Group Purchasing
Organizations (GPOs).

27

 Objective 5.3
Utilize CCH data and experience to address health inequities to conceptualize and
plan robust interventions to improve population health.
HIGHLIGHTED STRATEGIES

EXPECTED OUTCOME

5.3 A Advocate for the adoption of a Cook County Lead
Poisoning Prevention Ordinance.

Complete steps necessary for adoption, approval and
implementation.

5.3 B Expand the use of population and epidemiologic data to
identify upstream drivers of chronic diseases and conditions,
improve birth outcomes and enhance childhood
development.

Increase resources for patients and the community. Develop new
partnerships to address key drivers of health inequity.

5.3 C Identify opportunities to partner with other governments
and organizations to address gun violence, opioid abuse, and
sexually transmitted infections.

Develop two initiatives that promote partnership with shared
objectives.

28

 Strategic Planning Timeline

• Environmental
Assessment:
Epidemiology,
Health status
and disparities
in Cook County
• Information
Technology

• Financial
Status and
Pressures
• State and
Federal
Issues

•Human Resources
•Pension Overview
•Quality
•Extramural Funding
•Health Equity and Social
Determinants
•Correctional Health
•Behavioral Health
•Safety net strategies/
vulnerabilities, local
market realities,
partnerships

• Integrated Care
• Medicaid Managed
Care/Managed
Populations
• Research
• Clinical Activity,
Utilization &
Operational
Efficiency
• Medical Practice/
Medical Group

•Nursing
•Graduate
Education
•Capital Investment
•Primary Care/
Maternal Child
Care
•Diagnostic/
Specialty Services
•Marketing,
Communications &
Branding
•Community Health
Improvement
Plans/CCDPH
•Community/
Employee
Meetings

• Community/
Employee
Meetings
• Financial
Forecasting
Scenarios

•Special board meeting to
present analysis of the
uninsured and discuss the
draft plan

•Discussion of
preliminary
draft at full
board meeting

•Draft plan
issued for
employee and
public review
and comment

UPCOMING

COMPLETED

• Population
Overview and
Projections

•Anticipated approval of
2020-2023 Strategic Plan

•Inclusion of financial
forecast and submission of
plan to Cook County Board
of Commissioners.

 11

Thank you.

COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

 

