

NEIGHBORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES STANDING
COMMITTEE

Brenda Jones, President
Detroit City Council

2 Woodward Ave 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

July 5, 2019

Dear Madam President,

It is our understanding that the City Council is responsible for establishing policies for the effective and
efficient delivery of municipal services to the City of Detroit. Therefore, we are writing to inform you of
our ongoing disappointing experiences with the civic departments of Detroit. We have encountered at
least six departments where the communication and access has been challenging and unproductive. it is
beyond our understanding why so many departments are operating in this deficient state and we
consequently find ourselves obliged to write this letter.

It has been our discouraging experience that multiple phone call attempts and email correspondence is
necessary to obtain information and service. Some emails and phone calls have never received
responses and others have resulted in failed promises. One instance required our team to literally show
up at the office to get results. In some cases, there have been changes in staff, positions, and
assignments that were not updated on the public website causing us to waste time sending requests to
abandoned telephone numbers and email addresses. Such action continues to diminish trust and
tarnish the reputation of the City in the eyes of its constituents.

New Beginnings Community Development Corporation was established in response to the
growing social and economic distress in our community and our city. Our vision involves providing
transformative community services with an objective to combat the effects of poverty and deprivation
in the Detroit Metropolitan area. It is our firm belief that an organized entity located within the
community and supported by the municipal staff, models the most effective and suitable way to provide
services to those who make up the community. It is our sincere desire to accomplish such model in this
great city and for this great community with your help and support.

We hope that the Council will take this matter under serious consideration and confer with the Mayor?s
Office to seek a general resolution.

Sincerely,
.4644 WW

Lisa Williams, Director


.. 

 

11433 Beaconsfield, Suite 100 Detroit, MI 48224 . 313.372.1574 . 

