Commission on Environmental Justice
Minutes for the August 14, 2013 Meeting
The meeting opened at 10:10 am by Chairwoman Kimberly Wasserman.
I. Welcome
Chairman, Kimberly Wasserman
II. Introductions
Participants included Commissioners: Sylvia Hood Washington, Keith Harley, Millard
Driskell, Kate Tomford, Kimberly Wasserman, Cheryl Johnson, Debbie Myers-Martin, Jerry
Mead-Lucero, Veronica Kyle, Rep. Chris Welch, Alec Messina, Rep. Mike Fortner, Tamika
Gibson, and Gloria Williams.
Observers: Tammy Webber, Associated Press, Rev. Mitchell Johnson, Christian Strachan of
People for Community Recovery, Bryant Payne, Charles Parnell of Midwest Generation,
Monica Rios of Hodge, Dwyer & Driver and Jerry Peck of Illinois Manufacturers’ Association.
IEPA Staff: Andrew Mason, Mary McDonald, Chris Presnall, Lisa Bonnett, Elmo Dowd, Ken
Page, Rebecca Volk, Mara McGinnis, Sarah Seelbach.
On the phone: Senator Toi Hutchinson, Bola Delano, IDOT, and Jeffrey Jones IDNR.
III. Presentations/Discussions
There was a proposal that meetings would be held on a quarterly basis and more if the
committees deem that there is more to discuss. Meetings may take place by teleconference
as well. The first report of the Commission is due in October 2013, and there was concern
that a meeting should be held prior to that.
Ken Page discussed the Open Meetings Act requirements. All Commissioners will need to
take the online training that is available through the Illinois Attorney General Office. The
links and directions will be provided to the Commissioners via email. They have 90 days to
meet this requirement and to acknowledge to Ken that they have done so.
http://foia.ilattorneygeneral.net/default.aspx
Ken Page went on to discuss that meeting minutes were not being recorded, but that staff
would be taking notes during the meeting. Copies of the minutes will be distributed to the
members for review and finalization prior to posting to the Commission Web site, which is
part of the Illinois EPA Web site at http://www.epa.state.il.us/environmentaljustice/Commission/index.html Ken will provide the URL to the Commissioners so that they
can check in at any time to review posted documents associated with the Commission.

 The names of the Commissioners and their affiliations will be listed on the Web, but no
contact information will be publicly available (as is currently done on the Governor’s Boards
and Commissions Web site). All other documents will be publicly accessible. Contact
information for the Commissioners will be distributed among the group, so that they can
keep in contact with each other. Contact information from the meeting sign in sheet will be
distributed.
Illinois EPA Director Lisa Bonnett greeted the group and thanked them for their interest and
for their desire to help bring environmental justice issues into the forefront as the Agency
moves forward in making policy and permitting changes and updates. She discussed that
the Advisory Committee (which is separate from this Commission, although does have many
of the same members) will continue to function separately along with the Commission. She
sees the work of the Commission as finite, while the Advisory Group is ongoing.
The Commissioners will decide the scope of work of the Commission, as well as the
priorities and potential committees/subcommittees.
IV. Open Discussion
Jerry Mead Lucero, PERRO, spoke of the need to look at EJ laws and regulation and address
the cumulative impact of pollution on residents and the environment.
Sylvia Hood Washington, University of Illinois at Chicago School of Public Health, spoke of a
need to have an EJ resource repository for the information and resources that already exist.
She has an educational video that she produced, (funded by the Illinois Humanities Council)
for example, that could be used by others if there was a central place established. She
stressed the need for the Commission to have “teeth.”She discussed that she feels that
DuPage County is lacking EJ awareness. She looks forward to a possible opportunity to move
IL to sustain research and generate data to create policy, solidify EJ in state.
Keith Harley, IIT Chicago-Kent Chicago Legal Clinic, has created a position paper that he
would like to circulate among the Commissioners for consideration of priorities/action
items. He used the phrase “Winning Strategies” to cover the positive results that a solid EJ
Policy in Illinois could provide for legislators, communities and regulators.
Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place, discussed the role of the faith-based community and
environmental stewardship and strategically using this segment to move forward EJ
education and awareness. She also stressed the need to not forget about the rural
communities when discussing environmental justice; she feels it is important to provide
EJ Education and awareness across the state.

 Cheryl Johnson, Executive Director of People for Community Recovery, suggested that it would
be important to hold future meetings in EJ communities so that those who live there can also
have a voice, and that Commissioners and others can get a firsthand experience. She then
posed the question of what comes after the education. She talked about technology needs and
a desire to cooperatively build EJ education with industry.
Millard Driskell, Grand Master of Prince Hall Masons of Illinois, stated that the Mason’s are in
place. They believe in a green state (environmental justice) and that implementation should
come through public relations. Mr. Driskell suggested meeting monthly, and also the
conversion of the Mason Building to a Green building.
Debbie Myers-Martin, Mayor of Olympia Fields, is looking forward to sharing the perspective of
municipalities in this Commission work.
Deputy Director Bola Delano of IDOT, was on the phone and wanted to share that Agency’s
perspective on environmental justice and transportation issues. She stated that they use
planning to address EJ issues. She also stated that the reauthorization law now highlights EJ,
Linking transportation Initiatives with planning Map 21: Highlights EJ in IDOT
She stressed that Interagency Partnerships are needed and it would be useful for working
through remediation issues with the State.
State Rep. Chris Welch, (D)7th District, said he was there to offer input, to listen and offered to
carry legislation that might come out of this Commission’s efforts. He is interested how he can
promote the Policy Perspective of how to move forward with EJ work in the State.
Alec Messina, Illinois Environmental Regulatory Group (IERG), representing 52 member
companies, and former chief legal counsel at IEPA, stated that he wants to be able to
understand the obligations of the regulated community. He believes some decisions made by
the Agency were made “in a box” and he is interested in hearing concerns.
Jeffrey Jones of Illinois Department of Natural Resources ,IDNR (on the phone), said that he
would like to see corporate partners be responsible citizens in recreational areas, both Rural
and Metro areas. He would also like to be able to translate the benefit of EJ to these areas.
State Rep. Mike Fortner,(R) 49th District, representing western DuPage County over the years in
different elected capacities, has an interest in becoming proactive and more involved in
environmental justice in the state.
Jerry Peck of the Illinois Manufacturers’ Association (IMA) was there as an observer. He said
that he represents 4,000 members groups of 600,000 workers. He would like to see the
regulatory process streamlined and also to provide benefits to manufacturers. He would like to
serve as a resource to the Commission going forward.

 Tamika Gibson, Illinois Environmental Council (IEC)l, stated the Illinois Environmental Council
serves as the environmental community’s eyes, ears, and voice in Springfield and she will
continue that work in her capacity as a Commissioner.
Kate Tomford, Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity (DCEO), stated her
interest on behalf of her director and agency to work towards ensuring that their different
divisions and programs consider EJ as they provide various funding and investments on behalf
of the state.
Elmo Dowd, Illinois EPA, stated that he thinks the Agency is moving forward in its quest to
ensure financial, economic and social justice in environmental justice. He also said that the feds
are looking at “cumulative impact” issues and it will probably trickle down to the state level.
Commission Chairwoman Kimberly Wasserman, Little Village Environmental Justice
Organization (LVEJO,) stressed the need to get public input, to be proactive versus reactive, and
to engage in meaningful conversation with industry and manufacturing. She discussed that the
future meetings and conversations may not be as friendly as today’s meeting has been, as there
will be varying thoughts and opinions on how to move forward. She stressed the need to listen
thoughtfully and to be respectful of the difference.
Senator Hutchinson was on the phone and stated her desire to work proactively with the
Commission.
Sylvia Hood Washington added that she thought it would be important to also bring a
representative from the Catholic Church or the Catholic Bishops into the fold, to add to the
great potential to move things forward in the faith community. Veronica Kyle did assure her
that Faith in Place does indeed have Catholics among their membership and that they would
indeed be receiving the information that would be disseminated by the Commission.
Jerry Mead-Lucero, Pilsen Environmental Rights and Reform Organization (PERRO), reiterated
his desire to meet again soon, perhaps in September. He feels strongly in the need to establish
priorities and create committees.
There was discussion about how long members would like to have to be able to read over the
various documents and minutes, to have discussions with memberships so that the discussion
of priorities could take place. A time frame of two to three weeks was generally agreed upon.
There was discussion of what the report to the Governor’s Office that is due in October would
consist of. Ken page said that he thought it would include the minutes of this and any other
meeting we would have prior to then, and the results of the work that the Commission hopes
to do. He said that the report that is created for the October 2014 time period will be the report
with the real work and discussions, mainly due to the timing of this meeting and this year’s
reporting deadline.

 Commissioners will receive information over email in the next few days and information will
also be posted to the Website. A link to the Website will also be given to the Commissioners.
Meeting adjourned at 11:30 am

 