COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Agency Involvement/Oversight
Sub-Committee Minutes
Wednesday, January 8, 2014 (10:05 am)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman, EJ Commission

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Kim Wasserman. LVEJO
 LaTonya Lumpkin, DOA
 Joe Mitchell, IDPH
 Kate Tomford, DCEO
 Alec Messina, IERG
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA
 Keith Harley, CLC
 Sharonda Williams, IEPA

III.

Approval of Agenda
Motion – Joe Mitchell
Second – Alec Messina
Motion carried

IV.

Subcommittee Structure

A. Election of a Subcommittee Chairperson
 There were no volunteers for this position. If no one volunteers by the next call
Kim Wasserman will be designated as the agency involvement/oversight
subcommittee chairperson.
V.
Old Business
Agency Template
 -Wasserman- Stated that Bola Delano from DOT sent out an EJ Template and a
set of questions to assist the agencies with engaging their departments on
environmental justice.
 Page- Stated that the agencies will look at the template at the Commission on EJ
and state agencies meeting. He also stated that the agencies are not sure how they

 



















play a role in environmental justice and the meeting should be helpful on that
issue.
Wasserman- Asked if the Commission on EJ and state agencies meeting would
involve all state agencies or just those on the Commission.
Page- Stated that this meeting will only involve the state agencies on the
Commission since there has been some confusion over how their agencies can
address environmental justice.
Wasserman- Asked if this meeting will require a report back on where the
agencies are with environmental justice.
Page- Stated that the agencies want to see if they can complete the template
together.
Page- Stated that Sharonda Williams from our agency did a cursory review of the
agencies websites to see where environmental justice was being addressed within
the agencies on this Commission, this list is not exhaustive of all the opportunities
out there. He also stated that we will look at frameworks at the federal level.
Wasserman- Stated that she would like to have a discussion about the questions
that Bola Delano sent out.
Page- Asked whether the agencies wanted to make changes to the template.
Wasserman- Stated that she wanted to make sure that we aren‟t missing anything
or being redundant.
Messina- Stated that he didn‟t have any comments at that moment but wanted to
send Ken an e-mail at a later time with his comments.
Wasserman- Stated that one question that she thought was missing was on
community process/engagement. She also asked what is the public process and
requirements that departments have if any.
Mitchell- Stated that within each agency it will be different. He also stated that it
is a good idea to see what types of community engagement requirements are out
there because it will be helpful to the agencies.
Wasserman- Stated that is important to know whether these requirements are
mandatory or voluntary.
Tomford- Stated that for DCEO she doesn‟t know whether they can answer the
questions on an agency level. She also stated that the questions may have to be
addressed by bureau; department or program since there is so much diversity
within the agency.
Wasserman- Stated that it might be helpful to specify whether the questions are
agency or program specific.
Tomford- Stated that to be comprehensive we will look at both levels, but
specifying what level we are speaking about in our responses will be necessary.
Tomford- Stated that to answer the questions effectively she would have to go
down to the program level.
Wasserman- Stated that she would like to highlight a specific question. She
would like to edit “How do you determine or define the extent of Impacts on
Community Facilities and Services” to generally say communities without the
specific reference to facilities and services.

 







VI.

Tomford- Asked if we were looking at impacts generally or environmental
impacts. She suggested that we keep it environmental to maintain the focus on
environmental justice.
Page- Stated that the term „environmental‟ would need to be defined because it
can be used so broadly.
Mitchell- Stated that he would use it in the broad since IDPH works on public
health issues.
Messina- Stated that the process of self-review will lead agencies in the right
direction. He also stated that we should start with „environmental impacts‟ and go
from there.
Page- Suggested we edit the question to „How do you determine or define the
extent of environmental impacts on the community.‟
Mitchell- Stated that he thinks the language is broad enough. He also stated that
we can carve out elements as we move forward and put them to the side.
Page- Stated that the agencies will look at these questions and make changes.

Discussions/Presentations
 Wasserman- Asked what the deadline was for the agencies to answer the list of
questions. She also asked if we could get the answers before the next meeting.
 Page and Tomford- Kate will be unable to make the Commission on EJ and state
agencies meeting. Kate and Ken will address the questions off-line at another
time.
 Page- Suggested February 13, 2014 as a date to have the questions completed by
the agencies.
 Wasserman- Agreed that this deadline was fine and said we would have a
Commission meeting immediately after that date.
 Wasserman- Asked whether the group wanted to reconvene as a subcommittee
first or come to the full Commission with this information.
 Wasserman- Recommended that the group meet as a subcommittee first and then
bring the information to the full Committee. She also stated that the
subcommittee will meet at the end of February and the Committee will meet as a
body at large in March.
 Wasserman- Stated that it would be great if folks reviewed the Hastings Law
Review so that we can gauge where people are at in comparison.
 Wasserman- Stated that she will reach out to individual committee members in
regard to the chair position.

Action Items
1. Comments will be provided on the questionnaire and edits will be made by IL
EPA.
2. State agencies will have a meeting Wednesday, January 15, 2014 to discuss
where their agencies are in relation to environmental justice. The group will
utilize the questions provided by Bola Delano to assist with this discussion.

 3. The state agencies will complete the questionnaire by February 13, 2014 and
share them with Commissioner Wasserman.

VII.

Next meeting date and location
Wednesday, February 26, 2014 @ 10:00 am (conference call)

VIII. Adjournment
10:42 am

 