COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

MEETING MINUTES
Thursday, March 20, 2014 (10 am – 12 noon)

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman

II.

Introductions
A. Springfield Videoconference
 Tamika Gibson, IEC
 Alec Messina, IERG
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Debbie Daugherty, IEPA
B. Chicago Videoconference
 Kim Wasserman, LVEJO
 Dan Salamone– DCEO intern
 Sharonda Williams, IEPA
 Keith Harley – Chicago Legal Clinic
C. Teleconference
 Joe Mitchell, IDPH
 Doris Turner, IDPH
 Gloria Williams, IDNR
 Dr. Sylvia Hood-Washington
 Cheryl Johnson - PCR
 Christian Strachan, PCR
 Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA

III.

Approval of Agenda (electronic copy)
Motion- Kim Wasserman
Second- Joe Mitchell
Motion Carried

IV.

Approval of the Minutes (electronic copy)
1. November 19, 2014 minutes
Motion- Gloria Williams
Second- Jerry Mead-Lucero
Motion Carried

 V.

Presentations/Discussions:
1. Agency Involvement/Oversight Sub-Committee
 Overview of meetings and action items
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Environmental Justice Questionnaires were
created and the all of the state agencies on the Commission completed
them. We are at the point to provide feedback. The reality is the
agency oversight sub-committee only has two non-agency members.
Because of this there was a suggestion to share the answers with all of
the Commissioners and get feedback. The goal is to receive substantive
feedback from the non-State agency Commissioners. This process will
be achieved with two conference calls. Once the feedback has been
gathered the state agencies will receive those responses in writing. I
also had a thought to extend a third conference call to engage
environmental justice organizations outside of the Commission. We
could lean on their experiences with state agencies and get their
feedback.
 Mead-Lucero, LVEJO- Are these calls to review the environmental
justice questionnaires submitted by agencies?
 Messina, IERG- Have you identified groups? Are these calls for other
participants or just EJ commission?
 Wasserman, LVEJO- I have identified specific groups. But I am also
opening it up to other stakeholders that we may not know. We can find
a way to provide notice for people to attend these meetings.
 Messina, IERG- I am not really in a position to make a decision.
Maybe other agencies don’t need to report back.
 Mitchell, IDPH- What are we going to do with this information?
Overall what direction should we be going in regard to environmental
justice? We are open to recommendations.
 Harley- We have been using a model based on the federal level. The
idea is to use this as a basis of what we can do in Illinois. The more
inclusive we can be as far as feedback from other organizations the
better.
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Ken can we work together to have two calls
around the environmental justice questionnaires and create a strategy
for the third call?
 Page, IEPA- Yes.
 Wasserman, LVEJO- We want to get feedback from non-agency folks
and get something in writing so that we can move forward.
 Page, IEPA- Commissioners can go to the EJ Commission webpage to
see all approved minutes and the environmental justice questionnaires.
 Meetings and minutes
(12/10/2013; 1/8/2014; 2/26/2014 and 3/12/2014; All minutes are located
on the EJ Commission’s webpage)
 Sub-Committee Chairman

 

EJ Questionnaire
a. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
b. Illinois Department of Public health
c. Illinois Department on Aging
d. Illinois Department of Commerce
Opportunity
e. Illinois Department of Natural Resources

and

Economic

2. Brownfields Redevelopment Sub-Committee
A. Overview of meetings and action items
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- I didn’t get to speak with the Brownfields
co-chairs (Dr. Sylvia Washington/Cheryl Johnson) before this meeting
today on how to cover reporting so I will be presenting the update from
that sub-committee. We met on four occasions and received some great
information. IEPA gave us an informative presentation about their
Brownfields and SRP programs. We spoke about Brownfields
education and whether there is a place that people could go to find out
about brownfields. I charged Ken and IEPA to let us know what
currently exists. There is a push to see what is happening on a national
level and how we can pull in this information. Though IEPA’s
presentation was informative it was a lot to digest. We will provide
suggestions about breaking down that information. In regard to the
education web portal I would like Christian Strachan from PCR to
discuss with you some information he provided to me about an existing
web portal that may be useful to us.
•
Strachan, PCR- U.S. EPA has been working with community
groups around community cumulative assessment. Residents can report
on illegal dumping, odors and other environmental harms in their
communities. This program has been going on for eight months; it is
still in its beta stage. The funding has ended for this program but the
web portal still exists. It was suggested that this might be a good portal
to start from.
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- I am excited to think about the potential here.
When we are discussing the education web portal we can discuss
community redevelopment.
•
Hood-Washington- Did Commissioners receive information about
this web portal? Did we receive the link to the American Planning
Association information provided by Commissioner Kyle?
•
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- We also spoke about IL EPA’s mapping
tool. Obviously this mapping tool doesn’t include all categories of
Brownfields. We also need to define Brownfields.
•
Messina, IERG- This includes RCRA sites.
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- Can we pull all of these sites into one place?
I invite all Commissioners to join these calls if you have an interest in
this area. This web portal is very exciting.

 •
Page, IEPA- DCEO has a tool out there that shows you a list of
commercial properties that are available in the State of Illinois.
•
Hood-Washington- Please let the co-chairs know how we can work
with you.
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- I will improve this for the next call.
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- In regard to community led redevelopment
we want to get some feedback to IEPA about the presentation they gave
us. Communities need to understand these processes. How do we
break down this information and make it accessible. Keith Harley
volunteered to help me with this task. We will get feedback in writing
to share with the Brownfields subcommittee and then IEPA.
•
Messina, IERG- What kinds of feedback will be provided?
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- We will bring back questions and get
clarification. Provide suggestions in some spaces. When I ask folks
about these programs they don’t understand how it works. The
language needs to be broken down.
•
Messina, IERG- If other Commissioners have feedback and
questions can we send them to you?
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- Yes.
•
Messina, IERG- At the next subcommittee meeting would you
anticipate getting additional feedback from other groups?
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- We want to provide feedback in regard to the
presentations because people don’t know about these programs and if
they do they don’t understand the technical language.
•
Hood-Washington- Are you speaking to environmental justice
groups only in Illinois or outside of the state?
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- Since this is an Illinois Commission I am
only speaking with groups in Illinois.
•
Hood-Washington- Having conversations with whom?
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- I have had conversation with folks as far as
Southern Illinois. Part of my job as chair is to report back to groups in
Illinois about this Commission. I have asked these groups for feedback
on IL EPA’s Brownfields program.
•
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- The broader picture was to figure out how
to make Brownfield Redevelopment not just private and if there was a
need for increased funding. Now we are speaking about IEPA’s
discussion with the Brownfields subcommittee and providing feedback.
•
Wasserman, LVEJO- I am recommending myself and
Commissioner Harley to provide feedback around the IEPA
Brownfields programs. We will be sending out links to folks and on
the next call we will dive into Community Redevelopment more.
•
Messina, IERG- Are there thoughts to open up the Community
Redevelopment conversation to other folks? We will go off of what
you and Keith provide the Commission.

 •
Page, IEPA- This is a good opportunity for Commissioners to look
at these programs and see what they can do with the parameters. He
will provide information regarding the above.
•
Williams, IDNR-What is SRP?
•
Page, IEPA- SRP is the Site Remediation Program. It is a
voluntary clean-up program driven by property transactions to achieve
a No Further Remediation (NFR) letter from IEPA.
•
Page, IEPA- I will provide web links again for these programs.
B. Meetings and minutes
(12/11/2013; 1/8/2014; 2/26/2014 and 3/12/2014; All minutes are located
on the EJ Commission’s webpage)
C. Sub-Committee Co-Chairs

VI.

Old Business
 Page, IEPA- We need to look at Opens Meeting Act (OMA) recertifications (everyone needs to renew their OMA certification online).
 Messina, IERG- Do we have to take ethic trainings in the spring?
 Page, IEPA- Will check with Chief Legal Counsel for IEPA to see if
this is required by the members on the EJ commission.
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Only OMA.
 Mead-Lucero, PERRO- Are terms expiring? They were created three
years ago. Applications were submitted in that first year. Would terms
start from the first time that we met as a Commission?
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Term appointments were staggered. If your term
has expired, you need to reapply to the commission. The terms start
when you were appointed. If you go to the EJ Commission webpage it
has terms and I would recommend that you speak with Ken about when
your term is up.
 Williams, IDNR- I think we do have to get ethics training.

VII.

Open Discussion/Questions
 Johnson, PCR- I discovered Bill SB3056 (MWRD). I am concerned
that MWRD is going to implement this at their Calumet facility and it
would impact my community, Altgeld Gardens. It is an amendment to
the Water Reclamation Act. This bill will have an impact on
community waste streams. This bill is in its third reading. How can we
get an amendment? Secondly as a Commission any industrial proposal
should come to the Commission. What about open sludge beds? What
is the Commission’s position on this?
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Did homework on this bill and some folks like
the Illinois Environmental Council didn’t know the proposal for
NWRD was in Altged Gardens. How do we inform people of these
proposals happening in their communities? Please check in with Jen

 


















Walling. She does have an interest in speaking with you about open air
drying. In regard to the Commission how do we inform impacted
communities? We should figure this out more concretely. The web
portal may be a part of the solution.
Johnson, PCR- From a community standpoint this is an environmental
justice issue. I would feel uncomfortable sitting on a Commission that
has no influence on these issues.
Wasserman, LVEJO- How are we judiciously getting this information
out to people?
Gibson, IEC- Best thing to do is speak with Jen.
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- What Cheryl is saying is valid. Since we have
this Commission we should know about legislation coming forward that
impacts environmental justice communities.
Strachan, PCR- They are in bringing additional waste and food waste.
These are the types of bills that the Commission should get action on.
IL EPA has an amendment on the bill. IL EPA has direct influence on
this bill.
Wasserman, LVEJO- We need to work more with IEC on finding out
about bills that impact environmental justice communities.
Commissioner need to have this information about their communities.
We must continue on this point and work on this as a Commission.
Page, IEPA- Is there a way to look into this information and how can it
be disseminated?
Gibson, IEC- People can utilize the bill tracker on IEC’s website.
Wasserman, LVEJO- I will ask that people on this Commission do their
due diligence. One of your responsibilities is to reach out to
communities with relevant information.
Harley- I reviewed this notice for a stakeholder meeting that James
Jenning from IL EPA sent out regarding the Community Right-ToKnow law being amended. It is being amended to include issues
around exposed pathways and vapor intrusion. This has to do with
Brownfields, LUST, RCRA etc. It would be great to put this notice on
the EJ Commission website.
Johnson, PCR- Would this deal with WRD?
Harley- I don’t think it will.
Page, IEPA- Illinois EPA plans to propose amendments to the RightTo-Know rules. The proposed amendments primarily relate to the
addition of notices required for threats of exposure from (1) offsite soil
gas contamination via the inhalation exposure routes and (2) offsite
groundwater contamination via the indoor inhalation exposure route.
Wasserman, LVEJO- This is good information to share. If folks could
share this with other communities that would be great.

 VIII. Next meeting date and location


IX.

2nd Quarter of 2014
Wed, June 18th @ 10:00 a.m. in Aurora, hosted by Dr, Sylvia Washington.
Wed, May 14th @ 10 a.m. Agency Sub-committee call.
Wed, May 14th @ 12 p.m. Brownfields Sub-committee call.

Adjournment
11:19 a.m.

 