COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

MEETING MINUTES
Wednesday, September 17, 2014 (10 am – 12 noon)

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman

II.

Introductions
A. Springfield Videoconference
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA
 Elmo Dowd, IEPA
 Debbie Daugherty, IEPA
 Joe Mitchell, IDPH
 Jim Ross, IEPA
 Kevin Greene, IEPA
 Brenda Carter, IERG
 Abby Allgire, IERG
B. Chicago Videoconference
 Kim Wasserman, LVEJO
 Dr. Sylvia Hood -Washington
 Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place
 Keith Harley, CLC
 Mary McDonald, IEPA
 Sharonda Williams, EJ Commission Facilitator
 Carol Tritschler, People Opposing DuPage Environmental Racism
(PODER)
C. Teleconference
 Caitlin Burnes, DCEO
 Cheryl Johnson, PCR
 Gloria Williams, IDNR
 Bola Delano, IDOT
 Latonya Lumpkin, IDOA
 Victoria Thurmond, PERRO
 Millard Driskell, PHM

III.

Approval of Agenda (electronic copy)
 Kim Wassserman, LVEJO- Add to new business presentation from People
Opposing Dupage Environmental Racism on their environmental justice
initiatives in Dupage.
 Motion- Millard Driskell
 Second- Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place

 IV.

V.

Approval of the Minutes (electronic copy)
a. June 18, 2014 minutes (electronic copy)
 Veronica Kyle- Please change the name Brian Nafu to Eric Neague
in June 18th minutes.
Approval of minutes from Agency Involvement/Oversight sub-committee
1. May 8th- Non-state agency Commission meeting
2. May 14th (electronic copy)
Approval of minutes from Brownfields Redevelopment sub-committee
1. May 14th (electronic copy)
 Motion to approve all above mentioned meeting minutes- Joe
Mitchell, IDPH
 Second- Cheryl Johnson, PCR
Presentations/Discussions:
a. U.S. EPA Clean Power Plan proposed rule – Kevin Greene and Jim
Ross, Illinois EPA (power point)
 Jim Ross, IEPA- Kevin Green and myself are part of IEPA’s
Climate Action Team. I have been working on Greenhouse Gas
(GHG) regulations from the beginning.
 Jim Ross, IEPA- GHGs became a regulated pollutant in 2011.
Stationary sources were required to report their GHGs in 2012.
There are no NAAQS (National Ambient Air Quality Standards for
GHGs. There is no attainment level that we are seeking to reach
and so we ask the question how do we regulate GHGs? The
answer is to reduce GHGs to the greatest extent possible, a similar
approach has been taken for Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs).
 Millard Driskell- Since we have endangerment findings why
haven’t we set a level?
 Jim Ross, IEPA- There is no real harmful level of CO2. There is
no reasonable way to achieve NAAQs unlike other pollutants like
PM 2.5.
 Jim Ross, IEPA- In May 2010 permitting requirements for GHGs
came into effect. June 2013 the President presented his Climate
Action Plan and actions are being taken to regulate GHGs from our
largest emission sources.
 Jim Ross, IEPA- What is the purpose of 111(d)? This rule is
designed to reduce CO2 emissions to combat climate change and
associated public risks. The co-benefit of reducing CO2 emissions
is the reduction of criteria pollutants such as Sulphur Dioxide
(So2), Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) and Particulate Matter (PM)
emissions.
 Jim Ross, IEPA- Illinois has 17 coal fired power plants with 45
Electric Generating Units. There are coal plants that range from 60
years old to only 4 years old. Prairie State Generating Station is 4
years old. The coal plants in Illinois are well controlled. They
have controls to reduce NOx and Sulphur oxides (Sox). There are

 













30 natural gas fired plants and 6 nuclear plants. Wind capacity in
Illinois is 3,568 MW as of 2013.
Jim Ross, IEPA- Illinois gets 49% of its electricity from Nuclear
energy and 41% from coal. 111(d) targets how we get our power.
Regulations will be put in place to encourage more reliance on
non-coal generating sources.
Jim Ross, IEPA- On June 2, 2014 USEPA released the proposed
Clean Power Plan. The comment period for this proposal has been
extended to December 2014. States must submit their state plans
by June 2016. There is an opportunity to extend this deadline to
2017. If a multi-state plan is being developed among several states
then the deadline is 2018.
Jim Ross, IEPA- The goal is 33% reduction in CO2 emission rate
by 2030 based on a 2012 baseline. Average “adjusted” emission
rate of all existing Electric Generating Units (EGUs) must meet
interim goals beginning in 2020 until final goal in 2030 and
thereafter.
Jim Ross, IEPA- The Clean Power Plan has 4 building blocks.
These building blocks are: Heat Rate/ Efficiency Improvements at
Coal Fired Electric EGUs, Re-dispatch to High Efficiency Natural
Gas Combined Cycle (NGCC) EGUs, New Renewable Energy and
Nuclear and Energy Efficiency. The latter 3 building blocks
require working with sister agencies and legislators to implement
new policies and measures that require dispatch to cleaner energy.
Incentives for clean energy through rate-based programs are also
important.
Jim Ross, IEPA- There also non-building block options that could
be a part of the plan. IEPA is currently involved in a multi-state
program where cap and trade is being reviewed as a viable option.
Fuel switching or co-firing (e.g. coal to gas) is another option.
There is a lot of research being done on control devices for CO2.
Carbon capture and storage is another viable control option.
Jim Ross, IEPA- IEPA has been doing a lot of stakeholder
outreach. We have been asking affected entities for their feedback.
This has been a major undertaking. We have met with nuclear,
environmentalists, affected industries and others. We want to
determine the most cost-effective way to reach these goals and we
are open to feedback on this.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO- Chicago Environmental Justice
Network (CEJN) submitted comments to USEPA on the Clean
Power Plan. It is very prudent that there is outreach to the
environmental justice communities on this plan. U.S. EPA failed
to include environmental justice mandate in Clean Power Plan.
There needs to be an environmental justice framework included.
You also need to ensure that you are meeting with people on the

 

















ground outside of Chicago. Can you please share information on
the multi-state plan that you discussed?
Jim Ross, IEPA- IEPA has met with Doug Smith, Chairman of
ICC about three times. The MISO states are doing their own
analysis and looking at the impacts to their member states. The
most popular multi-state avenue is currently cap and trade. There
has been economic and environmental modeling done. That
information will be made available stakeholders during outreach
efforts in late December/early January.
Jim Ross, IEPA- ICC is having a Policy Center Meeting on
September 23, 2014. There will be discussion of building blocks 3
and 4.
Kevin Greene, IEPA- We are more than willing to meet with
environmental justice groups. We are interested in finding out
your thoughts.
Millard Driskell- Can IEPA please provide contact information to
provide comments.
Ken Page, IEPA- Utilize U.S. EPA’s website for comment
submission.
Kevin Greene, IEPA- Beginning of next year there will be more
stakeholder involvement as we move forward.
Keith Harley- Are the 2012 estimates considered the baseline?
Jim Ross, IEPA- Yes the 33% reduction is based off of 2012
emission rates.
Jim Ross, IEPA- We have met with NRG and they have put forth
an intention to switch to natural gas, in particular in Joliet. They
haven’t done a permitting transaction for this to occur. The
intentions are out there but not locked in. More and more
companies are looking at switching. In the news they report a
wave of coal companies that are switching to natural gas. In more
remote areas there isn’t an intention to fuel switch because a
natural gas supply isn’t readily available.
Kevin Greene, IEPA- We are interested in multi-state approaches.
There are power co-ops in Illinois. Newer facilities aren’t
interested in fuel switching.
Keith Harley- Inside fence line is achievable in the near term with
fuel switching and shut down of coal plants. If there is 33%
reductions in the emission rate then how many tons of CO2 does
that equate to?
Jim Ross, IEPA- It is difficult to translate rate based to mass based
goals. We are awaiting some assistance from EPA on this issue.
Once we determine what 33% equates to in mass CO2 reduced
then we can speak more intelligently on this topic.
Kimberly Wasserman, LVEJO- The E.J. Commission would like
to work with you in regard to the Clean Power Plan. Has there
been any consideration to an environmental justice process in the

 Clean Power Plan?
We don’t want environmental justice
communities to be impacted because there was no participation.
 Kevin Green, IEPA- I have been involved in environmental justice
work for over a decade so I am aware of the issues at hand, that
include hot spots and offsets. I have addressed these concerns in
other regulatory matters. We are cognizant of these issues and we
are willing to do more. We are going to reach out to all
stakeholders and there is also a required state hearing on our plan.
 Kimberly Wasserman, LVEJO- We would like there to be a direct
link to environmental justice in the Clean Power Plan. How can
we work with you to be a part of the vetting process?
 Kevin Greene, IEPA- I propose that we follow-up and arrange a
meeting. Give us more precise comments on the plan and we can
flag them for U.S. EPA. We will be summarizing stakeholder
group comments and they will be a part of our submittal to U.S.
EPA. When we put out stakeholder plan together you will be at
the table.
 Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place- The medical community must be
involved. Human and natural habitats are impacted by climate
change. There are respiratory issues and health concerns. We are
treating health issues in the communities that are linked to this
pollution.
b. Discussion of letters to state agencies for the EJ Commission – Kim
Wasserman (electronic copies)
 Kim Wasserman- Environmental justice stakeholders have
responded to the completed state agency environmental justice
questionnaires.
The Agency Involvement and Oversight
Subcommittee must meet to determine the next plan of action. As
a group we want to decide where there is room for growth. It is
prudent that in this process there is an inclusion of IEPA’s policies.
Commission members are welcome to attend all subcommittee
meetings but it is important for non-state agency Commissioners to
participate in the next Agency Involvement and Oversight
Subcommittee Meeting and be a part of this process.
c. Brownfield’s Opportunities – Keith Harley (electronic copy)
 Keith Harley- The documents that you have received have not
gone through the Brownfields Subcommittee for approval so these
are not recommendations from the Commission. These documents
are resources for the Brownfields Subcommittee.
 Keith Harley- These materials look at new opportunities to address
community-based concerns in regard to Brownfields
Redevelopment. I would like the Commissioners to read through
the materials and be prepared to discuss them together.
 Keith Harley- Illinois is not alone in what are called third
generation brownfields sites. You have your Brownfields sites that
are taken care of under RCRA and Superfund remediation. There

 









VI.

is a second generation of sites that fall under voluntary clean-up
state based plans, but there are still many sites that are being left
behind. What are approaches being developed that deal with third
generation brownfields sites? These approaches aren’t to the
exclusion of federal and state programs. We are addressing sites
that aren’t being captured by these programs.
Keith Harley- We want these sites to have a community vision and
be developed in a way that these spaces can become community
assets. The documents that I presented to the group include: A
summary of recommendations, review of financing opportunities,
policies that work and information about municipalities acquiring
sites and avoiding liability.
It is important to empower
municipalities to take over orphan sites but avoid liability in the
process. I am interested in getting feedback from Illinois EPA’s
SRP Program.
Dr. Sylvia Hood-Washington- Do we have a target date for
discussion of these documents so we can provide feedback?
Kim Wasserman- Ken please let us know the availability of IEPA
personnel in the SRP Program and we can plan a Brownfields
Subcommittee meeting when they are available.
Keith Harley- I am very mindful of Heather Nifong’s conversation
about obstacles to turn community spaces into assets without
private ownership. But if other states have figured out practical
approaches then applicability has already been established.
Dr. Sylvia Hood-Washington- I have expressed my concerns to
U.S. EPA about disposal of radioactive material in the western
suburbs. There are high levels of radon in these communities.
What happens after remediation? How are we addressing this in
this document?
Dr. Sylvia Hood-Washington- I will draft a document about the
issue of non-disclosure agreements in relation to these properties.

Old Business
a. Off-site meeting potentials – Anyone want to host an EJ Commission
meeting?
 Dr. Sylvia Hood -Washington- I would like to re-invite the EJ
Commission to Aurora. The Green Buddha Sustainability Center
is LEED Gold certified and meets all the requirements for an offsite meeting.
 Ken Page, IEPA- Commitment to have our April 2015 meeting in
Aurora.
 Kim Wasserman- South East Environmental Task Force said that
they would host us at a Union Hall called the Zone. This meeting
space meets all of the requirements for an off-site meeting. We
will schedule our meeting in the Southeast side for summer 2015.

 

Kim Wasserman- We want our quarterly Commission meetings to
have full attendance, in order to achieve that we will have off-site
meetings in the warmer months of 2015.

b. Agency Involvement/Oversight Sub-Committee
Chairman – vacant
 No volunteers.
VII.

New Business
a. Annual report to Governor and Legislators (DRAFT electronic copy)
 Ken Page, IEPA- Commissioners must provide feedback for the
Governor’s report by close of business September 19, 2014.
b. Presentation by PODER
 Carole, PODER- I am a volunteer with PODER. We meet in
Wheaton, IL. Some issues we work on is solidarity in the
immigrant community in Dupage. We meet regularly to move
forward on addressing environmental justice issues in the western
suburbs.
 Sylvia Hood-Washington- There are environmental justice
travesties occurring in West Chicago, Winfield, and Wheaton.
Thorium waste was distributed across the western suburbs.
Thorium waste was used to build homes and to farm. Now we are
seeing high levels of bone, lung and brain cancer. These high
levels are extending outside of the five Superfund sites in KerrMcGee.
 Sylvia Hood-Washington- I spoke with Alan Walts from Region 5
about the issue of people moving into these areas and not being
notified about the remediation that occurred. People are buying
homes and not being told they are on former Superfund sites. Alan
agreed that there needs to be an education provided to people that
live in these areas.
 Sylvia Hood-Washington- Immigrants and poor people are moving
in to these areas. They are not receiving notification of the risks
because non-disclosure agreements are being signed between
property owners and local authorities. Since the sites have been
remediated it is assumed there is no immediate risk but when
cancer occurrences begin to pop up there needs to be a
reevaluation of the issue.
 Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place- What is our methodology? How do
we assist these communities? Write a letter? What actions do we
take to support the communities that come to the Commission?
 Sylvia Hood-Washington- When a group like PODER approaches
us can the Commission attend their events? We see the larger
picture and don’t want these organizations to re-invent the wheel
when we have the experience to offer. A support system and

 








infrastructure is required for these kinds of claims to be addressed.
We need stand behind them as advocates.
Kimberly Wasserman, LVEJO- We will send out information
about these events and we will attend events to support these
communities.
Sylvia Hood-Washington- We need to address air, water and
radioactive waste concerns.
Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place- Various Commissioners can assign
themselves to certain parts of Illinois. We are all very busy and
equally passionate. I will share this information about Wheaton
with Faith in Place.
Sylvia Hood-Washington- This is a baby group. We have
environmental justice people on this Commission that have wages
wars and won. We must give them tips and show our support.
Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place- We can share our skills. One
example is how do I talk to elected officials. There are
opportunities to share talents with others.
Kimberly Wasserman, LVEJO- Let’s figure this out on a case-bycase basis for now. We will look into what other Commissions do
when tasked by community groups.
Sylvia Hood-Washington- This is not an abstract issue. People are
frightened by cancer. There is a green veil covering the western
suburbs. People think they are moving to a green suburb and don’t
know that they are sitting on buried radioactive waste. We should
provide a link to booklets on how you get started in your
environmental justice community.

VIII. Open Discussion/Questions
 Kim Wasserman- Tamika Gibson and Jerry Mead-Lucero are no
longer with the Commission. Folks are invited to apply online.
We encourage stakeholders across the state to apply. Peoria and
East Louis need representation.
IX.

Next meeting date and location
 4th Quarter of 2014 - Teleconference Thompson Center and
Springfield.

X.

Adjournment
 12:05 p.m.

 