COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
BROWNFIELDS REDEVELOPMENT
SUB-COMMITTEE MINUTES
Wednesday, January 21, 2015 (10 a.m.)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636
I. Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman, Chairperson, EJ Commission
II. Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Kim Wasserman, LVEJO
 Joe Mitchell, IDPH
 Rep. Mike Fortner
 Keith Harley
 Diane Lopez-Hughes
 Amy Funk
 Sharonda Williams
III. Housekeeping
 Ken Page, IEPA- Things have changed since the new
Governor was appointed. Lisa Bonnett is still the
Director at IEPA. Joe Mitchell is still representing
IDPH. Commission representatives from Aging, IDNR
and DCEO have received their pink slips and will not be
returning. I have not heard from Bola Delano at IDOT.

 











New positions will be filled and new directors will have
to take a look at the Commission.
Joe Mitchell, IDPH- IDPH has a new director. We
haven’t gotten information about who it is yet.
Veronica Holloway is the new director of Minority
Services so she may be interested in participating.
Ken Page, IEPA- Mary McDonald and IEPA’s Associate
Director are no longer with the Agency.
Ken Page, IEPA- New Director’s are automatically put
on Commission by statute.
Kimberly Wasserman, LVEJO- When will we find out
who we need to speak with at the agencies?
Ken Page, IEPA- I had a meeting in regard to who we
need to speak with at the Governor’s office. Probably
at the end of the month agencies will start coming
together. Perhaps State Rep. Fortner can clarify for us.
Rep. Mike Fortner- We are still digesting the changes
on the legislative side and committees are still being
structured.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO- I would like the Commission
to send thank you letters to the Commissioners who
are no longer with us.
Ken Page, IEPA- Diane Lopez-Hughes, Amy Funk and
Keith Harley have had their appointments approved.
Kimberly Wasserman, LVEJO- Brownfields
Subcommittee was created as a space for the EJ
Commission to get work done. How do we work with
environmental justice communities around
Brownfields that aren’t high priority. How can we
improve on sites that can make a difference in the
community. Sharonda can you speak a bit on the
Brownfields work you have been doing.

  Sharonda Williams- Keith, myself and Kim have taken a













role in doing the brownfields work. We fielded the
idea of legislation to elected officials during a tour. We
told them that we want to take abandoned brownfields
and get them redeveloped into community assets.
Everyone seemed enthused and interested in a bill to
address this issue. We are also looking at the
connection between land banks and land trusts in this
legislation.
Ken Page, IEPA- Is legislation from Commission or IEC?
Sharonda Williams- The legislation is coming out of
IEC.
Diane Lopez-Hughes- Are you looking at Brightfields in
this legislation?
Sharonda Williams- There is legislation being
introduced to meet the requirements of the federal
Clean Power Plan and they are addressing that in their
bill.
Kimberly Wasserman, LVEJO- We can put you in touch
with ELPC since they are taking a lead on the
Brownfields Solar language. We want to ensure that
the communities are behind these projects.
Diane Lopez-Hughes- People in the communities would
be a part of the monitoring.
Ken Page, IEPA- What agencies will be impacted by this
legislation. This should be shared with the agencies.
Sharonda Williams-We have been on a very tight
deadline to get the bill submitted but we will speak
with relevant committees moving forward.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO- I would like to speak about
the tour a bit. IEC invited folks to see some brownfield
sites in Little Village. We got such resounding support
and we knew that we had to get legislation in that we

 













could continue to work on. I am excited for the
subcommittee to make this as robust as possible. Are
there any questions?
Keith Harley- This is a wonderful consequence of the
Commission. A year and a half ago we were speaking
about this and now we have legislation. I pledge the
support of my law students as the bill progresses.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO- How about we have another
subcommittee call in 2-3 weeks?
Keith Harley- Agency subcommittee won’t have much
traction. Clean Power Plan could benefit from focused
Commission participation.
Ken Page, IEPA- It will be difficult to do any agency
work because we only have two agency participants. I
will have IEPA call and see where we are at.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO- We didn’t schedule an interagency call because of all of the changes taking place.
Ken Page, IEPA- Subcommittee doesn’t affect Clean
Power Plan.
Sharonda Williams- Are we taking a stance on the
Clean Power Plan?
Kimberly Wasserman, LVEJO-What are the
opportunities for the Commission in the Clean Power
Plan? What are the possibilities to interact in the
development of the state plan? There are crucial
opportunities and we want to clarify our role.
Ken Page, IEPA- Send me what you are speaking about?
I will speak to Kevin at IEPA and he will provide
comments. I don’t see an opportunity but there might
be one.
Sharonda Williams- What are we doing about the
letters?

  Ken Page, IEPA- It might take awhile to get them. We

want to push the State so it doesn’t lose sight of
environmental justice.
 Sharonda Williams- Do we re-send the letters?
 Ken Page, IEPA-We will reach out to the Governor’s
office to remind them of the Commission and have
them send letters to new directors about Commission.
 Ken Page, IEPA- Meeting notice will go out for March
meeting. Sharonda please re-send fact sheets saying it
was from IEC.

 