COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Brownfields
Sub-Committee Minutes
Tuesday, February 26, 2014 (12 pm)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman, EJ Commission

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Kim Wasserman. LVEJO
 Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO
 Tamika Gibson, Illinois Environmental Council
 Christian Strachan, People for Community Recovery
 Dr. Sylvia Hood-Washington, Director of Sustainability
Center in Aurora
 Jeffrey Jones, IDNR
 Millard Driskell, Prince Hall Masons
 Alec Messina, IERG
 Steve Colantino, IEPA
 Heather Nifong, IEPA
 Joyce Munie, IEPA
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA
 Sharonda Williams, IEPA

III.

Approval of Agenda
Motion – Alec Messina
Second – Dr. Sylvia Hood-Washington
Motion carried

IV.

Approval of Minutes
A. January 8, 2014
Motion- Ken Page
Second- Jeffrey Jones
Motion Carried

 V.

Old Business
A. Election of sub-committee chairs Cheryl Johnson and Sylvia HoodWashington
Motion- Wasserman
Second- Alec Messina
Motion Carried


VI.

Wasserman- Will e-mail group to speak about responsibilities of co-chairs
and how often we will meet. Next meeting the co-chairs will be introduced
and we will speak about their role. This will be a part of the agenda for the
next meeting.

Discussions/Presentations:
A. Illinois EPA’s Brownfields and Site Remediation Programs




Colantino- Illinois EPA’s Brownfields Program has tools to assist
communities. The agencies role is limited to oversight of assessment and
clean-up. The Brownfields program offers limited funding for that
purpose. The Office of Brownfield Assistance assists remedial applicants
with investigating clean-up of sites. Remedial applicants would be public,
private etc. Brownfields Assistance tools are available for municipalities
and not-for-profits. Some of these tools are financial incentives and
technical assistance. The Municipal Redevelopment Program works with
municipalities that want to clean-up a site. The Illinois Revolving Loan
Fund is a loan program with flexible terms that capture the redevelopment
potential of the target site. We have very clear community relations criteria
for applicants and these criteria must be maintained. The Revolving Loan
Fund is 100% federally capitalized. Illinois EPA’s Bureau of Land is the
state administrator of the loan and we follow federal criteria. US EPA
had very clear and distinct community relations/public participation
criteria. The Revolving Loan Fund doesn’t just provide funding we make
available technical assistance to help the applicant navigate through the
complex process. This program currently sees very little appropriation
support. The Revolving Loan Fund lost supplemental funding from US
EPA but the doors are still open. We have a successful working
relationship with US EPA and have tapped into resources outside of
existing grant and loan programs.
There are many clear public
participation and community outreach criteria in both programs. These
criteria have to be met through process and procedures to be eligible for
funding and to continue to receive that funding.
Hood-Washington- Do you have to be a 501(c)(3) to apply to the
Revolving Loan Fund?

 


















Colantino- We haven’t gotten a clear answer from US EPA in regard to that
question. As fund administrators we have to be consistent with our
intended purpose. Would the Federal government allow a deviation under
the Municipal Redevelopment Program for private companies? Yes. But is
that something that IL EPA would do? No.
Hood-Washington- Has a 501(c)(3) from Aurora applied for a loan?
Colantino- No. But a developer called asking the same question. I have
been asked to speak with the City of Aurora. I am just awaiting a formal
request.
Hood-Washington- I will send you a formal request from Aurora
Downtown a 501(c)(3) organization.
Wasserman- Can you speak to gaps or express issues brought to you by
community members?
Mead-Lucero- The goal of this committee is to figure out what we can do
to add or change the processes in the Brownfield and Site Remediation
programs.
Colantino- I think that the community relations program is more than
adequate. It more than meets the needs of the loans we have made to date.
The community relations program requires the establishment and
maintenance of a repository from Phase I to clean-up and design. There is
a 30 day public comment period and the community has the opportunity to
comment on everything. One hearing is also required. We are prohibited
from offering federal funds unless all questions are answered during the
hearing.
Nifong- For the Revolving Loan Fund the borrower will have already used
public funds to take care of the investigation. The borrower is subject to
scrutiny on the local level before entry into the IL EPA program. They
have to complete their Phase I, Phase II and CERCLA due diligence before
they can be accepted into the program.
Wasserman- Can you speak about community based initiation? Are there
mechanisms to assist and walk people through that process?
Nifong- Communities can get technical assistance and sometimes
partnerships pop up with municipalities.
Page- How did Celotex work?
Wasserman- It was a Superfund site that became a remediated Brownfield.
We worked with the city.
Wasserman- If a group of neighbors came together and wanted a certain
end use for a brownfield how would they do that?
Nifong- They would need to start with property ownership and assume
liability.
Wasserman- If a property isn’t being used and the company says I don’t
want it you can use it, can the community have a temporary use and then
the company can decide on future use.

 


















Munie- It is not uncommon for companies to put barriers down for a
temporary use. For e.g. putting barriers down so that property can be used
as a basketball court and then divest it to the city for a park at a later time.
Hood-Washington- Is there funding for property acquisition?
Colantino- Property acquisition is outside of eligibility.
Wasserman- How can a community group engage with brownfields folks in
thinking through these processes? For example finding better materials to
use in remediation process.
Nifong- The property owner is paying for the clean-up so ultimately the
materials they use are their decision. All IL EPA can do is make sure they
are sufficient.
Mead- Lucero- IL EPA is not experiencing an overload of people interested
in developing brownfield sites. You said financially you can’t meet
demand that you have and that there are lots of people waiting in cue. Is
this primarily a limitation of funds issue?
Colantino- In the early 2000’s brownfields issues were coming to a head.
Money was well spent to clean up sites so that the private sector would not
be afraid to come on board. The current day economics have caught up to
us. We are currently more selective in end-use because of the limited
funding. The program is currently market driven.
Munie- Majority of sites is private applicants. They see value in the land
and want to use it or own it and clean it up so it can be placed back on the
market. We offer our Community Relations staff at IL EPA to private
developers. Private entities can pay our Community Relations staff to
work with the community. This is not done as often anymore. The
Community Right To Know Law also provides community outreach in
regard to this law. We give private entities the choice to do community
relations themselves or avail themselves of the agency’s services. When a
property is being converted to a school there is clear outreach (repository,
notices, etc.).
Hood-Washington- How do I know that a site has been remediated to
overnight living standards?
Munie- If you search our website for Aurora or a specific address you will
see whether a site was in our Site Remediation Program.
Messina- If a site has ever enrolled in the Site Remediation Program
information would be on the website regarding whether remediation was
completed, whether a final determination was received and what level of
clean-up was achieved.
Colantino- Aurora is classified as a Brownfield Redevelopment zone
because of the River Edge pilot. There is a mandate that they are enrolled
in the Site Remediation Program.
Messina- Best case scenario there is a NSF letter.
Mead-Lucero- Where are the gaps? What can we do state-wide to move
Brownfields development in the right direction?

 





VII.

Wasserman- We will need to regroup and continue this discussion. We
will follow- up IL EPA with questions and clarity on certain issues. Do we
want to meet prior to full meeting or before?
Mead-Lucero- Let’s discuss and have recommendation that we can present
to the full Commission.
Wasserman- Let’s flesh through this discussion and get clarity if necessary
before we present to the full Commission.
Mead-Lucero- Let’s determine what the Commission can offer to address
getting Brownfields remediated.
Wasserman- I will speak to Cheryl Johnson and Dr. Sylvia HoodWashington about the agenda for the next call. Anything in writing from
IL EPA would be appreciated.

Next meeting date and location
Wednesday, March 12th at 10 a.m.

VIII. Adjournment
1:30 p.m.

 