COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Brownfields Redevelopment
Sub-Committee Minutes
Wednesday, January 8, 2014 (12 pm)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636
I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman, EJ Commission

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Kim Wasserman, LVEJO
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Mary McDonald, IEPA
 Millard Driskell, Prince Grand Lodge of IL
 Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place
 Alec Messina, IERG
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA

III.

Approval of Agenda
Motion to approve agenda with the addition of the approval of Dec 13, 2014 minutes –
Millard Driskell
Second – Alec Messina
Motion carried

IV.

Subcommittee Structure
A. Election of a subcommittee Chairman
 Wasserman- Stated that Cheryl Johnson volunteered to be subcommittee
Chairwoman in the last meeting. She suggested that the subcommittee table
the selection of a chairperson until Cheryl Johnson joins the call or until the
next conference call.

V.

Old Business
 Wasserman- Stated that she is supportive of the recommendations that came
from Keith Harley. She also stated that she would like to start a conversation
with IL EPA around Brownfields Redevelopment.
 Driskell- Asked if we had a summary of what communities want from us and
how do we start engagement with communities.
 Wasserman- Stated that we asked People for Community Recovery (PCR) for
that information but we don’t have anyone on the call from PCR.
 Driskell- Asked whether this was directed solely at PCR’s project or state of
Illinois as a whole.

 




















Wasserman- Stated that the request was specific to PCR and to IL EPA in
regard to public participation in their Brownfields Program.
Page- Stated that the agency had a discussion on Keith Harley’s comments
Kyle- Stated that over the holidays she glanced at the links that Ken Page sent
out about IL EPA’s Brownfields Program. She also stated that they contained
valuable information that will help keep the group informed.
Wasserman- Stated that she would like schedule a call with someone from IL
EPA to discuss what community involvement looks like in the Brownfields
Redevelopment program. She also stated that a presentation by IL EPA would
help the group shape their recommendations.
Wasserman- Asked the group if it would be helpful to engage IL EPA once the
subcommittee has had a chance to read the documents that Ken Page send out.
Messina- Stated that it would be helpful to hear from the agency to see what is
in place. He also stated that before we start adding we should get a good
understanding of what is already in place because they are doing a lot already.
Driskell- Stated this can give us a better understanding as to what they have
done and the results. He also stated that specifically he would like to know
their results and how they arrived at them.
Kyle- Stated that we want to enhance what already exists around community
education and engagement.
Messina- Stated that he would like to have dialogue with the agency about
what is in place and what they think is working well. He also stated that we
need to determine the best way to alert communities about resources that they
don’t know about.
Driskell- Asked if the agency can explain the Revolving Loan Fund and give
us a handle on it. He also stated that if the agency is on the next call we can
zero in on specific topics.
Wasserman- Stated that she would like to schedule a call with the Brownfields
division of IL EPA. She also stated that she would like to know what the
current standards are that IL EPA follows in regard to community engagement
and education.
Wasserman- Stated that when we have this information we can engage in
conversation to discuss needs that must be filled. She also stated that once the
group reads over the documents that Ken Page sent out we can pinpoint what
we want to discuss with IL EPA.
Messina- Stated that making all these tools readily available is very important.
He also stated that when you drill down to specifics it can help the
Commission make recommendations to the agency rather than speaking in
generalities.
Messina- Stated that we don’t want a Brownfields 101 course. He also stated
that we want the substance of public participation so we can determine where
there are spaces that we can help.
Page- Asked whether this presentation should take place at a Commission
meeting or a Brownfields Subcommittee meeting.

 













Wasserman- Stated that we will have the presentation on a subcommittee call
but will open it up to the entire Commission.
Kyle- Stated that the Brownfields subcommittee needs to get a handle on it
before presenting it to the Commission. She also stated that the subcommittee
has a greater responsibility to understand what is going on with brownfields.
Kyle- Asked how do we know that we are making an impact in communities.
She also asked how do we find out what someone did with the knowledge.
Wasserman- Stated that she is excited to connect with PCR and use this as an
on the ground experiment to see whether we are doing things correctly. She
also stated that we will work with other organizations to see if our work is
working for people on the ground.
Page- Stated that he will speak to his colleagues within the agency and get the
presentation together.
Page- Stated that this discussion has to also deal with developers and local
government and how communities can be involved in discussion with these
entities. He also stated that we have to make resources available for
communities so that they can participate in the process of converting
brownfields to open spaces for the community.
Wasserman- Stated that it would be beneficial to speak with IL EPA and get
the lay of the land first and then decide whether to expand the conversation to
other players.
Page- Stated that he will speak with the Brownfields and Site Remediation
programs to pull together a presentation for the subcommittee.
Driskell- Stated that it would be helpful to hear the success stories and find out
what programs worked.
Page- Stated that we will share what we discussed during this meeting with the
Brownfields and Site Remediation program and come back to the group with
dates.
Wasserman- Stated that honesty about what doesn’t work and finding spaces
where they think they need help would be beneficial.

Action Items



IL EPA will share conversation from this meeting with the Brownfields
program, Site Remediation program, and Acting Bureau of Land Chief in order
to put together a presentation for the next call.
Brownfields subcommittee members will make a commitment to review
program documents and come to the next call with questions for IL EPA.

VI.

Discussions/Presentations:
None

VII.

Next meeting date and location

 We will wait to hear from Ken Page before setting a date for the next call.
VIII. Adjournment
12:45 p.m.

 