Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, June 21, 2019 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room
5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim (Substitute Member); David
Ernesto Munar and Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (3)
Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Mike Koetting

Present
Telephonically: Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Steven Scheer (Non-Director Member)
Absent:

Director Hon. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
James Kiamos – Chief Executive Officer, CountyCare
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Samuel Williams – Executive Director, Facilities

Public Speakers
Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, May 24, 2019
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Munar, moved to accept the Minutes
of the Finance Committee Meeting of May 24, 2019. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B.

Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)

Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, and James Kiamos, Chief Executive
Officer, CountyCare, provided additional information. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
During the discussion of request numbers 9 and 11, Board Chair Hammock expressed concerns that the Board has
not yet received a financial overview relating to Medicare expansion prior to these requests being presented for
approval; as Medicare reimbursements are different than Medicaid reimbursements, the Board should see the
financial analysis. Dr. Shannon noted that there is a time sensitivity associated with these contracts; he added that
the Strategic Plan that was approved in 2016 concluded that Cook County Health needed to develop a strategy for
its aging population.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, June 21, 2019
Page 2

III. Action Items
B.

Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)

The Committee discussed whether Medicare expansion should be discussed in the Managed Care Committee,
Finance Committee, or with the full Board. Dr. Shannon suggested that another option is to include it on the
agenda of a Special Board Meeting for strategic planning discussions that is planned for July. He stated that he
will be meeting with Board Chair Hammock later today; they can further discuss and determine the best plan for
discussion of the subject.
It was determined that request numbers 9 and 11 would not be withdrawn or deferred at this time; Chair Reiter
stated that the Board can revisit them later, if needed.
Chair Reiter indicated that the reason or justification for sole source methodology should be included in the
transmittals presented for the Committee’s consideration.
Director Munar, seconded by Director Richardson-Lowry, moved the approval of
request numbers 1 through 20, subject to completion of review by Contract
Compliance, where appropriate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Section III
IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. Report on Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise (M/WBE) Participation (Attachment #2)
B. 2nd Quarter FY2019 Report of Purchases made under the authority of the Chief Executive Officer
(Attachment #3)
Mr. Jones provided an overview of the two (2) reports presented for the Committee’s information. The Committee
reviewed and discussed the information.
C. Report of emergency purchases
There were none reported.

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #4)
•
•

Metrics
Financials: April 2019

Mr. Akpan provided an overview of the metrics and Financials through April 2019. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, June 21, 2019
Page 3

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (continued)
During the review of slide 4 of the report, the Committee discussed the different categories of operating revenue
and expenses relating to Access Payments and Access Expense. Chair Reiter requested that, for the category of
CountyCare Access Payments, a budget number be assigned to that with an asterisk and footnote indicating that
it is not a hard budget number but a reflection, because that would give a more accurate picture of how the
System is performing.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Reiter declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Chair
Attest:
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Follow-up / Requests:
Request:

Request to include the justification or reason for sole source methodology on the transmittals.
Page 2

Request:

Request to include budget number with asterisk and footnote for the category of CountyCare
Access Payments on the Income Statement. Page 3

 