COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE MEETING AGENDA
Tuesday, March 24, 2015 (10 am – 12 noon)

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman

II.

Introductions
A. Springfield Videoconference:
Ken Page, IEPA
Chris Pressnall, IEPA
Kevin Greene, IEPA
Jim Ross, IEPA
B. Chicago Videoconference:
Kimberly Wasserman, LVEJO
Sharonda Williams, IEC
Alan Walts, U.S. EPA Region 5
Keith Harley, Chicago Legal Clinic
Marcella Bond-Keenan, Elevate Energy
Emily Clamp, IEPA
Anthony Tindall, Forest Preserve District of Cook County
C. Teleconference
Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place
Amy Funk, University of Illinois Metro East
Cheryl Johnson, PCR

III.

Approval of Agenda (electronic copy)
Ken Page: Add Brownfields Subcommittee and Agency Oversight to
agenda.
Motion: Keith Harley
Second: Ken Page
Agenda Approved

 IV.

Approval of the Minutes (electronic copy)
1.

Minutes from the December 10, 2014 Commission meeting
Motion: Ken Page
Second: Kim Wasserman
Minutes Approved

2.

Minutes from the January 21, 2015 Brownfields Redevelopment
sub- committee meeting
Keith Harley: Please reflect that I attended the meeting
Motion: Ken Page
Second: Kim Wasserman
Minutes Approved

V.

Presentations/Discussions:
1.

EJ SCREEN by USEPA
Alan Walts, U.S. EPA Region 5: Senior Leadership in D.C. are
working towards public release of of EJ Screen. EPA has been
using this tool for two years. We wanted to get comfortable with it
first before making it widely available. There were concerns about
data, specifically PM 2.5 and ozone. We have made this data more
current with the update of National Air Toxics data. This data may
not be available when we release EJ Screen. More useful data and
additional changes will be made based on user feedback. There
will be a six-month engagement period before the public release.
There will be focused outreach especially with the states because
they will be co-regulators. State agencies will have early access to
EJ Screen. Illinois can get early access to this tool.
Alan Walts, U.S. EPA Region 5: EJ Screen is an E.J. screening
and mapping tool with nationally consistent data and methodology
that highlights areas with environmental indicators. EJ Screen
takes twelve indicators and combines them with race and income
demographic information. This helps U.S. EPA target the areas that

 need the most assistance. This information can be used by
regulators to prioritize our work. It has been used in U.S. EPA’s
enforcement program. EJ Screen helps to characterize if we are
getting environmental benefits in environmental justice areas. We
want to use this tool across all programs. U.S. EPA is coordinating
resources to make sure the agency has a common understanding.
We are going to have all stakeholders come together to solve these
problems.
Keith Harley, Chicago Legal Clinic: Can EJ Screen be used in
concert with Echo and Enviro Facts?
Alan Walts, U.S. EPA Region 5: You can go to ECHO to see the
Facility and then use EJ Screen to index that block to see
disproportionate impacts. EnviroFacts will stay the same. We will
be phasing out EJ View. EJ Screen is the point of entry so that you
can flag an area for further analysis.
Keith Harley, Chicago Legal Clinic: A lot of times what generates
interest is compliance. Finding out information about the
compliance of facilities in an area. There is no direct link to ECHO
or EJ Screen to get this information.
Alan Walts, U.S. EPA Region 5: Not right now. But if folks want
this it is feasible.
Keith Harley, Chicago Legal Clinic: When will there be outreach to
the public at large?
Alan Walts, U.S. EPA Region 5: Public engagement will happen six
months prior to the release.
Keith Harley, Chicago Legal Clinic- How will public know that they
can be involved in the architecture of the program,?
Alan Walts, U.S. EPA Region 5: The initial month will outreach to
the States. Then we will start to have targeted conversations, for
example Cook County Land Bank. We want to keep it internal so

 we can work out the bugs. We want to ensure we speak to
probably end users.
Marcella Bond-Keenan, Elevate Energy: Will this tool show model
impacts of increased traffic?
Alan Walts, U.S. EPA Region 5: This tool won’t have modeling. If
you look at E.J. Screen and traffic indicators raises a flag you may
want to do monitoring. This tool is the entry point for a deeper
analysis.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO: If folks want to learn more about this
they can contact Alan Walts. It is very exciting to have a tool that
will empower communities to know what is happening where they
live. This tool will also empower policy makers to show a picture of
what is happening on the ground.

2.

Clean Power Plan Update and Clean Power Plan legislation
discussion
Jim Ross, IEPA: The Clean Power Plan rule remains proposed.
There should be a final rule summer 2015. Discussions of
compliance continue but it is difficult with a proposed rule. The final
rule will have significant differences. Once we get that final rule it
will better inform what the state rule will look like. Our state plan is
due summer 2016. If legislation is required we would have till
summer 2017. If we choose to do a multi-state plan then the
deadline is summer 2018. IEPA will look at any method that U.S.
EPA will allow for compliance. We are looking at state only and
regional cap and trade mechanisms. We are also looking at
enforcing energy efficiency and renewable energy requirements.
Market based approaches like carbon tax are also an option. We
are actually working on a state driven portfolio approach. State
only cap and trade combined with renewable energy and energy
efficiency. The key concept is we can come up with a state plan

 but we need to know the core objectives and impacts of the plan.
We have to do economic and environmental modeling. This will
cost around $100,000. We don’t want to go about this modeling
haphazardly unless we have more information about the final goals
for the rule. We are currently doing preparation and background
work so we can move quickly on contenders for the final state plan.
We will compare modeling outputs and select what is best for
Illinois.
Kevin Greene, IEPA: We know we need a process to bring all the
groups to the table. We have pitched that process internally. We
are following the Clean Power Plan related legislation in Springfield.
A 2nd amendment was proposed to the Clean Jobs bill that would
set up a stakeholder process. The 2nd amendment will create a
Green House Gas Advisory Council made up of state agencies and
a Green House Gas Advisory Group that has stakeholders from
around the state. Some of these stakeholders include unions and
environmental advocates. There has been a lot of pushback on the
cap and invest language. The concern is that it is too specific.
Kevin Greene, IEPA: Data would have to be compiled to see what
facilities would be impacted. What is the projected retirement of
coal plants? We may need to identify additional legislation to
address green house gases and changes to the renewable energy
and energy efficiency standards. Would we need legislation for
emission trading? When we create a plan to comply with the Clean
Power Plan we have to look at impacts to coal mining, jobs,
nuclear, disadvantaged and rural communities. We would need to
get the Director our plan 10 months prior to submitting it to U.S.
EPA.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO: How are you engaging with these
stakeholders? How are you analyzing the various bills out there
(Clean Jobs bill, Comed and Exelon etc.)?

 Kevin Greene, IEPA: We have been looking at these bills and
trying to determine how it affects our ability to create a state plan.
With the Clean Jobs bill our biggest issue is the cap and invest
language. This language is taking us to a very specific pathway
when we don’t have a final rule from U.S. EPA. We don’t want to
be locked in to a specific mechanism and we are not willing to
commit to one right now.
Jim Ross, IEPA: There are several bills related to renewable
energy and energy efficiency as well as market-based approaches
to comply with the Clean Power Plan. To the extent that any of
these bills say this is the best way to go is premature. We need to
select the best plan for Illinois as a whole, which may require a
designer approach.
Kevin Greene, IEPA: Has IEPA emerged as the lead agency in
developing this plan?
Jim Ross, IEPA: It falls on IEPA. The Clean Power Plan states
that IEPA has to approve any plan to comply with the rule. By
design of the rule we are designated as the lead agency.
Kevin Greene, IEPA: We are going to have to work with our sister
agencies on this. DCEO is going through a lot of changes right
now. We will have to wait till those changes are complete before
we can partner with them. IPA will also be an active player.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO: I spoke with Molly from DCEO and they
will be presenting at the next Commission meeting to speak about
their work.
Keith Harley, Chicago Legal Clinic: The northeastern part of the
state is in PGM and the other part is RTO. How do you function in
a mid-continent cap and trade approach?
Jim Ross, IEPA: There is no influence on cap and trade. It plays a
role in the compliance options. Adopting a regional approach would
save the member states billions.

 Kevin Greene, IEPA: Larger power producers are comfortable with
state and regional plans. Smaller power producers are nervous
about carbon tax by RTO and cap and trade. They are more
comfortable with a state approach. They are nervous about a
regional approach.
Keith Harley, Chicago Legal Clinic: How do you factor in
rulemaking to be able to implement legislation?
Jim Ross, IEPA: IEPA would be responsible for developing rules to
reduce green house gas. Theoretically energy efficiency and
renewable energy measures would come through legislation. State
agencies are responsible for enforcement. IPA and ICC implement
and share in this enforcement. There may have to be rulemaking
to make sure that the legislation is enforced. Are their enforceable
requirements on emission caps? On energy efficiency and
renewable energy levels that need to be met? This needs to be put
into the plan that goes to U.S. EPA.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO: How does the Commission play a role in
the development and enforcement? How do we ensure that the EJ
Commission is a part of these conversations?
Kevin Greene, IEPA: This is a good start. We will continue to have
conversations with the Commission as we move forward. You may
want to take a look at the amendment to the Clean Jobs bill.

c. Brownfields Legislation (Land Bank Bill/HB1517)

Sharonda Williams, IEC: House Bill 1517 is currently in the
Revenue and Finance Subcommittee. We would have preferred for
the bill to go to Environment or Economic Development and
Housing. Jehan Gordon-Booth the bill sponsor made a request for
the bill to go to Economic Development and Housing. We will see if
the bill moves out of Committee and go from there. Funding has

 been the most difficult issue for this bill. We have a public problem
but no public money to address it. I had a conversation with
Cuyahoga Land Bank in Ohio and they utilize the fees and taxes
from delinquent property payments.
Amy Funk, University of Illinois Metro East: Where do these fees
go in Illinois?
Sharonda Williams, IEC: I am not sure
Anthony Tindall, Forest Preserve District of Cook County: Are
there other revenue streams?
Sharonda Williams, IEC: Not that I am currently aware of.
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO: The Brownfields Subcommittee will take
a look at this so we have more minds to address the funding issue.
Keith Harley, Chicago Legal Clinic: The New York State Attorney
General received a settlement and gave 33 million from that
settlement to NY land banks. It might be helpful to reach out to the
Attorney General’s office so we are on their radar if funds become
available.
Ken Page, IEPA: We could ask the elected officials on the
Commission to reach out to the Attorney General’s office.

d. Introductory letter to Governor Rauner from EJ Commission

Kim Wasserman, LVEJO: Former Commissioner Alec Messina is
Governor Rauner’s Energy and Environmental Policy person. I
wrote a letter to the Governor on behalf of the Commission
introducing us to the new administration. Are they any thoughts?
Edits? We don’t have a quorum to vote on this letter.
VI.

Old Business
1.

Status of state agencies
Ken Page, IEPA: Director Bonnett has reached out to the state
agencies about appointing new designees.

 2.

Commission members terms (expiration/appointments)
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO: Do we know who is up for term limits?
Ken Page, IEPA: I don’t know whom to contact to get this
information. My contact at the Governor’s office is no longer there.

3.

Brownfields Sub-committee
We need to set up the next Brownfields Sub-committee call

4.

Agency Oversight and Involvement Sub-committee
We have IDOT’s response to the EJ Commission’s letter. We must
do our due diligence and schedule a call to review so we can
respond.

VII.

Open Discussion/Questions
Cheryl Johnson, PCR: Has anyone heard of this MWRD bill?
Sharonda Williams, IEC: I will send you the bill and we can go from there.
Kim Wasserman, IEPA: Brownfields EJ Caucus will be held the evening
of September 1st. We are still looking for a location. It has to be near the
Hilton in the South Loop. Reach out if you are interested in attending.
Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place: How many will be in attendance?
Kim Wasserman, LVEJO: 30-40 folks. If folks on the ground have
questions about brownfields and want to know about resources they
should attend.
We are helping to draft the agenda

VIII.

Next meeting date and location
Next meeting will be in either June or July. Sylvia Washington expressed
an interest in hosting. We will also look at other spaces in environmental
justice communities.

IX.

Adjournment

 