COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Brownfields Redevelopment
Sub-Committee Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, March 12, 2014 (10:04 am)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636
I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman, EJ Commission
Dr. Sylvia Hood-Washington– Sub-committee co-chair

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Kim Wasserman, LVEJO
 Dr. Sylvia Hood-Washington
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA
 Sharonda Williams, IEPA
 Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place
 Tamika Gibson, Illinois Environmental Council
 Jerry Mead-Lucero- PERRO
 Alec Messina, IERG

III.

Approval of Agenda
Motion- Kim Wasserman
Second- Dr. Washington
Motion Carried

IV.

Approval of Minutes
A. February 26, 2014
Dr. Washington- Submitted comments to Ken regarding 501(c) (3)
conversation.
Motion- Alec Messina moved to approve the minutes with 501(c) (3)
language added.
Second- Veronica Kyle
Motion Carried

 V.

Old Business
A. Brownfield’s Redevelopment
1. Is there a need for additional funding for the Municipal Brownfields
Redevelopment Grant (MBRG)?
2. Should the MBRG be expanded to include community groups and
NGO’s (it is now only for municipalities)
3. Other
 Page, IEPA- There was a lot of discussion around grants and what
are the requirements. There were no questions and so I thought I
would throw out these ideas. From the discussion lack of funding
was highlighted as well as opportunities available outside of
municipalities.
 Dr. Washington- Had a conversation with Lara Lasky from U.S.
EPA Region 5. There are Superfunds located right outside of
Winfield and there are Brownfields in Aurora. We need to educate
communities about Brownfields and how it can have an impact on
their health. How do we facilitate discussion with the community
around this issue?
 Kyle, Faith in Place- There is a serious lack of education when it
comes to Brownfields. Lack of education is a justice issue. When
people have knowledge they can advocate and explore their
options. We can get incubated as government agencies and
industry. Education needs to be at the forefront.
 Mead-Lucero, PERRO- The reason that the subcommittee was set
up is because our communities all have Brownfields. How do we
jumpstart Brownfields Redevelopment throughout the state? What
are other factors outside of funding? Kim do you have any insight
from conversations with your New York partners?
 Dr. Washington- Is education not fundamental?
 Mead-Lucero, PERRO- It is. We all are listing what we think is
important.
 Dr. Washington- Two things are happening in this conversation.
There are communities that are inside of a Brownfields site and
can’t move forward to remediate that site. We want other
communities to move forward to where LVEJO and PERRO are.
There is a lack of knowledge and these issues have direct impacts
to people’s health. This issue shouldn’t be pushed to the
backburner. We need to educate communities about what that
impact is.
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Can we look at other cities and States for
guidance? There seem to be three avenues of interest: Education
on Brownfields (How can we work with state agencies on this);
Community led initiatives, and look at other states for guidance.
This is in addition to Ken’s question provided in the agenda. Am I
missing a bigger question that we need to address?
 Page, IEPA- Please explain community led initiatives.

 
















Wasserman, LVEJO- In Little Village there are currently city led
initiatives around open space. Looking at Brownfields along with
the city are there ways that communities can engage in Brownfield
redevelopment and give that community perspective.
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- In New York there is a lot of public action
around Brownfield Redevelopment that spurs job creation. There
is an assumption that nothing will happen without private
investment. Can we work more with the public sector around
Brownfields?
Dr. Washington- Ultimately you are speaking about the
community having ownership and power. But how many
communities have cognizance of being in a Brownfield site?
There should be maps of Brownfields sites available to the
community. Winfield is less than fifteen miles from largest
Superfund area in Illinois. Yet there was no communication to
Winfield of a recent meeting.
Wasserman, LVEJO- How do we encompass this as a part of our
work? Not having a mapping tool is part of the problem.
Dr. Washington- According to Lara Lasky at U.S. EPA, Region 5
we can map this information. We need to see what is happening
here before looking at New York. For ten years I have created
environmental justice courses and I would have students go on the
USEPA website to put in their zip code and find out what was in
the area. They needed a graduate education for this exercise.
Wasserman, LVEJO- As a Commission we should address the
mapping point. How do we break down information to make it
accessible? In California they have mapping tools available for
citizens.
Dr. Washington- Usually when communities access these tools
they have knowledge of the concerns. In Illinois there are
communities that don’t know there are concerns.
Kyle, Faith in Place- One of the things that I try to do is look at
examples of community based Brownfields work in the rest of the
nation. One example is the American Planning Association. They
have information about educating the community called
Brownfields Basics. They provide an overview of community
based Brownfields Redevelopment. They also look at community
visioning and teach Brownfields Finance 101. I believe funding
was also mentioned in this conversation.
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- Funding has two levels. The base
initiative needs funding and even existing programs are short on
funds.
Wasserman, LVEJO- Do we want to let department (Is she
speaking about BOL?) know where they are and offer
recommendations? Or do we want to tackle the three initiatives we

 


















have listed? We can also send questions to IEPA and then reengage.
Page, IEPA- On the education side there is a misconception about
Brownfields. That term is used a catch-all. The agency has GIS
capabilities that will bring up Brownfields, LUST sites etc.
Education is extremely important. With the funding issue it
doesn’t always come down to the State. Sometimes community
groups and faith based groups have leverage with grants and other
sources of funding.
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- Is there a mapping tool at IEPA available
that is similar to TRI but for Brownfields?
Page, IEPA- You are using Brownfields generically. We have
mapping tools that bring up LUST sites, Superfund sites etc.
Dr. Washington- If we could gather this information for
communities it would be great. Distinguishing sites that are being
remediated for economic development vs. environmental health
concerns is also important.
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- Nothing exists right now but could this
tool be developed?
Page, IEPA- It exists. I am not sure how it would look.
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- Can I go on the web right now and look up
that information?
Page, IEPA- You can go to the LUST database and pull up sites in
any given location.
Wasserman, LVEJO- There is no specific site to look up
Brownfields because it is a big term. You can go on IL EPA’s
website and look at maps but you would have to know the
terminology and what you are looking for.
Dr. Washington- There is potential to create something that pulls
all of this information together. There are resources available to
create an educational portal to distinguish difference between
Superfunds, LUST etc.
Messina, IERG- If you go to BOL on the IEPA website there is a
link for GIS data. That tool utilizes Google Earth. You can look
for LUST and SRP sites as well as drill down based on location.
Wasserman, LVEJO- Let’s address whether folks understand what
this even means. Are there groups in this space that can share this
information with community members? Mapping could be a tool
to relay information. In Pilsen we have a portal on U.S. EPA’s
website that shows us the different sites in our community. If it
can be accomplished on that level maybe we can do it for the
whole state.
Dr. Washington- We received funding to create an oral history
project. We spoke to people in environmentally compromised
neighborhoods. We worked with congregations and discovered
that the level of understanding of environmental justice is lacking.

 

















People looked at a film and received a booklet to convey
information about environmental justice. The booklet was created
for a 6-12 year old reading level. This project occurred from 20022006. I am concerned that we haven’t moved to a point where this
information is available to everyone not just to savvy
environmental groups. Since this information is in different places
let’s create a portal to gather all of it. In this portal the information
will range from base level to sophisticated.
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- The links that were referred to earlier
aren’t written in language that is basic enough. Also if you don’t
have Google Earth installed then you can’t access the information.
How can we make this better?
Wasserman, LVEJO- A portal for the community to understand
environmental justice and what is happening in the state is
important. We need to be conscious of community perspective.
Ken what is the possibility of a community portal that is userfriendly?
Page, IEPA- We will look at what exists and how it works. I will
share that information with the Commission and we can build upon
it. IEPA will have an internal discussion about a portal and we can
share that information with the Commission so that they can
provide feedback.
Wasserman, LVEJO- Another issue is outreach. Historically there
has been a lack of outreach when it comes to public comments and
hearings. We need to know when meetings are coming up so that
we can provide comments. This is an issue I want to be addressed.
Wasserman, LVEJO- My experience with U.S. EPA in regard to
EJ 2014 might be an example of how we can engage with IEPA
about what community engagement looks like.
Page, IEPA- EJ 2014 is not a part of this discussion since U.S.
EPA is not on this call.
Wasserman, LVEJO- There needs to be more conversation
between Region 5 and the State. There is no need for anyone to do
more work. It is good to find opportunities for collaboration to see
if there are actions already happening that are compatible with
what the State is doing.
Dr. Washington- This portal idea would allow us to reach all of the
priorities that we have listed on this call. Regardless of urban,
suburban or agrarian communities.
Page, IEPA- We need to see how this translates to all of the state
agencies. This goes beyond IEPA.
Dr. Washington- It is not just about IEPA. Multiple agencies have
to be involved in the creation of the portal.
Wasserman, LVEJO- What are the resources out there? Can you
share them with us?
Page- We will discuss internally and get you that information.

 




















Dr. Washington- Can you reach out to other agencies that you
think will be key?
Wasserman, LVEJO- I will reach out to U.S. EPA so that we don’t
duplicate efforts.
Dr. Washington- Department of Public Health will be a key
agency.
Page, IEPA- We will discuss with other state agencies to determine
what they have available.
Messina- Well testing information is available online. That is a
starting point for working with other agencies.
Wasserman, LVEJO- The link that Veronica mentioned that looks
at Brownfields Basics is information we should review. If we can
look at examples of basic information out there it can help us with
this portal. Veronica can you please send me that information and
I will share it with the Commissioners.
Kyle, Faith in Place- The Environmental Law Institute’s
Brownfield Tool Kit is also a good resource. Even if you have
things in place this kit provides a good checklist of what already
exists and what you can adopt.
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- We now have a list of priorities. (1)
Community led Redevelopment; (2) Education Portal and (3)
Funding for future redevelopment initiatives.
Washington- We need to speak with Cheryl about what they are
doing. In the community.
Wasserman, LVEJO- I need to speak with Cheryl about the work
they are doing and her attendance at these meetings.
Wasserman, LVEJO- The next meeting at large is in a week. Is it
possible to get information prior to that meeting or does it make
more sense to provide a summary to the Commission?
Page, IEPA- What information specifically?
Wasserman, LVEJO- Web portal information. I think we are
better off providing a summary and soon after looking at what
exists and discuss web portal.
Mead-Lucero, PERRO- Maybe we can do a demonstration at the
full Commission meeting of the tool that is currently available.
We won’t have a detailed plan of the portal but we can show the
Commissioners what exists and see how we can build on it.
Page, IEPA- I think it needs to be hashed out by the subcommittee
before it is presented to the full Commission.
Messina, IERG- Agencies may need to mull over this discussion
before recommendations come forward.
Wasserman, LVEJO- To your point Jerry my only concern is that
the State comes and says that the suggestions aren’t possible right
now. We want to hear back from agencies first about what is
possible. I do recommend that folks look up their zip code and see

 







what is out there. We want to hear back from Ken about what is
possible and then go from there.
Wasserman, LVEJO- I will bring my laptop to the full
Commission meeting next week and folks can look at information
prior to the call of afterwards. We will share links with the full
Commission so they can look at information beforehand. If they
also want to look at the information at the meeting I will bring my
laptop so people can do that.
Wasserman, LVEJO- I would like Commission members to look at
the links provided and give suggestions. I will speak to Dr.
Washington and Cheryl Johnson and try to provide information
about co-chairs for group before the full Commission meeting.
Wasserman, LVEJO- We will work on a brief one paragraph
summary of what has happened in the subcommittee and what is
next.
Mead- Lucero, PERRO- Is there a website that has the minutes for
the EJ Commission?
Page, IEPA- the EJ Commission webpage on the IEPA website has
all approved minutes and additional information about the
Commission.

VI.

Discussions/Presentations:

VII.

Next meeting date and location
Next subcommittee meeting will be scheduled at the full Commission meeting
on March 20, 2014.

VIII. Adjournment
11:30 a.m.

 