COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
MEETING MINUTES
Wednesday, June 21, 2017 (10:00 am – 12:00 noon)
I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Commissioner Brenda Carter
 Commissioner Millard Driskell
 Commissioner Keith Harley
 Commissioner Cheryl Johnson (joined late)
 Commissioner Veronica Kyle – Faith in Place
 Stephanie Bilenko – NEIS
 Jamie Wilson – Cook County Forest Preserve
B. Videoconference Chicago
 Commissioner Kim Wasserman, Chairman
 Rev. Booker Vance
C. Videoconference Springfield
 Commissioner Chris Pressnall, IEPA, Environmental Justice Officer
 Commissioner Peck - IMA
 Elizabeth Rupel - Illinois EPA
 Nick Tadie – IMA Intern

III.

Approval of Agenda
The meeting did not meet quorum. Meeting proceeded in order to update Commission
members that were present.

IV.

Approval of the Minutes
The Commission could not approve the minutes due to quorum not being met.

V.

Presentations/ Discussions
A. IPA letter follow-up discussions
Chair Wasserman
 the deadline to respond to the request for comments from IPA is Friday, June 30
 not enough time to comment as Commission
 will be future opportunities to comment
 asked Chris Pressnall to provide Commission with updates.
Commissioner Pressnall
 Met with IPA Director Star at the Solar on Brownfields Conference
 Told IPA that Environmental Justice Commission and IEPA would help with the
effort and would be glad to talk about the Director’s options.
Chair Wasserman
 Thanked those involved in the construction of the letter

 







Mentioned the request for comments to the IPA questions
Draft plan is expected in August with a September deadline and a 30-day
comment period.
Suggested weekly conference calls
Draft a letter to address the EJ Commissions stance, which will need to be
approved by Commission members.
Asked for Commission members to send their non-available dates in August
and September.
Once plan released, Commission will likely have about two weeks to work
on comments, one week to review and one week to approve
Noted that portions may be contested

Commissioner Pressnall – indicated that it was likely certain portions of the draft
procurement plan will be attacked and noted that aspects of the FEJA were already under
attack in the courts
Chair Wasserman – Asked if the Commission members present to the meeting could
commit to the draft process and also asked if the explanation of the schedule made sense
to those present.
The Commission agreed to the schedule and agreed to sending in their availability.
Commissioner Kyle – asked Pastor Vance with Faith in Place, if he had any updates or
could provide any support as this plan goes forward.
Pastor Vance
 The plan is crucial
 All groups involved that will be preparing comments need to identify rural, urban
areas and need to figure out the “double connectors.”
 There is a four-week window and the groups involved will need to “double up
and find resources to support us.”
Commissioner Pressnall – acknowledged Pastor Vance’s plan and added that the will
continue working on increasing membership and participation in the Commission
Chair Wasserman
 will send out emails for draft plan and weekly call information
 due to the need for a quick turn-around, Wasserman asked Commission members
to respond with availability in a timely manner.
B. IEPA EJ community outreach distribution list
Commissioner Pressnall
 Asked Commission members to help spread the word to other organizations or
interested parties that may want to be added to the distribution list.
 IEPA would like to move away from paper and populate an email list
 IEPA is looking into adding a function on the website which would allow for
interested parties to add themselves to the distribution list via the internet.
Commissioner Peck – thought the suggestion was good idea

 VI.

New Business

VII.

Old Business

VIII.

Open Discussion/ Questions
Pastor Vance – If EJ is clarified and the definition is “tightened up” Illinois can be the leaders
in discussion.
Commissioner Pressnall – Agreed that Illinois can be a leader and noted that IPA can
continue to make changes to the definition of “EJ Community” as Solar For All is
implemented.
Commissioner Peck
 Explains that the Solar for all and the incentives behind the bill will bring a positive
light to EJ communities
 Growing EJ should be a positive connotation not negative, and we need to move
more in this direction.
Commissioner Kyle
 Agreed
 Stated that this is an opportunity for Solar For All to expand the definition of EJ and
make Illinois a more sustainable state
 Noted that the view of EJ term should be changed and is excited for the future
 New trend, new vision for EJ in the nation
Commissioner Pressnall
 Our group can make positive impacts.
 Applauds Commissioner Kyle’s comments
 States that there should be equal weight to the good we can do instead of addressing
reactionary issues
Chair Wasserman – change the dynamic and create a robust and bold definition in order to
create a good opportunity for neighborhoods where this is needed.
Commissioner Pressnall
 “Self-designation” is a term that needs to be clarified in regard to IPA’s request for
comments and the Solar For All program
 The term stems from demographic criteria and IEPA’s public participation efforts
and may not be appropriate for Solar For All, could water down the process.
Chair Wasserman
 It is important to determine criteria; race, income, and all manner are important
 Do not want a definition where the entire state could potentially be designated an EJ
area
Commissioner Driskel – asked for further clarification regarding the dangers in drinking
water

 Chair Wasserman – indicated that she would call Commissioner Driskell to further discuss
IX.

Next meeting date and location
Wednesday, August 16, 2017, 10am – 12 noon

X.

Adjournment
10:38 am

 