COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Agency Involvement/Oversight
Sub-Committee Minutes
Tuesday, February 26, 2014 (10 am)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman, EJ Commission

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Kim Wasserman. LVEJO
 Gloria Williams, IDNR
 Jeffrey Jones, IDNR
 Joe Mitchell, IDPH
 Doris Turner, IDPH
 Kate Tomford, DCEO
 Dr. Sylvia Hood-Washington, Director of Sustainability
Center in Aurora
 Alec Messina, IERG
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA
 Sharonda Williams, IEPA

III.

Approval of Agenda
Motion – Joe Mitchell
Second – Gloria Williams
Motion carried

IV.

Approval of Minutes
A. December 11, 2013
Motion – Kim Wasserman
Second – Joe Mitchell
Motion carried
B. January 8, 2014
Motion- Kim Wasserman
Second- Ken Page
Motion Carried

V.

Old Business

 A. Election of sub-committee chairman


VI.

















ChairmanWasserman- Will reach out to subcommittee members individually regarding the co-chair position.

Discussions/Presentations:
A. Template for state agencies
Wasserman and Page- Can agencies summarize what they wrote and come back in a week and determine what
we have found and how we move forward.
Tomford, DCEO- This review is top level. We didn’t have a lot in terms of formal policy. The agency has
addressed disparities and goals of prosperity for everyone in Illinois despite geographic and/or racial
distinctions. DCEO addresses environmental justice more on the program level. In the energy and recycling
office we have programs that address socio-economically disadvantaged populations. We try to address those
disparities and improve living space so it is environmentally healthier. The Office of Community Development
works with elderly and handicapped populations. DCEO has Business Development Grants that are funded by
tax credit programs. We look at permitting and site selection from Illinois EPA and recognize environmental
justice communities in this process. There is stakeholder involvement in where these grants go.
Hood-Washington- How is DCEO integrated with the Brownfields Program
Tomford, DCEO- We may have interaction with IL EPA on Brownfield issues. We have four offices that touch
on energy issues. Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program provides federal funding to help people pay
their energy bills. The Office of Urban Assistance has an Urban Weatherization Initiative that works to create
jobs and address energy efficiency. DCEO is starting to go into homes in designated areas of the state to
provide weatherization services. The Coal office supports the coal industry in Illinois and also supports
progressive techniques such as carbon capture.
Hood-Washington- DCEO supports the coal industry but also does carbon sequestration? What is the
connection?
Tomford, DCEO- We support both of those efforts. DCEO does feasibility studies regarding coal that deal with
economic variables not health impacts. DCEO ensures the safety of employees that work in the coal industry.
DCEO funding to support coal projects and carbon sequestration projects may apply to either separate projects
or the same project. DCEO helps fund feasibility studies for coal-fired power generation plants. DCEO also
helps fund research and demonstration projects for carbon capture and sequestration. In the case of the
FutureGen project, DCEO is helping to fund a project that will both generate power from Illinois coal and
capture and store the resulting CO2 emissions.
Page, IL EPA- DCEO has a relationship with IL EPA through the small business environmental assistance
program.
Tomford, DCEO- DCEO helps small businesses be compliant with IL EPA regulations. DCEO offers seminars
and counseling.
Page, IL EPA- Small businesses are often overlooked in regard to pollution.
Mitchell, IDPH- IDPH has many different offices and some are focused on regulations. The health care
regulation office is not community or population based. The STD and HIV programs are population focused.
The questionnaire focused on the regulatory side. We narrowly focused on rules that affect facilities. Moving
forward we can look at communities that live nearby these facilities.
Hood-Washington- If a community wanted information about industry (well-water) in their community
how would they get that?
Mitchell, IDPH- We have sampling information for industry on our website.
Mitchell, IDPH- Businesses and schools on their own well serving at least 25 people are regulated by
IDPH. Each facilities is required to test the water provided to the public or employees. These tests include

 Coliform bacteria, nitrates, various volatile and synthetic organic chemicals, and some inorganic
chemicals. These test results are available on the web at:
Non-community water system sampling history:
Non-community Public Water System Data - IDPH Drinking Water
Watch (http://163.191.83.31/dwwph/index.jsp)
Non-Community Program Page
http://www.idph.state.il.us/envhealth/ncpws.htm


















Turner, IDPH- I am the Chief of the Center for Minority Health. Every program from facilities to community
works to ensure that the programs are socially competent and relevant. We make sure that special needs
populations are taken into consideration for programming and evaluations. We don’t do a lot of hands-on work.
We do a lot of grants with outside stakeholders and make sure that they are relevant to the populations that we
seek to serve.
Hood-Washington- Do the stakeholder have to be 501©(3)?
Turner, IDPH- No. For the most part we work on a competitive basis. We encourage community stakeholders
to look at funding opportunities. A priority area for us is development and expanding on partnerships. We are
also hosting a Minority Health Conference in May.
Williams, IDNR- Our questionnaire has information from individual employees at IDNR. Looking back we
would like to pinpoint specific divisions and see what they have and what input they could provide in regard to
environmental justice. Going forward we would like to narrow different divisions down. IDNR has no formal
policy.
Jones, IDNR- We have no formal policy but we do deal with environmental justice issues. Storm water and
excess nutrients are issues we deal with. We test waters for safety and recreation. IDNR also does soil testing.
We provide expertise on natural heritage areas or designated sites for migratory birds. We partner with
stewardship initiatives like Mighty Acorns and Chicago Wilderness.
Hood-Washington- Are test results available to the public?
Jones, IDNR- I am not sure.
Hood-Washington- Phase I Studies?
Jones, IDNR- Yes. IDND also educates about conservation and life cycles of fishes through our Urban Fishing
Program. We also discuss pollution. We provide fishing poles and there are fishing instructors. This program
provides an environmental education and recreation.
Hood-Washington- Are these programs available in Aurora?
Jones, IDNR- We have spoken with community members in Aurora but nothing has come out of those
conversations. IDNR is open to working with Aurora.
Pressnall, IL EPA- IL EPA had been focusing on community involvement when it comes to our environmental
justice work. We are currently working on an initiative to send out environmental justice notifications to
community organizations and permit applicants when we get a permit application in-house that is in an
environmental justice community. For us environmental justice has two components public outreach and
cumulative risk. We focus on early and meaningful public participation with the community. For major
projects we are required to have public hearings in the community. The feedback that we have gotten is a
notice goes out and there is too little time to provide comments and be involved so we are trying to solve that
problem through our e.j. notification letters. We make sure that we are reaching all Bureaus and we have
people in various positions involved in discussing outreach and projects.
Page, IL EPA- IL EPA has an environmental justice webpage. We also have an E.J. Advisory Group in
addition to the EJ Commission. We have an Environmental Justice Policy, Environmental Justice Public
Participation Policy and an internal Environmental Justice Public Participation Procedure.

 






VII.

Pressnall, IL EPA- We are currently in the second major phase of our environmental justice work. We have
established an Environmental Justice Office and now we have a renewed push to focus on this work. We have
developed a computer screening tool that helps us locate predominantly low-income and minority communities
that may be potential environmental justice communities.
Hood-Washington- How do community members get these environmental justice notifications if they don’t
have an environmental justice organization in their community?
Williams, IL EPA- We don’t only send these notifications to environmental justice organizations. These
notifications go out to churches, schools, social groups, and community organizations near the permitted action.
The notices don’t have to specifically go to environmental groups. As long as the group has a function in the
community and they can disseminate information to their members it serves our purpose.
Wasserman- I want the group to commit to reading through the environmental justice questionnaires. Where
are there gaps? What stands out? Where do we go from here?

Next meeting date and location
Wednesday, March 12th at 12 p.m.

VIII. Adjournment
11:30 a.m.

EJ QUESTIONNAIRES/Templates FOR STATE AGENCIES
Environmental Justice Questionnaire for Illinois Department of Transportation
When answering the questions below please note if your answers are agency or program specific
1. Do you consider environmental implications when working on an issue in your agency? For example, air, noise,
and/or water pollution; soil contamination; nuisance odors; greenhouse gases; etc. If yes, please explain.
Yes. IDOT’s Bureau of Design and Environment (BDE) provides guidance on a range of environmental issues that
must be addressed during transportation project development. In order to ensure that transportation projects
are in compliance with state and federal environmental laws and regulations, BDE conducts surveys, provides
special technical expertise, reviews or prepares portions of environmental documents and coordinates projects
with state and federal resource agencies.
With any transportation project undertaken by IDOT, the agency closely follows the National Environmental
Protection Act (NEPA) process. The NEPA process helps public officials make decisions that are based on an
understanding of environmental consequences, and take actions that protect, restore, and enhance the
environment. Accurate scientific analysis, expert agency comments, and public scrutiny are essential to
implementing NEPA.
2. How do you determine or define the extent of environmental impacts on the community? Please provide
examples.

 IDOT conducts community impact assessments to evaluate the effects of transportation projects on community
residents and their quality of life. Typically these effects may include changes in access, business and residential
relocations, environmental justice issues, cohesion impacts, effects on public facilities and services, development
and growth patterns, land use changes and other potential results associated with improvements in
infrastructure. The assessment process is an integral part of project planning and development.
IDOT also utilizes Context Sensitive Solutions (CSS) when developing projects. CSS is an interdisciplinary approach
that is designed to work with stakeholders to develop projects or transportation facilities that fit into and reflect
the project’s surroundings. Through early, frequent, and meaningful communication with stakeholders, and a
flexible and creative approach to design, the resulting projects result in improved safety and mobility for the
traveling public, the preservation and enhancement of the scenic, economic, historic, and natural qualities of the
settings through which the project is located.
3. Do you have an environmental justice mandate for your agency? Yes/No. If yes, please explain.
The fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all Illinoisans with respect to the development,
implementation, and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations, and policies is integral to IDOT’s mission of
providing “safe, cost-effective transportation for Illinois in ways that enhance quality of life, promote economic
prosperity, and demonstrate respect for our environment.” Even though the department does not have a specific
mandate the implementation of all its projects addresses all issues of human rights and related environmental
issues at all levels of project development. Communities are informed of any major developments prior to
construction and all comments are addressed and made compliant if applicable with the NEPA process.
Do you assess the impact of projects on low-income and minority communities? If so, how?
As a state Department of Transportation, that partners with its federal partners the Federal Highway
Administration on projects (FHWA) and state DOTs are directed by Executive Order 12898, “Federal Actions to
Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations.” Under this order, federal
agencies and states are required to identify and address, as appropriate, disproportionately high and adverse
human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities on minority and low-income
populations. In general, IDOT must ensure greater public participation, improve research and data collection
relating to the health of and environment of minority and low income populations, determine whether an adverse
effect has a “disproportionately high” impact on minority or low income populations, and identify minimization or
mitigation strategies to reduce impacts on minority and/or low income communities.
4. Does your agency have programs that address the issues of handicapped and/or elderly populations?
All projects have to address issues of handicapped and/ or elderly populations based on the issues of Safety. As
part of the safety focus there is a targeted area of emphasis on vulnerable users and through an integrated
process in the decision making process these client groups are included to ensure that they do have a high level of
safety on any part of the transportation system. A specific project would be the Illinois Complete Streets law was
enacted in October 2007. A “complete street” is one that can accommodate all users safely, including the most
vulnerable, identified as youths, persons with disabilities and the elderly. The legislation requires IDOT to give full
consideration to bicycle and pedestrian facilities in the planning, design and construction of state transportation
facilities,

 5. Identify staff positions that work with low-income; minority; elderly and/or handicapped populations and
communities.
The Office for Workforce and Diversity work specifically with minority groups on procurement and contractual
issues. There are also specific training programs within IDOT that work with handicapped populations.
6. Does your agency have a community involvement/community engagement plan? If yes, explain the plan and
specify whether it is general or project specific.
IDOT participates in several community engagement processes. The NEPA process requires meaningful
community involvement, IDOT’s community impact assessments evaluate transportation projects on community
residents and their quality of life, and IDOT’s utilization of Context Sensitive Solutions (CSS) through early,
frequent, and meaningful communication with stakeholders, and a flexible and creative approach to design,
resulting in projects that should improve safety and mobility for the traveling public, while seeking to preserve
and enhance the scenic, economic, historic, and natural qualities of the settings through which they pass.
7. How does your agency accommodate communities that are non-native English speakers? For example, providing
an interpreter at a community meeting, translating documents, etc.
There are no mandatory rules however If required the agency will get an interpreter to meetings and translate
documents if required. In addition there is staff across the board that is bi-lingual and assist upon request
8. Does your agency partner with community interest groups, if so who are they?
Meaningful and frequent communication with stakeholders and community interest groups is a cornerstone of IDOT’s
project development process. These partnerships are often related to a specific project or plan. For example, during
the development of the Illinois Bike Transportation Plan, the Long range transportation plan and the development of
major projects, IDOT works with various community interest groups. The Transportation Secretary also has quarterly
meetings with the Gamaliel Group of Illinois which is a grassroots network of non-partisan, faith-based organizations
in 17 U.S. states that organizes to empower ordinary people to effectively participate in the political, environmental,
social and economic decisions affecting their lives. .Gamaliel is the only national community organizing network that
marries broad-based grassroots organizing campaigns with state-of-the-art regional opportunity research and policy
development.

9. The Mud-to Garden project is an example of how state agencies can work together to address an environmental
justice concern. Can you give an example of an opportunity where your agency could partner with one or more
agencies on the EJ Commission to address an environmental justice concern?
The department participated in this project by transferring soil to the site.

 Environmental Justice Questionnaire for IDPH
When answering the questions below please note if your answers are agency or program specific
1. Do you consider environmental implications when working on an issue in your agency? For example, air, noise,
and/or water pollution; soil contamination; nuisance odors; greenhouse gases; etc. If yes, please explain.
Health Promotion
Chemical sensitivity to perfume, cologne, etc. and indoor air pollution by the Tobacco Control program with the Smoke-Free Illinois Act.
Indoor air pollution would definitely be addressed by the Tobacco Control program with the Smoke-Free Illinois Act
http://www.idph.state.il.us/smokefree/sf_info.htm You could probably also find a lot of information about this on the "We Choose Health"
website. http://www.idph.state.il.us/wechoosehealth/index.htm

Health Protection
Toxicology Program works with IEPA on communicating health impacts to the public living near hazardous waste sites. They routinely
answer questions from the public about a multitude of indoor and outdoor environmental hazards. The Private Water and Private Sewage
Programs work with stakeholders to develop administrative rules that minimize the impact on groundwater. The Asbestos and Lead
Program has rules to minimize public exposure to environmental contaminants and establish criteria for mitigating these hazards. Our
Sexually Transmitted Disease Program developed a program to accept and dispose of expired medications to reduce the amount ending up
in landfills.

2. How do you determine or define the extent of environmental impacts on the community? Please provide
examples.
Health Protection
Toxicology Program works with IEPA on communicating health impacts to the public living near hazardous waste sites.

3. Do you have an environmental justice mandate for your agency? Yes/No. If yes, please explain.
Health Protection
No specific environmental justice mandate, but one of the five strategic priority areas is reducing health disparities in communities.

4. Do you assess the impact of projects on low-income and minority communities? If so, how?
Health Promotion
No formal assessment, but try to include low-income and minority communities by making fact sheets and other information available and
take this population into consideration when planning outreach activities.

Women’s Health and Family Services
We always consider the impact on low-income and minority communities. Disparity is always a primary concern for our office and we take
that into consideration when planning events and projects. For example; the Southern region of Illinois has health access issues in that there
is a lack of health care providers as well as transportation. Patients often have to travel greater distances to seek medical care. The OWHFS
is currently looking into opportunities to provide transportation for prenatal visits as well as breast cancer screenings. Also our upcoming
Needs Assessment focus groups will identify low-income and minority communities.

Health Protection
Most of our regulatory programs are facility specific and are not based on communities. Our STD and HIV programs do include
consideration of minority health disparities. Race, sex and ethnicity are key components of our surveillance system. STD rates are often
tied to low-income and minority status. Grants in Chicago and East St. Louis target health centers that serve low-income and minority
communities with high rates of Syphilis and HIV.

5. Does your agency have programs that address the issues of handicapped and/or elderly populations?

 Health Promotion
Yes. For example, Red Cross training for persons with disabilities in case of an emergency; disability and health programs with regard to
emergency preparedness include elderly and disabled; partners with Department on Aging to increase health promotion opportunities and
healthcare for persons with disabilities (through a 5 year CDC grant); programs to increase accessibility of medical facilities; nutrition
programs targeting disability community and Hispanic children with disabilities and their caregivers. Additional information about the
Disability and Health Program is on our webpage http://www.idph.state.il.us/idhp

Women’s Health and Family Services
We have programs that fold in our handicapped and the elderly populations. We have our Illinois Breast and Cervical Cancer (IBCCP) and
Wisewoman programs which incorporate populations covering ages 35 to 64. The Wisewoman program offers heart healthiness programs
to incorporate lifelong changes. The IBCCP program provides free breast cancer and cervical cancer screenings. Our upcoming Needs
Assessment focus groups identify participants which may be handicapped or elderly as we are requesting feedback from participants across
the lifespan.

Health Protection
Recent increases in HIV among the elderly (30+) demonstrates a need to expand surveillance and provide health education to elderly
populations.

6. Identify staff positions that work with low-income; minority; elderly and/or handicapped populations and
communities.
Health Promotion
All Chronic Disease Staff.

Women’s Health and Family Services
The majority of the OWHFS staff work on an on-going basis with low-income, minority; elderly and/or handicapped populations and
communities as we continually conduct on-site grantee visits, participate in community seminars, conferences and health fairs. We will also
be hosting upcoming Needs Assessment Focus groups. Through these activities we are in continual contact with all of the Office of
Women's Health and Family Services populations listed above. Ex: Attending a health fair will bring us into contact with age ranges across
the lifespan who may inquire into healthy eating habits to breast cancer screening services.

Health Protection
All STD and HIV staff.

7. Does your agency have a community involvement/community engagement plan? If yes, explain the plan and
specify whether it is general or project specific.

Health Promotion
Many programs have strategic plans that include community involvement and/or community engagement components.

Women’s Health and Family Services
The OWHFS has completed a two year strategic plan which lays the groundwork for services to work effectively and efficiently, and
ensure the best use of resources and personnel. The OWHFS will continue to collaborate with key stakeholders, including community
members, community based agencies and local health departments to work together to improve the quality of life and shape the future of
health in Illinois.
Specific Project:
The OWHFS is working on an annual Needs Assessment report as well as the Title V Needs Assessment which will involve professional
and community focus groups. We will be holding focus groups within all seven of the health regions within Illinois. We will be requesting
feedback from participants to incorporate into our 2015 Needs Assessment and will keep professionals and community members involved
throughout the process.

 Health Protection
HIV program works with the communities for whom these services are intended to share decisions about HIV prevention activities,
services, and funding. Our Food Safety Advisory committee includes consumer groups that advise the Department about food safety
issues. IDPH leads the Farmers Market Taskforce that looks at the availability of fresh foods in local communities.

8. How does your agency accommodate communities that are non-native English speakers? For example,
providing an interpreter at a community meeting, translating documents, etc.
Health Promotion
Most publications, including Fact Sheets, are available in multiple languages; Tobacco Quitline is equipped to take calls from a large
number of languages spoken by non-English speaking callers; also have signers at some meetings when applicable.

Women’s Health and Family Services
As the OWHFS conducts and participates in focus groups, seminars, health fairs, conferences and attends outreach events within Illinois we
ensure we have bilingual staff available as well as written communication in other languages such as Spanish and Polish. Many of our
brochures are in Spanish such as, "Pink Potlucks", "Illinois Breast and Cervical Cancer Program" and Heart Healthiness information. For
the Needs Assessment focus groups we will have forms such as registration and flyers available in Spanish as well as Spanish Speaking
staff attending and assisting as facilitators.

Health Protection
Many of our programs have health messages translated in to Spanish and other languages, depending on the target population.

9. Does your agency partner with community interest groups, if so who are they?
Health Promotion
Yes, a large number. A list is attached.

Women’s Health and Family Services
Our agency does partner with different interest groups on various programs. The OWHFS works with Local Health departments, grantees,
school based health centers, churches and many other organizations throughout Illinois.

Health Protection
Many of our regulatory programs have stakeholder groups that advise the Department on how rules and regulation impact statewide and
local communities.

10. The Mud-to Garden project is an example of how state agencies can work together to address an environmental
justice concern. Can you give an example of an opportunity where your agency could partner with one or more
agencies on the EJ Commission to address an environmental justice concern?
Health Promotion
Farm to School Program provides youth, K-12, with access to nutritious meals, while supporting local farmers and communities. This
program provides children with fresh, local food, and helps them understand where their food comes from and how food choices affect
their health, environment and community.

Women’s Health and Family Services
Our OWHFS will be partnering with Local Health Departments and Community programs to host upcoming Needs Assessment Focus
Groups. We have recently issued a survey to solicit feedback on establishing partnerships with these organizations.

Health Protection
The CLEAR-Win is a grant program that targets communities at high risk for lead poisoned children and provides funding for window
replacement. The goal of the program is to eliminate lead hazards in homes, providing training on the use of lead paint safe work practices,
create local jobs in the lead abatement industry, and support property owners in maintaining lead safe housing. The pilot communities in
this project are Englewood, West Englewood neighborhoods in Chicago and Peoria County.

 Environmental Justice Questionnaire for Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
When answering the questions below please note if your answers are agency or program specific
11. Do you consider environmental implications when working on an issue in your agency? For example, air,
noise, and/or water pollution; soil contamination; nuisance odors; greenhouse gases; etc. If yes, please
explain.
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency has three separate bureaus that address air, water, and land. The
Bureau of Air works to improve air quality by identifying air pollution problems, proposing appropriate
regulations, conducting inspections, and reviewing permit applications. It also operates a vehicle emissions
testing program. The Bureau of Land’s goals are to protect human health and the environment by ensuring that
hazardous and solid waste will be managed in a sound manner, and to reduce or control risk to human health
and the environment by overseeing the cleanup of contaminated sites. The mission of the Bureau of Water is to
ensure that Illinois' rivers, streams and lakes will support all uses for which they are designated including
protection of aquatic life, recreation and drinking water supplies, make sure that every Illinois Public Water
system will provide water that is consistently safe to drink, and to protect Illinois' groundwater resource for
designated drinking water and other beneficial uses.

12. How do you determine or define the extent of environmental impacts on the community? Please provide
examples.
The Illinois EPA utilizes a number of methods to determine the extent of environmental impacts on
communities. The Illinois EPA routinely reviews construction and operating permit applications that must
provide information concerning the source’s impacts on the environment, which in turn has the potential to
impact communities. The Illinois EPA and the United States Environmental Protection Agency enforce
numerous laws and regulations that are intended to be protective of human health. Part of the enforcement
process is receiving citizen complaints, which gives the Illinois EPA valuable insight into impacts on a
community. The Illinois EPA conducts inspections based on citizen complaints as well as routine inspections
of sources. In addition, the Illinois EPA operates an extensive air monitoring network; gathers information
through various recordkeeping and reporting requirements; and requires many sources to conduct testing of soil,
water and air emissions.

13. Do you have an environmental justice mandate for your agency? Yes/No. If yes, please explain.
Illinois EPA defines Environmental Justice as follows: "Environmental Justice" is based on the principle that
all people should be protected from environmental pollution and have the right to a clean and healthy
environment. Environmental justice is the protection of the health of the people of Illinois and its environment,
equity in the administration of the State's environmental programs, and the provision of adequate opportunities

 for meaningful involvement of all people with respect to the development, implementation, and enforcement of
environmental laws, regulations, and policies.
The key goals of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency’s Environmental Justice Policy are as follows:


To ensure that communities are not disproportionately impacted by degradation of the environment or
receive a less than equitable share of environmental protection and benefits;
 To strengthen the public's involvement in environmental decision-making, including permitting and
regulation, and where practicable, enforcement matters;
 To ensure that Illinois EPA personnel use a common approach to addressing EJ issues; and
 To ensure that the Illinois EPA continues to refine its environmental justice strategy to ensure that it
continues to protect the health of the citizens of Illinois and its environment, promotes environmental
equity in the administration of its programs, and is responsive to the communities it serves.
To read the full policy visit the webpage below: http://www.epa.state.il.us/environmentaljustice/policy.html

14. Do you assess the impact of projects on low-income and minority communities? If so, how?
Yes, the Illinois EPA developed a geographic based computer tool to analyze demographics near sources
regulated by the Agency to determine if they are located in or near communities predominately low-income
and/or minority. The Illinois EPA also utilizes similar resources made available by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency.

15. Does your agency have programs that address the issues of handicapped and/or elderly populations?
The Illinois EPA does not have programs that address the issues of handicapped and/or elderly populations.

16. Identify staff positions that work with low-income; minority; elderly and/or handicapped populations
and communities.
Environmental Justice Officer
Environmental Justice Liaison
Bureau of Air Community Relations Staff
Bureau of Water Community Relations Staff
Bureau of Land Community Relations Staff

 17. Does your agency have a community involvement/community engagement plan? If yes, explain the plan
and specify whether it is general or project specific.
Illinois EPA has an Environmental Justice Public Participation Policy. This policy covers the following
activities: Permitting transactions; Remediation projects in the Bureau of Land (except for projects covered by
the Superfund Community Involvement Policy); Complaint investigations, and Enforcement.
The Environmental Justice Public Participation Policy sets forth that an effective public participation strategy
emphasizes early and meaningful public involvement throughout the permitting process. In order to achieve
meaningful public involvement the agency has provided public participation options in potential environmental
justice communities. These public participation options are as follows:


Community Outreach- This includes environmental justice notifications; public notices; fact sheets, and
encouraging the permit applicant(s) to meet with community stakeholders to promote open dialogue
early in the permitting process for appropriate permitting actions.
 Public Meetings- For permitting transactions, the purpose of the meeting is to inform the residents in
and around a potential EJ Area of the scope and nature of the project in a timely, interactive manner and
explain the permitting process. Informational meetings may be held prior to a public hearing or may be
held when a public hearing is not required.
 Fact Sheet and Project Summary- Illinois EPA will provide a plain language summary of the major
aspects of the proposed project, including the purpose and location of the proposed activity and facility,
and any anticipated environmental impacts, and any controls or work practices that will limit those
impacts.
 Document Availability- Illinois EPA will take every effort to make information available to residents in
potential EJ Areas in a timely and efficient manner.
To read the full policy visit the webpage below: http://www.epa.state.il.us/environmental-justice/publicparticipation-policy.pdf

18. How does your agency accommodate communities that are non-native English speakers? For example,
providing an interpreter at a community meeting, translating documents, etc.
When appropriate Illinois EPA provides bi- or multi-lingual public notices. Illinois EPA will make a good faith
effort to provide a translator when it is known that residents do not speak English very well or when the Illinois
EPA receives a request for a translator within two weeks of any public hearing or meeting and when the need
for a translator is adequately justified.

19. Does your agency partner with community interest groups, if so who are they?
Illinois EPA partners with community interest stakeholders in many facets of the agency’s work. In regard to
environmental justice the agency partners with community interest groups formally through the Illinois
Environmental Justice Commission and the Environmental Justice Advisory Group.

 The agency partners with community interest groups when doing public outreach in their communities. The
agency also partners with these groups when they have community-based career and educational events.

20. The Mud-to Garden project is an example of how state agencies can work together to address an
environmental justice concern. Can you give an example of an opportunity where your agency could
partner with one or more agencies on the EJ Commission to address an environmental justice concern?
The Agency works with the following agencies:
1. The Illinois EPA works with the Department of Natural Resources on coal mine permitting issues. The
IEPA is responsible for ensuring that discharges from the mines do not adversely impact the environment
and waters of the state.
2. The Illinois EPA financially supports the Small Business Environmental Assistance Program at the
Department of Commerce and economic Opportunity. This program provides technical assistance to bring
business into compliance with environmental regulations. Over 95% of the businesses are located in urban
and environmental justice areas (auto body shop, auto mechanic shops, printers, etc).
3. The Illinois EPA has a close partnership with Illinois Department of Public Health on toxicology
determinations when there is a release of contamination into the environment to inform the public of any
health advisories, i.e., drinking water, fishing and safe occupancy. Subsistence fishing is a very common in
EJ communities and pollution into the waters of the state does adversely impact this common practice.

Environmental Justice Questionnaire for Illinois Department on Aging
When answering the questions below please note if your answers are agency or program specific
Respondent: LaTonya T. Lumpkin, Illinois Department on Aging; LaTonya.Lumpkin@illinois.gov

1. Do you consider environmental implications when working on an issue in your agency? For example, air, noise,
and/or water pollution; soil contamination; nuisance odors; greenhouse gases; etc. If yes, please explain.
N/A

 2. How do you determine or define the extent of environmental impacts on the community? Please provide
examples.

3. Do you have an environmental justice mandate for your agency? Yes/No. If yes, please explain.
No

4. Do you assess the impact of projects on low-income and minority communities? If so, how?
Yes, ventures are designed for communities, based on the identified needs of the older adults residing in each
community.

5. Does your agency have programs that address the issues of handicapped and/or elderly populations?
Yes, Illinois Department on Aging has programs addressing needs and interests of older adults and people with
cognitive and physical disabilities.

 6. Identify staff positions that work with low-income; minority; elderly and/or handicapped populations and
communities.
All: need further explanation from Environmental Justice Commission

7. Does your agency have a community involvement/community engagement plan? If yes, explain the plan and
specify whether it is general or project specific.

8. How does your agency accommodate communities that are non-native English speakers? For example,
providing an interpreter at a community meeting, translating documents, etc.
Illinois Department on Aging employs direct service staff who speak multiple languages, partners with
organizations whose staff speak the languages identified for the target populations, has access to a language bank,
TTD/TTY phone services, provides resource materials in multiple languages and has sign interpreters available
upon request.

9. Does your agency partner with community interest groups, if so who are they?
Illinois Department on Aging can directly address this as appropriate upon identification of specific purpose and
intent (cannot be engaged with express authorization of Illinois Department on Aging for purposes directly
benefiting Illinois Department on Aging).

 10. The Mud-to Garden project is an example of how state agencies can work together to address an environmental
justice concern. Can you give an example of an opportunity where your agency could partner with one or more
agencies on the EJ Commission to address an environmental justice concern?
The staff assigned to the Environmental Justice Commission agreed to inform Illinois Department on Aging
when such opportunities arise and request support from Illinois Department on Aging.

Environmental Justice Questionnaire for IDNR
When answering the questions below please note if your answers are agency or program specific
21. Do you consider environmental implications when working on an issue in your agency? For example, air, noise,
and/or water pollution; soil contamination; nuisance odors; greenhouse gases; etc. If yes, please explain. Yes,
 Excess nutrients, agricultural pollution, including tile drainage, herbicides, insecticides, sediment from
erosion, livestock waste and livestock erosion
 Greater storm intensity can result in longer duration flooding, higher water turbidity and greater erosion.
 Increased temperatures can have an effect on the timing and efficiency of fish sampling
 Permitting and enforcement matters
 Prescribed burning which has implications for air quality. Smoke sensitive areas are addressed in the
burn plan
 Best Management Practices to protect soil and water quality are required in Forest Stewardship plan that
we develop or approve
 The Illinois Nature Preserves Commission (INPC) relates to the quality of the environment, its
fundamental to their mission
 Department works with EPA and other DNR divisions on water and soil contamination issues. Noise
pollution is also regulated on watercraft
 Current IT green initiatives around power, ink/toner, paper, printer devices
 Limit the amount of grass mowing to reduce air/noise pollution
 Recycling program for trash, used tires, used oil
 Office of Land Management practice sustainable farming methods on agricultural leases.
 Land Management staff are trained and tested in the proper use of pesticides and its impact on the
environment
 Comprehensive Environmental Review Process (CERP) are mindful of smoke management in our
prescribed burn plan

 




Impacts on humans are considered when we conduct prescribed fires. We consider wind direction for
smoke management purposes and plan to keep smoke (air pollution) to minimum and we monitor
herbicide application to waterways.
Conducted soil contamination and water pollution concerns for our projects by sampling nearby soils
and having chemical testing completed and compared to EPA Taco Tier 1 Standards
The Division of Ecosystems and Environment advises state agencies and local governments of the
effects of their actions on endangered and threatened species and Illinois Natural Areas Inventory Sites.
These reviews cover the full scope of human activities and their effects on the environment, but with a
focus on state-listed endangered species and specific protected natural areas.

22. How do you determine or define the extent of environmental impacts on the community? Please provide
examples.
 Fish flesh samples are collected for human consumption advisories due to pesticide contamination.
 Purposes of permitting and enforcement are determined and defined by statutes and administrative rules
 Communicated by citizens
 It is a difficult community problem whether it be high speed rail, sewage treatment, natural habitat
 Samples taken on the scene
 INPC evaluates everything in terms of the impact on the resources that justified protecting the site. This
includes groundwater, surface water, sound, light and air quality issues. The INPC use consultants as
appropriate
 Office of Law Enforcement consults with other State and Federal agencies to determine the impact and
the consequences for the offending individuals or corporation
 During prescribed fire management, to define smoke management impact areas on adjacent
neighborhoods, we use up-to-date weather monitoring, maps, experience, training, prescribed burn plans
and communication with local fire departments and sometimes neighbors themselves
 We meet all permitting requirements including Section 401 and Section 404 of the Clean Water Act

23. Do you have an environmental justice mandate for your agency? Yes/No. If yes, please explain.
 Office of Law Enforcement must investigate complaints or other information we have about
environmental justice issues

24. Do you assess the impact of projects on low-income and minority communities? If so, how?
 The Department’s permitting programs assess project impacts on all communities which would include
low-income and minority communities
 For the INPC, no specific mandate is given, however all projects are voluntary by the landowner. To the
extent that minorities participate in INPC programs, their desires are considered. All decisions are made
during public meetings that encourage public participation
 Schoolyard Habitat Action Grant Program for developing wildlife habitat on the school grounds or other
public place

 



Earth Day in the Parks program allows students to participate in natural resources stewardship activities
at state parks. The impacts of these programs tend to be positive, encouraging youth of all communities
to participate in outdoor activities
The Department assesses the impacts. Often, because our projects are located in flood plain areas, lowincome and minority communities are often the largest benefactor in our dam removal and flood control
projects.

25. Does your agency have programs that address the issues of handicapped and/or elderly populations?
 Disability Hunting Program
 The Department addresses issues arising under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
 No cost or discounted license for elderly
 Provide vehicle devices for wheelchairs for hunters

26. Identify staff positions that work with low-income; minority; elderly and/or handicapped populations and
communities.
 Natural Resource Specialists
 Nature Resource Advanced Specialists
 Site Superintendents
 Natural Resources Coordinator
 Natural Areas Protection Specialist
 Site Technicians
 Conservation Workers
 Urban Fishing Program Coordinator
 Natural Resources Managers
 Natural Resource Education Program Manager

27. Does your agency have a community involvement/community engagement plan? If yes, explain the plan and
specify whether it is general or project specific.
 The Urban Fishing Program teaches environmental education classes for block clubs, senior citizens
centers and anyone with a group of 15-25
 No Child left indoors
 Education trunk programs
 The Departments Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan – Identifies priorities for the use
of local grant program funds
 Open Space Lands Acquisition & Development (OSLAD) and Land & Water Conservation Fund
(LWCF) Priorities include Special Populations, i.e., underserved populations and high need populations

 28. How does your agency accommodate communities that are non-native English speakers? For example,
providing an interpreter at a community meeting, translating documents, etc.
 Some of our Sites have employees that are Spanish Speaking
 Hunting and Trapping Digest is printed in Spanish

29. Does your agency partner with community interest groups, if so who are they?
 Lake Shelbyville Muskie Club
 Lake Shelbyville Alliance
 Illinois Muskie Tournament Trail
 Lake Mattoon Alliance
 Southeast Environmental Task Force
 Calumet Stewardship Initiative
 Alliance for Wolf Lake Initiative
 Southeast Sportsman’s Club
 Chicago Wilderness
 Mighty Acorns
 CIMBY (Calumet is My Back Yard
 Pheasants Forever
 Ducks Unlimited
 IL Audubon
 Illinois Mine Rescue Association
 Fishin Buddies
 Friends of the Park
 Chicago Wilderness
 Chicago Park District
 Boys and Girls Club
 Friends of Trails
 Save the Prairie Society

30. The Mud-to Garden project is an example of how state agencies can work together to address an environmental
justice concern. Can you give an example of an opportunity where your agency could partner with one or more
agencies on the EJ Commission to address an environmental justice concern?
 Acquiring and restoring open space that does not meet our typical criteria of “high quality natural areas”
must become a priority for the agency. Use of such spaces to expand habitat, reduce fly dumping & dust
emissions, and expand flood plain areas to reduce damage to residential and commercial properties
during high water conditions should drive our actions. These kinds of improvements make a real
difference in the quality of life for all residents. Restoration of “brown fields” and marginal properties
can do more to expand green corridors and provide connections to high quality areas so that animal
populations can move throughout the regions.
 The INPC continues to work with landowners in rural and economically disadvantaged such as
Pembrook Township, Kankakee County to protect land

 



The agency’s could work together to support and implement the Environmental Literacy for Illinois
Strategic Plan. http://dnr.state.il.us/EL4IL/Draft%20Final%202.pdf
DNR could increase participation of senior citizens as volunteers. It could also target programming to
senior citizens to increase their visitation in State parks
The Agency is working on the Millennium Reserve to protect the Calumet Region in Cook County

 Access Living of Metro Chicago Center for Independent Living
Advocate Christ Medical Center
AgeOptions Area Agency on Aging
American Cancer Society
American Cancer Society - Illinois Division, Inc.
American Cancer Society, Southern Region
American College of Chest Physicians
American College of Surgeons
American Diabetes Association
American Heart Association in Illinois
American Lung Association
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago
ARC of Illinois, Family to Family
Arthritis Foundation
Asian Health Coalition of Illinois
Asian Human Services, Inc.
Belleville Memorial Hospital
Blessing Cancer Center
Bureau/Putnam County HD
Campaign for Better Health Care
Cancer W ellness Center
Cass County Health Department
Champaign-Urbana Public Health District
Chicago Asthma Consortium
Chicago Breast Cancer Quality Consortium
Chicago Center for Jewish Genetic Disorders
Chicago Dermatological Society
Chicago DPH
Chicago Public Schools
Clark County Health Department
Community Cancer Center
Community Health Improvement Center
Contemporary Medicine
Cook County Health Department
Coalition of Citizen's with Disabilities in Illinois
Cumberland County Health Department
Decatur Area Asthma Coalition
Decatur Memorial Hospital - Cancer Registry
Dental Hygiene, School of Allied Health, CASA
East Central Illinois Asthma Coalition
East Side Health District
Edgar County Public Health Department
Elmhurt Memorial Hospital
Epidemiological Studies
Evanston Northwestern
Franklin Williamson Bi-County Health Department
Fidelis Senior Care, Inc.
Genesis Health Group
Gilda's Club Chicago
Glenbrook Hospital, Division of General Surgery
Good Samaritan Hospital
Graham Hospital
Health Policy Research, Illinois State Medical Society
Hope Light Foundation

 Human Kinetics
Hult Health Center
Illinois Academy of Family Physicians
Illinois Academy of Family Practice Physicians
Illinois African-American Family Commission
Illinois Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics
Illinois Department ofHealthcare and Family Services
Illinois Department of Human Services, School Based Health Center Coordinator
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Illinois Department of Public Health, Cardiovascular Health Program
Illinois Department of Public Health, Center for Health Statistics
Illinois Department of Public Health, Center for Minority Health
Illinois Department of Public Health, Comprehensive Cancer Control Program
Illinois Department ofPublic Health, Division of Oral Health
Comprehensive Cancer Control Program
Illinois Department of Public Health, Healthy Aging/Arthritis/ Alzheimer Programs
Illinois Department of Public Health, Injury and Violence Prevention Program
Illinois Department of Public Health, Nutrition and Physical Activity Program
Illinois Department of Public Health, Office ofWomen's Health
Illinois Department of Public Health, Tobacco Control Program
Illinois Department on Aging
Illinois Health Education Consortium/ AHEC
Illinois Hispanic Physicians Association
Illinois Hospital Association
Illinois Network of Centers for Independent Living
Illinois Oncology
Illinois Primary Health Care Association
Illinois Public Health Institute
Illinois Society Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons
Illinois State Cancer Registry
Illinois Tobacco Free Communities
Illinois Tobacco Quitline
IMPACT, Inc. Center for Independent Living
Ingalls Memorial Hospital
Jacksonville Area Center for Independent Living
JHSJ Hospital of Cook County
JoDaviess County Health Department
John H. Stroger Jr., Hospital of Cook County
Kane County Health Department
KnoxCHD
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, Illinois Chapter
Life Center for Independent Living
Logan County Department of Public Health
Lt. Governor's Office
Lupus Foundation of America, Illinois Chapter
Lurie Cancer Center ofNorthwestem University
Macoupin County Public Health Department
McDonough CHD .
McDonough District Hospital
McLeanCHD
Mercer County Health Department
Merck Pharmaceutical
Mercy Hospital Breast Center
Methodist College ofNursing

 Michael Reese Research and Education Foundation
Midwestern Regional Medical Center
Mount Sinai Hospital, Urban Health Institute
National Cancer Institute's Cancer Information Service
National Center for Rural Health Professions
National Ovarian Cancer Coalition-Illinois Chapter
Navigating Cancer Survivorship
Northeastern Illinois Tobacco Control Network
Northwestern Illinois Center for Independent Living
Northwestern Memorial Physicians Group
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine
Northwestern Hospital
Northwestern University, Institute for Design Engineering and Applications
Northwestern University, Department of Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences
NorthShore University Health System
Occupational Safety and Health Agency
Office of Lt. Governor Sheila Simon
Options Center for Independent
OSF Healthcare System, Radiation Oncology
OSF St. Francis Medical Center
Ottawa Regional Hospital
PACE, Inc. Center for Independent Living
Pfizer Oncology
Progress Center for Independent Living
Provena St. Joseph Hospital
Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago
Respiratory Health Association of Metropolitan Chicago
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University
Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science
Roseland Community Hospital
Rural Health, Inc
Rush University College ofNursing
Rush University and Rush Medical Center
Rush-Copley Foundation
Salud Latina/Latino Health
Sangamon County Health Department
Simmons Cancer Institute at SIU School ofMedicine
Sinai Health System
Siteman Cancer Center, Washington University School of Medicine
Southern Illinois Healthcare Foundation
Southern Illinois Radon Task Force, Inc.
Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville
Southern Illinois University School ofMedicine, Springfield
Southern Seven Health Department
St. Clair County Department of Public Health
St. Johns Hospital Cancer Institute
Springfield Center for Independent Living
Starting Point Aging and Disability Resource Center, Macon County Health Department
SuperSibs!
Susan G. Komen/Peoria Memorial Affiliate
The Cancer Center at Blessing Hospital
The Cancer Support Center
The Jennifer S. Fallick Cancer Support Center

 The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society-Gateway Chapter
University of Chicago Cancer Research Center
University of Chicago Hospitals, Cancer Registry
University of Chicago School of Medicine
University of Chicago, Diabetes Research and Training Center
University of Illinois at Chicago, Cancer Center
University of Illinois at Chicago, College ofDentistry
University of Illinois at Chicago, College of Nursing
University of Illinois at Chicago, Department of Disability and Human Development
University of Illinois at Chicago, Division of Specialized Care for Children
University of Illinois at Chicago, Epidemiology and Biostatistics
University of Illinois at Chicago, School of Public Health, Institute for Health Research and Policy
University of Illinois at Chicago, School of Public Health, NBLIC
University of Illinois College of Medicine at Peoria
University of Illinois Extension
University of Illinois at Springfield
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
US EPA Region 5
US Too International Prostate Cancer Education and Support
Washington County Health Department
Wellness House
West Central Illinois Center for Independent Living
Western Illinois University
Will-Grundy Center for Independent Living
Winnebago County Health Department

 