COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
MEETING MINUTES
Tuesday, March 28, 2017 (10:00 am – 12:00 noon)
I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Sabrina Hardenbergh – Sierra Club
B. Videoconference Chicago
 Chair Kim Wasserman - LVEJO
 Commissioner Keith Harley
 Julianna Pino - LVEJO
 Diane Johnson - EJ Cicero
 Tammy Mayfield - Illinois EPA
 Molly Lunn - DCEO
C. Videoconference Springfield
 Commissioner Chris Pressnall, IEPA
 Commissioner Brenda Carter - IERG
 Commissioner Jerry Peck - IMA
 Elizabeth Rupel - Illinois EPA

III.

Approval of Agenda
 Moved by – Chair Wasserman
 Second - Commissioner Carter
Motion Carried

IV.

Deferred Meeting Minutes
November 16, 2016 meeting minutes
 Moved by - Commissioner Kim Wasserman
 Second - Commissioner Carter
Motion carried

V.

Presentations/ Discussions
A. Illinois Future Energy Jobs Bill (IFEJB)
 IEPA status on the IFEJB by Commissioner Pressnall
 The IEPA is working with USEPA’s Erin Newman on issues pertaining
to an Environmental Justice GIS Mapping Tool to definite “EJ
Community” for the purposes of the IFEJB
 Question: Ms. Pino - is the EJ Mapping Tool available to the public?
 Commissioner Pressnall – No, the tool is currently for internal agency
use only. Once the Commission and the IEPA work on a definition of
“EJ Community” and adjustments are made to data and the GIS map, the
tool has the possibility of being becoming accessible to the public.
 Ms. Pino – what is the GIS relationship to the IFEJB? The question
prompted multiple requests from other commissioners asking Julianna to
provide clarification of the IFEJB. Ms. Pino then provided an overview
of the IFEJB including goals for job training and community solar

 









development. She then described CalEnviroScreen’s methodology for
determining areas of concern. Lastly, she explained that a working
group was preparing written recommendations to the IPA.
Commissioner Harley indicated that a prior version of the IFEJB contained
consideration of inadvertent impacts on EJ Communities as power sources shift
Commissioner Peck indicated that the final version cut the co-generation tax
credit
Ms. Pino explained how and when last minute changes occurred
Ms. Lunn explained the relationship of some DCEO programs to energy policy in
Illinois
Commissioner Carter requested a IFEJB working summary from Ms. Pino
Commissioner Harley emphasized the mapping of EJ Communities is extremely
critical and questioned why IEPA’s mapping was not publically available
Commissioner Pressnall indicated that IEPA was considering it in the future
Commissioner Peck indicated that there were past issues with the data feeding
IEPA’s mapping tool and that areas designated as EJ Communities may be
subject to increased regulation
Commissioner Pressnall acknowledged unreliable data was a concern

B. EJ Definition for IFEJB
 Chair Wasserman stated that the EJ Commission should define “EJ Community”
 Commissioner Pressnall explained IEPA’s demographic screening methodology
for the purposes of enhanced public outreach, explaining that it did not take into
account any specific environmental factors
 Commissioner Pressnall questioned the source of IFEJB’s definition of “lowincome community”
 Ms. Pino explained that it was the HUD definition
 Ms. Lunn indicated that DCEO has a lot of data concerning low-income areas
 Chair Wasserman moved to have the Commission prepare a letter to the IPA with
recommendations concerning the definition of “EJ Community” and “lowincome”. The definition should encompass everything. Commission members
will pull together information and begin a process to establish a definition by the
end of May 2017
 Commissioner Carter suggested a motion to establish a weekly conference call to
discuss drafts of the definition.
 Moved by – Commissioner Carter
 Second- Commissioner Harley
Motion Carried
- The teleconferences will take place on April 4, 11, and 18 at 9:00 am.
- Send definition drafts to Commissioner Pressnall to ensure information is
distributed to other Commission members.
- April 24 - last week to review
- Special Commission meeting on May 3
C. Lead testing in schools and daycares- Re-cap
 Led by Commissioner Harley- Lead in drinking water in Illinois childcare
facilities and rulemaking needed to implement the law.

 




Request from the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) to develop
appropriate regulations and standards for licensed child care child care
providers.
Involve Division of Child and Family Services (DCFS) in the decision
making.
Develop a protocol to assist DCFS in the licensing procedure.
Every child benefits, not just those in EJ communities
o Chair Wasserman – what is IDPH status of lead talk and rulemaking
proposal?
 Commissioner Harley is in communications with an IDPH
attorney concerning the rulemaking and nothing to report at this
time
 Probably will be public hearings and an opportunity to submit
written comments
 Commissioner Harley indicated that he would provide the
Commission draft outline of Chicago Legal Clinic’s comments
once the comments are developed

D. EJ Commission Statewide
 Invite other groups to present
 Proposal to host two listening sessions during the summer of 2017 in northern
and southern Illinois
 Commissioner Peck expressed concern about having a quorum and, if quorum
triggered, Open Meetings Act ramifications
 Commissioner Pressnall to look into Open Meetings Act issues
E. EJ Commission changes in 2017
 Revision to EJ Act
 Department on Aging removed, replaced by Dept. of Human Services –
rep. of housing office
 Increased members appointed by Gov to 14 (from 10)
F. Ethics training 2016
 Commissioner Pressnall tasked with dispersal of ethics training to Commission
members.
o Commission members must complete ethics training and report back to
Chris Pressnall.
VI.

New Business
 Low income working group
o Meeting April 11, 2017

VII.

Old Business
A. Open Meetings Act Training
 Commissioner Pressnall tasked with dispersal of Open Meetings Act training to
Commission.
o Commission members must complete training and report back to
Pressnall
o
Open Discussion/ Questions

VIII.

 

None

IX.

Next meeting date and location
A. First weekly conference: April 4, 2017 (10 am)
B. Quarterly – June 21, 2017 (10:00 am – 12:00 noon)

X.

Adjournment
 At 11:47

 