COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Agency Involvement/Oversight
Sub-Committee Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, March 12, 2014 (12 noon)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman, EJ Commission

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference











Kim Wasserman, LVEJO
Kate Tomford, DCEO
Joe Mitchell, IDPH
Gloria Williams, DNR
Doris Turner, IDPH
Bola Delano, IDOT
Alec Messina, IERG
Ken Page, IEPA
Chris Pressnall, IEPA
Sharonda Williams, IEPA

III.

Approval of Agenda
Motion- Alec Messina
Second- Kate Tomford
Motion Carried

IV.

Approval of Minutes
A. February 26, 2014 (Agency EJ Templates attached)
Motion- Doris Turner
Second- Alec Messina
Motion Carried

V.

Old Business
A. Election of sub-committee chairperson
 Kim Wasserman will be reaching out to someone in particular after
this call to discuss the sub-committee chairperson position.

 B. Continue review of EJ Templates from state agencies
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Per Sharonda’s suggestion we want to share
the environmental justice questionnaires with the full Commission
and make sure that we get community perspective and feedback.
 Page, IEPA- The environmental justice questionnaires are attached
to the minutes and will be put on the website once they are
approved. I will send a link.
 Wasserman, LVEJO- I want to ensure that we have more than
agencies vetting this process. We want to get feedback from other
non-agency Commissioners outside of myself and Dr. Washington.
 Page- I will send the environmental justice questionnaires out to the
full Commission and then separately to the community
representatives.
 Tomford, DCEO- Please send communications to everyone so we
can all share in that information regardless. It seems redundant and
it takes the other Commissioners out of the conversation.
 Messina- I agree with Kate
 Page, IEPA- I will send to full commission for review.
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Does it make sense to tackle each of these
individually or address at large. What is the best way to facilitate
specific points?
 Tomford, DCEO- Prior to doing an individual assessment I think
we should look at what the ideal response would look like. DCEO is
probably not fulfilling their optimal environmental justice goals.
What objectives are we working towards over time?
 Tomford, DCEO- To get down to programming level might be too
difficult. Seeing environmental justice at the general agency level
would be useful.
 Williams, DNR- Would be good to pinpoint overall role of DNR
and how we can look at this issue.
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Would it make sense to pull out common
themes from the questionnaires and look at strengths that can be
built upon.
 Tomford, DCEO- It would be useful to look at practices in place
and get the community perspective on what they find currently
valuable.
 Wasserman, LVEJO- Having a template that agencies can look at as
they are thinking about environmental justice in general would be
useful.
 Page, IEPA- There were opportunities identified within other
agencies. Look at programs that state agencies have and how it can
be utilized in the environmental justice discussion. Whether there
are opportunities for when we are doing environmental justice
assessment and determining how Department of Public Health can
assist us and they do. There will be areas identified that work well
with environmental justice.

 


















Wasserman, LVEJO- I can schedule a meeting with community
groups to get feedback.
Tomford, DCEO- Would feedback get to us by the full
Commission?
Wasserman, LVEJO- We will provide a summary of where the
subcommittee is and what is next to the full Commission. I will
schedule the feedback community group meeting at the next full
Commission meeting. I want to schedule that meeting within a
week of the full Commission meeting. There will be a two week
turn-around from March 20, 2014.
Page, IEPA- Should questions from full Commission come to me?
As state agencies we realize that we don’t always have the answers
and it may take time to get those answers.
Wasserman, LVEJO- Please send out one list of questions.
Page, IEPA- I will request review of environmental justice
questionnaires and solicit questions from them. Whatever other
questions arise about the environmental justice questionnaire will
come to me and I will outline which agency the question is for.
Delano, IDOT- What is the objective of going back and forth with
the questionnaires?
Page, IEPA- We wanted to get better participation from the other
Commissioners so we are sharing the environmental justice
questionnaires with the full Commissioner for feedback.
Delano, IDOT- So we aren’t just giving them the questionnaires for
informational purposes? I am just trying to see how effective we
can be. What is the next step to coordinate efforts and address
environmental justice?
Tomford, DCEO- What is the goal for agencies as they try to set in
place environmental justice policies?
Wasserman, LVEJO- There is no ideal. We want to make sure we
are capturing personal experiences from the work happening in
communities and determine how agencies can facilitate that
process. Where are there spaces for environmental justice and how
can opportunities be implemented on a base level. We want to meet
the agencies half-way and make sure it is something that you can do
based on where you are currently.
Messina, IERG- Lots of people had suggestions of what they want
to see from the agencies. One example is an environmental justice
policy. It is important to understand what they are currently doing
so there isn’t an overlap. I am surprised there aren’t more NGOs on
these calls. This has been an important exercise for me.
Wasserman, LVEJO- We are not looking to give people new
programming. We need to see if there is space for change. This
call is a great opportunity to be in dialogue with agencies. The
questionnaires were enlightening for me. Maybe it is a question of
making the existing framework stronger.

 












Messina, IERG- This process was very necessary.
Wasserman, LVEJO- There is crucial information that needs to go
to the Commission for feedback. We can’t just bring it up for
discussion if we aren’t going to dive in. I will do my part and have
a robust conversation with non-agency Commissioners, with the
understanding that this is a good start.
Delano, IDOT- We need to have an aggressive outreach effort to
the agencies.
Wasserman, LVEJO- I will pull non-agency folks aside during the
full Commission meeting. There will be a commitment to a
conference call. This is part of their work as Commissioners.
Because there is no sub-committee chair this is my responsibility.
This is a rare opportunity for us let’s make sure something comes
from this.
Tomford, DCEO- Dr. Washington alluded to people being
intimidated. Maybe we should elevate this conversation to a full
Commission issue.
Wasserman, LVEJO- Part of full Commission meeting agenda was
to report where the sub-committees are. We will not just review
subcommittee summaries but pull out action points and spend some
time speaking about it.
Page, IEPA- I will put this on the agenda for the full Commission
meeting.
Mitchell, IDPH- Full Commission will provide direction for
subcommittees. Minimum expectation of all state agencies is to
promote environmental justice.
Wasserman, LVEJO- We have a solid plan on our end. At the full
Commission meeting I will set the feedback meeting and we will
also set the next agency oversight subcommittee meeting.

VI.

Discussions/Presentations:

VII.

Next meeting date and location
Next subcommittee meeting will be scheduled at the full Commission meeting
on March 20, 2014.

VIII. Adjournment
12:46 p.m.

 