TERMAL



TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

 DthUll L11 1 LUL sen
?T-r 5? 0
ln Memoriam

DR. GEORGE EDWARD PIERCE

May 4, 1931 July 7, 2019

HEREAS: Dr. George Edward Pierce was born on Max 4. 1931. in Paris. Tennessee to the union ot Clara McKnight
and Andrew Pierce. He was raised by his step-mother. Alena. He was the \oungest of six children His
siblings Estelle. Ella. Erma, Andrew. and Salather, preceded him 1n death. He moved to the city of Detroit
when he was an infant; AND

WHEREAS: Dr. Pierce was educated in the Detroit Public Schools system excelling academically and in football. He
graduated from Northern High School and enlisted 1n the United States Army where he attained the rank
of Captain. Dr. Pierce attending Wayne State University and earned a Bachelor of Science tn Education
in 1957; Master of Science in Education in 1958, and Doctorate of Education with a concentration in
Administration and Supervision 1n 1966. He was one of the ?rst African- Americans to receiv a Doctorate
from Wayne State University; AND

WHEREAS: Dr. Pierce married the former Nellie Clark in 1952. To this union, three children. Greg. Kathi. and Troy
were born. Nellie Pierce preceded him in death in 1993; AND

WHEREAS: Dr. Pierce was a devoted educator and administrator in the Detroit Public School System. working for
more than 42 years. The majority of his career was with the Detroit Board of Education. He began as a
teacher and rose to curriculum administrator, assistant principal, assistant superintendent. the last 19 years
of his career as a Region/Area Superintendent. As a school leader and mentor, Dr. Pierce assisted man}.
while was his primary focus was servicing children in the City of Detroit, helping others obtain a career
in the Detroit Public School System, and encouraging students and colleagues to seek the highest possible
goals. Dr. Pierce was honored with a Spirit of Detroit Award for Educational Leadership, recognized by
the Michigan House of Representative, Michigan State Senate, Wayne County Commission for
Educational Leadership, and the State Department of Education for assisting in the development of an
exemplary secondary school; NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED: On this date, July 19, 2019, that Councilman Roy McCalister, Jr. and the entire Detroit City Council.
hereby present this testimonial resolution as an expression of gratitude and esteem, on behalf of the
residents of the City of Detroit, to honor the life and service of Dr. George Edward Pierce. We extend
our deepest sympathy andjoin with family and friends to celebrate the life of Dr. George Edward Pierce.

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



