SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
Central Gyros Restaurant
December 10, 2014, 2pm
Commissioners Present: Mike Valenti, John Toumplis, Kurt Koziol
Others Present: Reid Mackin, George Frei, Gary Harrity, Sr.
Quorum & Meeting Minutes
With a quorum having been determined to exist, Mike motioned to accept the August,
2014 minutes; Kurt seconded; and the minutes were approved unanimously by the
commissioners.
Finances/Administration
Year-to-date Profit & Loss statements and Balance Sheet were prepared and
presented. The P&L statements compared the current year with the previous year and
the actual versus the 2014 budget.
Five accounting firms were contacted to bid on the 2014 audit; three provided
proposals. Based on price and previous satisfactory experience, Mike motioned to
accept the proposal of Eilts & Associates to perform the 2014 audit; John seconded; the
motion was approved unanimously by the commissioners.
Kurt motioned to award a 10% bonus to the Executive Director/SSA Manager based on
his annual SSA salary and provide it on the December 24th paycheck; Mike seconded;
the motion was approved unanimously by the commissioners.
Garage Updates
Reid reported that two slip-and-fall accidents occurred in the Belmont-Central Parking
Facility during November. One accident required the response of the police and fire
department paramedics when a woman slipped on the ice and then was struck by an
auto. A police report was completed, and the event was captured on tape. The woman
was rushed to the hospital, but further details are unknown at this time. West Bend
Mutual was contacted by Brian Hayes regarding the accident.
A second accident was reported to Gary, but further details are unknown. No accident
report was completed, nor was the event seen on the security cameras.
New glass block windows have been installed in both the garage office and bathroom.

 The concrete repair project on the first ramp of the garage was completed in
September; however, when Spicer Construction returned in October to reinstall the
guard rails, it was discovered that the guard rail posts had been stolen. Spicer
Construction is now working to replace the posts in order to reinstall the guard rail.
Ten companies have been contacted to provide proposals for shot-blasting and
resealing the garage pavement. Three companies have provided proposals so far.
Chicago Event Graphics installed holiday garland on the light-poles throughout the
special service area in November.
The employee Christmas party will be held on December 22 at Central Gyros
Restaurant.
New Business
A tentative schedule for the 2015 SSA #2 Commissioners’ meetings was provided.

 