COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

MEETING MINUTES
Wednesday, June 18, 2014 (10 am – 12 noon)

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman

II.

Introductions
A. Springfield Videoconference
 Alec Messina, IERG
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Debbie Daugherty, IEPA
 Heather Nifong, IEPA
 Joe Mitchell, IDPH
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA
 Elmo Dowd, IEPA
B. Chicago Videoconference
 Kim Wasserman, LVEJO
 Kate Tomford– DCEO
 Keith Harley, Chicago Legal Clinic
 Elizabeth Butler (Law Student with Keith Harley)
 Veronica Kyle, Faith-N-Place
 Mary McDonald, IEPA
C. Teleconference
 Doris Turner, IDPH
 State Representative Chris Welch

III.

Approval of Agenda (electronic copy)
Motion- Alec Messina
Second- Joe Mitchell
Motion Carried

IV.

Approval of the Minutes (electronic copy)
1. March 20, 2014
Motion- Joe Mitchell
Second- Alec Messina
Motion Carried

 V.

Presentations/Discussions:
1. Agency Involvement/Oversight Sub-Committee
 All state agencies fill out the EJ Questionnaires.
 Sharonda Williams is no longer working for the IEPA
 Chairman Wasserman and other are working on a letter that
summarizes the results of each state agency EJ Questionnaire. The
questionnaire will be forwarded to all of the sub-committee members
for review before it is sent to the representatives of each state agency.

2. Brownfields Redevelopment Sub-Committee
•
Heather Nifong discussed Brownfields and the web portal.
Discussion
Chairwoman Wasserman:
Thank you for allowing me an opportunity to speak with the EJ Commission today about
brownfields issues.
From my prior conversation with the Brownfields Sub-Committee (March 2014) and
from talking further with Ken Page, it appears that many of the concerns raised by your
members are ones voiced previously by local government officials struggling with the
challenges posed by abandoned commercial and industrial sites.
Because of how the state and federal brownfields programs are structured, the majority of
our support goes directly to units of local government. As a result, tools that work well
for governing bodies may not suit community-based organizations or non-profits,
particularly in instances where the community group does not or cannot take ownership
of the brownfields site for purposes of cleanup and redevelopment. Nonetheless, I want to
share with you materials that I think will be of great benefit to the Commission.
Ten years ago Illinois EPA partnered with economic researchers at the Illinois Institute of
Rural Affairs (IIRA) to study the problem of brownfields from a local government
perspective. IIRA surveyed mayors statewide, investigated the reasons for brownfields
cleanup and reuse success, and prepared case studies detailing projects in five cities:
Alton, Calumet, Monticello, Sterling and Chicago. The full report, Brownfields Cleanup
and Reuse in Illinois Municipalities, is available here:
http://www.iira.org/pubs/publications/IIRA_Reports_628.pdf
IIRA’s primary conclusion is that returning brownfield sites to productive use depends on
a collaborative effort initiated and sustained by local leaders.
IIRA also created shorter, summary documents for widespread use by people new to
brownfields. Attached are two of those documents that I think EJ Commission members
would find extremely helpful in guiding their future efforts. I’d be glad to work with the
Commission in re-purposing these documents for use on the web portal.

 Illinois EPA’s Bureau of Land will also work with you to identify ways to improve
access and understanding of our cleanup site databases. As I cautioned on the call, these
databases have limited utility because they do not identify all brownfield sites. We know
that brownfield sites exist in every community; however, not every site poses an actual
health threat and not every site is viable for reuse.
To reiterate, Illinois EPA does not maintain a statewide inventory of brownfield sites for
three reasons:
1.

No objective criteria exist for labeling a brownfield site. The definition of
brownfields as “a parcel of real property, or a portion of the parcel, that has actual
or perceived contamination and an active potential for redevelopment” [Section
58.2 of the Act] leaves plenty of room for interpretation.

2.

There’s a stigma attached to the brownfields label – a presumption of
contamination – so property owners don’t want their real estate to be identified
that way.

3.

Maintaining a list would be extraordinarily difficult given the volume of sites
(every closed gas station, drycleaner, manufacturing facility, etc.).

Even if a full inventory were available, it wouldn’t bring anyone closer to taking action
on one particular site. That’s the trick to successful brownfields projects – they all start
with someone at the local level who is already aware of a site, considering ways to re-use
it, and persistent enough to follow through on funding and partnership opportunities.
Finally, I would like to share with you links to other resources that you may find
valuable:
How Can You Help Environmental Justice Communities Create an Oasis in a Food
Desert?
http://blog.epa.gov/blog/2012/04/how-can-you-help-environmental-justice-communitiescreate-an-oasis-in-a-food-desert/
One Prescription for Healthier Brownfield Communities – A Community Clinic Please!
http://blog.epa.gov/ej/2012/10/community-clinic-please/
USEPA’s Land Revitalization Team (Jim Van der Kloot)
http://www.epa.gov/landrevitalization/download/lrstrategybrochure0711.pdf
Delta Institute in Chicago
http://delta-institute.org/capabilities/#capabilities-section-5
USEPA’s Technical Assistance to Brownfields Communities Program
http://www.epa.gov/brownfields/tools/EPA_TAB_Bifold_Final-508_05-21-13.pdf

 









VI.

Veronica Kyle – discussed having connections to people with resources
that can help communities. She recently met with Brian Nafu (sp.?),
consultant with Weaver Boos and he works with communities.
Heather Nifong discussed repurposing Brownfields for community
needs. Example: 1) grocery stores where there are food deserts, 2)
health clinics where there is a lack of medical facilities.
Keith Harley – How can community based organizations identify
Brownfields by location?
Keith Harley – How can community groups participate in Brownfields?
Need to encourage community involvement.
Keith Harley – Facilitate community based organizations to lead
Brownfields redevelopment.
Keith Harley – State of Michigan utilizes a Land Bank.
Elmo Dowd – Cook County took tax delinquent properties and gave
them to community groups. This did not work out because most
community groups could not sustain the properties.
Veronica Kyle – Neighbors Space is a good organization to work with.
Kate Tomford and Elmo Dowd – discussed the CDAP program at
DCEO. The CDAP program is for non-entitlement communities.

Old Business
1. Off-site meeting locations (what should be required to host?)
 Transit accessible
 Parking availability
 Meeting room capacity of 25-30 people
 Has to be ADA compliant
 Need to have the meeting location confirmed (and everything worked
out) 30 days before the next scheduled meeting.
Motion - Kim Wasserman
Second - Veronica Kyle
Motion carried
2. Ethics Training
Everyone has submitted their ethics training
3. Representation on the Commission
 Just because your term have expired does not mean that you are off the
Commission. There is usually a lapse in time before you are removed
from the Commission.
 If you were appointed to the Commission as an individual…you cannot
have someone else to represent you on the Commission in your
absence.

 4. Commissioner’s Responsibilities
 Both the EJ Commission factsheet and the Open Meetings Act factsheet
were discussed.
VII.

Open Discussion/Questions
 Chairman Wasserman congratulated Commissioner Dr. Washington on
the opening of the Sustainability Center in Aurora.

VIII. Next meeting date and location


IX.

3rd Quarter of 2014
Wednesday, September 17, 2014 @ 10 am.

Adjournment
11:16 a.m.

 