SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
Central Gyros Restaurant
January 31, 2018, 2pm

Commissioners Present: Mike Valenti, John Toumplis
Others Present: Kelli Matias (Metro Sales), Larry Lynch (Coldwell Banker), Justin Heath
(36th Ward), Darlene Ortiz (Mr. Good Oil), Roman Sokolov (Electronic Engineers), Reid
Mackin (BCCC), Marie Field, Yvonne Dennard, Josephine Crosse, Mark Roschen
(DPD), Paul Riesz (DPD) Cindy Santana, (NWSHC) Kelly Rauch (Twice), Ald.
Reboyras (30th Ward), Angel Rivera (30th Ward) Teresa Kovacs (Central Pharmacy),
Jolonte Livlie (Hetman Deli), Zbigniew Kruczalak, (D&Z House of Books), Juan
Espinosa (E-Professional Realty), Bob Lichtenbert (Belmont Cragin United), Jerzy Zajac
(Zrodlo Books), Manager (Polamer USA).

Quorum & Meeting Minutes
With two commissioners present, a quorum was determined to exist. Mike motioned to
accept the September minutes; John seconded the motion, and the motion was
approved unanimously.

Administration
The Commission has three vacancies. Darlene Ortiz, Kelly Rauch, Zbigniew Kruczalak,
Juan Espinosa and Roman Sokolov have submitted applications for appointments to be
commissioners. Mike Valenti and John Toumplis have submitted their renewal
applications. A required training workshop for newly-appointed commissioners will be
held @ City Hall on March 14. Ethics statements for current commissioners will need to
be submitted to Cook County and the City of Chicago by May 1 and May 31
respectively.
On January 4, 2018, accountants from Baker Tilly visited the chamber office to perform
a review of chamber financial policies as related to the SSA. A report of the review is
forthcoming. Eilts & Associates has begun the document-collection phase for the 2017
audit that is due to the City of Chicago by May 1.
Finances
Three financial statements were presented: (1) 2017 Balance Sheet vs. 2016; (2) 2017
Profit & Loss vs. 2016; (3) 2017 Actual vs. 2017 budget.

 Garage Maintenance & Repair
The garage lighting project to replace the current high-sodium bulbs with LEDs has
been substantially completed. ComEd’s Energy Efficiency Program paid for 80% of the
$30,000 project. In addition, the January electric bill was $500 less than last year’s bill,
and electrical usage decreased by 33%.
In the New Year, the chamber will be getting bids to replace the doors in the garage as
well as replacing the electrical sign.
New Business
The next scheduled meeting is Tuesday, April 24, 2018 to review and approve the 2017
audit.

 