SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
5534 W. Belmont Avenue
July 10, 2018, 2pm
Commissioners Present: Darlene Ortiz, Zbigniew Kruczalak, Kelly Rauch, John
Toumplis, Mark Roschen (DPD-Ex Officio)
Commissioners Absent: Mike Valenti
Others Present: Paul Reise (DPD), Lois Planthaber (30th Ward), Reid Mackin (BCCC),
Larry Lynch (Coldwell Banker), Edgar Esparza (Observer), Michael Caldarulo (BCCC).
Quorum & Meeting Minutes
With five commissioners present, a quorum was determined to exist. Kelly requested
the May minutes be amended to show her motion to “dissolve the garage” and “give it
back to the City.” This request was contested and declined for lack of substantiation,
and Kelly and Zbigniew withdrew from the meeting. John motioned to accept the May
minutes; Darlene seconded the motion, and the motion was approved with three
affirmative votes (John, Darlene, Mark) and two not voting (Kelly, Zbigniew).
Finances
Three financial statements were presented: (1) Historical SSA Tax Levy Chart from
2009 to 2019; (2) 2018 First Half Balance Sheet versus 2017; (3) 2018 Actual vs.
Budget.
2019 Budget, Workplan & Service Provider
John motioned to accept the proposed 2019 SSA#2 budget; Darlene seconded the
motion, and the motion was approved by three votes in the affirmative (Mark, Darlene,
John) and two not voting (Kelly, Zbigniew).
Darlene motioned to accept the proposed 2019 SSA#2workplan; John seconded the
motion, and the motion was approved by three votes in the affirmative (Mark, Darlene,
John) and two not voting (Kelly, Zbigniew).
Darlene motioned to accept the Belmont-Central Chamber of Commerce as the 2019
Sole Service Provider for SSA #2; John seconded the motion, and the motion was
approved by three votes in the affirmative (Mark, Darlene, John) and two not voting
(Kelly, Zbigniew).

 Garage Maintenance & Repair
Reid reported that emergency repairs had to be made to the deteriorating stairs in the
Central Avenue stairwell. One quote has already been received to fix the ceiling leaks,
replace the flashing, and replace the second floor door. More quotes will be submitted.
A matrix of potential contractors for the 2018-2019 snow-removal season was
presented. John motioned to accept Imperial Landscaping’s two contracts for
November-December 2018 and January-April 2019. Darlene seconded the motion, and
it was approved by three votes in the affirmative (Mark, Darlene, John) and two not
voting (Kelly, Zbigniew).
Reid explained that the chamber has a three-year agreement with Eilts & Associates to
perform the annual SSA audit. The cost of an annual audit is $2000 per the agreement
versus $3000 without the agreement. John motioned to accept Eilts’ proposal to
perform the 2018 audit. Darlene seconded the motion, and it was approved by three
votes in the affirmative (Mark, Darlene, John) and two not voting (Kelly, Zbigniew).
New Business
Reid reported that he will be visiting Chinatown on July 12 to inspect its parking facilities
and learn about its paid parking procedures and equipment. On the same day, Reid will
be meeting with 30th Ward Alderman Reboyras to present the 2019 SSA budget and
workplan in order to gain the alderman’s review and support.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 3pm.

 