SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
Central Gyros Restaurant
September 26, 2017, 2pm
Commissioners Present: Mike Valenti, John Toumplis
Others Present: David Potete (Northwest Church), Larry Lynch (Coldwell Banker), Kevin
Lamm (31st Ward), Darlene Ortiz (Mr. Good Oil), Michael Caldarulo (BCCC), Reid
Mackin (BCCC).

Quorum & Meeting Minutes
With two commissioners present, a quorum was determined to exist. Mike motioned to
accept the July minutes; John seconded the motion, and the motion was approved
unanimously.

Administration
The Commission has three vacancies after Kurt Koziol’s resignation in June. Darlene
Ortiz, manager of Mr. Good Oil & Car Wash, has submitted an application for
appointment to commissioner.
In 2016, Eilts & Associates submitted a proposal to perform the annual audit for three
years at $2000 per audit. John motioned to accept Eilts & Associates proposal to
perform the 2017 audit; Mike seconded the motion, and the motion was approved
unanimously.

Finances
Three financial statements were presented: (1) Year-to-date Balance Sheet vs. 2016;
(2) YTD Profit & Loss vs. 2016; (3) 2017 Actual vs. 2017 budget.

Garage Maintenance & Repair
Three proposals for replacing the current garage lighting with LED lighting have been
received and were presented to the commissioners in a matrix format.
Mike motioned to accept Verde Sustainable Solution’s proposal with the following
conditions: (1) if necessary, can lighting be changed from 45-watt to 60-watt; (2) can the

 AC unit be upgraded with incentives; (3) can the hot-water tank be upgraded with
incentives. John seconded the motion, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Three proposals have been received for snow removal services for the 2017-18 season;
the commissioners were presented a matrix of the proposals for their consideration.
Mike motioned to accept Imperial Landscaping’s proposal for 2017-18 snow-removal
services; John seconded the motion, and the motion was approved unanimously.

New Business
Mike motioned to grant a year-end bonus to the executive director equal to the amount
budgeted for 2017; John seconded the motion, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
The next scheduled meeting is Tuesday, January 23, 2018.

 