SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
Central Gyros Restaurant
February 26, 2014, 2pm
Commissioners Present: Mike Valenti, John Toumplis, Kurt Koziol, Gina Buda
Others Present: Reid Mackin, Sara Weems, Pete Schmugge, Michael Pedroza

Quorum & Meeting Minutes Approval
With a quorum having been determined to exist, Mike motioned to accept the
December, 2013 minutes; John seconded; the minutes were approved unanimously by
the commissioners.
SSA Commissioners’ Statements
Statements of Financial Interest that are required to be completed and submitted by all
City employees and commissioners to the Board of Ethics by June 1 were distributed.

Finances
The unaudited 2013 Budget vs. Actual statement and Balance Sheet were prepared
and presented. The 2014 year-to-date Profit & Loss statement and Balance Sheet were
also prepared and presented.

Garage Updates
The commissioners expressed satisfaction with this season’s snow removal performed
by Allstar Towing & Snowplowing.
Vintech reported it was unable to install the PTZ controller/joystick because of defects to
the current PTZ cameras. Vintech recommended replacing the cameras at a cost of
$4035. Vintech also supplied a quote of $1175 for two fixed replacement cameras.
Mike suggested the PTZ cameras are only as effective as the attendants monitoring the
cameras and controlling the joystick. Gina motioned to approve the installation of the
fixed cameras; Mike seconded the motion, and the motion was approved unanimously.

 The window in the garage bathroom is broken and needs to be replaced. Mike decided
that the window is an emergency repair that does not require the commissioners’
approval. Gina recommended contacting Star-Tech Glass to replace the window with
glass block.
Gina announced that Best Neon Sign Company will be installing an illuminated sign
above chamber office’s storefront. Gina believes a similar sign erected at the parking
facility will benefit all the businesses in the SSA.
The current employee overcoats are old and worn. Bids for new coats were solicited
from Grainger, Cabella’s and ACES. Kurt motioned to accept ACES’ proposal; Mike
seconded the motion, and the motion was approved unanimously.

Chamber/Other Business
The Chamber is rescheduling its Affordable Care Act workshop from March 20 to a date
to be determined because of the 25th District CAPS meeting being held that day.

 