SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
Central Gyros Restaurant
July 13, 2016, 2pm
Commissioners Present: Kurt Koziol, Mike Valenti, John Toumplis, Gina Buda
Others Present: Alderman Gilbert Villegas, Larry Lynch, Darlene Ortiz, Joe Hackl, Kevin
Lamm, Aaron Roppolo, Bob Garza, Tim Gibbons, Michael Caldarulo, Reid Mackin,
Isaiah Fernandez, Mary Ann Miller.
Quorum & Meeting Minutes
With four commissioners present, a quorum was determined to exist. Mike motioned to
accept the April minutes; Kurt seconded the motion, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Administration
Bob Garza of Wilson Salvage has submitted his application for the one vacancy on the
SSA Commission.
Finances
Five financial statements were presented: (1) the historical tax chart; (2) Year-to-date
Profit & Loss vs. 2015; (3) Year-to-date vs. 2016 budget; (4) Current Balance Sheet; (5)
proposed 2017 budget.
The 2017 budget and work-plan were presented and reviewed by the commission. Mike
motioned to accept the 2017 budget as presented; Gina seconded the motion, and the
motion was approved unanimously.
Mike motioned to accept the 2017 work-plan as presented; Gina seconded the motion,
and the motion was approved unanimously.
Mike motioned to accept the Belmont-Central Chamber of Commerce as the 2017 sole
service provider for SSA #2; Gina seconded the motion, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Garage Maintenance & Repair
The commissioners reviewed the Resurfacing & Sealing Matrix and interviewed Joe
Hackl and Aaron Roppolo of Superior Surfaces regarding their quote. Mike also asked

 Joe and Aaron to include the garage stairwells as part of their scope of work, and Joe
and Aaron agreed.
Mike motioned to accept Superior Surface’s bid and scope of work for the powerwashing of the entire garage and the application of two coats of sealer; John seconded
the motion, and the motion was approved unanimously.
The commission reviewed the two snow-removal quotes and interviewed Tim Gibbons
of TSI regarding his quote, but the commissioners decided against selecting a
contractor until the next meeting.
Next Meeting
The next scheduled meeting is September 28 to select a snow-removal contractor and
decide on holiday decorations.

 