Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Technology and Innovation Committee
Thursday, July 25, 2019

11:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-4743
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/14/2019

Page 1 of 2

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Technology and Innovation
Committee

July 25, 2019

19-4065
Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Report Title: Semi-Annual Major Project Report
Report Period: 12/1/2017 - 6/30/2019
Summary:

Commissioners

Pursuant to resolution No. 17-6199, the President and the Cook County Board of
have

requested

semi-annual

status

updates

on

progress

being

made

towards

implementation of major technology projects.
Legislative History: 6/27/2019 Board of Commissioners refer to the Technology and Innovation Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Tobolski
Vice-Chairman: S. Morrison
Members:
Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Miller, K. Morrison and Silvestri

Page 2 of 2

the

 