COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
NO QUORUM
MEETING NOTES
Wednesday, December 13, 2017 (10:30 am – 12:00pm)
I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chair

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
• Commissioner Millard Driskell
• Sabrina Hardenburg
• Stephanie Bilenko – NEIS
• Commissioner Kyle – Faith in Place
B. Videoconference Chicago
• Commissioner Kim Wasserman, Chairman
• Commissioner Keith Harley
C. Videoconference Springfield
• Commissioner Chris Pressnall, IEPA, Environmental Justice Officer
• Commissioner Peck - IMA
• Alec Davis - IERG
• Kelly Thompson – IERG
• Crystal Wilkins – Illinois EPA
• Elizabeth Rupel - Illinois EPA
• Victoria Martin – Illinois EPA
• Commissioner Baker – DHS - Housing

III.

Approval of Agenda
Commissioner Driskell moved to approve the minutes; Commissioner Peck seconded
Commissioner Driskell’s motion. Motion carried.

IV.

Presentations/ Discussions
• Status of DCFS lead rules applicable to daycare providers – Commissioner Harley
o Provided a history of the legislation, highlighting the need for the legislation
because daycare centers were not being treated the same as schools especially
since children are most at risk when they are young
o Referenced the memorandum previously circulated to the EJ Commission
o Not an issue unique to EJ Communities
o DCFS, in consultation with IDPH, to develop rules for lead testing in daycare
centers
o December 6, 2017, DCFS released guidance
o As actual rules are developed, the EJ Commission may want to engage in the
process, Commissioner Harley will continue to monitor
o Recommended no EJ Commission action at this time
• Update on IPA filing of draft Long-Term Renewable Resources Plan – Commissioner
Pressnall
o Emphasized that the IPA clarified in the plan filed with the Illinois Commerce
Commission indicated that census block group would be utilized in determining
EJ Communities as opposed to census block or census tract

 o Evaluation is a robust component of the Illinois Solar for All program as related
to the definition of EJ Community and the IPA specifically stated that it would
work with the EJ Commission and the Illinois EPA during the evaluation process
o Self-selection is still an option and would be a part of the evaluation process

V.

New Business
A. Commission Appointees
• Commissioner Pressnall
o Hopeful that 2018 would result in new appointments to the commission
• Commissioner Kyle
o Is there any way to suggest an appointee?
• Commissioner Pressnall
o At this point, it is an informal process: send email to
chris.pressnall@illinois.gov with name of those interested
• Chair Wasserman
o Indicated that should would provide a list of names for consideration
B. Commissioner Peck stepping down from Commission
• Commissioner Peck
o Taking new position outside of manufacturing industry.
o His seat designated for manufacturing representative, and therefore will be
stepping down.
o IMA will work with the Governor’s Office to get the seat filled.
C. Next Steps at ICC
• Commissioner Harley
o Will know soon if there will be an evidentiary hearing on IPA’s draft LongTerm Renewable Resources Plan
• Sabrina Hardenburgh
o Asked if this was related to Ameren hearings
o Commissioners did not think the issues were related

VI.

Old Business

VII.

Open Discussion/ Questions

VIII.

Next meeting date and location
Wednesday, January 24, 2018, 10:30 am – 12:30 pm

IX.

Adjournment

 