COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

SUB-Committee MEETING
Clean Power Plan
Minutes
Monday, March 7, 2016 (10 am)
Teleconference
I. Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Co-Chair
Diane Lopez Hughes – Co-Chair
II. Introductions
Veronica Halloway, Sharonda Williams, Chris Pressnall, Stephon Bishop, Ken Page, Kevin Greene,
Jim Ross, Keith Harley, Dulce Ortiz, Tabitha Tripp, Stephanie Bilenko, Juliana Pino, Sabrina
Hardenbergh
III. Approval of Agenda
IV. Discussions/Presentations:
A. Clean Power Plan update – Jim Ross and Kevin Greene
Deadline removed from the initial response on the plan
Listening Sessions are still being considered but the schedule may be delayed
Question: Sharonda – Yes or No on doing the listening sessions?
- Listening Sessions are likely to happen, but the concern is when. Guess – later this year
Question: Diane – Can the Governor’s office change/influence information on DC Circuit
ruling?
-Governor’s office has final say on everything, yet listening sessions are still likely to happen.
-Approximately 10 locations for listening sessions
Kim Wasserman – What will listening sessions look like? (Discuss more in the next meeting)
B. HB5946/Sb2920; Amends the Environmental Justice Act
Adds six new voting members to the Environmental Justice Commission bringing the total
number to 25 (the Director of the Department on Aging was dropped from the
Commission). Also requires the Commission to review and provide comments to the
Illinois EPA on the state plan for compliance with the Clean Power Plan (CPP) before the
Agency can submit said plan to the USEPA. Requires the Illinois EPA to respond to the
Commission’s comments and modify the state plan in response to such comments.
Effective immediately. Identical to SB 2920.

Question: Sharonda – How do senators and legislators feel about the legislation?
- Positive reactions, they recognize the need for it (Kim Wasserman)

 C. Definition of Environmental Justice/Environmental Justice Community
Discussion on the definition of EJ communities vs vulnerable communities relative to the
Clean Power Plan.
Definition of EJ communities: Minority & Low Income
Definition of Vulnerable Communities relative to Clean Power Plan: Combination of Factors
Diane: Check on other states to see their approach and processes
D. Holding evening meetings/conference calls
How often? Every Two weeks? – Undecided (Kim Wasserman will send out doodle to get
consensus on the best meeting time and frequency.
E. Illinois NAACP Lobby Day and Roundtable/Energy Policy, May 4 and 5, 2016 in
Springfield, Illinois

V. Old Business
N/A
VI. Next meeting date and location
TBD
VII. Adjournment @ 11;15 am

 