SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
Central Gyros Restaurant
July 27, 2017, 2pm
Commissioners Present: Mike Valenti, John Toumplis
Others Present: Officer Kevin Kilmer (CPD), Chuck Bourgeois (TSI), Tim Gibbons (TSI),
Kevin Lamm (31st Ward), Annette Vega (Private Bank), Darlene Ortiz (Mr. Good Oil),
Michael Caldarulo (BCCC), Reid Mackin (BCCC).
Quorum & Meeting Minutes
With two commissioners present, a quorum was determined to exist. Mike motioned to
accept the April minutes; John seconded the motion, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Administration
The Commission has three vacancies due Kurt Koziol’s resignation in June. Darlene
Ortiz, manager of Mr. Good Oil & Car Wash, will be submitting an application for
appointment to commissioner.
Finances
Five financial statements were presented: (1) Ten-year Historical SSA Tax Levy Chart;
(2) First Half Balance Sheet vs. 2016; (3) First Half Profit & Loss vs. 2016; (4) First Half
vs. 2017 budget; (5) proposed 2018 SSA budget.
Mike motioned to accept the proposed 2018 SSA budget; John seconded the motion,
and the motion was approved unanimously.
Mike motioned to accept the 2018 SSA workplan; John seconded the motion, and the
motion was approved unanimously.
Mike motioned to accept the Belmont-Central Chamber of Commerce as the Sole
Service Provider for SSA #2; John seconded the motion, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Garage Maintenance & Repair
Reid explained that the 2018 budget has $30,000 allocated for a lighting upgrade. Bids
for the upgrade are now being accepted.

 Three bids have been received for snow removal services for the 2017-18 season; the
commissioners were presented a matrix of the bids for their consideration.
John asked that new signage be included in the lighting upgrade. The current lighted
sign is non-functioning and obsolete. An RFP for a new sign as well as a message
board/kiosk that was requested by 30th Ward Alderman Reboyras will be issued.
The next scheduled meeting is Tuesday, October 3, 2017.

 