COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

MEETING MINUTES
Wednesday, November 16, 2016 (10:00 am – 12:00 noon)

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Commissioner Millard Driskell
 Susanna Figueroa –Faith –n- Place
B. Videoconference Chicago
 Commissioner Kim Wasserman, Chairman
 Commissioner Keith Harley
 Julianna Pino – LVEJO
 Commissioner Veronica Kyle
 Stephanie Bilenko - NEIS
 Commissioner Veronica Kyle
 Julie Friedman – Midwest Energy Efficiency Allience
C. Videoconference Springfield
 Ken Page - Illinois EPA
 Chris Pressnall – Illinois EPA
 Commissioner Brenda Carter
 Gina Roccaforte – Illinois EPA
 Elizabeth Rupel – Illinois EPA
 Alec Messina – Illinois EPA, Director

III.

Approval of Agenda (electronic copy)
 Moved by – Commissioner Kim Wasserman
 Second- Commissioner’s Driskell and Kyle
Motion carried

IV.

Approval of the Minutes
February 3, 2016 (electronic copy)
 Moved by – Commissioner Driskell
 Second – Commissioner Carter
Motion carried

 V.

Presentations/Discussions:
A. IEPA status on the Clean Power Plan by Alec Messina, Director, IEPA.
The IEPA is still meeting with stakeholders. The next month we can expect
to see changes. Director Messina invited everyone to contact him via his
email.
 Questions
Keith Harley – what is the plan to resource the Commission with Ken Page’s
pending retirement? Director Messina anticipates that over the next months
posting the job position to replace Ken Page.
Gina Roccoaforte – Legal decision from the Court is expected by the end of this
year or next year on the Clean Power Plan.
Julie Friedman – was working with Kevin Greene and Jim Ross on the Clean
Power Plan’s Clean Energy Incentive Programs,
Julianna Pino – The work could be great and fruitful regardless of the outcome of
the Clean Power Plan.
B. Clean Power Plan Subcommittee re-cap – EJ Definition
- What definition should be used for Environmental Justice in the Clean Power
Plan The definition should encompass everything. Review the Federal and State
definitions. Invite EJ groups and EJ organizations to present to the EJ
Commission on what they are working on and what they consider an EJ
Community.
-

EJ Commission members could take a bus trip to Cairo to see how they
are dealing with EJ issues. How can the IEPA work to help facilitate this?

-

Can the EJ mailing list be released to the EJ Commission? The Commission
can use it to reach out to different communities and community members.

-

Videoconference locations in Southern Illinois , Springfield and Chicago so
that everyone can attend.

-

How can we move forward with Waukegan? How can help be given to
Waukegan to address environmental issued?

D. Update on EJ Commission changes in 2017.
P.A. 99-541/SB 2920 – signed into law July 8, 2016; effective January 1, 2017.
Adds four new voting members to the Commission while eliminating one thereby
bringing the total number of Commission members to 24. Replaces the Director
of the Department on Aging with a representative of the housing office of the
Department of Human Services (DHS). Specifically, adds members (all to be
Appointed by the Governor) representing a statewide organization representing
Manufacturers, an organization representing the energy sector, a statewide
Labor federation representing more than one international union, and an
organization representing workers in the energy sector. See Attachment “A”

 VI.

New Business:
- Harley – Send the lead in drinking water out to the full EJ Commission. Lead
in drinking water in Illinois Childcare facilities. See Attachmentt “B”.
Make this an agenda item going forward with the Commission.
- Pino – working on SB550. Will contact Jen Wallings, Illinois Environmental
Council, regarding the last summary of the bill.
- Driskell – Just turning the water off is not a fix for the lead contamination.
- Harley – The Commission needs to work with the Illinois Department of
Public Health and the Department of Children and Family Serviceson lead
safety in drinking water in child care facilities.

VII.

Old Business
None

VIII.

Open Discussions/Questions
None

IX.

Next Meeting
 1st Quarter in 2017

X.

Adjournment
 At 11:23 am

Attachment “A”
SB2920 Enrolled
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

LRB099 19775 MGM 44173 b

AN ACT concerning safety.
Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois,
represented in the General Assembly:
Section 5. The Environmental Justice Act is amended by
changing Section 10 as follows:
(415 ILCS 155/10)
Sec. 10. Commission on Environmental Justice.
(a) The Commission on Environmental Justice is established
and consists of the following 24 20 voting members:

 (1) 2 members of the Senate, one appointed by the

10
11

President of the Senate and the other by the Minority

12

Leader of the Senate, each to serve at the pleasure of the

13
14
15

appointing officer;
(2) 2 members of the House of Representatives, one

16

and the other by the Minority Leader of the House of

17

Representatives, each to serve at the pleasure of the

18
19
20

appointing officer;
(3) the following ex officio members: the Director of

21

Economic Opportunity or his or her designee, the Director

22

of the Environmental Protection Agency or his or her

23

designee, the Director of Natural Resources or his or her

appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives

Aging or his or her designee, the Director of Commerce and

SB2920 Enrolled

-2-

LRB099 19775 MGM 44173 b

1

designee, the Director of Public Health or his or her

2

designee, and the Secretary Director of Transportation or

3

his or her designee, and a representative of the housing

4

office of the Department of Human Services appointed by the

5
6
7
8
9
10
11

Secretary of Human Services; and
(4) 14 10 members appointed by the Governor who
represent the following interests:
(i) at least 4 members of affected communities
concerned with environmental justice;
(ii) at least 2 members of business organizations
including one member representing a statewide

12

organization representing manufacturers and one member

13

representing an organization representing the energy

14
15
16
17

sector;

18
19
20
21
22
23

(iii) environmental organizations;
(iv) experts on environmental health and
environmental justice;
(v) units of local government; and
(vi) members of the general public who have an
interest or expertise in environmental justice; and .
(vii) at least 2 members of labor organizations
including one member from a statewide labor federation
representing more than one international union and one

 24

member from an organization representing workers in

25
26

the energy sector.
(b) Of the initial members of the Commission appointed by

SB2920 Enrolled
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

-3-

LRB099 19775 MGM 44173 b

the Governor, 5 shall serve for a 2-year term and 5 shall serve
for a 1-year term, as designated by the Governor at the time of
appointment. Thereafter, the members appointed by the Governor
shall serve 2-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same
manner as appointments. Members of the Commission appointed by
the Governor may not receive compensation for their service on
the Commission and are not entitled to reimbursement for
expenses.
(c) The Governor shall designate a Chairperson from among
the Commission's members. The Commission shall meet at the call
of the Chairperson, but no later than 90 days after the
effective date of this Act and at least quarterly thereafter.
(d) The Commission shall:
(1) advise State entities on environmental justice and
related community issues;
(2) review and analyze the impact of current State laws
and policies on the issue of environmental justice and

18
19
20

sustainable communities;
(3) assess the adequacy of State and local laws to

21
22
23

communities;
(4) develop criteria to assess whether communities in

24
25
26

issues; and
(5) recommend options to the Governor for addressing

address the issue of environmental justice and sustainable

the State may be experiencing environmental justice

issues, concerns, or problems related to environmental

SB2920 Enrolled

-4-

LRB099 19775 MGM 44173 b

1

justice that surface after reviewing State laws and

2

policies, including prioritizing areas of the State that

3
4

need immediate attention.
(e) On or before October 1, 2011 and each October 1

 5
6
7
8
9

thereafter, the Commission shall report its findings and
recommendations to the Governor and General Assembly.
(f) The Environmental Protection Agency shall provide
administrative and other support to the Commission.
(Source: P.A. 97-391, eff. 8-16-11.)
Home   Legislation & Laws   House   Senate   My Legislation   Disclaimers   Email

Attachment “B”

Date: November 15, 2016
From: Keith Harley, Member of Illinois Environmental Justice Commission and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency Environmental Justice Advisory Group
Yelena Klairmont, Law Clerk, Chicago Legal Clinic, Inc.
To:
Kimberly Wasserman, Chair, Illinois Environmental Justice Commission
Ken Page, Environmental Justice Officer, Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency
Re:
Children in Illinois Child Care Facilities Receive No Legal Protections From
Lead Threats in Drinking Water – The Problem and Potential Remedies
This memo analyzes whether children in Illinois child care facilities receive meaningful
legal protection from lead threats in drinking water. Based on a review of the federal
Safe Drinking Water Act, the Illinois Lead Poisoning Protection Act and the Illinois
Child Care Act, we conclude that children in Illinois child care facilities receive virtually
no legal protections from lead threats in drinking water. In Illinois, it is possible to
operate a legally-compliant child care facility without testing, disclosing or abating lead
hazards in the drinking water. Moreover, these laws impose no requirements on
government agencies to assess lead threats in drinking water in child care facilities. This
is true even if a child is identified as having an elevated lead blood level. This is true
even though all preschool children are especially susceptible to the toxic effects of lead
exposure, which can cause permanent developmental injuries. 1
The good news is that this omission in basic safety standards to protect children can be
remedied even in the absence of legislation. The Illinois Department of Public Health
can use its existing authority to amend the regulations implementing the Illinois Lead
Poisoning Prevention Act. New IDPH regulations to address lead threats in drinking
water are appropriate because child care facilities are expressly within the definition of
“regulated facilities” under the Illinois Lead Poisoning Prevention Act.2 Similarly, the
1
2

https://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/toxprofiles/tp.asp?id=96&tid=22
410 ILCS 45/2

 Department of Children and Family Services can use its existing authority under the
Child Care Act to amend the licensing regulations that control the operations of every
licensed child care facility. New DCFS regulations are appropriate because they would
build upon an existing, but only general requirement for licensed child care facilities to
provide safe and sanitary water.3 Finally, public and community water suppliers can
provide lead risk assessment and response resources for their child care facility water
consumers, using existing, off-the-shelf U.S. EPA guidance documents. 4 These suppliers
can also develop enhanced safety protocols in situations when physical alterations of the
water supply infrastructure could create elevated risks to water supplies in child care
facilities.

I. The Safe Drinking Water Act Does Not Require Child Care Facilities to Assess,
Disclose or Abate Lead Threats In Drinking Water.
The federal Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) directs U.S. EPA to establish regulatory
standards for several contaminants that can be found in drinking water including lead. 5
The SDWA also requires the suppliers of drinking water – larger public water suppliers
and smaller community water suppliers – to ensure the drinking water they deliver to
consumers meets these risk-based standards. 6 These public and community water
suppliers must regularly test for and publically disclose the concentrations of
contaminants like lead.7 If a public water supplier fails to meet the federal standards for
regulated substances like lead, it can be subject to an enforcement action brought by the
EPA, state regulators and/or citizens.
The SDWA regulates public and community water supplies and suppliers, but not
individual building owners and operators. Under the SDWA, there is no requirement for
any building owner or operator to test the quality of the water at the tap. Moreover, the
SDWA does not require building owners and operators to determine if the drinking water
lines on their property and in their buildings are lead-safe, even in older buildings.
Notably, many public and community water suppliers continue to distribute water
through old lead-containing infrastructure. This is not prohibited. Instead, EPA
regulations require suppliers to add anti-corrosion agents that can prevent lead from
leaching from public and private pipes. 8 EPA acknowledges this technique may not be
completely successful, and that additional measures may be required including the

3

89 IAC 407.370(h).
https://www.epa.gov/dwreginfo/lead-drinking-water-schools-and-child-care-facilities
5
A comprehensive description of the Safe Drinking Water Act and U.S. EPA’s initiatives to implement its
requirements can be found at: https://www.epa.gov/sdwa
6
EPA’s Table with regulated contaminants and regulatory limits including for lead can be found here:
https://www.epa.gov/ground-water-and-drinking-water/table-regulated-drinking-water-contaminants
7
The City of Chicago Water Department is a regulated public water supplier. Its annual reports – called
the Consumer Confidence Reports – and other sampling results can be found here:
https://www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/depts/water/supp_info/water_quality_resultsandreports.html
An analysis of similar reports from throughout Illinois can be found here:
http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/watchdog/ct-lead-water-illinois-met-20160512-story.html
8
https://www.epa.gov/dwstandardsregulations/lead-and-copper-rule-long-term-revisions
4

 replacement of lead service lines. 9 Using anti-corrosion agents is the least successful
when water is stagnant in pipes, when there is any physical disruption of lead-containing
pipes or infrastructure and when there is any interruption in applying the anti-corrosion
agents.10
U.S. EPA is not silent on the threats posed by lead in drinking water in school and child
care settings. EPA publishes comprehensive resources for schools and child care centers
to assess and respond to the threats of lead in school water supplies. 11 Although
extremely helpful, this is guidance and is not enforceable under the SDWA. As a
practical matter, local public and community water suppliers must be enlisted to ensure
this guidance is available to local child care facilities and to provide technical assistance
to these facilities. Moreover, it is local water suppliers who conduct the water
infrastructure projects that can create short term lead threats for consumers, including
child care facilities.
Because of the SDWA, public and community water suppliers must meet a risk-based
lead standard, test the water they distribute to the public and openly share information
about compliance with the public. However, the SDWA imposes none of these
requirements on child care facilities or any other building owner or operator.
Consequently, despite the SDWA, there is a risk that lead that leaches from pipes into
drinking water at facilities where children are cared for will not be detected, disclosed or
remediated.
II. Despite Being Regulated By The Illinois Lead Poisoning Prevention Act, A Child Care
Facility Can Operate Without Assessing, Disclosing or Abating Lead Hazards to Children in
Drinking Water.
The purpose of the Illinois Lead Poisoning Prevention Act (IL LPPA) is to prevent
children from being lead poisoned. The IL LPPA also mandates the responses which
must be taken when a child is diagnosed with an elevated lead blood level.
Several provisions of the IL LPPA are directly relevant to lead threats in child care
settings. However, the IL LPPA does not require child care facilities to proactively test
water for lead threats. In addition, if an EBL child is identified, it is much more common
for the child’s dwelling unit to be inspected, not his/her child care facility. 12 Moreover,
the IL LPPA does not require lead inspections, lead risk assessments or lead hazards
screens to include determinations about the threats posed by lead in drinking water. 13
The IL LPPA includes child care facilities within its regulatory scope.
The IL LPPA defines "Regulated Facility" as residential buildings and child care
facilities. 14"Child-care facility" means any structure used by a child-care
provider licensed by the Department of Children and Family Services, or
public or private school structure frequented by children 6 years of

9

Id. One of the studies that informed EPA’s new regulatory initiative – called the Lead and Copper Rule –
was performed in Chicago - https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2015-10/documents/lead-servicelines-study-20130723.pdf
10
http://www.npr.org/2016/04/14/474130954/chicagos-upgrades-to-aging-water-lines-may-disturb-leadpipes
11
https://www.epa.gov/dwreginfo/lead-drinking-water-schools-and-child-care-facilities
12
410 ILCS 45/8
13
77 IAC 845.85(a)(3)(E) (standards for lead inspections); 845.215 (standards for lead risk assessments);
845.220 (standards for lead hazard screens).
14
410 ILCS 45/2

 15

age or younger.
Some provisions of the IL LPPA are specifically
directed to child care facilities:

1. The IL LPPA requires that prior to admission to a State-licensed or approved
day care center, day care home, preschool, nursery school, kindergarten, or other
child-care facility, including programs operated by a public school district, a
parent, or a legal guardian of a child between 6 months through 7 years is required
to provide the child care facility with a statement from a licensed physician or
health care provider, stating that a child has been assessed for risk of lead
poisoning. 16
2. Child care facilities that participate in the Illinois Child
Care Assistance Program (CCAP) must annually send or deliver to
the parents or guardians of children enrolled in the facility's
care an informational pamphlet regarding awareness of lead
poisoning. Pamphlets must be produced and made available by the
Department, and to be downloadable from the Department's Internet
website. The Department of Human Services and the Department of
17
Public Health will assist in the distribution of the pamphlet.
Many IL LPPA provisions are for regulated facilities generally, and do
not distinguish between residential buildings and child care
facilities. For example, the IL LPPA broadly prohibits all regulated
facilities from using or applying lead-bearing substances in buildings
18
and objects that are accessible to children. However, when a lead
poisoned child is identified, the IL LPPA clearly prioritizes the
inspection and mitigation of the child’s dwelling unit, not child care
19
facility.
In almost every case, these inspection and mitigation
activities are conducted by local Health and/or Building departments
which have been delegated this responsibility the Illinois Department
20
of Public Health.

Any individual conducting lead inspections in regulated facilities in Illinois is required to
be licensed and to follow carefully prescribed regulatory protocols. 21 According to these
inspection requirements, the inspection must include an analysis of the lead content of
paint (using an XRF machine and collecting paint chip samples) and dust (collected using
dust wipe samples).22 However, additional testing of water and soil is entirely
discretionary; consequently, an inspector could complete a legally adequate inspection
without testing the levels of lead in water or soil of a child’s dwelling or child care
facility. 23 All collected paint chip, dust, soil or water samples in regulated facilities must
be analyzed by an accredited laboratory, which will produce a report comparing the
concentrations of lead to regulatory standards. 24 For water samples, the IL LPPA
establishes a level of 0.015 mg/L (i.e., 15 ppb) or above as elevated. 25
15

Id.
410 ILCS 45/7.1
17
Id.
18
410 ILCS 45/3
19
410 ILCS 45/8
20
77 IAC 845.50
21
77 IAC 845.100-140; 160-165
22
77 IAC 845.200(c),(d) and (e)
23
77 IAC 845.85(a)(3)(E)
24
77 IAC 845.200-205
25
77 IAC 845.205(e)
16

 If the inspection report identifies a lead hazard, the regulated
facility will receive mitigation notice, requiring the property owner
to complete the mitigation of the lead hazard by specific methods and
26
by the time indicted in the notice.
The owner of a regulated facility
who has received a mitigation notice is required to post notices at all
entrances to the regulated facility specifying the identified lead
hazards, indicating that a unit or units in the building have been
found to have lead hazards, and recommending that children 6 years and
27
younger receive blood lead testing.
Mitigation of lead hazards must be accomplished in a manner prescribed
by the regulations in order to avoid endangering the health or wellbeing of occupants of regulated facilities. This includes a
requirement to provide at least 7 days prior notice of the lead
28
abatement. The focus of the abatement requirements is the safe removal
and disposal of flakes, chips, debris, dust, and other potentially
29
harmful materials.
Lead abatement must achieve the removal or permanent

elimination of exposure to the lead bearing substances at a regulated facility, including
replacement of any component or part of a building with a part free of lead bearing
substances.30 The IL LPPA includes highly detailed information about the abatement of
lead threats posed by paint and in soil, but is virtually silent about how to abate or
mitigate lead threats arising from drinking water. Once the owner has complied with
a mitigation notice or mitigation order the owner may remove all posted
31
notices.

Child care facilities are subject to regulation under the Illinois Lead Poisoning Prevention
Act. Yet, the IL LPPA places little priority on lead threats in water in any setting.
Moreover, the law clearly prioritizes lead inspections and mitigation activities in the
dwelling unit of an EBL child, not his/her child care facility. For these reasons, despite
the IL LPPA, it is possible to operate a child care facility without determining or
addressing lead threats in drinking water.
Because of IDPH’s existing authority to implement the IL LPPA through regulations, and
because child care facilities are already “regulated facilities” subject to the IL LPPA, the
IDPH should develop new regulatory standards for lead hazard screens, lead risk
assessments and lead inspections that are tailored to identifying and addressing lead
hazards posed by drinking water in child care facilities.
III. The Illinois Child Care Act Mandates That Child Care Facilities Provide “Safe and
Sanitary Water” for Children. Despite This, DCFS Has Not Developed Regulatory or
Licensing Standards Addressing the Threats of Lead in Drinking Water. Until This Is
Remedied By the Development of New Regulations by DCFS, a Child Care Facility Can Be
Licensed Without Assessing, Disclosing or Abating Lead Hazards to Children in Drinking
Water.
The Child Care Act of 1969 mandates minimum safety standards for child care facilities,
including day-care centers and day-care homes. 32 The Child Care Act gives DCFS the
26

77 ILCS 45/9
410 ILCS 45/9.4
28
77 IAC 845.250(a)
29
410 ILCS 45/11
30
77 IAC 845.275
31
410 ILCS 45/9.4
32
225 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
27

 responsibility to develop regulations that implement this mandate. 33DCFS also oversees the
licensing of individual facilities34 and is responsible for conducting annual inspections35,
investigating complaints made by parents36 and undertaking enforcement.37
DCFS regulations establish licensing standards that address several categories of
environmental hazards including asbestos38, radon39, lead-containing paint,40 pesticides41 and
hazardous equipment, furniture and play materials. 42 For these environmental hazards, The
Child Care Act and DCFS’ implementing regulations establish highly prescriptive safety
standards that must be met by licensed child care facilities. These standards include
prohibitions on the use of equipment, furniture and play materials that have hazardous
characteristics.43 Licensed facilities must be free of painted and finished surfaces that
contain lead and other toxins.44 Pesticides may only be used in minimum amounts, with
affirmative disclosure requirements to parents.45 For other environmental hazards like
asbestos and radon, the statute and regulations establish comprehensive protocols to test for
and abate these hazards.
DCFS regulations also require day-care centers and homes to provide and maintain a safe and
sanitary water supply. 46 However, with one limited exception, day-care centers and homes
are not required to test drinking water. Consequently, most Illinois day-care homes and
centers can obtain licenses and operate legally without testing for or abating lead hazards in
drinking water.
This is the regulatory standard for both day-care homes and centers:
A safe and sanitary water supply shall be maintained. If a private well supply is
used instead of a public water supply, the center/home shall provide written
records of
current test results indicating the water supply is safe for drinking in accordance
with the standards specified for non-community water supplies in the Drinking
Water Systems Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 900). New test results must be provided
prior to relicensing. If nitrate content exceeds 10 parts per million, bottled water
must be used for infants. 89 IAC 407.370(h).

33

225 ILCS 10/7.
225 ILCS 10/3; 10/4.
35
Complaints about licensed facilities can be made by calling the Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-252-2873.
DCFS also maintains the Day Care Information Line 1-877-746-0829. This statewide toll-free information
line provides information the public on the history and record, including substantiated violations, of
licensed day care homes, day care centers, and group day care homes. This number operates Monday
through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
34

36

225 ILCS 10/11
225 ILCS 10/8; 10/8.1/ 10/11.1.
38
89 IAC 407.370(e)(3).
39
89 IAC 407.370(e)(4).
40
89 IAC 407.370(e)(3).
41
89 IAC 407.370(n).
42
225 ILCS 10/7(a)(5); 89 IAC 407.380(a)and(d).
43
Id.
44
89 IAC 407.370(e)(3).
45
89 IAC 407.370(n).
46
89 IAC 407.370(h).
37

 Under this regulatory approach, the only child care homes and centers that are required to test
for and disclose water contaminants are facilities using private wells, which are typically in
rural areas. Notably, even for these rural facilities, lead does not appear to be one of the
contaminants subject to this requirement. More importantly, facilities which use water from
public and community water suppliers are not required to test for, disclose or abate drinking
water hazards.
DCFS can remedy this omission. DCFS has both the authority and the responsibility to
ensure the well-being of children in child care facilities. DCFS has an existing authority to
address the lack of safe water standards in child care facilities by establishing new
regulations through the rulemaking process. DCFS has a broad authority and responsibility
to ensure child care facilities are safe. Existing regulations acknowledge that licensed
facilities must provide a “safe and sanitary water supply”. Using its existing rulemaking
authority, DCFS could establish proactive, comprehensive and detailed licensing and
operating requirements for testing, disclosing and abating water hazards, including lead.
Despite the lack of protective regulations for water, parents have a significant role in assuring
that their children are protected in child care facilities. For example, a parent who is
concerned that a child care facility is not providing a “safe and sanitary water supply” can
make a complaint to the local DCFS Licensing Office or call the Child Abuse Hotline.47 If a
complaint has been received regarding a violation of a licensing standard of a day care
center, a DCFS licensing representative will conduct a licensing complaint investigation to
determine if the alleged violation is substantiated or unsubstantiated. The DCFS licensing
representative will then report the results back to a parent. Individuals may contact the Day
Care Information Line to learn of substantiated violations. If the day care facility does not
mitigate an unsafe and unsanitary water supply, DCFS is authorized to impose a temporary
or permanent license suspension.
IV. Conclusion
By definition, child care facilities are places where children who are susceptible to lead
hazards are congregating on a daily basis. Despite serving this susceptible population, it is
possible to operate a legally compliant child care facility without testing, disclosing or
abating lead hazards in drinking water. Consequently, it is critically important to establish
new legal protections to ensure children in child care settings are not exposed to lead hazards
in drinking water. Even in the absence of new legislation, local water suppliers, IDPH and
DCFS have the existing authority and responsibility to begin addressing this omission
immediately.

47

See note 4, supra.

 