SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
5534 W. Belmont Avenue
October 2, 2018, 2pm
Commissioners Present: Mike Valenti, Kelly Rauch, John Toumplis, Mark Roschen
(DPD-Ex Officio)
Commissioners Absent: Darlene Ortiz, Zbigniew Kruczalak
Others Present: Paul Reise (DPD), Mike Item (Resident), Reid Mackin (BCCC), Larry
Lynch (Coldwell Banker), Mary Ann Miller (Community Rep), Michael Caldarulo (BCCC)
Juan Espinosa (Business Owner), Diana Jimenez (Blue Studio).
Quorum & Meeting Minutes
With four commissioners present, a quorum was determined to exist. Mike motioned to
accept the July minutes; John seconded the motion, and the motion was approved with
two affirmative votes (John, Mike), one negative vote (Kelly), and one abstention (Mark).
Finances
Three financial statements were presented: (1) List of current certificates of deposit; (2)
2018 year-to-date Balance Sheet versus 2017; (3) 2018 year-to-date Actual vs. Budget.
Kelly asked if the Garage Manager vacancy has been filled following Gary Harrity’s
death. Reid explained that the Garage Manager’s duties have been divided between
the Maintenance Supervisor and the Administrative Assistant, and due to complications
with Cook County’s community service program, the cleaning crew has been
augmented by two recently-hired employees.
Administration
John and Mike received their commissioner renewal notices.
Reid will report on his July 12th visit to the Chinatown Parking Corporation at the next
commission meeting.
Kelly questioned Darlene’s eligibility to be a commissioner because she is neither a
property owner nor tenant in the SSA boundary. Mark responded that the Department
of Planning has allowed for representatives of owners and tenants to be commissioners
in other SSAs, but he agreed to ask the City’s Law Department for further guidance.

 Garage Maintenance & Repair
Kelly asked that the commissioners be able to review any quotes for work to be done on
the garage. Reid replied that commissioners have always been given quotes for their
review and approval.
New Business
Mark requested that another commission meeting be scheduled in November in order to
complete the commission’s bylaws. Reid will send a “Doodle.com” to find the most
suitable date for that meeting.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 3:30 p.m.

 