SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
5534 W. Belmont Avenue
May 22, 2018, 2pm
Commissioners Present: Mike Valenti, Darlene Ortiz, Zbigniew Kruczalak, Kelly Rauch,
John Toumplis, Mark Roschen (DPD-Ex Officio)
Commissioners Absent: None
Others Present: Paul Reise (DPD), Jessica Gutierrez (Community Member/Candidate),
Roman Sokolov (Electronic Engineers), Reid Mackin (BCCC), Mary Ann Miller
(Nextdoor Social Network), Larry Lynch (Coldwell Banker), Teresa Kovacs (Central
Pharmacy), David Potete (Northwest Community Church),), Gary Harrity, Sr.(BCCC),
Peter Borowski, Gale Harrity (Harrity’s Sports Bar), George Frei (BCCC) Michael
Caldarulo (BCCC).
Quorum & Meeting Minutes
With six commissioners present, a quorum was determined to exist. Kelly asked for the
April minutes to be amended to include in the “New Business” a reference to the SSA
considering a pilot program to provide security cameras in 2019. Kelly motioned to
accept the amended April minutes; Zbigniew seconded the motion, and the motion was
approved unanimously.
Finances
Two financial statements were presented: (1) 2018 Actual vs. Budget; (2) 2019
Proposed Budget. Kelly questioned how the amounts for the landscaping and phone
service were determined. Reid said it was based on historical usage and current
contracts. Mark suggested that the draft budget be amended to include amounts of
$100 each in Categories One (Customer Attraction), Four (Economic & Business
Development), and Five (Safety Programs). Mike motioned to accept the proposed
2019 budget as amended; John seconded the motion, and the motion was approved by
three votes in the affirmative (Mike, Darlene, John) and two votes in opposition (Kelly,
Zbigniew).
New Business
Kelly presented the idea of charging a day-rate @ the B-C Garage and using the
revenue for business safety and enhancement such as security cameras and better
landscaping and sidewalk-cleaning. Mark said the maximum charge without triggering
the City’s parking tax would be $2 per day. In addition, Mark said that SSA #2 would
not jeopardize its exemption from the prohibition of using SSA funds to subsidize
parking by instituting a charge at the B-C Garage. Based on a visual count of 2100

 vehicles entering the B-C Garage during one week, theoretically over $4000 per week
could be raised for other projects.
Mike motioned: (1) to continue the visual vehicle count for one more month; (2) to
research collection methods and enforcement; (3) to contract with professional
consultants as necessary. Kelly seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Draft bylaws for the Belmont-Central SSA Commission were distributed for review.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned following the departures of Ziggy, Darlene and Mike.

 