COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Agency Involvement/Oversight
Sub-Committee Minutes
Wednesday, May 14, 2014 (10:05 am)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman, EJ Commission

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Kim Wasserman. LVEJO
 Alec Messina, IERG
 LaTonya Lumpkin, IDOA
 Mary McDonald, IEPA
 Keith Harley, CLC
 Doris Turner, IDPH
 Sharonda Williams, IEPA
 Joe Mitchell, IDPH
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA
 Kate Tomford, DCEO

III.

Approval of Agenda
Motion – Wasserman
Second – Mitchell
Motion carried

IV.

Approval of Minutes
 March 12, 2014
Motion – Turner
Second – Wasserman
Motion carried

V.

Old Business
 State agency web portal – presented by Sharonda Williams, IEPA.
Land Issues Web Portal
Utilize U.S. EPA’s MyMaps tool as the primary mapping tool for the web
portal. (reached out to Lara Lasky to see if this was possible)

 Include Basic Information about Brownfields, Superfunds, LUST, Landfills
etc in Illinois
Include Basic Information about Cleanups (IEPA and U.S. EPA have good
resources)
State law information (How are these sites regulated under Illinois law)
Resource Center
Jobs and Internships
Brownfields Redevelopment Financing Information
Information on Elected Officials that sit on committees that deal with relevant
land issues
Public Health and Safety Information
Examples of a land issue that turned into a success story in Illinois.
(Brownfield redevelopment, Superfund site redevelopment etc.)


2014 State Ethics Training – This training is for non-state Agency
Commissioners (see attachment). Non-state agency Commissioners will
review the training and sign the acknowledgement and submit a copy to ken
Page and Jill Johnson of the IEPA.

VI.

Discussions/Presentations:
 April 23, 2014 meeting (non-state agency EJ Commissioners)
 April 30, 2014 meeting (non-state agency EJ Commissioners)
 May 7, 2014 meeting (EJ Stakeholders, non EJ Commissioners)
 May 8, 2014 meeting (non-state agency EJ Commissioners)
Chairman Wasserman reported that letters were being developed to be sent to the state agencies.
These letters will compile all of the meeting results and send them to the appropriate agency.
These letters will be coming out soon.
VII.

Next meeting date and location
 Full meeting of the EJ Commission on Wednesday, June 18, 2014

VIII. Adjournment
Meeting adjourned at 10:35 am

 