COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

MEETING MINUTES
(Meeting was held at the Aurora Public Library)
Tuesday, July 14, 2015 (1:30 pm – 3:30 pm)

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Commissioner M. Driskell
 Commissioner Keith Harley
 Veronica Halloway – Illinois DPH
 Jeffrey Ajufo – Friends of the Parks
 Commissioner Cheryl Johnson
B. Aurora Public Library
 Commissioner Kim Wasserman, Chairman
 Commissioner Dr. Sylvia Washington
 Ken Page - Illinois EPA
 Stephon Bishop – Illinois EPA
 Linda Chapa LaVia – State Representative & Energy Chairman
 Lauren Washington - citizen
 Margaret Stollen – citizen
 Jim Schweizer – citizen
 Doll Terry – citizen
 Rev. Dr. Terry Gallagher – Ecological Justice
 Heather Binder – Rebuilding Together Aurora
 Tiffany Swann-Covington – citizen
 Paul Mandrik – Naperville Township Democratic Org.
 Deanne Sereno – Naperville Township Democratic Org.

III.

Approval of Agenda (electronic copy)
 Moved by – Commissioner Washington
 Second- Ken Page
Motion carried

IV.

Approval of the Minutes
March 24, 2015 (electronic copy)
 Moved by – Ken Page
 Second – Commissioner Driskell
Motion carried

 V.

Presentations/Discussions:
a. Climate Justice in the Western Suburbs by Commissioner Sylvia
Washington (See attachment “A” Powerpoint presentation)

b. Illinois NAACP State Conference/EJ Session by Commissioner Diane
Lopez Hughes (Commissioner Hughes could not present at the
meeting because she was attending the National NAACP Conference
in Philadelphia). She provided the information below via email.
1. 10/30-11/1
A 90-minute Saturday afternoon ECJ Panel at IL NAACP annual state convention.
Intersections: Environmental and Climate Justice and NAACP Game changers

National NAACP ECJ chair Jacqui Patterson will intro the topic and moderate the panel.
Intersections: Environmental and Climate Justice and NAACP Game changers: The ECJ
Panel will connect ECJ with the NAACP Game Changers: health, economy, criminal
justice, youth and health disparities.

Panelists- our own Kim Wasserman on success stories
Ernestine Jackson, Peoria EJ chair and school board member elect on Voting Rights
Naomi Davis, Blacks in Green on Economic Justice
IL NAACP member TBA on Criminal Justice
Union rep, health, youth - ideas appreciated
2. National positions to be voted on regarding ECJ at the Convention will hopefully
increase IL environmental advocates from our 32 local branches.

VI.

Old Business
a. EJSCREEN – Chairman Wasserman reported that USEPA Region 5 will
provide training for 501C3 Not-For-Profits.
b. Clean Power Plan – Chairman Wasserman and State Representative
Linda Chapa LaVia discussed the current legislation. There are three bills:
Clean/Green Jobs, Exelon and ComEd?
c. Brownfields Legislation Update – Chairman Wasserman reported that
the Brownfield legislation (HB 1517) failed and they are going back to the
drawing board to make some changes.

 d. Introductory letter to Governor Rauner from EJ Commission
Chairman Wasserman will finalize the letter to be sent to the Governor.
Moved by: Commissioner Driskell
Second by: Ken Page
Motion carried to finalize the letter send to Governor Rauner.
e. Status of state agencies
The Illinois EPA and the Illinois Department of Public Health are the only
state agencies that are currently active on the Commission. The
Governor’s Office has been made aware of this situation and hopefully the
other state agencies will become active:
1. Illinois DOT
2. Illinois DNR
3. Illinois Department on Aging
4. Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity

VII.

Open Discussion/Questions
 None

VIII. Next meeting date and location
 To be determined for 3rd Quarter
IX.

Adjournment
 3:00 p.m.

 