COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Brownfields Redevelopment
Sub-Committee Minutes
Wednesday, December 11, 2013 (10 am)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636
I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman, EJ Commission

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Kim Wasserman, LVEJO
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Mary McDonald, IEPA
 Millard Driskell, Prince Grand Lodge of IL
 Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place
 Tamika Gibson, IEC
 Jeffrey Jones, IDNR
 Cheryl Johnson, PCR
 Alec Messina, IERG
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA

III.

Approval of Agenda
Motion – Kim Wasserman
Second – Cheryl Johnson
Motion carried

IV.

Subcommittee Structure
A. Should every member of the EJ Commission be required to be on a
subcommittee?
 Johnson – all should be voluntary
 Driskell – Voluntary only
 There was consensus that participation should voluntary
B. Minimum number of people required to be present for the subcommittee to conduct business (Quorum)
 The same as the Agency oversight committee. 1/3 of the members.
 The majority of participating members

 C. Election of a subcommittee Chairman.
Cheryl Johnson volunteered to chair the sub-committee. The election of the
chair is tabled until the next meeting.
V.

Visions for the Brownfields Redevelopment Sub-committee:
1 and 2 below were submitted by Keith Harley:
1. Under Illinois law, public participation is encouraged but not required in
site remediation program activities. I think it would be helpful for IL EPA
to develop public participation policies and resources tailored to
brownfield remediations in EJ communities. These resources would
benefit remedial applicants who choose to engage communities, IL EPA
community relations staff, units of local government, and members of the
public.
2. I believe it would be helpful for agencies and units of local government to
develop resources to facilitate community-initiated brownfields
redevelopment. The most common example I experience is when CBOs
want to utilize a brownfield site for community beneficial open
space. What steps can CBOs take to partner with agencies and units of
local government to accomplish this category of reuse? Should IL EPA
develop a separate track for cleanup standards for these kinds of future
uses? This is not to the exclusion of the use of the site remediation
program by private developers, but will focus on sites that are not being
remediated and reused which nonetheless may have a real asset value for
neighborhoods.




Kyle – likes the ideas submitted by Keith Harley
Johnson – need to address properties that the State took over. Example
is Paxton Landfill.
Driskell – There should be a main focus for the sub-committee. The
Altgeld project can be subdivided.

VI.

Old Business
None

VII.

Discussions/Presentations:
A. Commissioner Cheryl Johnson, PCR ( This is the document that was
sent to you, “ Community Revitalization Plan for Altgeld/Murray
Homes)
 Environmental Issue – the way that the MWRD dries their sludge
impact air quality and water quality. Use of more advanced

 

technologies will significantly reduce air pollution and improve water
quality.
PCR will prepare a summary on what they want from the Commission
as it relates to the “Community Revitalization Plan for Altgeld/Murray
Homes.

VIII. Next meeting date and location
Wednesday, January 8, 2014 @ 12:00 noon
IX.

Adjournment
11:20 am

 