COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

Agency Involvement/Oversight
Sub-Committee Minutes
Tuesday, December 10, 2013 (10 am)
888-494-4032
Access code: 6552044636

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman, EJ Commission

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Ken Page, IEPA
 Kim Wasserman. LVEJO
 Cheryl Johnson, PCR
 Bola Delano, IDOT
 Gloria Williams, IDNR
 Jeffrey Jones, IDNR
 LaTonya Lumpkin, DOA
 Joe Mitchell, IDPH
 Kate Tomford, DCEO
 Dan Salamone, DCEO
 Alec Messina, IERG
 Chris Pressnall, IEPA
 Keith Harley, CLC
 Sharonda Williams, IEPA
 Mary McDonald, IEPA

III.

Approval of Agenda
Motion – Alec Messina
Second – Bola Delano
Motion carried

IV.

Subcommittee Structure
A. Should every member of the EJ Commission be required to be on a
subcommittee?
 Messina – Stated that it wasn’t necessary to require people to be on a
subcommittee. The primary purpose of the subcommittees is to look at
issues that the Commission chooses. The subcommittee can then make
presentations to the Commission and the Commission can vote on any
final actions.

 



Mitchell – Stated that it should be voluntary.
Lumpkin – Stated it should be optional, not required
Wasserman- Stated that everyone seems to agree with voluntary
participation, is there anyone that disagrees with this option? She also
stated that she agreed with Alec Messina and envisioned that the
subcommittees would go back to the larger Commission for input.

B. Minimum number of people required to be present for the subcommittee to conduct business (Quorum)
 It was recommended that 1/3 of the Commission membership (20
people) or between 5 to 7 people be the minimum number.

C. Election of a subcommittee Chairman.
 There were no volunteers for the position. This will be an agenda item
at the next meeting.
V.

Visions for the Agency Involvement/Oversight Sub-committee:
 Wasserman- Suggested pulling resources on the federal level. Using
similar format when federal agencies presented to NEJAC (National
Environmental Justice Advisory Committee)
 Tomford – Stated that as a baseline we need to figure out what our
agencies are doing. She suggested developing a map of what
programs exist for agencies that are in this Commission.
 Harley – Stated that when agencies go through this process it provides
a basis for the public to be involved in a meaningful way. He also
stated that we already have an agency in this Commission that we can
look to. IL EPA has a template that other agencies can look to for
guidance.
 Wasserman- Stated that mapping on what people have and don’t have
is a good place to start. She asked the group whether they wanted to
start with the agencies currently at the table.
 Messina- Stated let’s give agencies the opportunity to see if they do
have something. He also stated that the first step is for the agencies on
this Commission to see what’s in place already.
 Lumpkin – Stated that she doesn’t know how the Dept. on Aging fits
into EJ or the Commission.
 Page- Stated it is his understanding that IDA was chosen to be on this
Commission since they serve a vulnerable population, the elderly. He
suggested that IDA map what they do and see where there are
opportunities to incorporate environmental justice.
 Pressnall- Stated that IL EPA can lend resources and guide people
through this process. He suggested that IL EPA give a primer on

 











environmental justice and how it can fit into different programs, for
example aging.
Wasserman- Stated that having a guide or workshop would help
agencies determine what they could do. She also stated that it would
be helpful for IL EPA to have a facilitated discussion and for there to
be a document that shows what environmental justice work is being
done at the agencies.
Pressnall- Stated that IL EPA had to go through this process internally
to get everyone up to speed. He also stated that IL EPA can try to
facilitate a discussion and bridge the gap that exists between the
different agencies.
Delano – Stated that she needed some kind of guide to help agencies
define EJ. A model template for all state agencies
Williams- Stated getting an understanding of what we want agencies to
do would be helpful. She also stated seeing what other states are doing
will help us with the learning curve.
Page- Stated that we may be the only state that has agencies on a
Commission like this one. He also stated that environmental justice
plans and policies may be non-existent in many state agencies outside
of Illinois.
Wasserman- Stated we will run the gamut and look at federal, city and
states for guidance.
Delano- Stated that she volunteers to be a set of eyes for the creation
of the template for state agencies.
Wasserman- Stated we will make a commitment to send out the
template before the next meeting. She also stated that she will set up a
call with Ken Page and Bola Delano offline to discuss the template.

Action Items
1. Research what other similar state agencies are doing throughout the
country to address EJ. Also, look at the federal level and city level.
2. Provide the Univ. Of California’s College of Law Hastings EJ report and
the link to the Illinois EPA’s EJ webpage.
3. Work on a template for state agencies.

VI.

Old Business
None

VII.

Discussions/Presentations:
None

 

Wasserman- Stated it would be good to connect with other state agencies
that are doing this work. She also stated that it would be good to hear
from folks outside of the Commission as we move forward.

VIII. Next meeting date and location
Wednesday, January 8, 2014 @ 10:00 am (conference call)

IX.

Adjournment
11:00 am

 