?1 

INTERNAL
OPERATIONS
STANDING
COMMITTEE

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-3400
Mayor 5 Of?ce 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 1126 Fax 313-224-4128
cm, of Detroit. Michigan 48226 

DETROIT

 

July 16, 2019

The Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Re-Appointment to the Detroit Land Bank Authority

Dear Honorable City Council Members:

It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I have reappointed/ appointed, with your
consideration, the following individuals to the Detroit Land Bank Authority.

 

TERM TERM

MEMBER COMMENCES EXPIRES
Miranda Morrow?Bartel] Immediately June 30, 2023
Sincerely,

Wam?

Michael E. Duggan,
Mayor

cc: Alexis Wiley, Chief of Staff, Mayor?s Of?ce
Elisa Malile, Deputy Chief of Staff, Mayor?s Of?ce

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313.224.3400
Mayor 5 Office 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 1126 Fax 313-224-4128
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

   



DETROIT

BY ALL WAYNE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

RESOLVED, that the appointment by The City of Detroit, of the following individual to serve on
the Detroit Wayne County Mental Health Authority Board of Directors for the corresponding term of
of?ce indicated be and the same is hereby approved.

 

 

TERM TERM

MEMBER COMMENCES EXPIRES
Miranda Morrow-Bartell Immediately June 30, 2019
AdOpted as follows:

Yeas:

Nays:

 

 

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION

 

. Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-3400
Mayor 5 Of?ce 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 1126 Fax 313-224-4128

cm 0; Detroit. Michigan 48226 
DETROIT

 

July 16, 2019

Dear Miranda Morrow-Bartell:

Congratulations on your recent re-appointment to the Detroit Land Bank Authority. Your
appointment is effective immediately and will expire June 30, 2023.

Thank you for your willingness to serve the citizens of Detroit. I look forward to working
with you and I expect great things from the Detroit Land Bank Authority.

Should you have any questions or need any additional information please contact Elisa
Malile by phone at [313) 628-2285 or by email at malilee@detroitmi.gov.

Sincerely,

Webma-

Michael E. Duggan,
Mayor

cc: Alexis Wiley, Chief of Staff, Mayor?s Of?ce
Elisa Malile, Deputy Chief of Staff, Mayor?s Of?ce

 
   

0mg 0 Eetmit

 

ETATE, Jr,
DOME. MEMBER
TO: Han. MJM Resident
Danni: (3y Candi
Hon. Rn] ijg Chairpm
Detroit Gym-hand Open?am Guanine:
FROM: Hon. ijTnz, 1r. 3f
Dani: City Chad?Dim 1
DATE: February 6, 2019
RE: (2in CbmaTAgnbu-c?uocyon the Demft 

On Nmunbcr [he City Council Appointee to the Dubai: mam 

DLJBA. To 

Mann'slam. 
Operation: Ifyou have any qucs?nns,pl?asc 
Anal)!ng Kingat 313.224.9530.

you for your cooperation.

End: Biography and CV for Mr:- Morrow-an11
Cc: Honorable Collage!
Legislative Policy 

2019 FEB 7 

Coleman A. Young Municbd 2 Suite 1340 Benoit, Michigan 43226
(313) 224-1021 Fax (313} 124?0372
mum-mommy

QEitp of Detroit 
M- OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West

my 03? Deputy irtyr Staff

July 15, 2019

Honorable City Council

RE: Petition N0. 989: Motown Museum a nonprofit organization, requests a
resolution from your Honorable Body in support of a charitable gaming license.

On this date, your Honorable Body referred the above petition to this office for
investigation. Petitioner wishes to be recognized as a nonprofit organization
operating in the community for purposes of obtaining a gaming license from the
Bureau of State Lottery.

Be advised that the organization meets the criteria for such recognition as established
by the city Council on May 15, 2012.

Therefore, approval of this petition is recommended and an appropriate resolution is
attached.

Respectfully submitted,

Janice M. Winfrey

MW:cj

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

RESOLUTION

 

By Council Member:

Whereas, Motown Museum (2648 W. Grand Blvd. Detroit, Michigan 48208)
requests for recognition as a nonprofit organization operating in the community for
the purpose of obtaining a charitable gaming license from the State of Michigan,
and

Whereas, the organization meets the criteria for such recognition as established by
the City Council on May 15, 2012.

Therefore Be it Resolved, the Detroit City Council recognizes Motown Museum
(2648 W. Grand Blvd. Detroit, Michigan 48208) as a nonprofit organization
operating in the community for the purpose of obtaining a charitable gaming
license from the Bureau of State Lottery.

(?iitp? of Detroit

Janice? WNW OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK m? A Hudson
CM ?ak Depurv City am:
OF THE
DETORUIT CITY CLERK

2m JUL I5 32??

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, July 15, 2019

The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Win?ey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same With your report in duplicate
Within four (4) weeks.

 

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

989 Motown Museum, request from Your Honorable Body a resolution for a
Charitable Gaming License.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

?r
MOTQWN

July15,2019

The Honorable Janice M. Winfrey
City Clerk

City of Detroit

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 200
Detroit, MI 48226

Dear City Clerk Janice Winfrey,

The Motown Museum is a public 501 (c non-profit organization seeking a Michigan Charitable
Gaming License in order to sell raffle tickets for our upcoming Soul-in-One Celebrity Golf Classic on
Monday, September 23, 2019 at Tam?O-Shanter Country Club. The Motown Museum is located at 2648
W. Grand Blvd. in Detroit, MI 48208. Founded by Esther Gordy Edwards in 1985, the Motown Museum
continues to entertain and educate people from all over the United States as well as Europe, Africa, Asia,
and virtually every corner of the world about the story of the visionary entrepreneur Berry Gordy; and
chart-topping, history making artist like the Temptations, Diana Ross 8: the Supremes, Stevie Wonder,
Smokey Robinson the Miracles, the Jackson Five and many more.

Per the State of Michigan?s gaming license requirements, we need a Local Governing Body Resolution
for a Charitable Gaming License adopted and documented by the City of Detroit City Council recognizing
Motown Museum as a non-profit organization which will be operating in the City of Detroit (form
enclosed).

Also find enclosed the following documentation as evidence of our non-profit status:

0 State of Michigan Non?Profit articles of incorporation and amendments
I By-laws adopted by the Motown Museum Board of Directors
0 Federal 501 (c designation

If there are any questions, or any additional information required, please do not hesitate to contact me
at 313-875-2264 ext. 226.



Tonette Bryant?Carter
Motown Museum

CLERK 15 JUL 2815! PHEl-?l?il

313 875 2264 313 875 2267 fax 2648 Grand Boulevard, Detroit, MI 48208 motownmuseum org
A 501 (c)3 Non-Profit Tax-Exempt Organization

 

Charitable Gaming Division
. 101 E. l-Iills;dalel Box 30023
Lansing. Michigan 48909

m. QUALIFICATION INFORMATION 

Complete this form and submit with the required qualification documents listed on the attached Quali?cation Requirements
sheet. A Bingo, Raffle. or Charity Game Ticket license application and fee may also be submitted with this information. See
box #5 below for mailing instructions.

For Internal Use Only

 

ORGANIZATION INFORMATION

Organization Name

MUSEUM INC

Organization Physical Street Address

ages wet-anI) BLVD.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City State Zip Code County
Wort? M3: uquth 232
Organization Mailing Address I Same as Physicamddress
N. BLVD. 
City State Zip saute County

 

 

 

DEREK M1 $32.63 wit/Ne <37,

 

 

Organization Telephone Number . I
exasevsazzee ear. 2%
2. ORGANIZATION PURPOSE

Briefly describe the purpose of your organization.

Museum Is A NOT Fol). PROFIT EOICCDB 
QURWIISSION Is To PRESERE. PROTECT-AND THE Wowm 131'le THROUGH
AUTHENTIC). INSWRATIOW AND EDUCATIONAL exvsmexnes .

3. LICENSE APPLICATION

Enclosed is a completed application and fee for a Bingo NRaf?c El Charity Game Ticket license
Make checks payable to OF MICHIGAN.

 

 

 

 

 

4. AUTHORIZED CONTACT PERSON

 

 

 

 

First Name Last Name Position/Role with Organization
QOBIN I2. ?lmy gt; CEO

Mailing Address City

264? GRAND BLVD- 17--

State Zip Code Telephone Number (Day) Telephone Number (Evening)
NYL 452268 sis?Sees? 24 S?s-Ci I 7.

 

 

 

By signing below, I hereby certify that the representations. Information. and data presented are true. accurate. and complete tO the best of
my knowledge. I understand that failure to answer truthfully. completely, and accurately could preclude the organization from receiving an
approval tO Obtain a gaming license. If; _u

..--



 



 

 

Authorized Con-tea Person (Signature Date
A .WAA L3, a
Print Authorized Contact Name and Title  
ram-3m ta. Talley CHOI "i Ceo

 

5. MAILING INSTRUCTIONS

Mail this completed Quali?cation Information form. the required qualification documentation listed on the Qualification Requirements sheet.
and the completed license application and fee (if also applying for a gaming license) tO Charitable Gaming Division, PO Box 30023. Lansing.
MI 48909. If submitting by overnight carrier (FedEx. UPS, etc.). send to Charitable Gaming Division, 101 East Hillsdale. Lansing. Mi 48933.

Aulhonly: Act 382 of the Public Acts Of1972. as amended. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Charitable Canning Division

Box 30023. Lansing. MI 48909
OVERNIGHT DELIVERY:

101 E. Hillsdale. Lansing MI 48933
(517) 335-5730

LOTTERY 

 

LOCAL GOVERNING BODY RESOLUTION FOR CHARITABLE GAMING LICENSES
(Required by 

 

 

 

 

At a meeting of the
REGULAR OR SPECIAL TOWNSHIP. CITY. OR VILLAGE COUNCILIBOARD
called to order by on
DATE
at the following resolution was offered:
TIME
Moved by and supported by

 

 

that the request from MOTOWN INC of .

NAME OF ORGANIZATION CITY

county of asking that they be recognized as 3

COUNTY NAME

nonprofit organization operating in the community for the purpose of obtaining charitable

 

gaming licenses, be considered for

 



APPROVAL DISAPPROVAL
Yeas: Yeas: 
Nays: Nays: 
Absent: Absent:

 

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution offered and

 

adopted by the at 3

TOWNSHIP, CITY. 0R VILLAGE REGDLAR 0R SPECIAL

meeting held on

 

DATE

SIGNED:

 

TOWNSHIP. CITY. OR VILLAGE CLERK

 

 

PRINTED NAME AND TITLE

 

ADDRESS

 

(ZUMI ?l.L I 
PENALTY: Possible denial of 



 

 

 

1 Internal Revenue Service Department of the Treasury tut? 2 ngud
i /?Uistrict Director I I ..
for? P. 0. Box 2508
Cincinnati. OH 45201
Person to Contact:.

Lois Parrott
Telephone Number:

"p.551 11994

Motown Historical Museum, Inc. 513-684-3957
2648 w. Grand Blvd. Refer Reply to;
Detroit, MI. 48208-1237 -
Federal Identi?ioation Number:
33-2614561

Dear Sir or Madam:

This is in response to your request for a copy of yen: determination letter
with your new name. Your original letter Was issued under Motown Museum
Historical Foundation. Your current name is shown above.

Our records indicate that by a determination letter issued October 15, 1987.
your organization was recognized as exempt from Federal income tax under
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. That letter is still in
effect.

We further classified your organization as one that is-not?a priVate
foundation within the meaning of section 509(e) of the Code because you are an
organization described in sections 509(a)(2). 

The classification was based on the assumption that your operations would
continue as stated in the application. If your sources of support, or your
purposes, charaCter. or method of operations have changed, please let us know
so we can consider the effect of the change on your exempt status and
foundation status.

As of January 1. 1984, all exempt organizations (unless specifically excluded)
are liable for taxes under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (social
security taxes) on remuneration of $100 or more they pay to each of their
employees during a Calendar year. You are not liable for the tax imposed
under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA).

Organizations that are not private foundations are not subject to the excise
taxes under Chapter ?2 of the Code. However, you are not automatically exempt
from other Federal excise taxes. If you have any questions about excise,
employment, or other Federal taxes, please let us knoW.

Donors may deduct contributions to you as providedwin seetion 170 of the Code.
Bequests, legacies, devises, transfers, or gifts to you or for your use are
deductible for Federal estate and gift tax purposes if they meet the
applicable provisions of sections 2055, 2106, and 2522 of the Code,

You are required to file Form 990, Return of Organization Exampt from Income
Tax. only if your gross receipts each year are normally more than $25,000. If

after the end of your annual accounting period. The law imposes a penalty of
$10 a day, up to a maximum of $5,000, when a return is filed late, unless
there is reasonable cause for the delay.

(2)

Motown Historical Museum, Inc. 38~2614561

You are not required to file Federal income tax returns unless you are subject
to the tax on unrelated business income under sectiOn 511 of the Code. If you
are subject to this tax1 you must file an income can return on the Form 990-T.
Exempt Organization Business Income Tax Return. In this letter. we are not
determining whether any of your present or proposed activities are unrelated
trade or business as defined in section 513 of the Code.

Because this letter could help resolve any questions about your exempt status
and foundation status, yOu should keep it in your permanent records.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, you may contact us at the
address or telephone number shown in the heading of this letter

This is an affirmation letter.

Sincerely yours,

District Director

SECOND
AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS
OF
MOTOWN HISTORICAL MUSEUM, INC.
(a Michigan nonpro?t corporation)
(hereinafter referred to as the ?Corporation?)
Adopted April 15, 2013

ARTICLE I
Of?ces

Section 1. Location. The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Michigan
shall be located in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne.

Section 2. Change. The Board of Trustees of the Corporation (the ?Board?) may
change the principal office of the Corporation from time to time and may establish other offices,
either within or without the State of Michigan, as the business of the Corporation may require.

ARTICLE II
Membership and Membership Meeting

Section 1. Classes of Membership; Rights of Members to Determine Disposition
of Assets. The membership of the Corporation shall consist of one class of Members who are
appointed or elected to membership as provided herein or in the Articles of Incorporation. There
shall be three members of the Corporation (?Members?).

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in these Bylaws, any decision relating to the
disposition (including, but not limited to, by way of loan, deaccession, license or sale of intellectual
property) or location of any of the Corporation?s exhibits, artifacts or historical objects shall be
made by majority vote of the Members. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may loan
artifacts in the ordinary course of business without the approval of the Members so long as such
loan is for a period of six months or shorter.

Section 2. Election of Members. The initial members of the Corporation shall be
Robin Terry, Elesha Bridgers and Morton Noveck. Each Member shall have the right to be a
Trustee of the Corporation so long as he or she is a Member of the Corporation, and each
Member hereby agrees to vote accordingly. Each Member shall have the right to designate his or
her successor Member in writing. If a Member does not so appoint his or her successor Member,
then the remaining Member or Members shall by majority vote (or, if there is only one Member
remaining, then such Member) appoint Members of the Corporation so that at all times there will be
three Members of the Corporation. In the event that there is no remaining Member of the
Corporation, or in the event that the remaining Member or Members does not fill the Member
vacancy or vacancies in accordance with this Section 2, then those persons appointed or serving

 

22173805

as trustees or administrators of the estate of Robin Terry or, in their absence, the estate of Elesha
Bridges, shall appoint the Members of the Corporation. In the event such trustees or
administrators no longer exist, then the Board of Trustees shall appoint the Members by majority
vote.

Section 3. Removal of Members. Any Member may be removed at any time, for
Cause (as de?ned below), by a vote of a majority of the remaining Members. For purposes of these
Bylaws, the word ?Cause? means any of the following: any action or inaction of the Member
resulting in an indictment involving fraud, embezzlement or theft, or (ii) a determination, by a court
of competent jurisdiction or pursuant to the written certi?cation of two licensed physicians (one of
which shall be the Member?s attending physician, if one exists), that due to a physical or mental
incapacity, the Member is unable to perform his or duties as a Member, or the Member?s failure
to attend (in person, by teleconference or by proxy) the annual meeting of Members, or two
consecutive meetings of Members. In the event that a Member is removed for Cause: the
remaining Members (or the Trustees, as applicable) shall not be required to honor such Member?s
successor designation; and (ii) such Member may be immediately removed as a Trustee of the
Corporation.

Section 4. Quorum. Unless otherwise provided in the Cmporation?s Articles of
Incorporation, the presence in person or by proxy of a majority of the Members entitled to vote shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting. The Members present at a duly
called or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to do business until adjournment,
notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough Members to leave less than a quorum.

Section 5. Annual Meetings. The annual Members? meeting shall be held at such time
and on such day as the Board shall annually determine, for the purposes of electing Trustees,
hearing reports of the affairs of the Corporation, and transacting any other business within the power
of the Members. If the election of Trustees is not held on the day designated herein for an annual
meeting, or at any adjournment thereof, the Board may cause the election to be held at a Members?
special meeting as soon thereafter as one may be conveniently called and noticed for that purpose.

Section 6. Special Meetings. Members? special meetings shall be called by the
President, Board or when requested by not less than one-third of the Members of the
Corporation entitled to vote. The request shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting
is to be called, and the business transacted at any such meeting shall be limited to the purpose or
purposes stated in the notice thereof.

Section 7. Place of Meeting. The Board may specifically designate any place either
within or without the state of Michigan as the place of meeting for any members? annual or special
meeting. If no such designation is made or if a special meeting is called other than at the request of
the Board, the place of meeting shall be the registered office of the Corporation in the state of
Michigan.

Section 8. Written Notice. Notice of any Members? annual meeting shall specify in
writing the place, day and hour thereof and shall be given by the Secretary to each such Member
entitled to vote thereat not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before each such

22173805

meeting. Such written notice shall constitute due, legal, and personal notice to each such Member if
it is given by:

delivering it to such Member personally; or

sending it to the Member by mail, telegraph, or other means of written
communication, charges prepaid, addressed to the Member at:

the Member?s address as it appears on the books of the
Corporation; or

(ii) such other address as the Member may have requested in writing
that the Corporation use for the purpose of giving such notice; or

by publishing it at least once in each of three consecutive weeks in
some newspaper of general circulation in the County in which that office is
located if the member?s address does not appear on the records of the Corporation
and the member has not requested in writing that the Corporation use any address
for such notice.

If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States Mail
postage prepaid and addressed to the Member at any such address. Except in extraordinary
circumstances where express provision is made allowable by statute, notice of any Members?
special meeting shall be given in the same manner as for Members? annual meetings.

Attendance of a person at a meeting of Members, in person or by proxy, constitutes a waiver
of notice of the meeting, except when the Member attends a meeting for the express purpose of
objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is
not lawfully called or convened.

Section 9. Adiourned Meetings and Notice Thereof.

Any Members? annual or special meeting, whether or not a quorum is
present, may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the Members
present in person or represented by proxy thereat; in the absence of a quorum no other
business may be transacted at such meeting.

A meeting may be adjourned to another time or place without giving
notice of the adjourned meeting if the time and place to which the meeting is adjourned
are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken and at the adjourned
meeting only such business is transacted as might have been transacted at the original
meeting.

Section 10. Voting. Each Member shall have one vote in person or by proxy upon all
questions presented for action at any meeting of the Members as to which the Members have the
right to vote. All questions, except those regulated by statute or specifically provided for herein
or in the Articles of Incorporation, shall be determined by a majority vote of the Members
constituting a quorum.

22173805

Section 11. Consent of Absentees. The transactions of any Members? annual or
special meeting, however called and noticed, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly
held after regular call and notice if a quorum is present either in person or by proxy and if, either
before or after the meeting, each of the Members who was entitled to vote but was not present in
person or by proxy signs a written waiver of notice and written consent to the holding of such
meeting or a written approval of the minutes thereof. All such waivers and consents or approvals
shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.

Section 12. Action Without Meeting.

If the Articles of Incorporation so provide, any action required or
permitted to be taken at a Members? annual, special or regular meeting under any
provision of the Michigan Nonprofit Corporation Act (the ?Act?) may be taken without a
meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the
action so taken, is signed by the Members having not less than the minimum number of
votes that would be necessary to authorize or take the action at a meeting at which all
Members entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Prompt notice of the taking of
the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be
given to Members who have not consented in writing.

If the Articles of Incorporation do not contain the provision described in
subsection hereof, any action required or permitted to be taken at a Members? meeting
under any provision of the Act may be taken without such a meeting if authorized by a
writing signed by all of the persons who would be entitled to vote upon such action at
such a meeting. Such consent shall have the same effect as a unanimous vote of
Members.

Section 13. Proxies. Every Member entitled to vote or execute consents or dissents
shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by a written
proxy executed by such person or his or her duly authorized agent and filed at or before the
meeting at which they are intended to be used with the Secretary of the Corporation. No such
proxy shall be valid after the expiration of one (1) year from the date of its execution. Any proxy
duly executed shall be deemed not to have been revoked and to be in full force and effect and, in
the absence of any limitation to the contrary contained in the proxy, it shall extend to all
Members? meetings, unless and until an instrument revoking said proxy or a duly executed proxy
bearing a later date is filed with the Secretary of the Corporation. A proxy shall be deemed
sufficient if it appears on its face to confer the requisite authority and is signed by the Member
for whom it is to be voted; no witnesses to the execution of any proxy shall be required.

Section 14. Order of Business at Annual Meeting. The order of business at the
Members? annual meeting, any adjournment thereof, or any other meeting of Members shall be at
the discretion of the Chairperson of the Board.

 

Section 15. Removal of Trustees. The Members may remove any Trustee, with or
without cause, at any special meeting called for that purpose or by written consent in the manner
set forth in the Act, and the Members may elect a Trustee to fill the vacancy thus created at that

22173805

meeting, at any other meeting called for the purpose of filling that vacancy, or by written
consent.

Section 16. Inspectors of Election. Whenever any person entitled to vote at any
Members? meeting shall request the appointment of persons to inspect any election, the Board,
prior to the meeting, or the person presiding at such meeting shall appoint not more than three (3)
inspectors, who need not be Members. If the right of any person to vote at such meeting shall be
challenged, the inspectors shall determine such right. The inspectors shall receive and count the
votes either for any election or for the decision of any questions and shall determine the result.
Their certificate of any vote shall be primafacie evidence thereof.

Section 17. Meeting Br Telephone. Any Member may participate in any meeting of
the Members by a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by which all
persons participating in the meeting may hear each other. The notice of such meeting shall
include a description of the means of remote communication by which a Trustee may
participate, and all participants shall be advised of the communications equipment, and all
participants shall be advised of the communications equipment, and the notice of meeting shall
include a description of the means of remote communication by which a Member may
participate, so long as such notice is required by the Act. The names of the participants in the
conference shall be divulged to all participants. If a member participates in a meeting pursuant
to this section, he or she shall be deemed to be actually present at the meeting for all purposes.

Section 18. Notice and Consents by Electronic 'I?I'ansgiission. In addition to any
other form of notice or consent to or from a Member permitted by the Articles of Incorporation
or these Bylaws, any notice or consent given by a form of electronic transmission to which the
Member has consented is effective. For this purpose, a Member shall be deemed to have
consented to such electronic transmission if such Member does not affirmatively object to such
transmission. Further, ?Electronic transmission? means any form of communication that meets
all of the following: 1) it does not directly involve the physical transmission of paper; (2) it
creates a record that may be retained and retrieved by the recipient; and (3) it may be directly
reproduced in paper form by the recipient through an automated process.

ARTICLE 
Trustees and Meetings of the Board of Trustees

Section 1. Powers. All of the powers of this Corporation not expressly reserved to or
conferred upon the Members by statute, the Articles of Incorporation, or these Bylaws (including
Article II, Section 1 regarding disposition of disposition of Corporation assets) shall be vested in
the Board of Trustees of this Corporation which shall control and manage its business and affairs.

Section 2. Number of Trustees; [\inandatorvr Members. The authorized number of
Trustees of this Corporation shall be at least three (3) but not more than twenty-five (25), as
determined by resolution of the Members from time to time. The present number of Trustees
shall be nine (9), which may be changed, from time to time, by a resolution of the Members. A
maximum of three (3) seats on the Board shall be reserved for members of the Gordy Family
(defined as five generations of direct descent from Berry Gordy, Sr. or Esther Gordy Bullock
Edwards, including by marriage or adoption) who wish to serve as Trustees, and the Members of

22173805

the Corporation shall vote accordingly, so long as there remain at least three (or such lesser
number as is willing to serve) members of the Gordy Family expressing an interest in serving as
aTrustee.

Section 3. Election, Term of Office and Quali?cation of Trustees.

The Trustees shall be elected at each Member?s annual meeting or otherwise as
provided in these Bylaws. A11 Trustees shall hold office until the next annual meeting of
Members at which Trustees are elected or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. Any
Trustee may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by vote of a majority of the
Members.

Section 4. Vacancieg. A vacancy in the Board shall be deemed to exist if any of the
following events occurs:

Any Trustee resigns or dies;

The authorized number of Trustees, as determined from time to time by
resolution of the Members, is greater than the number of Trustees on the Board, including
resulting from the removal of a Trustee by the Members; or

At any Members? meeting at which one or more Trustees is to be elected,
the Members fail to elect the full authorized number of Trustees.

Vacancies shall only be filled by a majority vote of the Members.

Section 5. Place of Meeting. Regular Board meetings shall be held at any place
within or without the state of Michigan which has been designated from time to time by
resolution of the Board and filed with the Secretary of the Corporation. In the absence of such
designation, regular meetings shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation. Any
special Board meeting may be held at any place designated in the notice of meeting; otherwise
special Board meetings shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation in the state of
Michigan.

Section 6. Organization l??eeting. following each Members? annual
meeting and each adjourned annual and Members? special meeting held for the purpose of
electing a new Board, the newly elected Board may hold a regular meeting for the purpose of
organization, election of officers, and the transaction of other business. Notice of each such
meeting need not be given and is hereby dispensed with.

 

Section 7. Other Regular Meetings. Board meetings may be regularly scheduled
for dates, times and places as determined by the President and in such case, notice of such
meetings need not be given and is hereby dispensed with.

 

22173805

Section 8. Special Meetings and Notice Thereof.

Special Board meetings for any purpose or purposes may be called at any
time by the Chairperson or the President or, if he or she is absent or unable to act, by any
Vice President.

Written notice of the place, day, and hour of special Board meetings shall
be given to each Trustee and constitute due, legal, and personal notice to him or her if
that notice is delivered personally to him or her or sent to him or her by mail, telegraph,
e-mail, or other means of written communication, charges prepaid, addressed her address as it is shown upon the records of the Corporation or, if such
address is not so shown on such records or is not readily ascertainable, at the place in
which the regular Trustees? meetings are held. If mailed or telegraphed, such notice shall
be deposited in the United States Mail or delivered to the telegraph company in the place
which the principal office of the Corporation in the State of Michigan is located at least
forty-eight (48) hours prior to the time of holding the meeting; if mailed, such notice shall
be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States Mai] postage prepaid and
addressed as set forth above.

Section 9. Notice of Adiournment. Notice of the time and place of holding an

adjourned Board meeting need not be given to absent Trustees if the time and place be fixed at
the meeting adjourned provided that the meeting is not adjourned for more than thirty (30) days.

22173805

Section 10. Waiver of Notice.

The attendance of a Trustee at any Board meeting shall constitute a waiver of
notice of such meeting, except where a Trustee attends for the express purpose of objecting
to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called, noticed, or
convened.

The transactions of whatever kind or nature held at any Trustee meeting,
however called and noticed or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting
duly held after regular call and notice if a quorum is present and if, either before or after the
meeting, each of the Trustees not present signs a written waiver of notice of the meeting and
a written consent to holding such meeting, or a written approval of the minutes thereof. All
such waivers and consents or approvals shall be ?led with the corporate records or made a
part of the minutes of the meeting.

In addition, any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board under
the Act may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board shall individually and
collectively consent in writing to such action. Such written consents shall be ?led with the
minutes of the proceedings of the Board. Such action by written consent shall have the
same force and effect as a unanimous vote of such Trustees at a duly called, noticed, and
held Board meeting. Any certi?cate or other document filed under any provision of the Act
which relates to action so taken shall state that the action was taken by unanimous written
consent of the Board without a meeting and that these Bylaws authorized the Trustees so to
act and such statement shall be prima facie evidence of such authority.

Section 11. Quorum; Required Vote. Except to adjourn the meeting as hereinafter
provided, at all meetings of the Board of Trustees, or of a committee thereof, one third of
the members of the Board then in office, or of the members of a committee thereof, constitutes a
quorum for the transaction of business unless the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws, or in
the case of a committee, the Board resolution establishing the committee, provide for a larger
number. The vote of the majority of members present at a meeting at which a quorum is present
constitutes the action of the Board of Trustees or of the committee, unless the vote of a larger
number is required by the Act, the Articles of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, or in the case of a
committee, the Board resolution establishing the committee. If a quorum is not present at any
meeting of the Board of Trustees, the Trustees present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time
to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.

Section 12. Adjournment. A quorum may adjourn any Board meeting to meet again
at a stated place, date, and hour; however, in the absence of a quorum a majority of the Trustees
present at any regular or special Board meeting may adjourn from time to time until the time
fixed for the next regular Board meeting.

Section 13. Fees and Compensation. By resolution of the Board, the
Trustees may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each Board meeting and a fixed sum
for attendance at each Board meeting or a reasonable (based upon benchmarking data), stated
salary as Trustee. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Trustee from
serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an of?cer, agent, employee or otherwise and
receiving a separate compensation therefor.

Section 14. Presumpiion oi'Assent. A Trustee who is present at any Board meeting at
which action on any corporate matter is taken shall be presumed to have assented to any action
taken by the Board at that meeting unless his or her dissent shall be entered in the minutes of the
meeting or he or she shall file his or her written dissent to such action with the person acting as
the Secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof or he or she shall forward such
dissent by registered mail to the Secretary of the Corporation immediately after the adjournment
of the meeting. Such right to dissent shall not apply to a Trustee who voted in favor of such
actlon.

 

Section 15. Meeting By Telephone or Similar Equipment. Any Trustee may
participate in any meeting of the Trustees by a conference telephone or similar communications
equipment by which all persons participating in the meeting may hear each other. The notice of
such meeting shall include a description of the means of remote communication by which a
Trustee may participate, and all participants shall be advised of the communications equipment.
The names of the participants in the conference shall be divulged to all participants. If a Trustee
participates in a meeting pursuant to this section, he or she shall be deemed to be actually present
at the meeting for all purposes.

Section 16. Executive Committees.

The Board, by resolution passed by a majority of the Board then in office,
may provide for an Executive Committee by appointing two (2) or more members
thereto, each of whom shall be a Trustee and who shall serve on such committee at the

22173805

pleasure of the Board. The Chairperson of the Board shall serve as an ex o?icio member
of the Executive Committee and shall serve as the Chairperson of the Executive
Committee. Except as provided herein or otherwise by resolution of the Board, the Act
or other applicable law, the Executive Committee during the intervals between Board
meetings shall possess and may exercise all of the powers of the Board in the
management of the business and affairs of the Corporation. The Executive Committee
shall keep full and fair records and accounts of its proceedings and transactions. All
actions taken by the Executive Committee shall be reported to the Board at its meeting
next succeeding such action and shall be subject to revision and alteration by the Board,
except that no rights of third persons created in reliance thereon shall be affected by any
such revision or alteration. Vacancies in the Executive Committee shall be ?lled by the
Board, if the Board so desires.

Subject to provisions of these Bylaws, the Executive Committee shall fix
its own rules of procedure and shall meet as provided by such rules, by resolution of the
Board, or at the call of the President or Secretary of the Corporation or of any two (2)
members of the committee. Unless otherwise provided by such rules, the provisions of
the Bylaws relating to the notice required to be given to Trustees shall apply to all
meetings of the Executive Committee. A majority of the members serving on the
Executive Committee shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.

Section 17. Other Committees and Boards. The Board may by resolution provide
for such other standing or special committees or advisory boards as it deems desirable and
discontinue the same at its pleasure. Each such committee and board shall have such powers and
perform such duties not inconsistent with law, as may be assigned to it by the Board. If
provision be made for any such committee or board, the members thereof shall be appointed by
the Board, shall consist of one or more members of the Board and shall serve at the pleasure of
the Board. Vacancies in such committees or boards shall be filled by the Board.

Section 18. Action Without Meeting. Unless prohibited by the Articles of
Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken under authorization voted at a
meeting of the Board or any committee of the Board may be taken without a meeting if, before
or after the action, all members of the Board then in office or of the committee consent to the
action in writing or by electronic transmission. The written consents shall be filed with the
minutes of the proceedings of the Board or committee. The consent has the same effect as a vote
of the Board or committee for all purposes.

Section 19. Notice and Consents by Electronic Transmission. In addition to any
other form of notice or consent to or from a Trustee permitted by the Articles of Incorporation or
these Bylaws, any notice or consent given by a form of electronic transmission to which the
Trustee has consented is effective. For this purpose, a Trustee shall be deemed to have consented
to such electronic transmission if such Trustee does not affirmatively object to such transmission.
Further, ?Electronic transmission? means any form of communication that meets all of the
following: (1) it does not directly involve the physical transmission of paper; (2) it creates a
record that may be retained and retrieved by the recipient; and (3) it may be directly reproduced
in paper form by the recipient through an automated process.

22173805

ARTICLE IV
Officers

Section 1. Officers. The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairperson of the
Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. The Corporation also
may have, in the discretion of the Board, Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one
or more Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed by the Board with
such duties as assigned from time to time by the Board. One person may hold two or more
offices. Except as provided in Section 3 of Article VI, no officer shall execute, acknowledge or
verify any instrument in more than one capacity.

Section 2. Election. The of?cers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board,
subject to the requirements of these Bylaws (including with respect to Robin Terry?s right to
serve as President and Chairperson of the Board) and each shall hold his or her office until he or
she shall resign, until he or she shall be removed or otherwise disqualified to serve, or until his or
her successor shall be elected and quali?ed.

Section 3. Subordinate Officers and Agents. The Board may appoint such other
officers and agents as the business of the Corporation may require, each of whom shall hold
office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as may be provided in these
Bylaws or as the Board may determine from time to time.

Section 4. Removal and Resignation. Any officer or agent may be removed by a
majority of the Board at the time in office at any regular or special Board meeting.

Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board, the President, or
the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of such notice or at
any later time specified therein and, unless otherwise speci?ed therein, the acceptance of such
resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.

Section 5. Vacancies. A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation,
removal, disqualification, or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these
Bylaws for regular appointments to such office.

Section 6. Chairperson of the Board. Robin Terry shall have the right to serve as
the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees until she is no longer a Trustee of the Corporation. At
such time, or upon Robin Terry?s earlier resignation as Chairperson of the Board, the Members
shall elect by majority vote a Trustee to serve as the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees to
serve in such position until the next annual meeting of Members. With respect to any
Chairperson other than Robin Terry, the Members shall have the right to remove such
Chairperson of the Board for any reason. The Chairperson of the Board shall, if present, preside
at all meetings of the Board and shall exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may
from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board or prescribed by these Bylaws. The
Chairperson of the Board shall perform such other duties and functions as shall be assigned to
him or her from time to time by the Board of Trustees. He or she shall be, ex q??icio, a member of
all standing committees. The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall possess the power and
authority to sign all certificates, contracts, instruments, papers and documents of every

10

22173805

conceivable kind and character whatsoever in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation
which may be authorized by the Board of Trustees. Upon his or her resignation (but not removal
for Cause), the immediate past Chairperson of the Board may elect to serve the Corporation in an
advisory capacity as Chairperson of the Board emeritus. The Chairperson of the Board emeritus
shall not have a vote in any matter coming before the Board of Trustees.

Section 7. President1 CEO. In an effort to preserve the story and legacy of Motown,
Robin Terry shall have the right (but not the obligation) to serve as the President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Corporation until the Corporation?s annual meeting to be held for the
election of officers in 2018. Robin Terry?s term as President and Chief Executive Officer (unless
such position is split, as set forth in more detail below), shall be renewable by the Board of
Trustees for additional three-year terms. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Robin Terry may be
earlier removed from the office of President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for
any of the following: any action or inaction of Robin Terry resulting in an indictment involving
fraud, embezzlement or theft, or (ii) a determination, by a court of competent jurisdiction or
pursuant to the written certification of two licensed physicians (one of which shall be Robin Terry
attending physician, if one exists), that due to a physical or mental incapacity. Robin Terry is unable
to perform her duties, or the Board of Trustees determines, by 66% vote, that Robin Terry has
committed a dereliction of her duties as President and/0r Chief Executive Officer, as applicable.
Upon vote of the Board of Trustees, which vote shall also be approved by the Members, the
position of President and the position of Chief Executive Officer may be split, in which case
Robin Terry shall serve as Chief Executive Officer, with the President reporting to her in such
capacity. At such time as Robin Terry no longer serves as President and/or Chief Executive
Officer, the Board of Trustees shall elect by majority vote a President and/or a Chief Executive
Officer, as applicable, who need not be a Trustee of the Corporation but who shall be acceptable
to the Members. Subject to such powers and duties, if any, as may be given to the Chairperson
of the Board by the Board or prescribed by these Bylaws, the Chief Executive Officer shall be
the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board, have
general supervision, direction and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation. If the
positions of Chief Executive Officer and President are split, then the President shall have those
duties assigned to him or her by the Board of Trustees or the Chief Executive Officer from time
to time and shall report to the Chief Executive Officer.

The Chief Executive Of?cer or, if none shall have been appointed, the President, shall
preside at all members? meetings and, in the absence of the Chairperson of the Board or if there be
no such Chairperson, at all Board meetings. He or she shall be ex o??icio a member of all the
standing committees, including the executive committee, if any, shall have the general powers and
duties of management usually vested in such of?ce, shall see that all orders and resolutions of the
Board are carried into effect, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by
the Board or these Bylaws.

Section 8. Vice Presidents. In the event of the President?s absence or disability, the
Vice Presidents, if more than one, in order of their rank as fixed by the Board or, if not ranked,
the Vice President designated by the Board, shall perform all the duties of and shall be subject to
all the restrictions upon the President. The Vice Presidents shall have such other powers and
authority and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them
respectively by the Board or these Bylaws.

11

22173805

Section 9. Secretarv.

Secretary shall attend all Members? meetings and all Board meetings and
shall keep or cause to be kept, in his or her custody at the principal or registered office of
the Corporation in the state of Michigan or such other place as the Board may order, a
book recording the minutes of all Board and members? meetings setting forth: the place,
date, and hour of holding; whether regular or special; the notice thereof given; the names
of those present at Board meetings; and the proceedings thereof.

The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept at the registered office of the
Corporation in the State of Michigan, a list showing the names of the Members and their
addresses.

The Secretary shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation (if any)
and, when authorized by the Board, affix the same or cause the same to be affixed to any
instrument requiring it; when so affixed, the seal shall be attested by his or her signature or
by the signature of the Treasurer or the Assistant Secretary. The Secretary shall perform
such other duties and have such other authorities as are delegated to him or her by the
Board.

he Secretary shall give or cause to be given notice of all Board and
Members? meetings required by these Bylaws or by law.

Section 10. Assistant Secretaries. In the event of the Secretary?s absence or
disability, any Assistant Secretary shall act as Secretary in all respects. The Assistant Secretaries
shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be
prescribed for them respectively by the Board, the President, the Secretary, or these Bylaws.

Section 11. The Treasurer.

The Treasurer shall, subject to the direction of the Board, account for the
Corporation?s funds and securities and shall oversee that full and accurate accounts of
receipts and disbursements are maintained in the Corporation?s books. If there is a
finance committee, the Treasurer shall chair such committee.

The Treasurer shall also have the following duties: deposit or cause to
be deposited all monies and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the
Corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the Board; (ii) shall disburse
or cause to be disbursed the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board;
shall render to the President/CEO and the Board, whenever either requests it, an
account of all of his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the
Corporation; and (iv) shall have such other powers and authority incident to the of?ce of
Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board or these
Bylaws.

Section 12. Assistant Treasurers. In the event of the Treasurer?s absence or
disability, the Assistant Treasurer shall act as Treasurer in all respects. The Assistant Treasurer

12
22173305

shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be
prescribed for him or her by the Board, the President, the Treasurer, or these Bylaws.

Section 13. Salaries. The salaries, if any, of the of?cers shall be fixed from time to

time by the Board.

22173805

ARTICLE 
Indemnification
Section 1. Indemnification.
Mandatory Indemnification. of Directors and Officers. Provided such

action will not violate any applicable provision of state law or the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, (the "Code") or cause the Corporation to lose its tax-exempt status
under the Code, each individual who is or was a Trustee, director or officer of the
corporation, or (ii) is or was serving (at such time as such individual is or was a Trustee,
director or of?cer of the corporation) at the request of the corporation as a trustee,
director, officer, partner, employee, non-director volunteer or agent of another
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, whether for-profit or not-
for-profit, including service with respect to employee benefit plans (hereinafter, an
?Indemnitee?), shall be indemnified and held harmless by the corporation to the fullest
extent authorized by the Act and other applicable laws of the State of Michigan, as the
same exist or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of such amendment, only to the
extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification
rights than such law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment)
against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, penalties, ?nes and amounts
paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection therewith.
The right to indemnification conferred under this Article shall be a contract right and
shall apply to services of a Trustee, director or officer as an employee or agent of the
Corporation as well as in the person?s capacity as a Trustee, director or of?cer of the
Corporation. Notwithstanding the preceding, however, and except as provided in Section
1 of Article of these Bylaws with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to
indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such Indemnitee seeking
indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such
Indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of
Directors of the Corporation or if such proceeding is to enforce such Indemnitee?s rights
to indemni?cation hereunder.

Advancement of Expenses. The right to indemnification conferred under
Article shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in
defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (collectively,
?Advances?); provided, however, that the payment of such expenses incurred by an
Indemnitee in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding shall be made only upon
delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such Indemnitee, to
repay all advances if it is ultimately determined that such Indemnitee is not entitled to be
indemnified under this Article VII or otherwise. The undertaking shall be an unlimited

13

22173805

general obligation of the Indemnitee on whose behalf advances are made but need not be
secured.

Remedies. If a claim under Sections 1(a) or 1(b) of this Article is not
paid in full by the Corporation within thirty (30) days after a written claim has been
received by the Corporation, the Indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against
the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in
part in any such suit or in a suit brought by the Corporation to recover advances, the
Indemnitee also shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting or defending such
claim. In any action brought by the Indemnitee to enforce a right under Section 1(a) or
1(b) of this Article (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses
incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the
required undertaking has been tendered to the Corporation), it shall be a defense that the
Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Act or other
applicable laws of the State of Michigan or the Code, and the Corporation shall be
entitled to recover such advances if it is ultimately determined that the Indemnitee has not
met such applicable standard of conduct. In any action brought by the Indemnitee to
enforce a right hereunder or by the Corporation to recover payments by the Corporation
of advances, the burden of proof shall be on the Corporation.

Non-exclusivity. The right to indemnification and the Advances conferred
in this Article shall not be exclusive of any other right that any person may have or
hereafter acquire under any statute, contract, vote of disinterested Directors, the
Corporation?s Articles of Incorporation or otherwise.

Amendment or Repeal. No amendment or repeal of this Article shall
apply to or have any effect on any person who is or was a Trustee. director or officer of
the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of the Trustee, director or
officer occurring before the amendment or repeal.

Indemnification. of others. The Corporation may, by action of its Board of
Trustees, provide indemnification and advancement of expenses to other employees,
volunteers and agents of the Corporation with the same scope and effect as described in
Article V, or any lesser extent determined by the Board of Directors.

Insurance. The Corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain
insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a Director, officer, employee, non-
director volunteer or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the
Corporation as a director, officer, employee, non-director volunteer or agent of another
Corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability
asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity or arising out
of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to
indemnify him or her against such liability under this Article V.

Severability. Each and every paragraph, sentence, term and provision of
this Article shall be considered severable in that, in the event a court finds any
paragraph, sentence, term or provision to be invalid or unenforceable, the validity and

14

enforceability, operation, or effect of the remaining paragraphs, sentences, terms, or
provisions shall not be affected, and this Article shall be construed in all respects as if
the invalid or unenforceable matter had been omitted. Further, the paragraph, sentence,
term or provision held to be invalid and unenforceable shall be enforced to the fullest
extent permitted by law.

ARTICLE VI
Execution of Instruments

Section 1. Bank Accounts. Each bank account of the Corporation shall be
established and continued only by order of the Board.

Section 2. Checks: Etc. All checks, drafts, and orders for the payment of money
shall be signed in the name of the Corporation in such manner and by such of?cers or agents as
the Board shall from time to time designate for that purpose. No check or other instrument for
the payment of money to the Corporation shall be endorsed otherwise than for deposit to the
credit of the Corporation. All checks of the Corporation shall be drawn to the order of the payee.
The Corporation may adopt other operating policies and procedures and internal controls
provisions by action of the Board.

Section 3. Contracts, Conveyances, Etc.

(21) When the execution of any contract, conveyance or other instrument has
been authorized without specification of the executing of?cers, the President, Chief
Executive Officer, or any Vice President and the Secretary or Treasurer may execute the
same in the name and on behalf of this Corporation and may affix the corporate seal
thereto. The Board shall have power to designate the officers and agents who shall have
authority to execute any instrument on behalf of the Corporation in more than one
capacrty.

Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, no officer,
employee, non-trustee volunteer or agent of this Corporation shall have the authority to
disburse monies or other property to other persons, to obligate the Corporation to do or
perform any act, to make any payments of money or property, or to execute any of the
instruments described herein on behalf of this Corporation other than in the ordinary
course of business unless he or she shall have previously obtained the approval of the
Board and unless such approval or ratification shall appear in the minutes of this

 

Corporation.
ARTICLE VII
?ght of Inspection
Section 1. Inspection of Bylaws. The Corporation shall keep in its registered or

 

principal office the original or a copy of these Bylaws and the Articles of Incorporation as
amended or otherwise altered to date, certified by the Secretary, which shall be open to
inspection by all members during regular business hours.

15
22173805

Section 2. Inspection of Records. A person who is a Member of record of the
Corporation, upon at least ten (10) days? written demand may examine for any proper purpose in
person or by agent or attorney, during usual business hours, its minutes of Members? meetings
and record of Members and make extracts therefrom, at the places where the said records are
kept.

ARTICLE 
Fiscal Year

The Corporation?s fiscal year shall be determined by the Board.

ARTICLE IX
Seal

The Corporation may have a seal which shall have inscribed thereon the name of the
Corporation, the state of incorporation, and the words ?Corporate Seal.? The seal may be used by
causing it or a facsimile to be imprinted, af?xed, reproduced, or otherwise.

ARTICLE 
Dissolution

In the event of the dissolution, winding up, or other liquidation of the Corporation, after
provision has been made for the payment of all of the liabilities of the Corporation, all of the assets
of the Corporation shall be disposed of exclusively for the purposes of the Corporation in such
manner, or to such organization or organizations as voted upon by the Members so long as they are
organized and operated exclusively for charitable, educational, religious, or scienti?c purposes as
shall at the time qualify as an exempt organization or organizations under Section 501(c)(3) of the
Code (or the corresponding provision of any future United States Internal Revenue law) and shall
not be conveyed to any private individual, ?rm or organization, or Corporation organized for profit,
or to any member, contributor, private individual, Trustee or of?cer of this Corporation. Any assets
of the Corporation not disposed of under the previous sentence shall be distributed for public
purposes by a court having jurisdiction over the Corporation.

ARTICLE XI
Amendments

These Bylaws may be added to, altered, amended, or repealed only by written consent of the
Members or by majority vote of the Members at any annual or special meeting if notice of the
proposed addition, alteration, amendment, or repeal shall have been included in the notice of such
meeting or waived in writing.

16
22173805

ARTICLE XII
General Provision

Section 1. Reserves. The Board of Trustees shall have power and authority to set
apart such reserve or reserves, for any proper purpose, as the Board in its discretion shall
approve, and the Board shall have the power and authority to abolish any reserve created by the
Board.

Section 2. Voting Securities. Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Trustees, the
President or by a proxy appointed by him or her; or, in the absence of the President and his or her
proxy, the Treasurer or by a proxy appointed by him or her; or, in the absence of both the President
and the Treasurer and their proxies, the Secretary or by a proxy appointed by him or her are
authorized in that order to vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of this Corporation all rights
incident to any and all shares of other corporations standing in the name of this Corporation. The
Board of Trustees by resolution from time to time may confer like power upon any other person
or persons.

Section 3. Corporate Books and Records. The Corporation shall keep books and
records of account and minutes of the proceedings of its Board of Trustees and executive
committees, if any. The books, records and minutes may be kept outside this state. Any of the
books, records or minutes may be in written form or in any other form capable of being
converted into written form within a reasonable time. The Corporation shall convert into written
form without charge any record not in written form, unless otherwise requested by a person
entitled to inspect the records.

Section 4. Annual Report. The Corporation shall cause a financial report of the
Corporation for the preceding ?scal year to be made and distributed to each Member within four (4)
months after the end of the ?scal year, or on or before one (1) week prior to the Members? annual
meeting, whichever ?rst occurs. The report shall include the Corporation?s year-end balance sheet
and, if prepared by the Corporation, its statement of source and application of funds.

Section 5. Loans. No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation and no
evidences of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the Board.
Such authority may be general or con?ned to speci?c instances. No loan or advance to, or overdraft
or withdrawal by, a Trustee or Member of the Corporation in their capacity as such shall be made or
permitted.

17
22173305

AUG-20-2013 13:52 JAFFE LAW P01 2483513082 
08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM -0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 11 OF 21

 OF

 #314-


  
   

  

  
 
 
   

Hill-II

- i

 

drawing. mam

This is to Certify That

MOTOWN HISTORICAL MUSEUM, 

was Valid! incorporated on Aprii 16. 1985, as a Michigan nonpro?t corporation, and said corporation
is validly in existence under the laws of this state.

This certi?cate is issued pursuant to the provisions of 1982 PA 162, as amended, to attest to the fact that the
corporation is in good standing in Michigan as of this date and is duly authorized to conduct affairs in Michigan
and for no other purpose.

This certificate is in due form, made by me as the proper of?cer, and is entitled to have fuii faith and credit
given it in every court and of?ce within the United States.

in testimony whereof. i have hereunto set my
hand, in the City of Lansing, this 20th day
of August, 2013.

y'l'f n51Sent by 

7 33 8
2 1 Aian J. Scheme. Director
Corporations, Securities 8. Commerciai Licensing Bureau

 

 13:62 JAFFE LAW P01 2483513092 
08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM ?0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 12 OF 21

 

 

?nl?g, Michigan

This is to Certify that the annexed copy has been compared by me with the record on tile in this Department and
that the same is a true copy thereof.

This certi?cate is in due form, made by me as the preper o??icer, and is entitled to have full faith and credit given
it in every court and o?ice within the United States.

in testimony whereof, i have hereunto set my
hand, in the City of Lansing, this 20th day

of 2013

-I . Wininbzui I I.
Sent by Facsimile Transmission
723315 Alan J. Schefka Director
Corporations, Securities Commercial Licensing Bureau

 

 13:52 JAFFE LAW 2483513082 
08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM ~0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 13 OF 21

Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory A?airs

Filing Endorsement

This is to Certify that the RESTA TED ARTICLES OF INCORPORA TION - NONPROFIT
for

M0 TOWN HISTORICAL MUSEUM, INC.
ID NUMBER: 723318

receIVed by facsimile transmission on AUgust 19, 2013 is hereby endorsed

Filed on August 20, 2013 by the Administrator.

The document is effective on the date ?led, unless a
subsequent effeetive date within 90 days after
received date is stated in the document.

in testimony whereof, i have hereunto set my
hand and affixed the Seal of the Department,
in the City of Lansing. this 20TH day
oiAugust, 2013.

Director

Bureau of Commercial Services

 

Sent by Facsimlle Transmission 13232

 13:52 JAFFE 2483513082 
08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM -0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 14 OF 
Aug.19. 2013 No.4231 P. 2

(Rev. 04m)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF LICENSING AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS
BUREAU OF COMMERCIAL SERVICES
Date Received (FOR BUREAU USE ONLY)
This document is e?eoIiVe on the dale ?led, unless a
worequam e?eciive dole wiihin 90 days after received
date It: ulaied In the docurneni. 
Name
Susan R. McMasler Clo Ja?e Raitt Heuer 8. Weiss PC
Address
Frankiin Road. Suite 2500
City Slate ZIP Code
Seuth?eld MI 48034 EFFECTIVE DATE

 

 

 

 

{a . Documenl will be returned to the name and addrons you omer above.
If left blank, document will he returned to the registered office.

RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION

For use by Domestic Nonpro?t Corporations
(Please read information and instructions on the last page)

Pursuant to the provisions of Act 162, Public: Acts of 1982. the undersigned corporation eXecutes (he following Restated Articles:

 

 

1. The present name of the corporation is:

Merown MUSEUM. INC.

 

2. The Identi?cation number assigned by the Bureau ls: T234318

 

 

 

3. All former names ofthe commotion are:

4. The date of ?ling the original Articles of Incorporatlon was: 4,15,1935

 

 

 

 

The following Restated Articles of Incomoraiion supersede the Anicleo of Incorporation as amended and shay be
the Articles of Incarporallon for the cancellation:

ARTICLE I
The name of ihe corporation is:
MOTOWN HISTORICAL MUSEUM, INC.

 

 

ARTICLE II

The purpose or purposes for which the corporailon is organized are:
See attached

 

 

 

 

 

08/19/2013 9: 489M (GMTHOLI: 00)

 13:52 LAW P01
08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM ?0400 DELEG FAXCOM

Aug.i9. 2013 

ARTICLE 

2483513082 
PAGE 15 OF 21
No. 4231 P. 3

 

nOi?lSlOCk

1, The corporation is organized on a
(stool: or nonstock)

basis.

2. if organized on a stock basis, the aggregate number of shares which the corporation has authority to issue is

 

and limitations of the shares of each class are as follows:

Cash, Marketabie Securities and Inventory $679,503.00

(net of accumulated depreciation)

divided into classes, the designation of each class, the number of shares In each class. and the relatiVe rights, preferences,

3. if organized on a nonstock basis, the description and Value of its real property assets are: (if none, inesrt ?none")
Museum. Improvements. Lend and Parking Lot $1 212,825 .24 (net of accumulated depreciation)

and the description and value of its personal properly assets are: (if none, insert "none")

Furniture, Equipment, Computers and Computer Software - $76,186.62

If the shares arevaluation of the above assets was as of Pt?? 31 2?13 
The corporation Is to be ?nanced under the following general plan:
Admissions, Grants. Gifts. Etc.
The corporation is organized on a Membersmp basis.
{membership or directorship)
ARTICLE IV
1. The name of the resident agent is: Rabi" Teny
2. The address of the registered of?ce is:
 W. Grand BlVd., Detroit I Mich?gan 
(Street Address) (Oily) EKEP Code]
3. The mailing address of the registered of?ce. if different than soot/e;
Michigan
(Street Address or PD, Box) (City) (ZIP Code)

 

 

08/19/2013 9:1i8FiM (GMT-OH: 00)

 13:52 JAFFE LAW PC1 2483513082 

 

08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM ?0400 DELEG FAXCOM DAGE 18 OF 21
Aug.19. 2013 No.423i P. 4
ARTICLE (Additional prontlsinns1 if any, may be inserted here; attach additional pages if needed.)
Seeattaohed

 

 

 

 

5. COMPLETE SECTION (3) iF THE RESTATED ARTICLES DO NOT FURTHER AMEND THE ARTICLES OF
OTHERWISE, COMPLETE SECTION (D).

 

a. El These Restated Articles of incorporation were duly adopted on the day of 
. in accordance with the provisions of Section 642 of the Act or the Board of Directors without
a vote of the members or shareholders. These Restated Articles of Incorporation only restate and
integrate and do not further amend the provisions of the Articles oi incorporation as heretofore amended
and there is no material discrepancy betvr/een those provisions and the provisions of these Restated
Articles.

Signed this day of

BY

 

(Signature ofAuthoiized Officer orAgent) 

 

(Type or Print Name)

 

 

These Restated Articles of incorporation were duly adopted on the [5 day

of APRIL . 2.0.13 in accordance with the provisions of Section 642 of
the Act. These Restated Articles of incorporation restate, integ rate, and do further amend the provisions
of the Articles of Incorporation, and: (Check one of the following)

were duly adopted by the shareholders, the members, or the directors (if organized on nonstocir
directorship basis). The necessary number of votes were cast in favor of these Restated Articles of
incorporation.

were duly adopted by the written consent of all the shareholders or members entitled to vote in

 

 



were duly adopted by the written consent of all the directors pursuant to Section 525 of the Act as the
corporation is organized on a directorship basis.

were duly adopted by the written consent of the shareholders or members having not less than the
minimum number of votes required by statute in aocordarrCe with Section 407(1) and (2) of the Act.
Wn?tten notice to shareholders or members who have not consented in Writing has been giVen. (Note:
Written consent by less than all of the shareholders or members is permitted only if such provision
appears in the Articles of incorporation)

Signedthis dayof 2?0'3

By 

is?natum of President. VioeuFresi err Chairperson or Woe-Chairperson)

 

Chili person
{Type or Print are) (Type or bnni Title)

 

 

 

 

 

08/19/2013 

AUG-20-2013 13:52 JAFFE LAW 2483513052 

08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM -0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 17 OF 21
Aug.l9. 20l3 No.423l P. 5
Attachmentto
Articles of Incorporation

Motown Historical Museum, Inc.

Article II

The Corporation has been organized and at all times shall be operated exclusively for charitable,
scienti?c, literary or educational purposes within the meaning of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or comparable provisions of subSequent legislation (the
and inpartioular for the establishment and maintenance of a museum Open to the general
public which is devoted to the procurement, care and display of memorabilia of historic value and
objects of lasting interest-in the ?eld of music; for the encouragement, development and promotion
of an appreciation of music; for the purpose of receiving and administering funds for perpetuation
of the memory of persons, preservation of objects of historical or natural interest educational,
charitable or religious purposes or public welfare, including but not limited to celebrating,
preserving and educating the public cementing the history and legacy of the music of Motown
Records in the City of Detroit.

The Cerporation is empowered to exercise all rights and powers conferred by the laws of the State
of Michigan upon nonpro?t corporations, including but without limitation:

To receive contributions and administer ?mds particularly to pay them over to
organizations which are described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, (the "Code") and exempt from taxation onder Section
501(a) of the Code;

(ii) To receive gi?'s, bequests and contributions, in any form, to collect dues, and to use,
apply, invest and reinvest the principal and/or incarne therefrom or distribute the
same for the Corporation?s purposes;

 

To receiVe and administer ?mds in order to further charitable, educational,
scienti?c, or literary purposes and to lessen the ?nancial burdens of government;

(iv) To acquire, own, dispose of and deal with real and personal property and interests
therein and to apply gifts, grants, bequests, and devises and. the proceeds thereof in
?irtherance of the proposes of the corporation; and

To do all such things as are maidental or conducive to and the attainment of the
foregoing purposes of the corporation.

The Corporation is, and will be, Organized and operated exclusively for purposes described
in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code.

Upon the dissolution of the Corporation, assets shall be distributed for one or more exempt
purposes within the meaning of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or

24410173 08f19/2013 

 13:52 JAFFE LAW 2483613082 
08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM -0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 18 OF 21

Aug.19. 2013 No.4231 P. 6

corresponding section of any future federal tax code, or shall be distributed to the federal
gOVerrunent, or to a state or local government, for a public purpose. Any such assets not
disposed of shall be disposed ofby the Court ofCornmon Pleas of the connty in winch the
principal of?ce of the organization is then located, exclusively for such purposes or to such
organization 0r organizations, as said Cour: shall determine, which are organizod and
operated exclusively for such purposes.

ARTICLE 
The terrn of the corporate existence is perpetual.
ARTICLE-VI

If permitted under the laws of the State of Michigan, any action required or permitted to be taken
at any annual or special meeting of members of this Corporation may be taken without a
meeting, without prior notice and Without a vote, if a consent in Writing, setting forth the action
so taken, is signed by that number of members of this Corporation that would be necessary to
authorize or take the action at a meeting at which all of the members were present and voted.
Prompt notice of the taking of any corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimious
written consent shall he given to all members who have not consented in Writing-

ARTICLE VII

A. Subject to Section and of this Article VII, a volunteer director or volume-er of?cer of
the Corporation shall not be per30nally liable to the Carperation, its shareholders or its
members far menetary damages f0r breach of the volunteer director?s or volunteer
officer?s ?duciary duty, except for liability:

(1) For any breach of the volunteer director's or volunteer of?cer?s duty of loyalty to
the Carpora?cn or its members;

 

(2) For acts or omissions not in good faith or that introlve intentional misconduct or
knowing violation of law;

(3) For a violation of Section 551(1) ofthe Michigan Nonpro?t Corporation Act;

(4) or any transaction from which the 'volunteer director or volunteer of?cer derived
an improper personal bene?t;

(5) For any acts or omissicns occum'ng before the date this Article is ?led by the
Michigan Department of Commerce; and

(6) For any acts or emissions that are grossly negligent.

24420172 08/19/2013 

 13:52 LAW PC1 2483513082 
08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM -04:00 DELEG FAXCOM RACE 19 OF 21

Aug.i9. 2013 No.4231 P. 7

B. The Corporation hereby assumes all liability to any person other than the Corpcration, its
shareholders or its members for all acts or omissions ofa volunteer director occurring on
or after January 1, 1988, incurred in the good faith performance of the volunteer
director?s duties; provided, however, if applicable, that the Corporation shall not be
considered to have assumed any liability to the extent such assumption is inconsistent
with the status of the Corporation as an organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the
Code. .

C. The Corporation hereby assumes the liability for all acts or omissions of a volunteer
director or volunteer of?cer occurring on or after the date the initial Articles of
Incorporation were ?led with the State of Michigan if all of the following are met:

The volunteer was acting or reasonably believed he or she was acting within the
scope of his or her authority.

(ii) The volunteer was actingr in good faith.

The volunteer?s conduct did not amount to gross negligence or will?il and wanton
misconduct.

(iv) The volquteer?s conduct was not an intentional tort

The volunteer?s conduct was not a tort arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
or use of a motor vehicle for which tort liability may be imposed as provided in
Section 3135 of the insurance code of 1956, Act No. 218 of the Public Acts of
1956, being sectiOn 500-3135 of the Michigan Compiled Laws.

In "all cases in which the Corporation assumes the liability hereunder, the Corporation, and not
the individual volunteer director or of?cer, shall be named as the defendant in the lawmiit.

If the Michigan Nanprc?t Corporation Act is hereafter amended to authorize the forther

elimination or limitation of the liability of directors or of?cers of nonpro?t Corporations, then

the liability of a director or of?cer of the Corporation (in addition to the limitation, elimination

and assumption of personal liability contained in this Article) shall be assumed by the

Corporation or eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the Michigan Nonpr0?t


assumption of liability is inconsistent with the status of the Carporation as an organization

described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code.

ARTICLE 

In the event the Corporation is determined to be a ?private foundation,? as that term is de?ned in
section 509(a) of the Code, then:

(1) The Corporation shall distribute its incurne for each taxable year at such time and in such

manner as not to become subject to the tax on undisuibuted income imposed by section 4942 of
the Code.

24420172 08/19/2013 9:l+8FtM 

AUG-20-2013 13:62 Law P01 2483513082 9.020/021
08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM ?0400 DELEG FAKCOM PAGE 20 OF 21

Aug.l9. 2013 No.423l P. 8

(2) The Corporation shall not engage in any act or take any actions which subject it to the tax
on self?dealing imposed by section 4941 of the Code.

(3) I The Corporation shall not own, obtain or retain an interest in any business enterprise which
subject it to the tax on excess business holdings imposed by section 4943 of the Code.

(4) The CorporatiOn shall not make any investments in such manner as to subject it to tax
imposed by section 4944 of the Code.

(5) The Corporation shall not expend its funds in such a manner as to subject it to the tax on
taxable expenditures imposed by 4945 of the Code.

ARTICLE IX

Any action required or permitted to be taken under authorization voted at a meeting of the
Corporation?s Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors may be taken without
a meeting if, before or a?er the action, all members of the Board of Directors then in of?ce or of
Such cemmittee consent to the action in writing or by electmnic transmission. The written
consents shall be ?led With the minutes of the proceedings 0f the Beard of Directors or
committee. The consent has the same effect as a vote of the Board of Directors or committee for
all purposes.

ARTICLE 

(1) The Corporation shall not detrote more than an insubstantial part of its actitdties to
attempting to in?uence legislation by prepaganda or otherwise; or (ii) exceed any
permissible range of lobbying allowed by any election made by the Corporation,

(2) The Corporation shall not directly or indirectly participate in or intervene in (including
the publishing or distributing of statements) any political campaign on behalf of or
in opposition to any candidate for public of?ce.

 

(3) The Corporation shall not have objectives or engage in activities which characterize it
as an "action" organization as de?ned in Treasury Regulation 

ARTICLE XI

Nonvithstanding any other provision of these Articles of hicorporation no part of the net earnings
of the CorporatiOn shall inure to the bene?t of, or be distributable to its directors, of?cers, or other
private persons, except that the Corporation shall be authorized and empowered to pay reasonable
compensation for services rendered and to make payments and distributions in ?ir?ierance of the
purposes set forth in Article II hereo? No substantial part of the activities of the CorpomtiOn shall
be the catering on or otherwise attempting to in?uence legislation, and the
Corporation shall not participate in, or intervene in (including the publishing 0r distribution of
statements) any political campaign on behalf of any candidate for public of?ce. Notwithstanding
any other provision of these Articles ofincorporartion1 the Corporation shall 1101:ch on any other

24420111 08/19/2013 

AUG-20-2013 13:52 JAFFE LAW 2483513082 
08/20/2013 1:20:07 PM ?0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 21 OF 21

Auslg. 2013 No.4?31 P. 9

activities not permitted to be carried on by an organization exempt from federal income tax
under section 50:] of the Code, or Cb) by an organisation contributions to which are
deduetible under section of the Code.

ARTICLE XII

In the event of the dissolution, winding up, or other liquidation of the Corporation, after provision
has been made for the payment of all of the liabilities of the Cooperation, all of the assets of the
Corporation shall be disposed of exclusively fer the pmposes of the Corporation in such manner, or
to such organization or organizations as determined by the Members so long as such recipients are
organized and operated exclusively for charitable, educational, religious, or scienti?c purposes as
shall at the time qualify as an exempt organization or organizations under Section 501(c)(3) of the
Code (or the corresponding provisiCm of any ?lmre United States Internal Revenue law) and shall
not be conveyed to any private individual, ?rm or Organization, or Corpomtion' organized for pro?t,
or to any member, contributor, private individual, Trustee or of?cer of this Carpom?orL Any assets
of the Corporation not disposed of under the previous sentence shall be distributed for public
purposes by a court haan jmisdic?OH over the Corporation

ARTICLE 

The power to adopt; annexed1 or repeal these Articles of Incorporation er the Corporation?s
Bylaws is reserved exclusively to the Corporation's Members. Any such adoption, amendment
or repeal of either these Articles of Incorporation or the Corporation?s Bylaws may he e??eetecl by
written consent of the Members or by majority vote of the Members at any annual or special
meeting if notice of the proposed. addition alteration, amendm6nt, or repeal shall have been
included in the notice of such meeting or waived in writing.

 

unm11 08/19/2013 

TOTAL P.021

2019?07?15 

989 Petition of Motown Museum, request
from Your Honorable Body a
resolution for a Charitable Gaming
License.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

 

(titty at ?etrm?t

 

CITY COUNCIL

 

MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM
DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

To: Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
From: Council President Pro Tem Mary Shef?elt?
Chair, Neighborhood Community Services Standing Committee
Re: Voting Precinct Relocation
Date: June 17, 2019

 

Our of?ce has received numerous inquiries from residents concerning their current voting
location, which houses voting precincts 98 and 99. Residents have expressed their desire
to move voting precincts 98 and 99 to 4001 Miller St Detroit.

This communication is to request that the Department of Elections move voting precincts

98 and 99 to 4001 Miller St.

Should you have any questions, please contact my of?ce.

CC: Honorable Colleagues

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


