COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE

MEETING MINUTES
Wednesday, February 3, 2016 (1:30 pm – 3:30 pm)

I.

Welcome
Kimberly Wasserman – Chairman

II.

Introductions
A. Teleconference
 Commissioner Millard Driskell
 Veronica Halloway – Illinois DPH
 Chris Pressnall - IEPA
 Commissioner Cheryl Johnson
 Rev Pierce – Illinois People Action
 Melanie Moore – Friends of the Parks
B. Videoconference Chicago
 Commissioner Kim Wasserman, Chairman
 Commissioner Keith Harley
 Sharonda Williams-Tack – Sierra Club
 Alan Wesolowski – One Northside
 Julianna Pino – LVEJO
 Commissioner Veronica Kyle
 Nathan Czuba – PERRO
 Troy Hernandez – PERRO
 Stephanie Bilenko - NEIS
 Pastor Booker Vance – Faith –n- Place
 Veronica Kyle C. Videoconference Springfield
 Ken Page - Illinois EPA
 Stephon Bishop – Illinois EPA
 Commissioner Diane Lopez Hughes
 Kevin Greene – Illinois EPA
 Commissioner Brenda Carter
 Jim Ross – Illinois EPA
 Jennifer Carrillo – Illinois People Action

III.

Approval of Agenda (electronic copy)
 Moved by – Commissioner Kim Wasserman
 Second- Commissioner Cheryl Johnson
Motion carried

 IV.

Approval of the Minutes
December 8, 2015 (electronic copy)
 Moved by – Commissioner Keith Harley
 Second – Commissioner Cheryl Johnson
Motion carried

V.

Presentations/Discussions:
A. Clean Power Plan by Kevin Greene and Jim Ross
Still no official position on the Clean Power Plan/but there has been some
movement
 Developing a proposal for 8 – 12 listening sessions
 Criteria for determining locations
a. IEPA’s EJ screening tool
b. Broader definition of vulnerable communities
c. Communities impacted by shift in power generation
d. Coal mining areas/plants served
e. Clean energy incentive program
f. Want to account for geographic balance
 Locations
a. Waukegan
b. Southside and/or Southwest side of Chicago
c. Grundy, Will and Kendall Counties
d. Quad cities
e. Peoria
f. Effingham
g. Woodriver/Alton
h. Springfield
i. Harrisburg (Saline County)
j. Sparta (Randolph & Perry Counties)
 Format
a. Open House - 5:30 pm until 6:30 pm
b. Listening Sessions – 6:30 pm until 8:30 pm
c. Staff provide overview of the CPP (10-15 minutes)
d. Public can speak
Time limits on speakers (5-7 minutes?)
Registering online to speak
1 person per organization
e. Questions
 Keep in Mind
a. Providing topic areas of priority (look at other state examples of topics)
b. Interpreter/ Translation when needed
c. Neutral Facilitator
d. Follow-up Questions

 e. Invite Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity
f. Preparing Meeting Notices
g. Website live with plain language
h. Attend listening sessions that are sponsored by other organizations

-

-

 Questions
Keith Harley – will there be an opportunity for public comment/
Will the meetings be transcribed? Suggest that they be (similar to
formal hearing transcriptions)
Jennifer Carrillo – How many listening sessions per month? Maybe 2.
Jennifer Carrillo – Timeline of sessions? Start Late March/Early April
Veronica Kyle – Make sure ample time is provided for people to speak. These are
people that do not register on the proposed website. Likes the idea of 1 person
speaking for each organization.
- Need to invite privileged communities to these listening sessions.
Julianna Pino – Make sure that online registration is translated.
- Will the public comments be available for others to see/review?
- It is important to have IEPA available for prep meetings.
Diane Lopez Hughes – It will be helpful if different EJ organizations work
together in certain areas.
Kim Wasserman – What is the timeframe to finalize the 10 listening sessions?
(Estimate by Feb 15th)
Brenda Carter – Will there be a 30 day notice required for the listening sessions?
Rev. Pierce – Will the hearings be contingent on legislation?
Veronica Kyle – Each year groups collaborate for Lobby Day on April 21 st. It
would be good to have the IEPA involved.
Jennifer Carrillo – There should not be a rush to schedule the listening sessions.
Maybe May, June and July.
Keith Harley – Reasons for location selections? What about fracking locations?
Consider adding location or revising reasoning behind choosing locations.
Julianna Pino – Are the listening sessions the only opportunity for stakeholder
involvement? No, but is a primary piece.

Kevin - Intends to share plan with internal team next week and plans to get more
feedback from stakeholders
VI.

New Business:
A. Formation of a Clean Power Plan Sub-committee
Moved by – Commissioner Kim Wasserman
Second by – Commissioner Millard Driskell
Motion carried
 1st meeting date for the sub-committee will be Monday, March 7th @
10:00 am – conference call
 Members of sub-committee
1. Commissioner Diane Lopez Hughes – co-chair
2. Commissioner Kim Wasserman – co-chair
3. Pastor Booker Vance
4. Veronica Halloway IDPH
5. Commissioner Cheryl Johnson
6. Julianna Pino
7. Rev. Pierce

 VII.

Send/email Information to Ken for distribution to all
Old Business
 Open meetings Act training – all of the commissioners need to
complete
 Ethics training – all commissioners need to complete.

VIII.

Open Discussions/Questions
 USEPA is hosting a webinar on the role of Biomass in achieving the
Clean Power Plan goals (Open to the public)

IX.

Next Meeting
 2nd Quarter in 2016

X.

Adjournment
 At 3:12 pm

 