Commission on Environmental Justice
Minutes for the November 19, 2013
The meeting opened at 10:15 a.m. by Chairwoman Kimberly Wasserman.
I.
Welcome
Chairwoman, Kimberly Wasserman
II.
Introductions
Participants included Commissioners: Keith Harley, Millard Driskell, Kate Tomford, Kimberly
Wasserman, Cheryl Johnson, Jerry Mead-Lucero, Veronica Kyle, Tamika Gibson and Ken
Page.
Observers: Christian Strachan, People for Community Recovery, I believe there were two
additional observers but I don’t have their names or affiliations.
IEPA Staff: Ken Page, Sharonda Williams, Loretta Kidd, Chris Presnall.
On the phone: Latonya Lumpkin/ Aging, Joe Mitchell/ IDPH, Bola Delano/ IDOT, Alec
Messina/IERG, Rep. Chris Welch, Sylvia Hood-Washington and Gloria Williams/IDNR.
III.
Approval of the Agenda (electronic copy)
Chairwoman Wasserman asked for a motion to approve the agenda.
Motion: Cheryl Johnson moved for the agenda to be approved.
Second: Millard Driskell
Motion was carried.
IV.
Approval of the minutes (electronic copy)
Chairwoman Wasserman asked for a motion to approve the minutes.
Motion: Alec Messina moved for approval of minutes
Second: Veronica Kyle
Corrections to the minutes:
a. Jerry Mead-Lucero stated he was misquoted in the minutes. When he stated that the group
needed to look at cumulative impacts he meant it in relation to how environmental laws
and regulations address cumulative pollution impacts. Jerry Mead-Lucero will provide Ken
Page with the correct language.
b. Tamika Gibson stated that she was also misquoted. The quote provided in the minutes is
Illinois Environmental Council’s motto and she wanted that to be specified. Tamika Gibson
will provide Ken Page with the correct language.
Motion carried with the necessary corrections.

 V.

Approval of the Yearly Report (electronic copy)

Motion: Kim Wasserman moved for the approval of the yearly report.
Second: Gloria Williams
Corrections:
a. Kim Wasserman noticed that the last page of the minutes was missing and some quotes
from participants were not mentioned in the yearly report
Motion carried with the necessary corrections (attaching the last page)
VI.

Presentations/Discussions
1. Yearly Reporting requirements. Report format.

Ken Page stated that there is no set reporting format for the yearly report that is filed with
the Secretary of State. Ken stated that the Secretary of State has received notepads to
thirty page documents. In the future the report may include action items. If there are any
changes made to the format of the yearly report those changes will be shared with the
group. If anyone has a suggestion for the format please share it with the group.
Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place asked whether the yearly report had to be verbatim from our
meeting or if we could focus instead on action items. Veronica also stated that we may
have sensitive discussions that we don’t want to share in the report.
Ken Page stated that capturing the most important action items and approvals would
suffice.
Kim Wasserman stated that next year’s report will be more intense.
Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO stated that this report shows how little we have done.
Ken Page stated that the report was due three weeks after our first meeting and that is why
it looks that way.
Millard Driskell, Grand Master of Prince Hall Masons of Illinois suggested that we take
secretarial minutes and exclude heated discussion.
Kim Wasserman suggested that we switch Agenda item VI, 3 with VI, 2.
2. Open Meetings Act requirements (have you completed your online training for
your certificate of completion)
People that have completed the online training are as follows:
(If you have completed the training and your name is not listed, please forward your online training completion certificate to me)
1. Ken Page
2. Alec Messina
3. LaTonya Lumpkin
4. Dr. Sylvia E. Washington
5. Gloria J. Williams
6. Millard V. Driskell
7. Tamika B. Gibson
8. Keith I. Harley
9. Cheryl Johnson

 10. Kate Tomford
11. Dr. John K. Holton
12. Veronica Kyle
Kim Wasserman stated that the link for the training will be re-sent.
3. Overview of priorities that have been discussed with the Chairwoman
Kim Wasserman stated that coming from a community organizing background, the
Commission role is a departure from her roots. She needs help fleshing out the priorities of
this group and she asked Keith Harley for his assistance. Kim went on to state that the two
strongest items that stood out from the first meeting were agency oversight and
brownfields. With agency oversight the group will ask how they can ensure that
environmental justice is a part of the agencies work and determine how we begin these
conversations. In regard to brownfields redevelopment and brownfields in general the
Commission will determine what they can do around this topic. Kim also noted that this is a
process for everyone and according to the principles of environmental justice we will be
working together on these initiatives.
VII.

Old Business
1. Committee Formation and Assignment
The Commissioners voted to form the Brownsfield Redevelopment Committee and the
Agency Involvement/Oversight Committee.
Motion; Kim Wasserman made the motion to establish the committees
Second: Jerry Mead-Lucero
Motion was carried
Subcommittee Members
Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place: Brownfields Redevelopment Committee
Kate Tomford, Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity: Agency Oversight
Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO: Brownfields Redevelopment
Tamika Gibson, Illinois Environmental Council: Brownfields Redevelopment
Keith Harley: Both
Cheryl Johnson, People for Community Recovery: Both
Millard Driskell, Grand Master of Prince Hall Masons of Illinois: Brownfields Redevelopment
Alec Messina, Illinois Environmental Regulatory Group: Both
Rep. Chris Welch: I don’t have his choice written down
Joe Mitchell, Illinois Department of Public Health: Agency Oversight
Latonya Lumpkin, Illinois Department on Aging: Agency Oversight
Gloria Williams, Illinois Department of Natural Resources: Agency Oversight
Jeffrey Jones, Illinois Department of Natural Resources: Both
Sylvia Hood-Washington: Both
Bola Delano, Illinois Department of Transportation: Agency Oversight

 Kim Wasserman asked the group if the subcommittees want to meet between Thanksgiving
and Christmas or wait until 2014.
Ken Page, IL EPA offered the subcommittees use of IL EPA’s conference call number.
Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO suggested that we have a call in December to touch base.
Cheryl Johnson, People for Community Recovery stated that we need to look at frameworks
from the federal level. Our standards shouldn’t be below those of the federal standards.
The federal government has adopted many policies and they have interagency structures
set up.
Keith Harley stated that there is a lot that we can steal from the federal level as it relates to
agency oversight. There are many helpful templates that are available on the federal level.
Three things that are common denominators in those templates are: public participation
(adequate engagement of community),addressing mandate that environmental justice
communities are disproportionately impacted, and ensuring equal access to amenities that
create environmentally just communities (open space, public transit resources etc.)
Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO stated that he wants to address Brownfields. This is a very broad
area that needs to be fleshed out. What is the process and how is it done? Jerry stated that
he wants the Commission to address cumulative impacts.
Millard Driskell, Grand Master of Prince Hall Masons of Illinois stated his concern is human
impact. Federal guidelines are just what a community can stand.
Cheryl Johnson, People for Community Recovery asked if we have anyone on the
Commission from the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR). She stated
that these are the people that will be able to look at cumulative impacts.
Kim Wasserman stated that we can invite folks from the science community to be a part of
meetings.
Cheryl Johnson, People for Community Recovery stated that in order for environmental
justice to be addressed it has to come from the community. People for Community
Recovery have a draft document that shows how they are addressing their community and
they would like the Commission’s support. Cheryl would like to have a dialogue around the
organization’s environmental justice project. Cheryl will send the draft document to Ken
Page.
Kim Wasserman stated that if folks want to present please let her know for the next
meeting.
Keith Harley stated that we need to create a template for committees. There are resources
available locally, regionally, and federally that could help resource our Brownfields
Committee. There are several states that have done this in successful ways and they have
similar dynamics to Illinois (NGOs, Industry, etc.). If we are going with a committee format
to address these two issues then we need to locate resources and create a repository rather
than starting from zero.
Christian Strachan, People for Community Recovery stated we need to be careful of terms
for brownfields development. Some sites aren’t classified as such but still need help.
Perhaps an environmental justice development is a better term. There are sites that aren’t
getting funds because they aren’t classified as brownfields but they still need transformative
change. We need a comprehensive term for this issue.

 Tamika Gibson, Illinois Environmental Council stated that IEC’s Diversity Committee recently
had a meeting. IEC is working on creating a summary of legislative initiatives on the state
level regarding Brownfields. Tamika is willing to share this document with the group.
Kim Wasserman stated that she wants to look at cumulative impacts. Kim wants to
determine who we need to bring in to discuss this issue. Kim stated that she will speak with
Jerry Mead-Lucero and Millard Driskell about what resources the Commission will need to
bring in to properly address this issue.
Alec Messina, Illinois Environmental Regulatory Group stated that in regard to agency
oversight we need to look at the existing tools, identify the shortcomings and see where we
can fill in the gaps. We need to first understand what is happening now before we can
understand what needs to occur on day two.
Keith Harley stated that it is good to understand existing activities. Keith hopes that the
committees provide opportunities for agencies to declare what they are doing but also
allows them to find ways to move ideas forward consistent with the role of the Commission.
Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place stated that she wants to know what the state and federal laws
say and have those agencies share what they do. As a Commissioner she would like to be
thoroughly educated from the ground-up. Veronica would like to make a push to get
information so that the group can make decisions based on a larger lense.
Cheryl Johnson, People for Community Recovery stated that they need to see what the city
of Chicago is doing in relation to environmental justice. Cheryl also stated the fifty million
dollars was sent to the city Chicago from the Clinton Administration. We can use the work
that the City of Chicago is doing as a measurement of success.
Kim Wasserman wanted to note that we need to understand the lay of the land. If we work
on these two items we want to fully understand what is going on so we can make an
educated decision to pursue these issues or concentrate on other areas that need more
help.
Ken Page, IL EPA stated that we can easily look at IL EPA and federal programs for ideas.
Millard Driskell, Grand Master of Prince Hall Masons of Illinois stated that federal guidelines
are a minimum and Chicago guidelines are higher in all specs due to the city’s density. The
state is probably half a step above the federal guidelines.
Kim Wasserman stated that we need to vote on the two committees. Agency oversight and
Brownfield Redevelopment will be used in the broader sense until we get more information
and can further define these committees.
Alec Messina, Illinois Environmental Regulatory Group stated that he is unclear as to what
the agency oversight committee is.
Kim Wasserman stated that the committee will discuss how they can introduce
environmental justice to agencies that have yet to make it a part of their work. Kim also
stated that IL EPA has been dealing with environmental justice and so has the federal
government. There are lots of folks at the table and we can start the conversation with our
Commission members, but also look at what other states are doing.
Alec Messina, Illinois Environmental Regulatory Group asked if the purpose of this
committee was to bring in representatives from agencies and learn from what they are
doing.

 Kim Wasserman responded that is part of the purpose. Also if these agencies don’t have
environmental justice protocols in place how can we work with them to make that happen.
State agencies that have mature environmental justice programs are a great place to start
for educational purposes. From there we can see what agencies don’t have mature
programs.
Alec Messina, Illinois Environmental Regulatory Group asked whether this needs to be
subcommittee conversation.
Keith Harley stated that we meet on a quarterly basis. In order to really dig into this and
create work product around these issues we need to break out into committees.
Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO stated that next year December he wants the Commission to
have something concrete. Jerry hopes that over the course of a year we can have concrete
accomplishments and specific recommendations to propose.
Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO stated he wants to agree to discuss cumulative impacts further
down the road.
Kim Wasserman stated that she needs to speak to Jerry Mead-Lucero and Millard Driskell
further after the meeting. The Committee needs to be staffed properly to address the issue
of cumulative impacts and this issue will be discussed further. Kim stated that she is open
to suggestions on how to staff the subcommittees. Kim also noted that the subcommittee
meetings are open to the public according to the Open Meetings Act. Kim asked the group
whether we could invite subject matter experts to the subcommittee meetings.
Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place asked whether people outside of the Commission can be
members on the subcommittees.
a. Alec Messina, Illinois Environmental Regulatory Group No
b. Jerry Mead-Lucero responded that they can contribute to the work but they can’t vote.
c. Ken Page stated that people outside the Commission can work with the subcommittee.
d. Veronica Kyle, Faith in Place asked whether we needed to present someone to the
group for approval. Veronica worries that too many voices may make things inefficient.
b. Alec Messina, Illinois Environmental Regulatory Group stated that he doesn’t know if
the subcommittees should vote on who can attend and participate in these meetings.
Alec doesn’t think that the group needs to be so formal.
Kim Wasserman stated that if there is anything out there regarding subcommittees that
would give us guidance that would be helpful. Kim asked the group to make sure that they
circulate a list of people that they want to be involved at subcommittee meetings. Kim
stated that the subcommittees can self-govern for now.
Ken Page, IL EPA stated that the Chair will make the agenda and the subcommittees can
make submissions. Ken also stated that usually subcommittees have their own chairs but
that discussion can be left for later.
Millard Driskel, Grand Master of Prince Hall Masons of Illinois stated that he didn’t have
everyone’s email address and asked if we could send an email with the subcommittee
member’s names and contact information.
Alec Messina, Illinois Regulatory Group suggested that we check with legal regarding these
meetings because they fall under the Open Meeting Act. Alec suggested that we check to

 see what the requirements are under the Open Meetings Act when the meetings are held
via conference call.

Kim Wasserman stated that the Agency Involvement subcommittee meeting
will be held on December 10, 2013 at 10 a.m. and the brownfields
redevelopment subcommittee meeting will be held on December 11, 2013 at
10 a.m. These meetings will take place for an hour and right now they are
conference calls. Kim will let the group know if anything changes.
2. Alternative meeting locations
Ken Page, IL EPA stated that we are trying to establish alternative meeting locations.
Should standard quarterly meetings be at the Thompson Center?
Cheryl Johnson, People for Community Recovery stated that this is an environmental justice
issue. If a community doesn’t have video conference capabilities then the Commission
won’t go to that neighborhood. How do we address that environmental justice
communities don’t have these amenities?
Ken Page and Kim Wasserman stated that we can also bring a phone with us to a location
and that the location needs to be accessible.
Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO stated that the videoconference is what is complicating matters.
As long as you have a teleconference you are fine.
Kim Wasserman stated that at the very least we need phone capacity when looking at
locations for meetings.
Ken Page, IL EPA stated that if we want to bring in Agency Directors we may have to hold
some meetings at the Thompson Center. We want to make sure that we can accommodate
people.
Millard Driskel, Grand Master of Prince Hall Masons of Illinois stated that a location with a
phone is mandatory. If the Open Meetings Act requires that these meetings be open to the
public then the phone is the way to go.
Cheryl Johnson, People for Community Recovery asked for clarity on the point that we can
bring a conference phone to the community.
Ken Page and Kim Wasserman responded as long as the facility has a phone jack we can
bring a phone and use that space.
It was the consensus of the Commissioners that alternative meeting location should at a
minimum be accessible and has phone capabilities.

VIII.

Open Discussion/Questions
1. Professional Facilitator(s) for future meetings

Ken Page, IL EPA stated that we have the option of having a professional facilitator to
facilitate, set-up meetings, take minutes, and send out notices. The facilitator would figure

 out all of the logistics for the meetings. We would need to procure that person. Do you
want someone in that capacity?
Jerry Mead-Lucero, PERRO stated that it would be good to have a note-taker if we have the
funds.
Kim Wasserman agrees that with the subcommittees there will be a lot of information that
will need to be recorded.
Kim Wasserman asked Ken Page is we could get a facilitator for the December 10 th meeting.
Ken Page, IL EPA responded that we could likely secure someone for 2014.
Kate Tomford, Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity stated that a
facilitator would be key for the subcommittee meetings.
Ken Page, IL EPA asked the group to share alternative meeting locations with him for the
next Commission meeting.

Chairwoman Wasserman asked for a motion to adjourn the Commission meeting.
Motion; Kim Wasserman
Second: Millard Driskell/Jerry Mead-Lucero
Meeting adjourned at 11:45 am

 