Chicago Police Department - Consent Decree

School Resource Officer Policy
Community Input Meetings

Participants? Comments

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings

 

 

 



Executive Summary

As part of the Chicago Police Department?s commitment to strong community partnerships

which foster positive interactions between police and the community, especially the youth
population, CPD has worked in partnership with Chicago Public Schools (CPS) to assign

school resource officers in selected high schools. These of?cers assigned in schools are

committed to working with CPS to enforce the law, protect students, employees, guests,

property, and the school community. The recently enacted Consent Decree requires CPD to undergo
certain actions to reform the Department, in order to further these positive community interactions.

Per consent decree paragraph #39, CPD is required to develop screening criteria for all of?cers
assigned to work in CPS schools, to ensure they have the quali?cations, skills, and abilities necessary to
work safely and effectively with students, parents and guardians, and school personnel. CPD is
required to consult with CPS while developing these criteria, as well as consider input from CPD
members, including officers assigned to work in CPS schools, school personnel, families, students, and
community stakeholders.

In paragraph #40 of the consent decree it mandates that CPD will develop a policy that clearly defines
the role of officers assigned to work in CPS schools.

The policy will include the following:

Duties, reSponsibilities, and appropriate actions of officers assigned to work in CPS schools,
including an express prohibition on administering school discipline by officers

0 Selection criteria for officers assigned to work in CPS schools

0 Initial and refresher training requirement for of?cers assigned to work in CPS schools

0 Collection, analysis, and use of data regarding CPD activities in CPS schools

While developing the policy CPD is also required to solicit input from CPD members, including officers
assigned to work in CPS schools, school personnel, families, students, and community stakeholders. To
this end CPD, through its Office of Community Policing, facilitated a series of community input
sessions, in conjunction with Chicago Public Schools Office of Safety and Security. These sessions were
designed to be ?safe spaces? where community members, including CPS students and staff, could
provide input and feedback to the Department on the roles and responsibilities of police officers
assigned to work in the schools as SROs.

The community input sessions took place over a 4-week period in early Spring of 2019. Most of the
sessions took place inside of CPS High Schools where officers are currently assigned as SROs. The
schools chosen to host the sessions were geographically spaced throughout the City in all 5 of the CPS
school regions in order to gain perspectives and input across a broad and diverse range of CPS
personnel, students, and community stakeholders.

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings

 

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Sessions

 

 

 

Date Meeting Location . 
Tues, April 9, 2019 Back of the Yards College Prep H.S. High School Principals
2111 West Street (4 attendees)
Sat., April 13, 2019 Back of the Yards College Prep H.S. Local Community Based
2111 West 47th Street Organizations

(38 attendees)

 

 

 

 

Wed., April 24. 2019 Chicago Vocational High School Students (45)
2100 East Street Faculty/Staff (14)
. (59 total attendees)
Thurs., April 25, 2019 Jones College Prep H.S. Students (23)
700 South State Street Faculty/Staff (10)
(33 total attendees)
Wed.. May 1, 2019 Marshall High School Students (18)
3250 West Adams Faculty/Staff (6)

(25 total attendees)

 

Wed., May 1, 2019

CPD Headquarters
3510 South Michigan Avenue

High School Principals
(9 attendees)

 

Wed. May 1, 2019

CPD Headquarters
3510 South Michigan Avenue

Local School Council (LSC)
Representatives and Parents

 

 

(23 attendees)
Thurs. May 2, 2019 Sullivan High School Students (16)
6631 North Bosworth Faculty/Staff (9)
(25 total attendees)
Thurs. May 2. 2019 Back of the Yards College Prep H.S. Students (30)
2111 West 47th Street Faculty/Staff (6)

(36 total attendees)

 

Mon., May 6, 2019

 

 

Dunbar Vocational Career Academy
3000 South Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive

 

Open Community Meeting
(28 attendees)

 

Meeting Participants

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONSTITUENCY GROUP NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS

Principals 14

Faculty/Staff 47

Students 132

Local School Council - -
Community Based Organization Representatives 38

Community Members 28

TOTAL PARTICIPANTS 282

 

 

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings

 

High School Principals Community Based Organizations

Back of the Yards High School (3) Enlace Chicago

Chicago Vocational High School We Are Light

Corliss High School (2) Arc of St. Sabina

Curie High School 

Disney ll Magnet High School Target Area Group

Harper High School Communities United

Marshall High School Brighton Park Community Council

Whitney Young Magnet High School

CPD Officer Focus Group Sessions

The officers currently assigned to work in schools as SROS, as well as their supervisors, were also able
to provide input on the development of the policy governing SROs, as well as the specialized training
that would benefit their roles working in the schools. The of?cers were also weighed in on the roles
and responsibilities that they believe SROs should have while assigned to work within CPS schools. The
officer input sessions were divided into 2 focus group sessions, both held at CPD headquarters.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date Meeting Lmtlon Particlpants
Wed.. March 6, 2019 CPD Headquarters School Sergeants
3510 South Michigan Avenue (SRO Supervisors)
Mon., May 6, 2019 CPD Headquarters . School Resource Officers 
3510 South Michigan Avenue (22 Officers)

 

 

 

Methodology

The Of?ce of Community Policing personnel utilized the World Cafe Methodology format for the community
input sessions. This method is a simple, effective, and flexible format for hosting group dialogue,
designed to create a ?safe environment? to share ideas in order to avoid large ?group think? peer
pressures and allow for more thought-provoking individual responses.

The following five components comprised this basic meeting style:

1) Creating an Inviting Setting: The Office of Community Policing created a "special" environment,
modeled after a small caf? (Le. small tables of 5-10 seats, large newsprint paper, colored markers and
post it notes, etc.) where the conversations would take place.

2) Welcome and introduction: The host began with a warm welcome and an introduction to the World
Cafe' process, setting the context, sharing the Cafe Etiquette, and putting participants at ease.

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings

 

 

 

 

3) Small Group Discussions: The process began with the participants deciding on the first of three or
more twenty-minute small group conversations taking place at each small table. At the end of the
twenty minutes, each member of the group was invited to move to a different table with a new focus
area topic. They may or may not choose to leave one table for the next. Their next table facilitator
welcomes the new group and briefly fills them in on what happened in the previous group discussion.

4) Questions: Each round is presented with a question specially crafted for the specific focus area and
desired purpose of the small group discussion. The same questions were used for each small group
discussion around that focus area.

5) Harvest: After the rounds of small group discussions individuals were invited to share insights and
other results from their conversations with the rest of the reassembled large group. These results were
reflected visually in a variety of ways, including the large news print sheets that group members wrote
their thoughts on.

Participants chose from the following discussion topics:

0 SRO Selection Criteria

0 SRO Training

0 SRO Roles and ReSponsibilities
SRO Assignments

SRO Selection Criteria

How would you make your choice of school resource officers?
0 Familiar with and supportive of restorative justice practices
0 Respectful of the community
Mindful of mental health issues and needs of students
Officers that have a background with children
Clean background, no past disciplinary issues
Has been actively engaged with kids
Someone working in the community at least 5 years
Live or work in the community assigned
0 Someone who wants to work with kids
0 Officers that have been appropriately trained
0 Someone who could build relationships with kids
a Able to approach kids in a developmentally appropriate manner
0 Able to control themselves under pressure
0 Officers should present reasons why they want to be assigned as SRO
Friendly and non-prejudiced
. Aware of their own biases

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings 5

 Trained in implicit bias

0 Can show compassion and empathy

0 Officers with child background

0 Willing to build relationships within the school community/building
Need of?cers with skills other than arresting people

Set the tone to be respectful

Police background should be considered

Know how to work with children

Students should be involved in selection process

0 Prior community policing (CAPS) skills

0 Should reflect school demographics

0 Previous experience coaching kids in sports activities

0 Officers should "look like" the students in the schools (race/ethnicity)
0 Officers should have a requirement for community service

0 Officers that are alumnus ofthe school should be selected

0 Should have children of their own to understand how to deal with youth
0 Need a balanced male to female ratio

What type of officer would you want assigned to your school?
0 A cool of?cer that can reach students on any level
Outspoken and can adapt to students
Keeping it real with spirit
An experienced officer
Need male and female officers (girls don't feel comfortable with just male officers in the
building)
0 Someone who treats everyone equally
. Not afraid but respectful
0 Male officers are too aggressive

What type of prior experience should SROs have to work with young people?
0 Mental health professionals should be a priority
0 Trauma informed care
Prior experience with kids
0 Bilingual
. Mentors in the private sector
a Social worker
Posses a higher form of discretion
- Negotiations skills

What type of communication skills should SROs have? What does that look like?

0 Empathetic listening
0 Bilingual

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings 6

SRO Training

What type oftraining should SROs have?
0 Development of the youth mind/brain
0 Child 
0 Dealing with students in crisis
0 Problem solving
- De-escalation techniques
0 CPS policies and procedures (code of conduct)
0 Mental health training
0 Trauma training
0 Community resources (shelters, food banks, etc.)
0 Con?ict resolution
0 Restorative Justice
0 Sensitivity training
0 Ability to communicate with children
0 Developmental disabilities
. New issues that arise
- Community organizing
0 Cultural sensitivity
0 Behavioral intervention
- Inclusive facilitating
- Consensus building
0 Peace circle training
0 Fight or flight reaction training
. How to control situations verbally
- How to socialize more
0 How to learn from body language
0 Anger management
0 Suicide awareness
0 Response to active shooter
. Undocumented students (awareness)
0 Communication and relationship building
0 CPS Student Code of Conduct
0 People skills/soft?skills
Non-verbal communications
0 Language barrier skills
0 Grief counseling
0 School history/community issues
0 Legal rights of students
0 Basic technology

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings 7

Gender inclusiveness
School to prison pipeline
Safe Passage Program

What type of background or qualities would you like for an SRO to have?

Officer bios should be considered

Member of the community where assigned

Someone willing to listen and be involved

Youth involvement (certification or degree)

CIT training (youth)

Bilingual

Teaching background

?Art of conversation"

Be aware of what kids are interested in

Being patient

Thorough background check

Whether the officer has ever killed someone

Of?cer wellness

Administration should have a larger role in selecting officers for the school
Of?cers should be required to participate in peace circles, restorative justice, etc.
There should be community involvement in the selection process

contact, communication skills

Show respect

Keep calm and listen

SROS should be certified

Roles and Responsibilities

What do you think the responsibilities should be?

 

Engage with students only when there is an imminent threat
Only to affect arrest or resolve an issue

They should not carry weapons inside the schools
Break up fights

Of?cers should build relationships with all students
Anything bigger than security can handle

Should come if more security is needed

When situation is out of control

Keep youth safe from active shooter

Should respond when a student breaks the law
Officers should do nothing

Prevent incidents and crime from happening

De-escalate situations so they don?t become more serious

Protect the students and staff

Have meetings with staff so they understand situations and can come up with
solutions

Be a part of the team

Mentoring relationships

When should SROs be called to schools or classrooms?

SROS should not facilitate restorative justice
Imminent threat

Life threatening situations

Only when force is being used

When weapons are involved

Critical incidents

If a teacher is threatened

If a teacher is battered

If security can?t handle the situation and it escalates

At what point do you think SROs should engage in disruptive incidents?

Officers should not touch students in a rough way
Principals, parents, and officers should work together
Only after a parent has been notified of an incident
Engage immediately, without hands on

Only when a crime has occurred, or in an emergency
Schools can handle narcotic and battery crimes

Break up fights

When students need help

When violence occurs

Threats to teachers or students

Threats to shoot up the school

Should have school radios to monitor situations and determine severity of an incident
In imminent danger

Be present as a more preventative measure (deterrent)

Assignments

If you were able to assign an SRO to a job at the school, what would the job be?

 

Patrolling around the school

Be visible throughout the day

Develop relationships between the of?cers and students
No need for SROs in the schools

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings

 

 

 

There is no role for SROs in schools

Security can handle any issues that need to be addressed

Play basketball with the students to build relationships

Connect to identify problems

Team building exercises

Monitor all floors of the building

Be around when there are no problems {before issues arise)

Build a bond with students

Create positive interaction opportunities (3 times a year)

Officers should share their experiences with students to make them aware of their job
CPS security needs to be more involved in meetings with students and staff
Eat lunch in the cafeteria with students to develop better relationships

Use Google Hangout for group communications

Communicate with parents along the school route (no sitting in cars)

Should SROs be assigned to fixed or mobile posts? If so, where should they be?

Mobile posts

The SROs should be on stand-by until needed

Patrolling around the schools

Be visible, create relationship with students and officers
They should be walking around

What hours should SROs be in the school building?

From before students arrive until after dismissal

After lunch

Flexible schedule

Barn 4pm

10am 6pm

At arrival and dismissal time

Stager hours of officers for longer coverage throughout the day and after school
Lunch periods

30 minutes before and 30 minutes after the first and last periods of the clay

There?s too much inconsistency. There doesn?t appear to be a set start and end time

What do you think the SROs should be doing when at the schools?

 

Attend the LSC meetings

Should be officer friendly

Show their faces and create relationships

Become familiar with the community

SROS should separate students during large fights, but not arrest them
SROs should calm situations down (de-escalate)

Arrest should be a last resort

 Create non-violent safe spaces

0 Don?t arrest students in front of their peers

Officer friendly

Build relationships with students

Walk around the school and check on the students in class

Walk around and talk to students during lunch

Earn the trust of the students

Speak to the youth first (be cordial)

Participate in activities such as pep rally and other school events

0 Patrolling during after school events would make students feel safe
0 Having more personal relationships with youth and staff

0 Check in every morning for 15 minutes with the school team (office/security)
0 Be more engaging with students

0 Less discipline involvement

- Engage with student government (student council}

- Engage with incoming students

0 Create SRO focus group (voluntary participation by students)

Should SROs be included or participate in after school programs?
0 Yes
. No, no need for them during after school hours
0 No. Those resources should be used for other places

Memorandum of Understanding

 

CPD is committed to continue to work with CPS leadership to ensure that a new Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) is adopted by both CPD and CPS. The MOU will define several important aspects
of the SROS assigned to CPS schools, including the following:

The duties, responsibilities, and appropriate actions of officers assigned as 
Selection criteria for of?cers assigned as 

The initial and refresher training requirements for officers assigned as 

The collection, analysis, and use of data regarding CPD activities in CPS schools.



In developing the policies noted above for SROS, CPD will also evaluate input from CPD members,
officers assigned as SROS, school personnel, families, students, and community stakeholders.

Recommendations received for the MOU:
- Include a clear accountability process when officers do not follow the agreement

0 Have school officers separated from other officers
0 Keep annual data

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings 11

Expand training for competency working with young people
Parent participation in selection process
Incorporate Shriver Center for Poverty Law report
Eliminate the ability for officers to remove students from school without parent/guardian or
restorative justice advocate notification
Mandatory implicit bias training
Training on identifying children with special needs ADHD, etc.)
Annual timeline to review MOU
Supervision of SROs across all districts
Involve parents and principals in SRO evaluation process
Place the SRO on the school web site for community stakeholders
There should be no cops in schools
(3 Creates an initial traumatic environment

0 Re-traumatizes students on a daily basis
Most shootings occur outside of school, so officers should be outside
0 Deters the goals of the schools

Need more counselors, less cops

0 Money could be used for teacher training
CPS (principals) have been placing officers in bad situations due to not knowing correct policies
People want a better understanding of the expectations of what the SRO is supposed to do
(they want to see the agreement)
Policy must have safeguards against abuse

General comments and concerns

 

Officers should not have facilitated the discussions, it undermines the process

Need Neutral facilitators

Language interpreters needed in community meetings

Need to ensure student input, didn't see any students at the meeting

Facilitators should not have an opinion in support or against a person?s suggestion
Meeting were very helpful and productive

Would love to see more student involvement

No cops in schools?

If you treat a student like a criminal, they will be a criminal

Of?cers should not stare at students in an intimidating manner, or make assumptions and make
a situation more than what it is

Hold meetings at the beginning of the school year and quarterly

Be empathetic

Concerns over police impersonators entering the school with fake uniforms

Officers returning to duty from shooting incidents should not be allowed to come into the
schools

School Resource Officer Policy Community lnput Meetings

 

0 Officers should not be returning from extended medical leave

0 SROs should wear body cameras

. Officers should have a different uniform than beat of?cers on the street (polo shirt/khaki pants)

0 Officers should work closely with dean/counselors

0 Attend open house

0 Please bring back CAPS, it worked!

0 Officers should work with teachers to better understand how to deal with students

0 Officer training should be held quarterly

. Do not use derogatory language to describe students (?animals? or ?you pe0ple?)

0 CPD leadership should be more responsive to principal request/complaints about officers at
their schools

0 Concerns about the gang data base connecting immigrants to immigration customs
enforcement (ICE)

0 CPS Safe Passage workers should be in contact/coordination with roving school patrol cars

0 Need officers in some elementary schools based on incidents that have occurred

0 Are Principals and LSC's the proper individuals to determine if SROs are needed at their school?
What are their qualifications to make such an important assessment? Are they biased
for/against police involvement in schools?

0 Officers should not harass students that they ?perceive" to be had kids

0 Of?cers are unsure of what their roles are and need better direction

. Officers have been highly aggressive and need a greater level of restraint and patience

0 Sergeant and Commander have been very helpful

0 Of?cers take extended lunch breaks with little to no accountability

0 Lack of communication has resulted in a combative and uncomfortable situation

0 Who is responsible for engaging students in incidents occurring near the school but not on
school property, CPD or CPS security? (1 - 2 blocks away)

0 Principals should be involved in the assessment/evaluation of SROs annually

 

School Resource Officer Policy Community Input Meetings

 

