MINUTES OF THE
SPECIAL MEETING OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
THE SOUTH COOK COUNTY MOSQUITO ABATEMENT DISTRICT
HELD MONDAY, June 17, 2019



A Special Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the South Cook County Mosquito Abatement District
was called to order by President Charles Givines, at the District?s Headquarters, 155th Dixie Highway,
Harvey, Illinois on June 17, 2019 at 4:00 PM. upon due notice to all members of the time, date and place of
the meeting. I 

The members present were:

Charles Givines President

Dr. Lynette Stokes Vice President
Dr. Ray Warner Treasure

Also present were:

Janet Rogers - Operations Superintendent
Nikki Cody - Business Manager
Meganne Trela - Attorney for the Board

The members absent were:

Lamarr Miller Secretary
. The special meeting was opened by President Givines at 4:00pm. At this time, the President made a request
to the Board to exit out of the special meeting and enter into executive session at 4:02 pm for the discussion

of the hiring, discipline, district credit cards, performance and compensation of certain personnel and matters
of pending, or imminent litigation.

A motion was made by Trustee Givines, seconded by Trustee Stokes, to wit: .

BE IT RESOLVED, the Board hereby approves to exit the special meeting of the Board of
Trustees. -

Upon roll call vote:

Yeas: Warner, Stokes and Givines
Nays: None

A motion was made by Trustee Givines, seconded by Trustee Stokes, to wit:
BE IT RESOLVED, the Board hereby approves to enter into executive session for the
discussion of the hiring, discipline district credit cards, performance and compensation of
certain personnel and matters of pending, or imminent litigation

Upon roll call vote:

Yeas: Trustees Warner, Stokes and Givines
Nays: None

Nikki Cody and Janet Rogers were present during the executive meeting session.

A motion was made by Trustee Givines, seconded by Trustee Warner, to wit:

BE IT RESOLVED, the Board hereby approves to exit out of executive session into the special
meeting

Upon roll call vote:
Yeas: Trustees Warner, Stokes and-Givines
Nays: None
A resolution was made by Trustee Givines, seconded by Trustee Stokes, to wit:

BE IT RESOLVED, the Board hereby approves to remove Douglas Wright and Patricia Wright
name from the Sam 5 Club credit card

.Upon roll call vote:

Yeas: Trustee Warner, Stokes and Givines
Nays: None

There being no further business, an unanimous vote was made to adjourn the meeting.

 

Charles Givines, President

 

Lamarr Miller, Secretary

