STAFF REPORT 07-24-2019 SPECIAL MEETING
PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6332
ADDRESS: 500 TEMPLE AVENUE
HISTORIC DISTRICT: CASS PARK
APPLICANT: DAWN BILOBRAN, 313 HISTORIC PRESERVATION FOR MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
STAFF SITE VISIT: 07-16-2019
PROPOSAL

The building located at 500 Temple Street, a 14-story Masonic Temple in the Neo-Gothic style of architecture, was
constructed ca. 1926. The building is constructed of steel and clad in Indiana limestone and features an asymmetrical
façade composed of ornate limestone detailing, steel windows, arched openings and a multiple entrances. A non-historic
marquee sign currently exists on the south façade facing Temple Avenue. The utilitarian marquee is constructed of metal
(painted maroon) with a backlit plastic panel which holds the lettering. It is 20’ wide and 6’ high with the bottom of the
sign elevated 6’-10” above grade.

With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to replace the existing single-panel
marquee signage with a new two-panel marquee featuring a LED display per the attached drawings. Including the
following scope items:
• Remove and dispose of existing marquee and panel signs along Temple Avenue elevation
• Install double-faced internally illuminated V-shaped pole sign anchored with concrete footings
• Exposed metal to be painted Black or Gunmetal Gray
• Paint Temple Avenue flagpole bases to match
STAFF OBSERVATIONS
• The existing sign is not considered to be a character defining feature of the historic building, its site, or setting.
• The proposed sign does not conform to the Commission’s Sign & Awning Guidelines (see document attached).
• The proposed sign is significantly larger and taller than the existing. The bottom of the proposed sign will be 9’
above grade (existing sign is 6’-10” above grade) with the top of the proposed sign finishing at 15’-5” above
grade (existing sign finishes approximately 13’ above grade)

 ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(1) Height. Heights within the district are varied, from 445 Ledyard, a two-story (2 story) building with a singlestory addition) to 500 Temple, a fourteen-story (14 story) building. Commercial, residential, and institutional
buildings all vary in height.
(2) Proportion of buildings front facades. Front façades of all building are typically than wide, with few
exceptions. A notable exception is the building at 2727 Second Avenue, which is four (4) stories tall but is
composed of three (3) distinct sections, two (2) of which are taller than wide. Buildings often occupy most or all
of deep lots, resulting in side elevations of buildings that are often substantially wider than tall.
(3) Proportion of openings within the facades. Openings generally amount to between twenty (20) percent and
thirty-five (35) percent of the front façade, typically of office or apartment buildings from the first half of the
twentieth (20th) century. Windows are taller than wide on all building types with the exception of Art Decoinfluenced buildings at 2906 Cass and 445 Ledyard. On apartment buildings, sash windows are sometimes
arranged in groupings which, together, are wider than tall. A minority of buildings feature arched, mullioned,
semicircular, casement, or dormer windows appropriate to their respective architectural styles. Upper sashes and
transoms are occasionally subdivided into smaller panes. Casement windows are usually subdivided into smaller
panes. Door openings are typically slightly larger in scale than window openings. Primary entrance openings are
usually centered on the façades of buildings.
(4) Rhythm of spacing of building on streets. Rhythm of spacing on streets is generally determined by setbacks
from side lot lines. The overall character of the district is one of densely clustered, yet visually distinct,
structures separate by narrow side setbacks, or sharing common walls. There is a general irregularity in the
widths of buildings, and in the widths of subdivisions lots themselves, subdivision lots from one block to
another, contributing to an irregular rhythm of spacing of building on streets.
(6) Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Porches and entrances typically do not project. On apartment
buildings, entrances are often located several steps above grade to accommodate high basements. Doorways on
other buildings are typically centered on building façades. Irregular building widths creates an irregular rhythm
of entrance projections. Several entrances of the building at 500 Temple are raised above a high basement and
accessed by broad, projecting, limestone steps.
(7) Relationship of materials. Many building are faced with brick and feature stone or cast stone trim. Limestone
clads several buildings, including monumental structures at 2727 Second and 500 Temple. Wood is uncommon
other than as a sash window material, but wood brackets and eaves adorn the sole building on Charlotte. Metal
is used on decorative corbel panels on 2952 Second, for windows spandrels at 2966 Second, as a window frame
material on several buildings, and, notably, for the porcelain enamel steel panels at 2906 Cass. Stone is used for
window sills, belt courses, and strong courses on a majority of buildings within the district. Roofs within the
district are generally flat and not visible, but copper accents define building at 500 Temple and 2727 Second.
The stature of Robert Burns is bronze on a granite base.
(8) Relationship of textures. On a majority of buildings within the district, the major textural effect is that of brick
with mortar joints juxtaposed with cast stone or limestone trim. Patterned brickwork is used to create subtle
detail on apartment buildings, such as spandrels and rectangular panels. More pronounced textural interest often
exists on the upper stories of buildings, such as at the sole building on Charlotte. Where they exist, detailed
wooden vergeboards, gables, brackets, and dormers create considerable textural interest on all single-family
residential buildings in the district. Rough-cut stone with thick mortar joints creates considerable textural interest
on buildings where it exists, while other buildings feature smooth stone with thin mortar joints.
(9) Relation of colors. Natural brick colors in shades of brown, red, and buff predominate on wall surfaces, while
natural stone colors in shades of gray, red , and brown also exists. Although most roofs are flat and therefore not
visible, roofs on 2727 Second and 500 Temple are accented by green copper. Wood architectural details are
frequently painted in subdued tones appropriate to the architectural style of the buildings, but nonetheless
contrast with brick or limestone facing. Apartment buildings are unpainted, with gray stone trim contrasting with
brown or buff brickwork. The original colors of any building, as determined by professional analysis, are always
acceptable for that building and may provide guidance for similar buildings.
(10) Relationship of architectural details. Buildings in the district exemplify a broad range of architectural styles,
and their architectural details relate to their style. Smaller apartment buildings are Italian Renaissance Revival or
Georgian Revival. The building at 2931 Second is Craftsman style. The building at 500 Temple is Gothic
Revival in style. Other buildings are frequently Classical Revival. Buildings range are high style in appearance,
with the level of architectural detail varying from one building to the next.
(11) Relationship of roof shapes. Most building have flat roof that cannot be seen from the ground. At 500 Temple,
projecting, doomed towers and a varying building height creates a dramatic roofline. The building at 2727

 (12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

(16)

(17)
(18)
(19)

(20)

(21)

(22)

Second features a flat-decked Mansard roof. Flat-roofed apartment buildings often feature parapet walls which
add interest.
Walls of continuity. Setbacks of buildings tend to vary slightly from one to the next, but generally create a
wall or continuity on all streets in the district. Significantly, building in the district create a wall of continuity
surrounding Cass Park. Mature trees create a wall of continuity along the perimeter of Cass Park, and provide a
sense of enclosure within the park.
Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatment. Street trees exist only where setbacks
allow. Alleys provide access to the rear of a majority of lots in the district. Trees, hedges and other landscaping
features are regularly spaced where they exist. Trees in the front yards of buildings vary in size, age, and species.
Most buildings are built up to or near the front lot line. Public sidewalks run alongside all streets in the district.
Curbs, while historically stone, have been replaced with concrete in a majority of the district. Public lighting is
generally of the modern, steel, pole-mounted variety.
Relationship of open space to structures. The primary relationship of open space to structures is that of the
green space of Cass Park surrounded by a continuous street wall on four sides. Front and side yards range from
shallow to nonexistent. Other than public rights-of-way, no other large areas of open space exist. However,
outside the district boundaries, vast open spaces exist where they have been created by building demolition;
sometimes these spaces serve as parking lots or are maintained as open lawns.
Scale of façades and façade elements. Building are moderate to large in scale relative to typical buildings from
the period in which they were constructed. Residential buildings range from small to large scale, with the hotel
building at 400 Temple being significantly larger than the others. The largest buildings in the district are the
institutional buildings at 2727 Cass, which is four (4) stories tall and a full block wide, and 500 Temple, a
portion of which is fourteen (14) stories tall. Façade elements are moderate in scale, typical of building from the
time period.
Directional expression of front elevations. Façades of apartment structures are generally vertical in directional
expression due to tall window and door openings and relatively tall buildings heights. The building at 500
Temple has a strong directional expression. The buildings at 2727 Second has a vertical emphasis despite being
much wider than tall. Exceptions are Art Deco-influenced buildings at 2906 Cass and 445 Ledyard, which have
a horizontal emphasis.
Rhythm of building setbacks. While setbacks may vary slightly from one building to the next the overall
impression is one of a consistent rhythm of building setbacks. This rhythm is particularly significant where
structures create a street wall effect surrounding Cass Park.
Relationship of lot coverages. Lot coverages within the district are generally high. Buildings typically cover
most of their lots save small front or sides setbacks. Exceptions are smaller residential buildings at 2753 Park
and 457 Ledyard, which have rear yards.
Degree of complexity within the façades. The façades within the district range from simple to complex,
depending on style. Overall, front façades tend to be simple in their massing and mostly regular in their
fenestrations, though a variety of window and door shapes, materials, architectural elements, and details of
individual buildings increase the overall level of complexity of the district. A particularly complex façade,
however, is that of 500 Temple, with projecting towers, bays, arched door surrounds, and other features that add
complexity.
Orientation, vistas, overviews. Building generally face the streets and are entered from the front façades by a
single or double doorway. The larger buildings within the district, such as at 500 Temple, 2727 Cass, and 400
Temple, constitute landmarks that are clearly visible from several blocks away, or in the case of 500 Temple,
from a great distance . Buildings flanking Cass Park create a sense of enclosure and contribute greatly to the
integrity of feeling and setting within the park. The statue of Robert Burns sits on the northern edge of Cass
Park, centered on its block face, and faces north along Second Avenue. Cass Park bisects Second Avenue and,
consequently, provides a vista that is visible from a great distance to the north.
Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. The appearance of front faced in the district is, for the most part,
symmetrical. The building at 500 Temple is asymmetrical, but is composed of sections that are symmetrical.
Cass Park is highly symmetrical in nature, with eight (8) sidewalks converging on the center of the park from
each corner and from the center of each of its four (4) sides; this relationship is considered a significant feature
of the park.
General environmental character. The general character of the district is that of a dense, mixed –use, urban
neighborhood of apartment, office, and institutional buildings, surrounding and complimenting the green space
of Cass Park.

 RECOMMENDATION
Removal of Existing Marquee:
It is staff’s opinion that the proposed removal of the existing marquee signage will not destroy historic materials that
characterize the building, its site, or setting. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission find the proposed removal
of the existing marquee signage to be an acceptable proposal as the work meets the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards
for Rehabilitation
• 2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or
alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
Installation of Proposed Digital LED Marquee:
It is staff’s opinion that the proposed digital LED marquee detracts from the historic building, its site, and urban pedestrian
setting. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission find the proposed marquee signage to be inappropriate as the
work does not meet the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation
• 9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its
environment.

 2, LFE'Ire-ign
,?rnceAFarm Autra Banter
.- ..- .l 

3-31

Brewing 
Cafnetmit 

p'aE tertaimmA-?nt' - . I .. A 2:11I). Ila-Q 
a UtEgat-{A

Gardeh?iLA? ft-A at 
Womdwar Place 1





. U?ited Eammunity,.-
Huusing 

- AII 
?it? ghi??e TrAnApEIrt?Wietmit

QB 

J. .
AA'i?inf m?iA-I Eletmit -
.. .,
.. -- .51 . -
J, Imagery E32019 Gut-glen Map data EEDW Gum-glue Unite-4:! State-a Terms Send feezlbanih
.
se?l?nurs

#5

.E

E-
13-
111'

C.

-. 

v' 11-.

 

If:



JillMa??nic Templar

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- - - - .
- . - .- . .
. STAFF SITE VISIT 7/16/2019

- . . run"? . 3 

.STAFF SITE VISIT 7/16/2019

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

scmn's cum
SUICIDE BSOY:

   

 



 








3 

STAFF SITE VISIT 7/16/2019

 

APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 REPORT

 REPORT

 REPORT

 REPORT

 REPORT

 REPORT

 REPORT

 