MINUTES
CHICAGO COMMISSION ON HUMAN RELATIONS (CCHR)
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING
January 10, 2019

Attendance

Commissioners Present:
Mona Noriega, Chair
Ryan Dunigan
Simon Gordon
Rochelle Grimbau

Emanuel Johnson, II
Reyahd Kazmi
David Mussatt
Nabeela Rasheed

Julio Rodriguez
Michelle Shang

Staff Present:
Iris Archilla
Kenneth Gunn

Matthew Lango
JoAnn Newsome

Kelly Saulsberry
Karen Wallace

Call to Order
Mona Noriega called the meeting to order at 3:40 p.m. and Iris Archilla recorded the minutes. A quorum of
board of commissioners was present, and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with
business.
Approval of Minutes
Mona Noriega presented to the board the minutes of the August 2018 board meeting for approval, whereupon
motion was duly made by Reyahd Kazmi to adopt as written, seconded by Simon Gordon and unanimously
adopted. The minutes were approved as presented.
A motion to move to Executive Session was duly made by Nabeela Rasheed, seconded by Julio Rodriguez and
unanimously adopted.
Adjudication Review Committee Report

Shipp v Chicago Realty Consulting Group, LLC dba Keller Williams Realty, CCHR No 12-H-31

Matthew Lango provided a summary of this discrimination case based on source of income. He stated the
Hearing Officer recommended the following relief:






Payment to the City of Chicago of fines of $1,000 by Respondent Keller Williams, and $500 by Mr.
Ezekiel Morris to the City of Chicago;
Payment to Complainant of emotional distress damage in the amount of $750;
Payment to Complainant of punitive damages in the amount of $5,000;
Payment of interest on the foregoing damage awards from the date of violation on April 22, 2012, as
set forth in Rule 240.700; and
Complainant is awarded her reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in an amount to be determined in
accordance with Commission Rule 240.630.

The Adjudication Review Panel accepted the Hearing Officer’s recommendation. Emanuel Johnson, II, made a
motion to accept the Adjudication Review Panel’s recommendation; it was seconded by Nabeela Rasheed with
abstention by Michelle Shang, and unanimously adopted.

Prado v Triview Property Management, CCHR No 16-H-21

David Mussatt provided a summary of the discrimination case based on National Origin. The Hearing Officer
recommended the case to be dismissed with no liability.
1

 The Adjudication Review Panel accepted the Hearing Officer’s recommendation. Julio Rodriguez made a
motion to accept the Adjudication Review Panel’s recommendation; it was seconded by Ryan Dunigan and
unanimously adopted.
A motion to end the Executive Session was duly made by Nabeela Rasheed, seconded by Reyahd Kazmi and
unanimously adopted.
Chicago Lawyers’ Committee Fair Housing Testing Project
JoAnn Newsome provided an overview of the Chicago Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law’s
(CLCCRUL) fair housing testing project, education and outreach. Six communities were tested for fair housing
discrimination; Jefferson Park, Hyde Park, Bridgeport, Near Northside, Mt. Greenwood and Clearing. The
CLCCRUL found there is source of income discrimination, but primarily against African American Housing
Choice Voucher holders. Testing was conducted followed by education and outreach. The report has been
released and is currently posted on the Commission on Human Relations’ website.
JoAnn Newsome stated that in the month of February 2019, there will be a second round of testing, education
and outreach. The second round of testing will be with a reduced number of neighborhoods instead of the
original six communities. The testing will be done in conjunction with Roosevelt University.
Reyahd Kazmi announced the Illinois Advisory Committee for the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights will hold
upcoming hearings and reports on housing discrimination. One hearing location will most likely be held in
Chicago with a possible hearing held in East St. Louis.
Amendments
Matthew Lango presented two amendment changes that are now effective in our ordinance.
The anti-retaliation provisions of the Human Rights Ordinance and Fair Housing Ordinance have been
expanded. The anti-retaliation provisions can now track the language that already exists in other antidiscrimination laws (i.e. Title VII Human Rights Act). This will allow us to be able to investigate more claims
and complaints than before.
Last year in August, there was a change in the Illinois Human Rights Act that extended time for filing a
complaint from 180 days to 300 days. The Chicago Human Rights Ordinance has now been amended to
extend the filing period for new complaints from 180 days to 300 days as well. These changes will become
effective when the City Council adopts the publication of the proceedings on January 23, 2019.
Personnel Updates
Matthew Lango announced that Toma Toma has been hired as a new investigator for the Adjudication Unit.
Toma most recently worked with Congressman Quigley’s office. His primary responsibilities involved working
with constituents on immigration issues, as well as civil and employment rights cases. Karen Wallace is his
supervisor, and his position at the CCHR is primarily working with employment discrimination and public
accommodations discrimination cases. Toma started on October 1, 2018.
Kelly Saulsberry announced that Cheryl Reid is the new Human Relations Specialist for the Intergroup
Relations Unit. Cheryl has a background working with the city’s Department of Family and Support Services
where she worked on a range of age and senior related initiatives and outreach. Her work is primarily
conducting workshops, and to expand outreach in Chicago and to the senior communities. She will also give
presentations about the Commission’s work and Intergroup Relations.

2

 End of Year Updates
Matthew Lango presented the complaint numbers for 2018 as compared to 2017. Complaints received in 2017
were about the same numbers as 2018. Employment complaints were down 25%, but the housing and public
accommodations complaints rose. The housing complaints were mainly based on source of income.
Kelly Saulsberry provided highlights for Intergroup Relations (IGR) for 2018. IGR has conducted over 70
workshops in English and Spanish within schools and organizations across the City of Chicago. This year, three
new schools have been added to the list of workshops: Belmont-Cragin Early Childhood School, BelmontCragin Elementary, and Marvin Camras Elementary. Workshops are conducted for students, teachers, staff and
parents. IGR has recently started to work with Sullivan High School and Gale Elementary School to inform
community members of the available resources and services the CCHR offers. IGR has also mediated 51
community tension cases around the city. The Chicago Police Department (CPD) has informed the CCHR of 74
reported hate crimes in the city for 2018. The Hate Crimes Unit at the Commission is working closely with the
CPD to conduct trainings with CPD staff to become more knowledgeable about hate crimes.
Commissioner’s Report
Mona Noriega announced that there are new policies for members or the public who would like to speak at
CCHR Board meetings. She asked Ken Gunn to explain the policies to the board. Ken briefly discussed the new
policies and mentioned that there will be speaker forms available for the public. Speakers will be granted three
minutes to speak. Also, Ken made it clear that speakers cannot discuss any aspect of their cases and will be
interrupted if they begin to do so.
Next Meeting
March 14, 2019, at 3:30 p.m., CCHR Boardroom
There being no further business to come before the board, a motion to adjourn was duly made by Julio
Rodriguez, seconded by Reyahd Kazmi and unanimously adopted at 4:40 p.m.

3

 