BOARD OF ETHICS
CITY OF CHICAGO
FAQs: THE NEW NON-PROFIT LOBBYING LAW
Q: How would this proposal affect non-profits? Specifically, delegate agencies? Special Service Area (SSA)
providers?
A: As a general matter, remember that, under this new law, persons who are unpaid and who engage in any of the
above activities on behalf of non-profits would not be required to register as lobbyists (unless they are engaging in this
activity as a matter of professional engagement on a pro bono basis – in order for the Board to determine whether
that’s the case, we’ll look to see whether there is an engagement or retention agreement).
As to representatives of delegate agencies -- organizations that receive grants from the City, perhaps from
the Department of Public Health or Family and Support Services – will they be considered
lobbyists?
Individuals (whether paid or volunteers) acting on behalf of delegate agencies in seeking City-funded or administered grants are not lobbying by seeking such grants if: (i) their actions are within the grant-making
process itself; and (ii) that process involves a Request for Proposals (“RFP”) or Request for Qualifications
(”RFQ”) procedure. It is our understanding that many federally-funded grants, including Community
Development Block Grants (CDBG) involve an RFP or RFQ process. However, this exemption is limited to
seeking grant contracts – other activities in which paid staffers engage that involves contact with City
employees or officials may well constitute lobbying. It depends on the facts.
As to representatives of SSA Service providers, such as local Chambers of Commerce, their paid staffers
will need to register as lobbyists, as is the case under current law, when they seek contracts with the
Department of Planning & Development to become SSA service providers. This is because: (i) under current
law, Chambers of Commerce are “2-tier non-profits” (they have for-profit members); and (ii) our
understanding is that the contracting process for SSA
service providers does not involve an RFP or RFQ
process. The City otherwise regulates procurement lobbying, and requires individuals who contact the City to
start an RFP process, for example, to register as lobbyists.
Q: What about staffers or directors of delegate agencies or SSA service providers who discuss their agency’s
performance under a grant or contract with City employees or officials, or who discuss the interpretation of an
existing contract (e.g., an SSA service provider’s or delegate agency’s Executive Director asks an alderman or
employee from DFSS “our contract provides that the City is responsible for paying for fencing around vacant
lots owned by the City; do you agree”?)?
A: Having discussions with City employees or officials about interpreting or performing an existing grant or contract is
not lobbying under either current law or this proposal. However, negotiating amendments or extensions to a grant may
be considered lobbying. Those seeking such actions on behalf of non-profits will likely be required to register if it is
part of their paid job with the non-profit.
Q: How would a current or potential delegate agency know what kind of grant-making procedure is being used
and whether their paid staff or representatives must register as lobbyists?
A: It is always a good idea to call the Board of Ethics. The Board can contact the grant-making department and
ascertain whether the potential lobbying actions are taking place within an RFP/RFQ process.

740 NORTH SEDGWICK STREET, SUITE 500, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60654 312-744-9660

 BOARD OF ETHICS
CITY OF CHICAGO
Q: Are small business owners who, for example, meet with their aldermen to discuss receiving their alderman’s
support for a new signage or street café permit required to register as lobbyists?
A: Generally not, if the alderman’s support is part of a larger process by which the signage or café permit will be
issued.
QUESTIONS?
The Board of Ethics is always available to advise persons on whether they must register as lobbyists. All requests for
advice or guidance are confidential by law. No question is too small or too big. Remember to contact the Board before
taking action.

740 North Sedgwick, Room 500
Chicago, IL 60654
312-744-9660

Lori Lightfoot, Mayor
William F. Conlon, Chair
www.cityofchicago.org/Ethics
Twitter: @ChicagoEthicsBd
steve.berlin@cityofchicago.org
Steve Berlin, Executive Director

7/17/19

740 NORTH SEDGWICK STREET, SUITE 500, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60654 312-744-9660

 