Commissioners
MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ. Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner

LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board ofBiectioii Cooimissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
April 23, 2019, 8:00 a.m.
69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisei A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Trupti Patel, Videographer
Trish Sheehy
Guests:
None

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to session at 8:03 am.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present.

III.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented.

IV.

Approval of Minutes:
Minutes of the Canvassing Board Meeting of February 26, 2019, which
reconvened and was adjourned on March 13, 2019.
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Minutes of the Canvassing Board
Meeting of February 26, 2019, which reconvened and was adjourned on March
13, 2019. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was passed
and the Minutes approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.

V.

Executive Director's Report
Executive Director Lance Gough reported as follows:
The Board's staff did a remarkable job. They went through the last six months
conducting three major elections. Some employees worked 7 days a week for
the last 4-5 months, nonstop.
There Is a Managers' Meeting scheduled for the 30'^ and Mr. Gough will ask the
managers to express thanks to their staff on his behalf. The Chair asked Mr.
69 Wes{ Washinglon Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 312-269-7900• TTY 312-269-0027

chica90electlons.com•cboe@chicagoelections.net• @ChicagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting - April 23, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Gough to convey the same message to the Managers on behalf of the Board, as
the the staff did an excellentjob.
Mr. Gough pointed out that the vendors and contractors to the Board did a
tremendous job as well. The cartage companies and the warehouse worked
around-the -clock shifts to get the equipment out within a week.

Mr. Gough thanked Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday. Mr. Gough
said that he couldn't have had a better Assistant Executive Director. Mr. Gough
also praised and thanked the following, by name,for jobs well done: Gary
Rycyzyn, Adam Lasker, Jim Allen, Yvonne Jones, Kathy Ross, Myrna Webb and
Trish Sheehy, and stated that there were many more people whom he would like
to thank for their performance through these elections.

Mr. Gough attended a debriefing on April 15 at the Governor's office regarding
cyber security. Among the other attendees present were representatives from the
U.S. Coast Guard, FBI and the Illinois State Board of Elections. Mr. Gough stated
that the Governor did a great job and was very well informed on the subject. Mr.
Gough will have his notes typed up and given to the Board members.
We are getting ready for recounts.
Warehouse staff did an unbelievable job with so little turnaround time.

Our Investigators also performed excellently; some of them opened up precincts
and manned the polling places until we could get the Judges of Election to them.
Assistant Executive Director

Assistant Director Charles Holiday reported as follows: Mr. Holiday
echoed Mr. Gough's congratulations and thanks to the staff and
contractors, but also singled out his Assistant, Cassandra Molina, for
thanks.

Mr. Holiday, General Counsel Adam Lasker, Deputy Counsel Joan
Agnew, and Communications Director Jim Allen are getting people ready
for the recounts.

Mr. Holiday is checking with the departments to see where they are with
post-election cleanup.
At Mr. Gough's direction to reduce 500 precincts, Mr. Holiday, along with
Districts and Boundaries, have begun looking at ward maps to determine
options.
. Communications Director

Communications Director James Allen reported as follows: He Is working
on requests for results, data from the election, information on the
discovery recounts and election contests.
Vl.

Old Business
Page 2of 5

 Regular Board Meeting - April 23, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Infrastructure Projects and Changes In Election Administration; Nothing new to
report at this time.

Electronic Poll Books: Assistant Executive Director Holiday reported that the
Electronic Poll Books operated well this election and that he and ES&S
representatives will begin meeting on a weekly basis starting April 24^ for
electronic poll book preparations in advance of the March 2020 election.
Voting Equipment: Nothing new to report at this time.
Legislation: General Counsel Adam Lasker reported that none of the bills that we
have been following have passed yet. Mr. Lasker had heard that there are plans
to introduce an omnibus bill during the month of May.
VII.

New Business

Approval of six-month contract extensions with A-Pro Execs LLC for temporary
staffing for warehouse election recounts and other needs.
Mr. Lasker explained:
• A-pro is the Agency that provides temporary staffing at our warehouse,
and because of our recount and other contests we seek want to extend

the contract in order to have the necessary, experienced staffing.
• We are asking to extend the terms of an existing contract for which we
did bid, and which we will rebid for 2020.
• Commissioner Swain inquired as to why the extension was not
included in the original bid. Discussion ensued between General
Counsel Lasker and Commissioner Swain.

Commissioner Kresse moved to approve Amendment number 2 to extend the
contract with A-Pro Execs LLC for six-month (through October 31®') for
temporary staffing. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion
was approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
Approval of six-month contract extensions with Mack & Associates Ltd. for
election administration needs at the Board's main offices.

Mr. Lasker explained that the requested 6 month extension to the contract
with Mack was needed because we are behind on updating voter history.
Three elections back-to-back-to-back in five months it did not allow us

time to finish some post-election processes. The Mack temporary staff will
be used to assist with voter history and other projects. We will
contemplate longer terms on the contracts in the future when we have
such back-to-back elections.

Commissioner Swain moved to approve the 2"" Amended Contract with
Mack & Associates Ltd for a 6-month extension through October 3T2019.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed and the
2"* amendment was approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

Approval of contract extension with law clerk Trupti Patel.
Page 3 of 8

 Regular Board Meeting -April 23,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Mr. Lasker said he would appreciate the assistance of his Law Clerk Trupti
Pate!for the rest of the summer. The extension would be through the
month of August at the same rate of pay.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the contract extension with
Trupti Patel through August 2019. Commissioner Swain seconded the
motion. The motion was approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
VIII.

Legal Report

General Counsel Lasker reported that since the last Board meeting, he
has had meetings with the Chicago Park District regarding ADA compliant
accessibility of polling places. They understand that they have obligations
of their own, but they are willing to work with us and the Department of
Justice in getting new City-owned sites surveyed.
Three wards are involved in discovery recounts (the 5'^ SS"* and 46"'
wards), involving 27 precincts. Twenly-five percent of the precincts in each
ward will be recounted. The selected precincts are determined by the
party filing the contest. We will get started on the actual discovery
recounts this Friday and may continue on Saturday.
IX.

Financial Report
Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the City of Chicago -2019 Appropriation
-19-01 dated April 23, 2019 in the amount of $9,565,396.72
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the Balance Sheet and Voucher

Listings for the City of Chicago -2019 Appropriation -19-01 dated April 23,
2019 in the amount of $9,565,396.72. Commissioner Swain seconded the
motion. The motion passed by unanimous vote of the Board.
X.

Public Comment: None

XI.
Executive Session: Commissioner Swain made a motion to enter into closed,
Executive Session,for the purpose of discussing personnel matters. Commissioner
Kresse seconded the motion. The motion carried by 3:0 vote of the Board. The Board
entered into Executive Session at 8:24 am

The Board returned to open session at 9:18 am. The Chair announced that no action
was taken in closed session.

Page 4 of 5

 Regular Board Meeting - April 23, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

XII. Adjournment: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn until the next scheduled
Regular Board Meeting on May 14"^ at 9:30 a.m. Commissioner Swain seconded the
motion. The Board voted unanimously to adjourn. The meeting was adjourned at 9:18
a.m.

Submitted,

Commi

Secretary

Page 5 of 5

er William J. Kresse

 