STATE

S T R E E T C O MM I S S I O N

State Street Commission Meeting
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
2:00 PM
ABC7
190 North State Street
10th Floor Conference Room
MINUTES
ATTENDANCE

I.

AFFILIATION

Commission Members Present
Commissioner-Elect Mark Anderson
Commissioner Greg Cameron
Commissioner Mark Kelly
Commissioner-Elect LaVerne Morris
Commissioner-Elect Andrea Schwartz
Commissioner Ryan Segal
Commissioner Anne Voshel
Commissioner-Elect Eric Finnegan
Acting Commissioner Eleanor Gorski

Hines
Joffrey Ballet
DCASE
20 North State Street Condos
Macy’s
Acadia
AVA Consultants
CIM Group
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)

Commission Members Absent
Commissioner Anne Voshel
Commissioner John Idler
Commissioner Dean Lane

AVA Consultants
ABC7
Palmer House

Others Present
Michael Edwards
Deputy Commissioner Dwayne Hightower
Steve Hillard
Paul Reise
Mark Roschen
David Seglin, Legislative & Policy Analyst
Mack Thurman

Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Department of Streets & Sanitation
Streetplus
Department of Planning & Development
Department of Planning & Development
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Alderman Sophia King, 4th Ward

Call to Order

SSA#1-2015 Treasurer Greg Cameron welcomed everyone and called the meeting to order at 2:00 PM.
Introductions were made around the table.
II.

Public Comment

No comments were made by the public.
III.

Review and Approval of the Minutes

A motion to accept the April 16, 2019 meeting minutes as presented was made by Commissioner Kelly and
seconded by Commissioner Schwartz. The motion passed unanimously.
IV.

Status Reports/Outstanding Issues
•

DCASE: Commissioner Kelly reported that 2019 is in full swing with events happening six nights a
week. Over 300,000 people attended 7 days of music including the House Music Festival, Gospel
Music Festival and the Blues Festival. The events were all very safe with no reported negative
1

 incidents. Commissioner Kelly encouraged the Commissioners to attend the Taste of Chicago event
coming up soon. Taste is much more than a food festival and Commissioner Kelly thinks people will
be surprised by the range of entertainment and fun during the iconic festival. Lastly, DCASE will be
producing Summer Dance for its 8-week run beginning in a few weeks.
•

Security: There was no one present from the City police services and there was no Commissioner
discussion

•

CDOT: David Seglin relayed that Acting Commissioner Tom Carney was not able to attend today’s
meeting. The State/Lake El Station contract is still in procurement and the final scope is being
finalized. Michael Edwards indicated it is the SSA Commissioners’ desire to be at the table before any
final design issues are determined to assure the station contributes to and does not distract from this
key entry on to State Street and into the Chicago Loop.

•

Streets & Sanitation: Dwayne Hightower said the department is preparing for summer season as
described by Commissioner Kelly. The new blue and black trash containers have replaced the Big
Bellies. Regarding the replacements along State Street. Michael Edwards said a few intersections seem
to be missing replacement containers. Hightower asked for a list of locations; he will have more
delivered. There is an issue of the locks on the front of the cans being removed and whether the CLA
Clean Team’s pans and brooms can fit into the new container opening. Staff is investigating.

•

CTA: No one from CTA was at the meeting to give the report.

•

DPD: Eleanor Gorski, Acting Commissioner for Department of Planning & Development was at the
meeting to give a report. Commissioner Cameron expressed the Commission’s appreciation for taking
the time to attend and participate in the meeting. Gorski explained her work history as a trained
architect and work in the preservation world. Over the last 10 years she has had an opportunity to work
for the city on key projects including many downtown office building renovations, the Macy’s
renovations, Wrigley Field plan and the Obama Library. Gorski reported that a 190-unit apartment
building project to be located at Wabash and Randolph is coming to Plan Commission shortly. On
another subject, the City of Chicago is still partnering with the GSA to auction the buildings at Adams
& State and hopefully get the structures to a willing developer to restore the historic properties as
contributing buildings on the south end of State Street. Edwards indicated the SSA Commission and
the CLA Board strongly support the renovation and are willing to assist DPD in any way.
Commissioner Morris asked about the status of the Pittsfield building and Gorski indicated the property
is currently in litigation.

•

Sole Service Provider Report:
- Resignation: Commissioner Cameron informed the Commission that long-time SSA
Commissioner Anne Voshel has submitted a letter of resignation effective immediately. Voshel
is resigning for personal reasons. All agreed Commissioner Voshel had been an important part
of the success of the State Street SSA over the last 10 years and her steady hand will be missed.
A motion was made by Commissioner Kelly and seconded by Commissioner Anderson to
accept the resignation of Commissioner Voshel with regret and by wishing her the best. Motion
carried. Michael Edwards then directed the Commissioners to their meeting packets which
contained a copy of the resume of Kristin Duncan, the General Manager at the Renaissance
Hotel. Edwards indicated Duncan is ready, willing and able to join the SSA Commission.
Commissioner Cameron directed everyone to review Duncan’s resume in more detail.
Assuming there are no issues, Kristin Duncan will be put forward as the candidate nominated
to fill Commissioner Voshel’s seat at our July 2019 meeting.

2

 -

2020 SSA Draft Budget: Edwards directed the Commissioners to their meeting packets where
they would find legal size paper with a draft of the 2020 SSA operating budget. The draft
includes actual spending in 2018, the 2019 budgeted amounts and a proposed 2020 budget.
Edwards indicated the staff began with a review of expenses and the needs of the street and
then backed into the revenue needed to deliver services to State Street that would make an
impact in 2020. Edwards went through each line item and had a corresponding Power Point
running to show what the budget line items mean on State Street to help the new Commissioners
have a better feel for what is being discussed, i.e. images of holiday decorations, evergreen
banners, Lightscape, aggregate sidewalks, caulking etc. Below is a summary of the major line
item changes and/or comments from the Commission throughout the presentation:
§

Customer Attraction: Total budget is $433,000 compared to the actual spent in 2018
of $469,597. The difference is big savings were achieved because there is no more cost
for website design (completed!), and the banner line item was decreased to only pay for
the replacement of evergreen banners. One noted increase is a request from Alderman
King for $25,000 towards activating Pritzker Park.

§

Public Way Aesthetics: Total budget is $1,295,589 compared to the actual spent in
2018 of $1,073,358. The major drivers of this budget increase are utilizing the twelve
4’x4’ planter signs to actively brand State Street as a destination (Acting Commissioner
Gorski advised us to check with Patrick Murphy in zoning; $148,589 for the
replacement of the glass in 13 of the 26 CTA head houses/kiosks on State Street; and
the sanding and repainting of the head houses/kiosks. Edwards indicated his inspection
suggested we may not need to do both the glass and repainting in 2020. We realized
savings in our new pressure washing contract but the cost of our new landscape provider
and an expected 3% increase in the cost of our Clean Team have put upward pressure
on the Public Way budget category.

§

Economic/Business Development: Total budget is $88,500 compared to the actual
spent in 2018 of $50,672. This line item includes continued funding for the rental and
reporting of the Springboard counters on State Street, the Pedway (one location) and
two intersections on Michigan Avenue. We can decide in January 2020 if we want to
continue. There is also $37,500 in the 2020 budget, to be matched by CLA, to add
another $75,000 (combined) to the beginning of a State Street Master Plan. Acting
Commissioner Gorski indicated the DPD is speaking with the SSAs about doing more
planning and this line item would seem very consistent with the new administration’s
direction.

§

Safety Programs: Total budget is $560,000 compared to the actual spent in 2018 of
$357,526. This includes an anticipated 3% increase in the cost of our safety ambassador
program when we rebid the program at the end of 2019. The largest impact is the idea
of doubling the size of our armed security patrol program. Edwards informed the
Commission that conversations with Commissioners and Aldermen Reilly and King,
plus feedback from merchants on the street, indicate that we need either more armed
off-duty officers or we need the same number more frequently. Steve Hillard, owner of
Streetplus, provides our Ambassador and armed security programs. He agrees the
program could be more effective with more personnel. After further discussion it was
determined the cost to double our existing program would be closer to $250,000, not
$300,000 as indicated in the draft budget, dropping the 2020 budget for Safety program
to $510,000.

3

 §

SSA Management: Total budget is $166,250 compared to the actual spent in 2018 of
$128,015. The increase includes the printing of an annual report and the new office
space the CLA now occupies at 55 West Monroe Street since August 2018.

§

Personnel: Total budget is $628,356 compared to the actual spent in 2018 of $567,184.
The SSA contributes to 75% of the personnel cost of the CLA. CLA currently has 9
fulltime employees. The 2020 budget numbers assume 100% position occupancy and
a 4% merit increase.

§

Revenue: Edwards explained the projected revenue including a $100,000 carry over
(based on history) and the potential for $53,589 in past due SSA taxes paid in 2020.
Based on these calculations, an SSA levy of $3,018,106 would be required to
accomplish the budget as presented. This would represent a 6.9% increase in the levy
which the SSA Commissioners may or may not be ok with. Certainly, the reduction in
security patrol by $50,000 will lower the percentage to something close to 5%.

2020 Draft Budget Summary: There was good discussion throughout the presentation including lifting
sections of the sidewalk aggregate where water pools up (State and Washington) and the desire for DPD to be
more involved in State Street planning. Edwards indicated he will make the changes discussed and bring them
back to the Commission for final adoption at the July 16th meeting. Edwards indicated he will likely have the
new EAV figure in mid-June, which may necessitate additional budget adjustments. There will be a lot to
consider in July and your attendance at the July meeting is critical.
V.
Other Business
The next SSA #1-2015 State Street Commission meeting will be held on Tuesday, July 16, 2019 at 2:00 PM
at ABC7. The agenda includes a final look at the Budget for 2020 which the Commission will review and
approve.
VI.

Adjournment

A motion to adjourn the meeting was made at 3:05 PM.
Respectfully Submitted,

Ryan Segal
Secretary

4

 