Employee Retirement Review Committee
Meeting Minutes
June 24, 2019
Members Present
Tom McKone
Mike Bowen
Andrew Fuller
April Morgan

Non-Members Present
Rachel Yarch
Nathan Walker
Janice Irving

Call to Order
The June 24, 2019 meeting was called to order at 1:44 p.m.
Minutes
Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. Fuller, minutes of the April 22, 2019 meeting were approved.
Upon a second motion by Mr. Fuller and seconded by Mr. Bowen, minutes of the May 22, 2019 meeting were
approved.
Old Business
Over/Underpayments – Mr. Fuller reported that all due diligence has been done and there is one unresolved
underpayment remaining.
New Business
Retirement Application – Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Ms. Morgan, a retirement application was
approved for Carole Brown.
Rules of Procedure for Review Committee – Ms. Yarch advised that during recent litigation of an ongoing matter,
the judge ordered that a review process be undertaken with respect to that particular individual. As a result, it was
thought best to put a process in place that could be used in any other instance where a participant’s benefits are
reduced or rescinded by the committee. Mr. Walker provided a draft form of the process for review by the
committee. After a lengthy discussion, a motion was made by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. Fuller to pass the
Rules of Procedures for the Chicago Transit Authority Supplemental Retirement Plan Review committee with the
changes discussed in this meeting. A motion was made by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. Fuller to proceed
under Section 1.3c to establish a review committee for the Snow matter.
General Administration
Upon a motion by Mr. Fuller and seconded by Ms. Morgan invoices for Marquette Associates were approved for
March and May, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. Fuller an invoice for Northern Trust for
the 1Q2019 was approved. Upon a motion by Mr. Fuller and seconded by Ms. Morgan, invoices were approved for
Burke, Warren, MacKay & Serritella for the Snow Case for April and May, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Fuller and
seconded by Mr. Bowen an invoice was approved for Burke, Warren, MacKay & Serritella for April, 2019. Upon a
motion by Mr. Fuller and seconded by Mr. Bowen an invoice for Burke, Warren, MacKay & Serritella was approved
for May, 2019 less $108.00 for a charge issued under the incorrect plan. Two additional invoices for Burke,
Warren, MacKay & Serritella in regards to the IRS Audit were deferred.
Executive Session – Litigation Matters
None
Adjournment
Upon a motion by Mr. McKone and seconded by Mr. Bowen, the meeting adjourned at 2:24 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,
Janice Irving
Plan Administrator

 