?1 'ca PiieD a 
Sh ?9 1' err 3

2919?2020 School i?enr

   

CPU has worked diligently in the past few months to ensure that these important program
updates are implemented before the start of the next school year- Pleage note that 35 the
program evolves, many of these elements are still subject to review by the Independent
Monitor in the Consent Decree, as well as community input. Therefore, some of these
Elements may change for the ZDZD-ZDEI school year.

WW

CPD has now created formal selection criteria for school resource of?cers, which were used
to select school resources of?cers for the coming school year.

 

Based on feedback from community and other stakeholders. these criteria that

school resource of?cers and have received acceptable performance ratings.

CPD has also created a process whereby of?cers seeking selection to work as SRDs will
submit a written request to their district commander and a resume that includes any
additional skills or experience for selection consideration, including but not limited to

following factors:

- a minimum ofthree years of service;

- demonstrate a working knowledge of Department directives,
juvenile laws, Chicago Public School Student Code of Conduct
Manual;

. bilingual or trilingual;

- ability to work safely, effectively, and build positive relationships

with students, parents, guardians, and school personnel;

previous experience working with youth in a learning EWim?lment
coaching youth league or youth group leader];

cho rce Df? 

AH SROs and SRO supervisors will now receive specialized training developed by a national
expert, which focuses heavily on best practices and strategies that create respectful- and
posmve interactions with students.

51105 are also now provided the opportunity [and encouraged] to participate in a
supplemental training course focused speci?cally on youth crisis intervention.

E?euc? 

- ~u are actively E?ga as
District commanders in each district will ensure EROS and SRO 1? 

urit of CPS student-g
in the school community while providing for the saltlitll and SEE 3"
employees, guests and property.

Of?cers assigned as 

?s lvin
II will participate in comprehensive and CQQPEFEUVE problem ?3 

duce crimes
processes, including engaging in proactive 
and combat emerging and chronic crime and disor .

respond to crimes and calls for service within Chicago Public Schools,
school campuses. or adjacent Board of Education properties.

may participate in extra-curricular activities, 5:11:11
administrators, and the school community after school ours, 
notification and approval ofthe district commander or designee.

maintain a visible presence at their assignment while assisting in
Fostering a positive learnin

environment and engaging in positive
interactions with students.

n'ilii of 

 

E5 

As their primary responsibility School Resource Of?cer will respond to crimes, calls for service,
and other law enforcement-related incidents within Chicago Public Schools, school campuses, or
adjacent Board of Education properties.

EROS will:

contact the le?ce of Emergency Management and Communications in
all emergency situations to ensure proper noti?cation and recording of
the incident.

when safe and feasible, attempt to minimize a

school's normal operations with any Department re

engage in the administration of discipline or involve themselves

in disciplinary or classroom disorder situations unless required to

prevent criminal activity or to protect students, employees, guests, or
property.

ny disruption to the
spouse.

 

9717/2019

1 I


