DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
MINUTES OF THE
REGULAR COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JULY 10, 2019 -- 5:00 PM
AT DEGC OFFICES
500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200
DETROIT, MI
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
PRESENT:

COMMITTEE MEMBERS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Rick Blocker
Michelle Lee
Simone Sagovac
Allen Rawls
Rico Razo
Dr. Regina Randall

Kamal Cheeks
Brad Lutz
Sandra Stahl
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Neal Check (RainCheck Development, LLC)
Mark DooLittle (Lincoln Realty Advisors)
Jessica DeBone (PM Environmental)

 Call to Order
Mr. Rawls, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 5:12 p.m.
General
Approval of Minutes
Mr. Rawls called for approval of the minutes of the June 12, 2019 (resolution) DBRA-CAC meeting. The
Committee took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Blocker, seconded by Dr. Randall, DBRA-CAC Resolution Code 19-07-02-141,
approving the June 12, 2019 CAC minutes, as presented, was unanimously approved.
Projects
Brownfield Plan for 40 Hague
Ms. Capler introduced the Brownfield Plan for 40 Hague to the CAC members present.
Project Introduction
RainCheck Development, LLC is the project developer (the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails the
renovation of a two-story, 37,000 square-foot building into 38 residential apartments. Two studios, 32 onebedroom units, and four two-bedroom units will be offered. Building amenities will include an interior
courtyard and rooftop garden space. In addition, the parcel located to the west of the building will be curated
into a private park for residents and a dog park. As for parking, the 40 Hague Development will provide onsite parking south of the building, at 59 East Philadelphia Street, at an already established lot, reconfigured
to include a more efficient parking layout.
The total investment is estimated to be $8.05 million. The Developer is requesting $731,906.00 in TIF
reimbursement.
There will be 18 temporary construction jobs and 1 FTE job. The 18 temporary construction jobs are
expected to be created over an eighteen-month period once construction begins. The 1 FTE job will be
related to property management.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) will consist of three (3) parcels roughly bounded by Hague Street to
the north, residential properties to the east, Philadelphia Street to the south, and Woodward Avenue to the
west, in Detroit’s North End neighborhood.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the Property
was previously utilized for industrial and commercial purposes; (b) it is located within the City of Detroit, a
qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property is determined to be a “facility” as
defined by Act 381 and/or adjacent and contiguous to a “facility.”
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include Pre-Approved Activities (Environmental
Assessments), Department Specific Activities, Demolition, Asbestos Activities, Infrastructure
Improvements, Site Preparation and preparation and implementation of Brownfield Plan and/or 381 Work
Plan. The eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the Property

 and will be financed solely by the Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible
activities and will incur no debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence in fall 2019 and be
completed within 18 months.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Environmental Assessments
2. Department Specific Activities (EGLE)
3. Demolition
4. Asbestos Abatement
5. Infrastructure Improvements
6. Site Preparation
7. Brownfield Plan & Work Plan Preparation
8. Brownfield Plan & Work Plan Implementation
9. Contingency (15%)
Total Reimbursement to Developer
10. Authority Administrative Costs
11. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
12. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$23,693.00
$114,500.00
$298,900.00
$22,000.00
$68,000.00
$86,350.00
$20,000.00
$10,000.00
$88,463.00
$731,906.00
$189,903.00
$41,917.00
$294,549.00
$1,258,275.00

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation PA 146 Tax Abatement.
Attached for the Committee’s review and approval were three (3) resolutions: 1.) a resolution supporting
the Plan in the event the Committee does not deem it necessary to conduct a CAC public hearing and 2.)
a resolution authorizing a public hearing in the project area and 3.) a resolution authorizing a public hearing
in the project area and to appoint up to two special CAC members. The public hearing may be held jointly
with any public hearing conducted by the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.
Mr. Check provided more information about the Developer including additional projects being developed by
the Developer in the City of Detroit, two additional companies owned by the Developer, SoundCheck and
Tech Home Building. Mr. Check stated that his family has connections with the North End area of Detroit
and he has long wanted to do a development project in the neighborhood. Mr. Check added that he had
connections with the Detroit Housing Commission to install security systems in various developments in
the City of Detroit.
Mr. Check stated that the existing building located at 40 Hague was designed by Albert Kahn. Mr. Check
stated that the Developer has selected the Detroit office of Honigman to provide legal services for the
project, O’Connor Real Estate in Corktown has been involved in the project, a Detroit-based firm has been
selected to do leasing and property management for the project, Christian Hurttienne is the architect for the
project, and The Monahan Company is the general contractor for the project. Mr. Check stated that he has
expressed to Monahan to engage as many Detroit-based contractors as possible to work on the project.
Mr. Check stated that there will be 20% of the residential units offered at 60% Area Median Income (AMI),

 there will be a private park with greenspace available for residents that will be dog-friendly, and some
infrastructure improvements surrounding the building.
Mr. Rawls asked if the Family Dollar near the Property is operating. Mr. Check stated that the Family Dollar
is in operation and that the owners of the commercial space on Woodward are in support of the project.
Mr. Razo asked what the projected rental rates will be for the residential units. Mr. DooLittle stated that the
Developer hired Zimmerman/Volk Associates, Inc. to determine with the market rates would be for the area
at the request of Capital Impact Partners and determined that $2.10-2.25 per square foot is appropriate for
the area.
Mr. Check stated that the Developer is looking at more properties in the North End neighborhood for future
projects.
Mr. Blocker asked for clarification on the rental rates for the market rate and affordable units. Mr. DooLittle
stated that a market rate one-bedroom unit would be approximately $1,400-1,600 per month and the onebedroom affordable units would be approximately $800 per month.
Mr. Razo asked if the Developer has any other buildings under contract. Mr. Check stated that the
Developer does not have any other buildings under contract currently but is working on a commercial space
on Woodward and potential new construction townhomes in Midtown.
Ms. Lee asked if the Developer could provide more information on the residential neighborhood surrounding
the project and if there has been any engagement with the community regarding the project. Mr. Check
stated that the DBRA has a public hearing scheduled for July 18, 2019 and has been in contact with other
developers in the area, Beth El Community Center, and that he has received information on other
community groups that he will pursue and contact regarding the project.
Mr. Rawls suggested that Mr. Check contact some of the local churches near the Property.
Mr. Check stated that there were furnaces installed in the building that will not be useful for the project that
will be donated to Habitat for Humanity.
Ms. Lee asked for more information on the OPRA tax abatement. Ms. Kanalos stated that the OPRA tax
abatement freezes the property taxes on the building for a period of 12 years.
Ms. Lee asked if the increase in the taxable value on the property will affect the surrounding residential
properties. Mr. Vosburg stated that the assessed values on the surrounding residential properties may
increase in the future, but the taxable values may only increase by the rate of inflation or 5% whichever is
less, unless the property is sold.
Mr. Rawls asked if the building is on a historic register. Mr. Check stated that the building is not on a historic
register but he and the architect are working to preserve and restore as many of the architectural
components of the building as possible including the interior structural columns. New elements will be
sensitive to the history of the building. It will have some technological elements including, cameras and
security, motorized shades in the residential units, public wi-fi, and amenities on the rooftop space.
Mr. Rawls asked if there will be any green storm water infrastructure elements included in the project. Mr.
Check stated that he wasn’t sure if there were any green storm water infrastructure elements included in
the project. Mr. Rawls suggested that the Developer work with the architect for the project on the green
storm water infrastructure plans.
Mr. Razo asked if the private park will be only a dog park. Mr. Check stated that the park is intended to be
a private park for the residents that is dog-friendly, but not exclusively a dog park.
Mr. Rawls called for a motion recommending approval of the Brownfield Plan for 40 Hague.

 Mr. Blocker motioned to recommend approval of the Brownfield Plan for 40 Hague without a CAC
public hearing and without appointing special members. Ms. Lee seconded the motion. DBRA-CAC
Resolution Code 19-07-271-01, recommending approval of the Brownfield Plan for 40 Hague was
unanimously approved.
Administrative
Election of Ninth DBRA-CAC Member (FY 2019-2020)
With the June 30, 2019 expiration of the term of office of Mr. Allen Rawls, there is a need for reappointment
or appointment of the person to fill this position for a term to expire June 30, 2020.
Mr. Rawls called for a motion electing Allen Rawls as the ninth DBRA-CAC member for FY 2019-2020. The
Committee took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Blocker, seconded by Ms. Sagovac, DBRA-CAC Resolution Code 19-07-0148, electing Allen Rawls as the ninth DBRA-CAC member for FY 2019-2020, was unanimously
approved.
Other
None.
Public Comment
None.
Adjournment
Citing no further business, Mr. Rawls adjourned meeting at 5:46 PM.

 CODE DBRA CAC 19-07-02-141
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF JUNE 12, 2019
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the regular meeting of June 12, 2019 are hereby approved and all
actions taken by the members present at such meeting, as set forth in such minutes, are hereby in all
respects ratified and approved as actions of the Community Advisory Committee of the Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority.

July 10, 2019

 CODE DBRA-CAC 19-07-271-01
40 HAGUE MORROW BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Detroit (the “City”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in
the City; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381, the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the resolution establishing the DBRA and the bylaws of the DBRA, the
DBRA has submitted the proposed Brownfield Plan for the 40 Hague Project (the “Plan”) to the
Community Advisory Committee for consideration and comment; and
WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee, at its July 10, 2019 meeting, received, evaluated
and considered the proposed Plan; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of the resolution establishing the DBRA and the
bylaws of the DBRA, the Community Advisory Committee desires to make recommendations to the DBRA
and the Detroit City Council on the proposed Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. After consideration of the proposed Plan, the Community Advisory Committee makes the following
comment and recommendations on the proposed Plan:
a. The Community Advisory Committee has determined that it is appropriate for the achievement
of the purposes of Act 381 of the DBRA to adopt a Brownfield Plan for the 40 Hague
Brownfield Redevelopment Project.
b. The Community Advisory Committee recommends support of the proposed Plan presented to
it.
2. The Chairperson of the Community Advisory Committee is authorized and directed to transmit a copy
of this Resolution and the minutes of the public hearing on the proposed Plan and of the meeting at
which this Resolution was adopted to the DBRA and the Detroit City Council as the report of the findings
and recommendations of the Community Advisory Committee on the proposed Plan.
3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this resolution are
rescinded.

July 10, 2019

 DBRA-CAC CODE 19-07-01-48

ADMINISTRATION: REAPPOINTMENT/APPOINTMENT OF NINTH CAC MEMBER

RESOLVED, that Allen Rawls is hereby reappointed/appointed as a DBRA Community Advisory
Committee member for a term to expire June 30, 2020.

July 10, 2019

 