 

COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

.IOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
JULY 26, 2019

Employee Recognition

Chiquita Hudson, a registered nurse in our medical intensive care unit, was recently recognized for her extraordinary
patient care with the DAISY award. The DAISY award is an international program that rewards and celebrates the
extraordinary compassionate and skillful care given by nurses every day. A patient who had an excellent patient
experience at Cook County Health nominated Chiquita. The patient felt like family and stated the only pain about the
experience was saying goodbye.

Activities and Announcements

On July 16, Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle and Cook County Health (CCH) broke ground on a
new $12 million state-of?the-art health center in Chicago?s Belmont?Cragin neighborhood located at 5501 West
Fullerton Avenue. The new health center will replace Logan Square Health Center at 2840 West Fullerton
once construction is complete in 2020, tripling the size to a footprint. With 30 exam rooms,
the Hanson Park Health Center will expand high quality, integrated health care to thousands of Cook County
residents. Expanded pediatric and adult primary care services, women?s health, dental care, as well as specialty
services like cardiology and endocrinology will be provided. The Women, Infants and Children (WIC) food
assistance program will also be on?site. By improving access to care and focusing on community wellness, CCH
can ultimately improve the health of all Cook Health patients, reduce unnecessary health care costs, and
decrease emergency room visits and inpatient stays. CCH officials estimate that the site will accommodate more

than 50,000 visits annually.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.2, 2.1

Several members of the CCH care coordination and teams conducted in a study that has been
recently published by Services. The report, improving the Evaluation of Adult Mental Disorders in the
Criminal Justice System with Computerized Adaptive Testing, sought to develop a mental health screening and
assessment tool for use in the justice-involved population. The study identified modifications that can be made
to a previously-validated tool ?to measure the severity of depression, anxiety, mania and/or hypomania,
suicidality and substance use disorder in an English- and Spanish- speaking criminal justice population.? The

study is attached.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.2, 1.6, 7.1

Food As Medicine Update

Through July 1, Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has resulted in
195 visits to 13 CCH health centers Arlington Heights, Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove,
Englewood, Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Provident/Sengstacke, Prieto, Robbins, and Woodlawn.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 25,558
individuals, representing 84,611 household members, totaling more than 525,000 pounds of fresh produce.
Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health
center visit.

CCH Fresh Markets are offered in the south suburbs. Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonprofit
that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to
healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with Experimental Station?s Link Up Link Match program to offer
SNAP users with a match on all purchases at CCH Fresh Markets, up to SZO/market/week. CCH Fresh Markets?
schedule is listed below:

0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm

0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am-3pm

0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm

Three CCH health centers host Summer Meals during the months when school is not in session. Children 18
years and younger can get free, healthy meals at the following CCH health centers:
0 Cottage Grove Health Center
Monday-Friday, 12pm-1:15pm
June 10 through August 23 (closed June 7, July 4-5, August 2)

Englewood Health Center
Monday?Friday, Ham-12:30pm
June 25 through August 30 (closed July 4)
0 Robbins Health Center
Monday?Friday, 11:30am-12pm
June 24 through August 30 (closed July 4)

Children are not required to be current patients of CCH to access Summer Meals.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

2 Page

Legislative Updates

Local

State

On June 27, 2019 Cook County Commissioner Donna Miller introduced a resolution calling on Cook County
Health leadership to appear before the Board's Health and Hospitals Committee to respond to Commissioner
questions related to the Office of the Independent inspector General (OIIG) report on CountyCare Finances. The
committee meeting was held on June 25, 2019.

The Illinois General Assembly is scheduled to return to Springfield October 28-30 and November 12-14 for the
Fall Veto Session. The schedule for the 2020 Spring Session has yet to be announced, but will likely start in mid-
January 2020 and run through May 31.

The Governor has not taken action on 531321, also referred to as the Medicaid Omnibus Bill, which passed the
House and Senate unanimously.

531321 intends to address challenges with the state?s eligibility system and resulting delays in processing
Medicaid applications and redeterminations. The bill also seeks to improve the relationship between providers
and Medicaid managed care organizations (MCOs) by requiring HFS to establish a claims dispute resolution
process, establishing policies and timelines for MCOs to update provider rosters, and ensuring stakeholder
engagement in efforts to improve MCO operations and further develop value?based payment models. The bill
goes into effect upon becoming law.

531321 was sent to the Governor on June 6. He has 60 days to take action; if no action is taken, the bill
automatically becomes law on day 61.

On July 15, 2019, the Governor signed 581739 into law. SBl739/Public Act 101-0083 went into effect the day it
was signed and makes changes to the Certificate of Need (CON) process overseen by the Illinois Health Facilities
and Services Review Board As a result, facilities that wish to close must pursue a CON and are no
longer allowed to seek an exemption. PA 101-0083 also allows the to defer action on an application to
close a facility if there is pending litigation that names the Board as a party or alleges fraud and sets forth
requirements for notifying the public and elected officials about proposed closures.

On July 22, 2019 Governor Pritzker announced 3 new appointees to the Health Facilities and Services Review
Board. Below are the appointee biographies from the Governor?s announcement.

Sandra Martell will serve on the Health Facilities and Services Review Board.* Dr. Martell has been the Public
Health Administrator for Winnebago County Health Department for the past four years. Her current work in
Winnebago County has been focused on addressing the health priorities of Maternal and Child Health,
Mental/Behavioral Health, and Violence through a lens of health equity. Dr. Martell has spent the majority of
her career focused on public health. She worked for the Cook County Department of Public Health in Illinois for
over 25 years progressing from the position of public health nurse to interim Chief Operating Officer. She has
served as adjunct faculty at both the Loyola University and the University of Illinois. Dr. Martell has been the
recipient of the March of Dimes Perinatal Nurse Recognition Award and the Cook County Distinguished Service
Award. She has been acknowledged as an emerging public health leader through a fellowship from the National
Association of City and County Health Officials/Robert Woods Johnson and De Beaumont Foundations. Dr.

3 Page

Martell received her BS in Nursing from the Loyola University of Chicago and her master's and doctoral degrees
from the with a concentrated focus on public health.

Linda Rae Murray will serve on the Health Facilities and Services Review Board.* Dr. Murray has spent her
career serving the medically underserved and is an adjunct assistant professor at the University of School
of Public Health. She most recently practiced as a voluntary general internist at one of the county's health
centers until December 2018. Dr. Murray has worked in a variety of settings including practicing Occupational
Medicine at a Workers Clinic in Canada, Residency Director for Occupational Medicine at Meharry Medical
College, and Bureau Chief for the Chicago Department of Health under Mayor Harold Washington. She worked
as medical director of the federally funded health center serving Cabrini Green Public Housing Project in
Chicago. She has been an active member of a wide range of local and national organizations including serving as
a member of the Board of Scientific Counselors for ATSDR, the Board of Scientific Counselors for NIOSH and the
Board of Directors of Trinity Health, a large Catholic Health system. Murray received her MPH, MD and BS from

the University of Illinois at Chicago.

Debra Savage will serve on the Health Facilities and Services Review Board.* Since 1990, Savage has been a
Registered Nurse practicing in hospitals and home health agencies in Illinois and various other states as a staff
nurse, charge nurse, nurse manager, nurse director and clinical application specialist. She has served as a
nursing professor and Assistant Dean at Chamberlain University since 2013. in addition, she was an adjunct
nursing instructor for Governors State University. Savage is elected as a Will County Regional Office of Education
Trustee and is a member of the Exchange Club of Northern Will County, the American Organization of Nursing
Leadership and the American Nurses Association as well as the past Section Chair for the Association of
Women's Health, Obstetrics Neonatal Nurses. Savage holds a BS in nursing from Rush University and MS in
nursing administration and education from the University of Phoenix.

Federal

- After returning from the July 4 recess, the House plans three weeks of intense work before leaving town on July
26 for the August recess. The Senate plans to work a week longer, leaving on August 2. Large issues remain
unresolved including agreement on a budget deal and the increasingly urgent need to lift the debt ceiling. And
the conventional wisdom that serious legislating gets more difficult as we near the 2020 elections adds pressure
to lawmakers to get things done before going home to face voters in August.

Medicaid DSH Cuts

- On July 11, the House Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Health marked up 26 bills, including
a ?health care extenders? package, H.R. 2328, which would extend expiring programs or funding. Representative
Joe Kennedy (D?Mass.) offered an amendment which would repeal the reductions to Medicaid disproportionate
share hospital (DSH) payments imposed by the ACA for FY 2020 and FY 2021 and reduce the FY 2022 cut to $4
billion. It is worth noting that the cuts for FY 2020 and FY 2021 would not simply be delayed, or pushed into the
out years, but rather repealed or ?bought out,? though an offset that has not yet been specified.

in addition to delaying the DSH cuts, the amendment included provisions designed to satisfy the objections
raised by Republican members against H.R. 3022, the full repeal bill offered by Rep. Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.) at the
June subcommittee hearing. The first provision would require CMS to begin making states? Upper Payment Limit
(UPL) hospital demonstrations data public, beginning with state FY 2022.

The second provision would require the Comptroller General of the US. to report to Congress, within 21 months

of enactment, on potential legislation to establish an equitable formula for determining DSH allotments for

States. The report must consider the states? (1) level of hospital uncompensated care costs; (2) expenditures for
4 a 

hospitals, including UPL supplemental payments, and other related payments; and (3) policy decisions that may
affect the level of uncompensated care costs ACA Medicaid expansion). The committee?s Republican
leaders spoke in favor of the amendment and it, and the underlying bill, was agreed to by voice vote.

On July 17, the full Energy and Commerce Committee marked up 26 bipartisan bills, including HR. 2328.
Committee leadership proposed an amendment in the nature of a substitute which included provisions to
address surprise billing and the Medicaid shortfall in the territories. At the end of the markup, the committee
reported the amended HR. 2328 out favorably to the full House by voice vote, indicating broad bipartisan
consensus. It is not yet clear whether the extenders package will get floor time before the August recess.

Senate staff have indicated that the upper chamber is waiting for the House to act. Cook County?s Senate
delegation supports a DSH cut delay and Democratic leadership have said that it is a priority. The shape of the
policy will likely depend on what approach Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-lowa)
decides to do in negotiation with Ranking Member Ron Wyden Grassley has said on the record that he
supports a delay but wants to see legislative reforms to the statutory formula used to determine state DSH
allotments. It remains to be seen if the Government Accounting Office (GAO) report in the House measure will
satisfy Grassley on that score. In addition to timing, questions on a legislative vehicle and offsets remain

outstanding.

Budget and Appropriations

I Talks between the Administration and congressional leaders in search of an agreement to lift the statutory
budget caps under the Budget Control Act of 2011 resumed after the July 4 recess and in the week ofluly 15
leaders of both parties sounded hopeful that an agreement on the spending caps and debt limit could be
reached. If negotiations fail, automatic ten percent across the board cuts, called sequestration, would be

imposed next year.

I The House passed a second five bill ?minibus? on June 25 so that by the July 4 recess only two regular
appropriations bills remained awaiting floor consideration the controversial Department of Homeland Security
bill and the Legislative Branch bill, sidelined over a proposed congressional pay raise.

I Meanwhile, Senate appropriators have still not introduced any of their annual spending bills, waiting for a
budget deal to begin marking up bills. This means that at least a short-term continuing resolution (CR) is likely
before the end of the fiscal year September 30, to allow the committee to mark up bills and take them to the

?oon

Health Care Costs

I On June 26, the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee marked up 5.1895, the Lower
Health Care Costs Act of 2019. The bill contains provisions designed to address surprise billing, reduce
prescription drug prices, promote transparency, improve public health and improve the exchange of health
information. The committee reported the bill out favorably to the full Senate, on a 20?3 vote, with Senators
Elizabeth Warren, Rand Paul and Bernie Sanders voting no. Senate leaders tried to send the bill to the floor
under unanimous consent but a number of Republican senators have placed anonymous holds on the bill,
according to press reports. Chairman Alexander is reported to be working with his colleagues to clear the holds.

I The Senate Finance Committee has not yet rolled out a health care cost reduction package for programs in its
jurisdiction, including Medicare and Medicaid.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for at both the State and Federal level.
5 a 

Community Outreach

August 1

August 1

August 1

August 3

August 3

August 3

August 3

August 3

August 3

August 4

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 7th Annual Youth Summit which is sponsored by
the Cook County Juvenile Probation Department at the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center located at
1100 South Hamilton in Chicago. At the Summit, Juvenile Probation Officers teach probation clients
about a variety of resources to facilitate their successful transition to the community.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Bloom Township Senior Picnic which will take
place at Veteran's Memorial Park located at 19101 South Halsted Avenue in Glenwood.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Cook County Department of Veterans Affairs'
Veteran's Stand-Up Health Resource Fair which will take place at the Kroc Center located at 1200
West 119th Street in Chicago. The event will provide Veterans with free health screenings, free haircuts,
free housing information, free financial resources, and employment opportunities.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at State Senator Mattie Hunter?s 16th Annual Health,
Fun Fitness Fair which takes place at the Illinois Institute of Technology?s Crown Hall located at 33"?i
Street and State Street in Chicago. The event offers a variety of different health screenings, fitness
activities, and fun for the entire family.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at HopeFest 2019, which is hosted by the New Life
Covenant Church, and will take place at the church grounds located at 3400 W. Division Street in
Chicago. HopeFest is a free annual back-to-school festival for the local community reaching more than
5,000 children every year. It helps equip children with the necessary tools to take the first step toward
their goals. Families receive free medical exams, immunizations, dental check-ups, groceries, haircuts,
backpacks filled with school supplies and much more.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 22nd District Police 8: Morgan Park Clergy Back
to School Health Safety Fair which takes place at the Morgan Park High Schooi located at 1744 W.
Pryor Street in Chicago. This fair is for community residents and provides children with necessary
physicals, health screenings and immunizations prior to the start of school.

4th Ward Alderman Sophia King hosts the 28th Annual Fourth Ward Health 8: Housing Fair at Dyett
High School located right across from Provident Hospital at 501 S. Street in Chicago. As more than
500 community residents attend, we will promote Cook County Health and County Ca re at the event.
The Provident Hospital HIV Testing team will also participate by providing testing to attendees.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Annual St. Mark MB Church Heaith Fair, which
will take place at the church located at 14618 Lincoln Avenue in Harvey.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Saint George Saint Matthias Episcopal Church
Health Fair and Back to School Event, which will take place at the church located at the corner of 111th
Street and Indiana in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Chicago Heights Public Library's 2019 Annual
Back-To-School Outreach Fair which will take place at the library located at 25 West 15th Street in
Chicago Heights.

EIPage

August 8

August 9

August 10

August 10

August 10

August 10

August 13

August 14

August 15

August 16

August 16

August 17

August 17

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Senator Iris Y. Martinez and State Representative
Jaime Andrade?s 2019 Back to School and Family Wellness Fair which takes place at the
Avondale/Logandale School located at 3312 West George Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center's 5th Annual
Englewood Community Health Fair, which will take place at the West Englewood Library located at
1745 West 63rd Street in Chicago. Staff from the Englewood Health Center will participate to promote
clinic services.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the AKA Expo 8: Community Resource Fair, which is
hosted by the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority at the Matteson Community Center located at 20642 South
Matteson Drive in Matteson.

Cook County Health?s Provident Hospital is one of the main sponsors and supporters of the 90th Annual
Bud Billiken Parade, which is the second largest parade in the United States. Cook County Health
physicians and nurses provide first aid support along the parade route. In addition, staff will be inside
Washington Park in a separate tent to promote Cook County Health and CountyCare.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Cicero's Back to School Fair, which is hosted by
Cicero District 99 and Cicero Town President Larry Dominick and will take place at the Unity Junior High
School located at 2115 South 54th Avenue in Cicero

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Third Baptist Neighborhood Back-to-School and
Health Extravaganza, which will take place at the church located at 1551 West 95th Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Cook County Recorder of Deeds' Property After
Death Signature Event Resource Fair which will take place at Worth Township located at 11601 South

Pulaski Road in Alsip.

Cook County Health and CountyCa re promotion at the Greater Southwest Chicago Community
Resource Fair, which is hosted by the City of Chicago Department of Family Support Services at Leo
Catholic High School located at 7901 South Sangamon Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the New Faith Baptist Church International's Seniors
Summit, which takes place at the church located at 25 South Central Avenue in Matteson.

Cook County Health and CountyCa re promotion at Corazon Community Services' Back to School Bash
which takes place at Warren Park located at 16th Street 57th Avenue in Cicero.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at State Senator Omar Aquino's 22nd Annual All Kids 
Family Health Fair which takes place at North Grand High School located at 4338 West Wabansia
Avenue in Chicago. The Northwest Side Health Advisory Committee co-sponsors this event.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 2019 Congressman Danny K. Davis' Back to
School Fair Picnic, Parade World Health Day which takes place at Columbus Park located at 500 South

Central Avenue in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the St. Peter Paul Church's Health 8: Resource Fair
which takes place at the church located at 12433 South Halsted Street in Chicago.

7 Page

August 17 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Crossroads Church of Hillside Health Fair which

takes place at the church located at 5152 Butterfield Road in Hillside.

August 24 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Ford Heights Community Service Organization?s

7th Annual Health 8; Wellness Fair, which takes place at the center located at 943 East Lincoln Highway
in Ford Heights.

August 24 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Rahab Grand Court Community Health Fair which

will take place at the Charles Carroll School located at 2929 West 83rd Street in Chicago.

August 24 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Riverdales's Back to School Bash which is sponsored

by Mayor Lawnrencen L. Jackson, Village Clerk Karen Holcomb and the Village Board of Trustees and will
take place at the Village Hall located at 157 West 144th Street in Riverdale.

August 24 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Favors/Walker Family Life Foundation's 15th

Year Community Health Fair which will take place at the Friendly Temple Church of God in Christ
located at 7745 South State Street in Chicago.

In partnership with the Chicago Police Department CAPS program, Cook County Health and CountyCare will participate
in various National Night Out events on August 6. National Night Out events serve as a safe haven for families to
congregate and the goal of the event is to build stronger safer communities. Cook County Health and CountyCare will
have a presence at the following locations:

6th Police District Hamilton Park, 513 W. 72nd St., Chicago

10?1 Police District 10th District Headquarters, 3315 West Ogden Avenue, Chicago

11th Police District Kells Park, 3201 West Chicago Avenue, Chicago

12th Police District United Center, 1901 W. Madison, Chicago

22"d Police District 22nd District Police Station, 1825 W. Monterey Avenue, Chicago

Maywood Police Department Maywood's Veteran's Memorial Park, 15t Avenue and Oak Street, Maywood
Ford Heights National Night Out August 7th - Ford Heights Park District, 13th Lexington, Ford Heights

Catholic Charities is hosting a series of health fairs where they invited all MCOS and other health care organizations to
participate. Cook County Health and CountyCare will have an information table at these health fairs throughout the
summer.

August 10 St. Gall Parish 500 S. Kedzie Ave., Chicago, II 60629

August 17 - St Frances ofRome School 1401 5 Austin Ave., Cicero, Ii. 60804

August 21 Sisters of St. Casimir 2601 W. Marquette, Chicago, IL 60629 (Employment and Veteran?s Resource
Fair)

In partnership with area community churches, Sinai Health Ministries is hosting a series of community health fairs
where they invite community organizations, healthcare organizations and health plans to participate and provide
information to attendees. Cook County Health and CountyCare will have an informational table at these health fairs.

August 3 New Progressive St. James M.B.C Back to School Health and Resource Fair - 909 South Kedzie
Avenue, Chicago, IL 60612

August 10 Amazing Grace Outreach Ministries Health and Resource Fair - 915 North Pulaski Road, Chicago, lL
6065

August 11 Carey Tercentenary AME Church - Annual Health and Resource Fair 1448 South Homan Avenue,
Chicago, IL 60623

August 16 Union League Boys Girls Club - 2157 West 19th Street, Chicago, IL 60608

8 Page

August 17 Greater Bethlehem Healing Temple - Annual Health and Resource-Back to School - 12 South Oakley
Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60612

August 18 Amazing Grace Outreach Ministries - Health and Resource Fair - 3849 South Kedzie Avenue,
Chicago, IL 6032

August 22 SGA Youth 8: Family Services - 420 West 111th Street, Chicago, IL 60628

August 24 - Resurrected Life Church International - Community Impact Health and Resource Fair 4538 West
Fullerton Avenue, Chicago, IL60639

August 24 - Central Church of God - Back to School Health and Resource Fair - 3011 West Flournoy Street,
Chicago, IL 60612

August 31 - Philadelphia Church of God in Christ - Annual Health and Resource Fair 1622 West 6lst Street,
Chicago, IL 60636

August 31 - New Upper Room Baptist Church - Health and Resource Fair - 2709 West Roosevelt Road, Chicago,

II. 60608

The Greater Chicago Food Depository Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of August include the following ACHN
Health Centers.

August 1 Austin Health Center - 4800 West Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60651

August 6 Cicero Health Center 5912 West Cermak Road, Cicero, IL 60804

August 13 Cottage Grove Health Center - 1645 Cottage Grove Avenue, Ford Heights, iL 60411
August 15 - Englewood Health Center - 1135 West 69th Street, Chicago, IL 60621

August 15 Near South Health Center - 3525 South Michigan, Chicago, IL 60653

August 20 - Robbins Health Center - 13450 South Kedzie Avenue, Robbins, IL 60472

9 Page

