3/20/2019

02-14-2019 SSA Meeting Minutes - Google Docs

Lakeview SSA 27
Commission Mee ng Minutes
February 14, 2019, 8:30 AM
Sheil Park, 3505 N. Southport Ave., Chicago, IL 60657
Present: Darian Campise, Paul Leamon, Ma Lederer, Terese McDonald, Luis Monje, Amy Novotny, Doug Zylstra
Absent: Jason Aragon, Erin Schwartz, Chuck Stewart
Staff: Lee Crandell, Dillon Goodson
Guests: TJ Walczak
Call to Order
Terese McDonald called the mee ng to order at 8:33 AM.
Public Comment
There was no public comment.
Reading and Approval of Minutes
Amy Novotny mo oned to approve the minutes from the SSA Commission mee ng on January 17, 2019, seconded
by Paul Leamon; mo on carries.
Low-Line Committee Report
●

Ashland Plazas: Darian Campise shared samples of the proposed ﬁnishes for the light boxes that will ﬂank
both sides of the Ashland Plazas as well as the white translucent "lens" that will cover the ligh ng
element. She noted that the designers at PORT Urbanism conducted extensive tes ng on both materials to
determine how they will perform when tagged with graﬃ and other forms of vandalism. She also
updated the Commission on engineering of the light displays that will be featured along the pathway,
reminding Commissioners that PORT originally proposed the idea of CTA trains passing overhead triggering
the ligh ng program. In order to accomplish this eﬀect, PORT and subcontractor Chicago Lightworks are
using audio frequencies to indicate when a train is arriving and set the light display in mo on. According to
the design team, this is the most eﬀec ve way to approach this design challenge with the highest degree
of accuracy, but as with any technology, there’s always a chance the equipment may need to be ﬁne
tuned. Commissioners discussed the materials and program. Darian Campise mo oned to approve the
light box materials with a $16,000 budget for programming the light displays as presented, seconded by
Doug Zylstra; mo on carries.

Streetscape Committee Report
●

●

North Southport Sidewalk Seating Area: Luis Monje shared es mated costs for benches that are
proposed as part of the SSA’s sidewalk sea ng area on the 3600 block of N. Southport Ave. No ng that the
Commission had already voted to approve the design, he asked for a vote to authorize the bench order,
es ma ng the cost to be approximately $9,316.02, subject to change. Doug Zylstra mo oned to approve
the order not to exceed $10,000 with manufacturer Forms+Surfaces, seconded by Amy Novotny; mo on
carries.
Public Seating Approach: Luis Monje updated the Commission on recent discussions within the
Streetscape Commi ee about phasing out the People Spot program in favor of new sidewalk sea ng that
combines elements of People Spots in a compact conﬁgura on with sea ng, tables, landscaping, and
games. He explained that these sea ng areas could eventually be deployed throughout the SSA, si ng on
sidewalks as narrow as 8 . wide. Commissioners discussed whether the new sea ng areas would

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_ZKZvU8a-kryaXxTvnzfxcMocR8D7VAYfFX3EtO6W7g/edit

1/2

 3/20/2019

02-14-2019 SSA Meeting Minutes - Google Docs

incorporate oﬀ-the-shelf site furnishings or whether the SSA would need to explore custom op ons. They
commented about how there might be cost advantages to readymade site furnishings, but if there aren’t
oﬀ-the-shelf op ons that accomplish the Commission’s vision, then the SSA should explore a custom
design. Ma Lederer mo oned to authorize a design explora on fee not to exceed $1,000 with PORT
Urbanism for the new compact sidewalk sea ng conﬁgura on, seconded by Paul Leamon; mo on carries.
Community Events & Placemaking Grant Program Task Force Report
●

Appointment of New Members: Amy Novotny noted that applica ons were due tomorrow for the SSA’s
2019 Community Events & Placemaking Grant Program and that the Task Force would meet in early March
to evaluate 2019 projects. She asked Commissioners whether anyone else would like to join the Task
Force. TJ Walczak volunteered. Amy Novotny mo oned to appoint TJ Walczak to the Community Events &
Placemaking Grant Program Task Force, seconded by Darian Campise; mo on carries.

Treasurer’s Report
Ma Lederer shared the SSA’s ﬁnancials through December 2018, no ng that the SSA’s budgeted carryover is close
to the actual funds remaining on the balance sheet at the end of last year. He reported that the 2018 audit is
underway and reminded Commissioners that the 2020 budge ng process will begin in April.
Partner Board Reports
●
●

Lakeview Chamber of Commerce: Lee Crandell recapped the recent safety seminar and Annual Mee ng,
hosted by the Lakeview Chamber of Commerce.
Friends of Lakeview: Lee Crandell updated Commissioners on Friends of Lakeview’s fundraising for the
Lakeview Low-Line.

Staff Report
●

2018 Lakeview Gift Card Holiday Promotion: Dillon Goodson presented data on merchant redemp ons of
the Lakeview Gi Card from 2017 through early 2019, no ng the top performing businesses.
Commissioners discussed how they’d like to establish a task force to revisit the original goals of the
Lakeview Gi Card program, relying on survey data from customers and businesses, and determine
whether any changes need to be made. Ma Lederer mo oned to appoint a task force composed of
Terese McDonald, Ma Lederer and Darian Campise, seconded by Amy Novotny; mo on carries.

Announcements
Dillon Goodson invited Commissioners to a joint Wicker Park Bucktown/Lakeview SSA meet-up taking place on
Monday, February 25 at 6:00 PM. He also reminded new Commissioners that they must a end a City-mandated
New Commissioner Forum on Wednesday, February 20 at 9:00 AM at the Harold Washington Library.
Adjourn
Ma Lederer mo oned to adjourn the mee ng, seconded by Amy Novotny; mee ng adjourned at 9:23 AM.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_ZKZvU8a-kryaXxTvnzfxcMocR8D7VAYfFX3EtO6W7g/edit

2/2

 