Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Minutes of the Real Estate Committee
Tuesday, July 23, 2019

9:45 AM

3300 Golf Road, Brookfield, IL
Brookfield Zoo-Wild Encounters,
White Oak Room

ATTENDANCE
Present:

K. Morrison, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Johnson, Lowry,
Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)

Absent:

Moore, Gainer and Sims (3)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Kevin Morrison asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)

No Public Speakers
19-0339
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/21/2019
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to approve
19-0339. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

K. Morrison, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Johnson, Lowry, Miller,
S. Morrison, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)

Absent:

Moore, Gainer and Sims (3)

 Real Estate Committee

Committee Report

July 23, 2019

19-0281
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
EASEMENT REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) to
grant a permanent easement to the Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”) at Roosevelt Road
and IL 171 (1st Avenue) for 0.032 acre or 1,390 square feet.
Reason:
As part of planned intersection improvements at Roosevelt Road and IL 171 (1st Avenue)
IDOT proposes to construct 350 linear feet of 7-foot-wide concrete sidewalk along the south side of
Roosevelt Road from 1st Avenue to the existing Pace bus shelter. The sidewalk will be constructed
adjacent to the curb to minimize the required easement area. The proposed sidewalk will improve safety
and accessibility for pedestrians from the bus shelter to the crosswalks at the signalized intersection. The
Village of Forest Park has requested the sidewalk and will be responsible for its maintenance.

The planned intersection improvements are within the existing IDOT right of way. Only the sidewalk is
proposed to be built on Forest Preserves land.
The area for the permanent easement is 0.032 acres. IDOT indicates that no trees are expected to be
removed for this project.
Easement Fee: $300.00
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
District(s): 1
A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by
recommend for approval 19-0281. The motion carried by the following vote:

Commissioner

Silvestri,

Ayes:

K. Morrison, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Johnson, Lowry, Miller,
S. Morrison, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)

Absent:

Moore, Gainer and Sims (3)

to

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by Commissioner Daley, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Page 2 of 3

 Real Estate Committee
Ayes:

Committee Report

July 23, 2019

K. Morrison, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Johnson, Lowry,
Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)

Absent:

Moore, Gainer and Sims (3)

Respectfully submitted,

Vice-Chairman

Secretary

A complete record of this meeting is available at https://fpdcc.legistar.com.

Page 3 of 3

 