6/19/2019

05-09-2019 SSA Meeting Minutes - Google Docs

Lakeview SSA 27
Commission Mee ng Minutes
May 9, 2019, 8:30 AM
Sheil Park, 3505 N. Southport Ave., Chicago, IL 60657
Present: Jason Aragon, Darian Campise, Paul Leamon, Ma Lederer, Terese McDonald, Luis Monje, Amy Novotny,
Chuck Stewart, TJ Walczak, Doug Zylstra
Absent: Erin Schwartz
Staff: Lee Crandell, Dillon Goodson (by phone)
Guests: Amy Pooley
Call to Order
Terese McDonald called the mee ng to order at 8:33 AM.
Reading of Mission Statement
Terese McDonald read the SSA 27 mission statement.
Public Comment
There was no public comment.
Reading and Approval of Minutes
Doug Zylstra mo oned to approve the minutes from the SSA Commission mee ng on April 11, 2019, seconded by
Jason Aragon; mo on carries.
Presentation by The A.C.T. Group
Amy Pooley from the SSA’s auditor, The A.C.T. Group, shared the results of the 2018 audit of the SSA. She noted
that there were no discrepancies or issues found.
Acceptance of 2018 SSA Audit
Ma Lederer mo oned to accept the 2018 audit, seconded by Chuck Stewart; mo on carries.
2019 Artist Selection
Lee Crandell and Dillon Goodson recapped the 2019 public request for ar st qualiﬁca ons and review by the
Lakeview Public Art Commi ee, no ng that approximately 200 ar sts applied to have their artwork considered for
2019 project opportuni es. Lee reported that the Lakeview Public Art Commi ee recommended concepts from
seven ar sts for six project sites following mul ple rounds of review. Commissioners reviewed the ar st concept
recommenda ons and discussed ways to publicize the collec on of public art installa ons in West Lakeview. Paul
Leamon mo oned to approve concepts from the following ar sts, seconded by Ma Lederer; mo on carries:
●
●
●
●
●
●

Site 1 (Ashland Mural Wall - Northeast): Mauricio Ramirez
Site 2 (Ashland Mural Wall - Southeast): Antonio Beniquez
Site 3 (Ashland Mural Wall - Northwest): Sharon Dowell
Site 4 (Ashland Mural Wall - Southwest): Felix “FLEX” Maldonado
Site 5 (Low-Line Art Panels at Southport Plaza): Chad Kouri
Site 6 (Low-Line Art Panels, Ashland to Paulina Plazas): Kate Lewis and Zor Zor Zor

Committee & Task Force Reports
●

Low-Line Committee: Darian Campise updated the Commission that staﬀ is working with stakeholders to
ﬁnalize the meline for construc on of the remaining Phase 1 Low-Line elements, funded by the SSA.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S0IdFMsy_fX8c05-ZvSznxpAOudY2vFeyfFbdKUymIY/edit

1/2

 6/19/2019

05-09-2019 SSA Meeting Minutes - Google Docs

●

●

Streetscape Committee: Paul Leamon reported that the commi ee reviewed the latest design concepts
for modular sidewalk sea ng areas that would create interes ng focal points on narrow sidewalks
throughout the SSA while providing places for people to sit. He also previewed plans for transi oning
People Spots to another en ty or phasing the program out, with input from the Commission.
Lakeview Gift Card Task Force: Terese McDonald recapped the second Lakeview Gi Card Task Force
mee ng and summarized feedback gathered through a survey of par cipa ng businesses and gi card
customers. She es mated that the task force would ﬁnalize recommended changes to the program for the
Commission to review in June. Commissioners underscored the importance of ﬁnding a solu on to help
spread the beneﬁt of the program across mul ple par cipa ng businesses.

Treasurer’s Report
Ma Lederer shared the SSA’s ﬁnancials through March 2019. He explained that the SSA received a TIF rebate of
$10,595 in 2018 that would be applied towards the SSA’s 2020 budget.
●

2020 Budget Discussion: Ma Lederer recapped the 2020 SSA budge ng process, no ng that much of the
remaining por on of the mee ng would be devoted to gathering any ﬁnal feedback from Commissioners
on projects and programs for next year. Lee Crandell presented on the joint Strategic Blueprint of the
Lakeview Chamber, SSA 27 and Friends of Lakeview, highligh ng the document’s three strategic focus
areas and recommended strategies. Commissioners shared the following new project and program ideas:
o Create new programming and marke ng ini a ves focused on driving more robust consumer
spending, targe ng tourists and using inﬂuencers to tell Lakeview’s story
o Create a new shopping stroll or crawl event, similar to the Lincoln Avenue Beer Stroll and
Southport Holiday Stroll & Cocktail Crawl, and grow holiday programming
o Con nue to bring dynamic new public spaces to Lakeview, especially sidewalk sea ng areas, and
explore crea ng a dog park in partnership with the Lakeview Chamber or Friends of Lakeview

Partner Board Reports
●

Lee Crandell shared highlights from the latest wri en staﬀ report for the Lakeview Chamber and Friends of
Lakeview.

Staff Report
●

Lincoln Hub Flea Market: Lee Crandell updated Commissioners on Chicago Special Events Management’s
(SEM) prepara ons for Lincoln Hub Nest, the new home goods market supported in part through
sponsorship from the SSA. He explained that SEM has been focused on recrui ng vendors ahead of the
ﬁrst event, which is scheduled for Saturday, June 1, and promo ng the new series via print and social
media. Commissioners suggested tying in a community garage sale happening on the same day of Lincoln
Hub Nest to help a ract more of a crowd.

Adjourn
Doug Zylstra mo oned to adjourn the mee ng, seconded by Chuck Stewart; mee ng adjourned at 9:37 AM.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S0IdFMsy_fX8c05-ZvSznxpAOudY2vFeyfFbdKUymIY/edit

2/2

 