Lakeview SSA 27
Commission Mee ng Minutes
April 11, 2019, 8:30 AM
Sheil Park, 3505 N. Southport Ave., Chicago, IL 60657
Present: Jason Aragon, Darian Campise, Paul Leamon, Ma Lederer (by phone), Terese McDonald, Erin
Schwartz, TJ Walczak, Doug Zylstra
Absent: Luis Monje, Amy Novotny, Chuck Stewart
Staff: Dillon Goodson
Guests: None
Call to Order
Terese McDonald called the mee ng to order at 8:34 AM.
Reading of Mission Statement
Terese McDonald read the SSA 27 mission statement.
Public Comment
There was no public comment.
Reading and Approval of Minutes
Doug Zylstra mo oned to approve the minutes from the SSA Commission mee ng on March 14, 2019,
seconded by Jason Aragon; mo on carries.
Low-Line Committee Report
Dillon Goodson updated the Commission on the meline for construc on of the remaining Phase 1
Low-Line elements, funded by the SSA.
Streetscape Committee Report
Dillon Goodson previewed the Streetscape Commi ee’s preliminary plans for compact sidewalk sea ng
areas that would create interes ng focal points on narrow sidewalks throughout the SSA while providing
places for people to sit. He also shared that the Streetscape Commi ee is accep ng proposals from tree
care vendors to conduct a survey of the street trees in the SSA and create a tree management plan.
Lakeview Gift Card Task Force Report
Terese McDonald and Darian Campise reported on the ﬁrst Lakeview Gi Card Task Force mee ng,
during which Commissioners re-evaluated the original goals of the SSA’s local shopping rewards program
and discussed which of the goals are s ll relevant. As a next step, Terese and Darian said that the Task
Force would distribute surveys to par cipa ng businesses and gi card customers and then meet later in
April to discuss the survey results and how the current program is mee ng its goals.
Treasurer’s Report
Ma Lederer shared the SSA’s ﬁnancials through February 2019. He presented the following updates:
●

2019 Budget Modification: Ma Lederer and Dillon Goodson reviewed proposed budget
modiﬁca ons. Dillon explained that the Lakeview Chamber tracks staﬀ me and revenue for the

 ●

Chamber, SSA and Friends of Lakeview in order to determine how to allocate costs related to
labor and admin/overhead. The Chamber and Friends of Lakeview passed their 2019 budgets in
December 2018, ﬁve months a er the SSA, and had updated informa on for their cost alloca on
on methodology, which would result in a net zero impact on the budget. Other proposed
modiﬁca ons include alloca ng addi onal funding to complete the remaining SSA-funded
por ons of the Low-Line project this year and decreasing other line items due to cost savings on
SSA contracts with third-party vendors. Doug Zylstra mo oned to accept the cost alloca on
methodology and approve the following budget modiﬁca ons as presented, seconded by Jason
Aragon; mo on carries:
o Decrease 1.03 Free Wi-Fi Program by $7,000.00
o Decrease 2.02 Landscaping by $3,500.00
o Decrease 2.04 Way Finding/Signage by $2,000.00
o Increase 2.05 Streetscape Elements by $22,500.00
o Decrease 3.01 Garbage/Recycling Materials Program by $10,000.00
o Decrease 6.04 Oﬃce Rent by $500.00
o Increase 6.17 Liability/Property Insurance by $1,500.00
o Decrease 6.20 Admin/Oﬃce Services by $1,000.00
o Increase 7.01 Execu ve Director by $3,100.00
o Decrease 7.02 Community Development Director by $1,000.00
o Decrease 7.03 Oﬃce Manager & Bookkeeper by $450.00
o Decrease 7.04 Business Services Director by $2,900.00
o Decrease 7.05 Events & Marke ng Manager by $750.00
o Increase 7.06 Seasonal Events Staﬀ by $2,000.00
2020 SSA Budgeting Process: Ma Lederer outlined the City’s process and meline for
submi ng the 2020 SSA budget and work plan, no ng that the ﬁnal version is due in July. He
explained that the Commission would spend me at the May mee ng discussing project ideas
for 2020 and advised that Commissioners should come prepared with their input, especially
since the dra budget is due to the City earlier this year. Dillon Goodson asked Commissioners to
revisit the Strategic Blueprint, with a par cular emphasis on the document’s recommended
strategies for addressing the SSA’s program of work.

President’s Report
Terese McDonald shared ideas for new SSA programs that the Commission could consider in the 2020
budget.
Partner Board Reports
●

●

Lakeview Chamber of Commerce: Dillon Goodson recapped Lakeview Restaurant Week, which
helped drive signiﬁcant traﬃc to par cipa ng Lakeview restaurants at the end of March, and
provided updates on the Lincoln Hub Flea Market and other SSA-funded third-party events.
Friends of Lakeview: Erin Schwartz invited SSA Commissioners to a end the next Lakeview
Public Art Commi ee mee ng on Monday, April 29 at 5:30 PM at the Lakeview Chamber oﬃces
(1409 W. Addison St.). She said that the commi ee would spend the mee ng reviewing
site-speciﬁc concepts submi ed by ar sts and making recommenda ons about which projects

 should be executed in 2019, no ng that most of the projects fall within the SSA boundaries and
would be subject to ﬁnal approval by the SSA. She joined Dillon Goodson in repor ng that ar st
Ouizi would begin installa on of her mural at 3637 N. Southport Ave. soon, and that staﬀ was
planning a ﬂower giveaway for mothers to take place as part of the mural’s dedica on on
Mother’s Day. The Commission discussed working with local schools to execute future art
projects.
Staff Report
●

●

Annual Ethics Statements: Dillon Goodson reminded Commissioners that their annual ethics
statements are due to the City of Chicago and Cook County boards of ethics by the end of the
month, with penal es for Commissioners who miss the submission deadlines.
Neighborhood Public Relations Update: Dillon Goodson recapped the results of the work
performed by the SSA’s public rela ons ﬁrm, Ripson Communica ons, in the ﬁrst quarter of
2019, no ng that it resulted in approximately 14 million media impressions for stories about the
neighborhood. He previewed some of Ripson Communica ons’ other campaign objec ves for
spring, including promo on of the Vamonde “Beyond Wrigley” adventure that encourages
visitors to Wrigleyville to explore all that West Lakeview has to oﬀer. Commissioners expressed
their sa sfac on in the direc on of the SSA’s public rela ons work and asked for more regular
updates via the tracking scorecard Dillon presented.

Announcements
Terese McDonald welcomed TJ Walczak as the newest SSA Commissioner.
Adjourn
Doug Zylstra mo oned to adjourn the mee ng, seconded by Paul Leamon; mee ng adjourned at 9:08
AM.

 