Lakeview SSA 27
Commission Mee ng Minutes
January 17, 2019, 8:30 AM
Sheil Park, 3505 N. Southport Ave., Chicago, IL 60657
Present: Jason Aragon, Darian Campise, Paul Leamon, Ma Lederer, Terese McDonald, Luis Monje, Amy
Novotny, Erin Schwartz, Chuck Stewart, Doug Zylstra
Absent: None
Staff: Lee Crandell, Rebecca Girsch, Dillon Goodson
Guests: Chris Comes, Doug Havrilla, Mary Markarian, Lisa Ripson
Call to Order
Terese McDonald called the mee ng to order at 8:33 AM.
Public Comment
Doug Havrilla and Mary Markarian introduced themselves.
Presentation by Ripson Communications
Terese McDonald introduced Ripson Communica ons as the SSA’s new neighborhood public rela ons
ﬁrm. Lisa Ripson and Chris Comes presented an overview of their recommended campaign approach for
Lakeview and asked for feedback. Commissioners said they wanted PR eﬀorts to focus on how Lakeview
oﬀers broad appeal and to tell stories about lesser known aspects of the neighborhood. Ripson
Communica ons discussed how they could leverage stories about community programming and work
with concierges to generate more awareness about Lakeview. Commissioners suggested FAM tours
focusing on experiences beyond Wrigleyville and highligh ng the SSA’s public art projects.
Reading and Approval of Minutes
Amy Novotny mo oned to approve the minutes from the SSA Commission mee ng on December 13,
2018, seconded by Chuck Stewart; mo on carries.
Low-Line Committee Report
Darian Campise updated Commissioners on Friends of Lakeview’s fundraising for Phase 2 and said that
engineering of the light boxes is ongoing.
Streetscape Committee Report
Luis Monje reported that the Streetscape Commi ee was seeking community input on future public
sea ng loca ons and that the responses would be shared with the Commi ee at its January mee ng.
Treasurer’s Report
Ma Lederer shared the SSA’s ﬁnancials through November 2018. He es mated that the SSA might end
2018 with more carryover funds than what was originally budgeted and discussed ways the SSA could
more accurately predict carryover in the future.

 Partner Board Reports
●
●

Lakeview Chamber of Commerce: Lee Crandell previewed the Lakeview Chamber’s upcoming
events and said that the Lakeview neighborhood guide would be released soon.
Friends of Lakeview: Erin Schwartz recapped the ﬁrst Lakeview Public Art Commi ee mee ng
held on January 15 and commented about how the Commi ee’s work would help streamline
decision making at future SSA Commission mee ngs.

Staff Report
●

●

2018 Lakeview Gift Card Holiday Promotion: Dillon Goodson recapped the 2018 Lakeview Gi
Card holiday promo on, which concluded Dec. 31, 2018. Approximately 216 customers received
$20 Bonus Cards for every $100 gi card they purchased in Lakeview Gi Cards. Par cipa on
was slightly higher than previous years, with customers purchasing and earning nearly $100,000
in gi cards. Commissioners asked to see an updated report showing how individual merchants
are performing and indicated they would determine in February whether to make any changes
to the program.
2019 Community Programming: Dillon Goodson and Amy Novotny recapped conversa ons at
previous SSA Commission and Community Events & Placemaking Grant Program Task Force
mee ngs about new events that the SSA could poten ally launch. Commissioners discussed
opportuni es for new programming at the Lincoln Hub intersec on and the north end of
Southport and discussed how to target new audiences with programming that currently isn’t
available in the neighborhood. Of the event concepts presented, Commissioners liked the ideas
of a new Lincoln Hub ﬂea market, Paulina Plaza pop-up vendors and beer tas ngs, and a game
day spanning the Low-Line pathway. Dillon said that Lakeview Chamber staﬀ would move these
event ideas forward and share periodic updates with the Commission for their feedback.

Announcements
Dillon Goodson asked Commissioners whether they would like to hold a joint Lakeview/Wicker Park
Bucktown SSA meetup in late February. Commissioners liked the idea, and Dillon said he would follow up
with a date and more informa on.
Adjourn
Amy Novotny mo oned to adjourn the mee ng, seconded by Chuck Stewart; mee ng adjourned at 9:37
AM.

 