7025-52019
M)

@651) 3/641 

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy
Manager

Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman

Deputy Director

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, 
AICP
Elizabeth Cabot. Esa.

of Detroit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

Christopher Gulock,
AICP

Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley
Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

  
  

TO: The Honorable Detroit 

FROM: David Whitaker, Direct 
Legislative Policy Di?vlSlO? (LPD) Staff

DATE: July 19, 2019

RE: Water, Sewer and Drainage Policy and Finance Discussion

. 
Introduction

Council President Jones directed the Legislative Policy Division to review ?nancial implications
for the City of Detroit involving the Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA) lease of the Detroit
Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD).

As Council will recall, the Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has issued numerous reports
regarding the City?s and the region?s water and sewer systems. The Great Lakes Water Authority
(GLWA) was formed between 2014 and 2016, and initiated by and through emergency
management, coming out of the City?s municipal bankruptcy. Its bifurcated relationship with the
Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD) continues in the present.

The importance and complexity of these ongoing developments are hard to overstate. Residential
?ooding during heavy rains; chronic mass water insecurity leading to shut offs; the ?scal
implications of infrastructure funding for City government; public health; recent implementation
of increased drainage fees; these and many other quality of life issues demand and receive major
public attention.

Certain ongoing regional measures under the auspices of the GLWA make this an opportune time
for a more thorough policy and ?nancial review. We must work within the existing structure of
the GLWA documents the water and sewer systems leases, Master Bond Ordinance, regional
?One Water? outreach meetings, the DWSD Board of Water Commissioners (BOWCS), the
GLWA Board of Directors, and other forums), in ways that work to Detroit?s advantage.

1

In this regard, LPD calls Council?s attention at this time to three (3) current ?elds of regional
policymaking:

1. Recent development of a truly integrated regional Wastewater Master Plan;
2. The ongoing Sewer Cost of Service Methodology Review, regarding how the dozens of
Southeastern Michigan communities served by the regional sewer system will divide up their

individual funding contributions for maintaining the costs of the system as a whole; and

3. development of their new brand awareness campaign of intentional public
relations, framing the regional ?One Water? initiatives as building ?trust in a post-F lint world?.

This report will begin by brie?y summarizing and discussing each of these three (3) framing
initiatives. Then it will proceed to a more detailed discussion of key issues in the 

financial relationship.

Wastewater Master Plan

 

Council Members may be aware of the high costs of the region?s wastewater system?s compliance
with the federal Clean Water Act. These costs were the initial impetus, and a continuing bone of
contention, in the long running federal court oversight action involving DWSD between 1977 and
2013. Recent ?ooding of low lying and riverside areas on the east side of Detroit underline the
continuing signi?cance of all this infrastructure and work. The creation of the GLWA represented
a step toward more robust regional collaboration around our water and sewer systems.

It is hoped that their new Wastewater Master Plan, based on collaborative regional management
of regional infrastructure, designed to deal with a regional problem of continuing Combined Sewer
Over?ow (CSO) discharges into the Great Lakes, will achieve better results at less cost. Before
the system?s governance was regionalized, DWSD spent over $1 billion to eliminate 98% of C80
discharges.

In pursuing its long-range regional objective in 2019, GLWA has made rapid technical progress.
In their words, they are ?focusing on return on investment for the region, minimizing the number
of assets across the system and optimizing its operation over the next 40 years.? (One Water
Partnership Executive Summary 6/20/19) The 40 year time period evokes the federal court rate
settlement imposed on DWSD in 1979. At that time the City was ordered to pursue maximum
debt ?nancing for the continued suburban build out and other operational and capital needs of
these systems. That directive resulted in a debt load of 40% of the entire DWSD budget some 40
years later. That was a major part of the management challenges that formation of the GLWA was
intended, in part, to deal with. Participants in the current ?One Water Partnership? regional
collaboration now ask: What consequences will we face 40 years from now as a result of
management and policy decisions we make today to address major, costly capital infrastructure
needs of the core assets of the system that are not really optional?

The new comprehensive regional Wastewater Master Plan is expected to be completed in early
2020. It should be integrated with the Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) so that CIP investments
robustly support the plan. Making rapid progress toward this ambitious goal, GLWA has
reportedly already updated and combined what were more than 15 municipal, GLWA and DWSD
computer models into a single regional model for universal use in the region. They can now
comprehensively represent the entire region?s physical infrastructure and operations to model how
the system?s drainage and sewer features will work under various circumstances. When
southeastern Michigan receives heavy rain fall, existing Combined Sewer Over?ow (CSO) storage
facilities hold up to 500 million gallons of wet weather ?ow water. GLWA is continuing to
develop regional operating plans for municipal operators throughout the region to collaborate on
the timing of ?dewatering? ?ows at all these facilities to optimize the system?s performance during
wet weather. It has been noted that this work is already providing current value to the region,
pending ?nalization of the comprehensive Wastewater Master Plan.

The regional public health, ?scal and development implications of the anticipated Wastewater
Master Plan would be dif?cult to overstate. Council Members may wish to seek more information
from DWSD and GLWA regarding the implications of this work for the City of Detroit and its
residents.

Sewer Cost of Service Methodology Review

Related to the above development of a truly regional, collaborative management system is the
current effort to revise, simplify and update the way GLWA allocates the costs of these systems?
wastewater operations among the 78 communities they serve. In this regard the attached Interim
Draft Report on the Sewer Cost of Service Methodology Review dated June 21, 2019, is both very
informative and, especially to novice observers, probably extremely confusing.1 The process cries
out for simpli?cation by water experts who are admittedly more knowledgeable about this complex
subject matter than Council staff; however, LPD endeavors to explain: One of 11 ?Key Concerns?

 

1 The Interim Draft Report is the initial publicly available work product of Raftelis Financial
Consultants, Inc. Raftelis is new rates consultant. In that capacity they replace Bart
Foster of Foster Associates, who served in that critical role for many years for DWSD, and then
for GLWA. It is understanding that Mr. Foster remains in a part?time advisory role during
the transition to Raftelis. LPD reads Raftelis? Interim Draft Report describing the Sewer Cost of
Service Methodology Review as in effect (although he is not named in it) Mr. Foster?s ?exit
interview?, summarizing institutional knowledge of this complex process. There is strong
consensus among GLWA member communities that the process should be simpli?ed. Mr. Foster
has described the complexity of the process as ?crazy?. A simple review of the attached Raftelis
Interim Draft Report should conclusively con?rm that judgment for any fair minded reader. This
is a regional cost-sharing methodology that needs to be simpli?ed and updated, as opposed to ?the
way things have always been done?. How it should be simpli?ed, based on what particular criteria
and objectives, and with what local and regional ?scal obligations to whom, is the critical area of
public policy decision making at issue.

identi?ed by wholesale charges methodology review is affordability, an issue involved
in Detroit?s experiences with controversial water shut offs in recent years.2

The Interim Draft Report, dated June 21, 2019, a key document in the ongoing review process for
allocating the costs of these services, states ?The methodology used to allocate wholesale service
costs in the greater Detroit area has been continually evolving for the past half century.? In
essence: ?The current process distributes costs between wholesale customers3 of based
On their estimated use of the system, measured by estimates of ?ow volume and amount of
pollutants contributed [to the system]?.

The dif?culties With this general concept arise in the extraordinary complexity of its
implementation. How these high costs for critical public services are allocated among the 78
member partner Wholesale communities in southeastern Michigan served by the GLWA
wastewater systems, ends up involving a range of data and analytical steps that de?es clear
comprehension, the more one studies it:4

The ?rst step is to allocate the total GLWA budget (or ?revenue requirement?) to 14
speci?c functions of the Water Resources Recovery Facility and Wastewater
Collections, 7 departments of Operations Maintenance, 37 categories of operations
under those departments, lift stations, CSO facilities, Industrial Waste Control,
administrative costs, Centralized Services, Administrative Services and Capital
Expenses;

I The second step of the process ?is to allocate functionalized costs to cost drivers. The
current allocation factors are based on the 1979 and 1980 [rates] Settlement
Agreements.? There are 10 cost drivers, each representing a particular aspect of
wastewater treatment services, the tenth being ?Detroit Only?. The Interim Draft
Report appends 2 charts (Figures 2 and 3, attached) that show the current Operations

 

2 LPD recognizes that the sewer cost shares issue relates to sewerage services, while water shut
offs interrupt fresh water service by another division of the systems. However, as water
affordability expert Roger Colton has observed in a recent report, retail customers receive one
uni?ed bill for sewerage and fresh water services. It is therefore appropriate to analyze
affordability in terms of the total burden of both water and sewerage (including drainage) charges.
It would be inappropriate to separate these charges for purposes of analyzing and calculating
affordability, where customers are not offered an option to pay part of the bill to keep the service
turned on.

3 The ?wholesale customers? are the communities in southeastern Michigan served by the GLWA.
(including the City of Detroit, their largest single wholesale customer; Detroit and DWSD also
have a dual role as, in essence, junior partner)

4 The attached power point presentation on this process seems clearer and simpler, but omits the
detail that reveals the complexity.

5 Formerly known as the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP)
4

 Maintenance and capital cost allocation factors (Figure 2), and ?nal cost pools to
allocate all budget elements (Figure 

The Interim Draft Report goes on to describe the process? as ?a simpli?ed
method of distribut[ing] costs among all customers.? It focuses on ?what ?share? of
common to all costs each customer should be responsible for based on a four-year
average (currently FY13 to FY16) of contributed volume and estimated pollution
Developing the SHARES involves the following steps:

0 Conduct a ?ow balance to determine total ?ows for suburban customers, the
Detroit+ group7, and common in?ow and in?ltration;

Error?corrected meter readings for each of the suburban customers;

0 This total is then corrected for known factors, the amount of in?ow and
in?ltration from GLWA water mains is estimated;

0 Historic suburban ?ows are then corrected for the Oakland-Macomb
Interceptor (OMIDD) diversion in 2016 and ?ows being sent to
YCUA beginning in FY 2018?;

11% of excess CSO volume discharged directly into surface waters is deleted
from suburban flows in proportion to each of their individual cost allocations,
and the remaining 88.7% of this excess CSO volume is deleted from Detroit+
allocation;

0 Sanitary, drainage water and wastewater ?ows are estimatedg;

 

6 LPD notes the existence of a ?Detroit only? functional cost driver, in a regional methodology
that states it determines cost SHARES based on ?common to all costs?. Without being able to
fully explain or quantify the impact of this distinction in the context of these complex processes,
the comparison is noted because it would apparently lie at or near the heart of any water
equity, affordability and security analysis of southeastern Michigan communities, and
Council Members may wish to ask DWSD and GLWA representatives about this and other
structural ?scal aspects of the overall regional/city relationship. There are
almost certainly other speci?c aspects of these relationships (which this report and these footnotes
seek to identify for Council?s information) and their ?scal consequences, as further discussed
below in this report that Council Members may wish to pursue with the water systems? leadership.

7 ?Detroit+? is said to involve Detroit, Hamtramck, Highland Park ?and a few small parts of other
communities.?

8 LPD does not know what the acronym-dominated phrase ?ows being sent to 
means.

9 There is tension between ?estimated? ?ows and those based on ?data?, and between use of
either/both strength of ?ow and/or pollutant loads to calculate cost SHARES, that runs throughout
this process. Council Members may wish to explore the limits of the data and the implications for
?scal decision making and policy making going forward with DWSD and GLWA leadership.

5

The second step in the SHARES process involves estimating the amounts of 4 speci?ed
pollutants each customer contributes to the system: BOD (Biological Oxygen
Demand), TSS (Total Suspended Solids), Phosphorus, and FOG (Fats, Oil and Grease);

Use estimated pollutant and previously estimated drainage and wastewater
?ows to calculate pounds of pollutants for each customer (Figures 4 and 5 attached
document strength of ?ow calculations);

?Now that the volume and pollutant totals have been developed for each [suburban]
customer and [Detroit+], total ?ow volumes and pounds of each pollutant are converted
to percentages for each customer?;

Suburban only SHARES are based on each suburban customer?s portion of total
suburban ?ow;

83% of C80 shares are distributed to Detroit, 17% are distributed among suburban
customers (see further discussion of this artifact of the 1979 rates settlement below);
and

Relevant costs as determined above are allocated to a single common to all cost pool.
This total is then multiplied by each individual customer?s common-to-all SHARE, the
same process is performed with suburban only costs and SHARES, OMID (Oakland
Macomb Interceptor District) only costs and SHARES, and C80 costs and SHARES.
The sum of these costs for each customer is their share of revenue
requirement, or total budget (see attached Figure and

The ?nal step is to account for Detroit?s equity in the system and suburban bad debt.
Each of these costs is distributed to suburban customers using Suburban Only
SHARES, and the equity amount is subtracted from Detroit?s total charge. The ?nal
annual total is billed to each customer on a ?xed basis.?10

The bewildering complexity of existing methodology for determining individual
communities? shares of these costs is apparent. Discussions of all this could get very 
detailed and potentially contentious. At this time, primary questions for framing the
conversation are 1) whether or not we are using the most appropriate metrics, factors, and
cost allocation drivers to make this process what its proponents claim it to be: a true regional
?win? that bene?ts everyone; and 2) whether or not these calculations and funding criteria
treat Detroit ratepayers fairly?

The Draft Interim Report concludes with about a page and a half of ?Areas for Consideration?. It
identi?es ?several areas that warrant consideration for change.? This portion of the report mostly

 

?0 See note 6 above for questions raised by this.

6

speaks for itself, and represents only a ?preliminary review? of what is likely to be a very
interesting, signi?cant and complicated discussion in the coming year. In particular, this
preliminary discussion recognizes: 1) the inherent limitations of available data that can be cost
effectively gathered and analyzed, and 2) the strong consensus desire for rate share simpli?cation.

More discussion on these charge approaches will occur on July 26, 2019. LPD will keep Council
informed of developments and the eventual outcome.

?One Water" Brand Awareness Campaign

In light of the above activities moving with signi?cant speed to develop a real regional Wastewater
Master Plan and collaborative operational coordination of sewage and drainage ?ows, as well as
active work to recalculate and establish simpli?ed and hopefully appropriate regional cost sharing
for these vital wastewater services, the contemporaneous initiation of ?rst formal brand
awareness program may represent an opening for enhanced regional dialog. Greater awareness in
Detroit, among both elected of?cials and residents, of how GLWA (and DWSD) are approaching
these issues, is an important goal that upgraded and professionalized brand awareness may serve
or undermine, depending on the content.

The general objectives of this campaign are said to be to increase name recognition and positive
associations with GLWA. The campaign began on May 13, 2019 and will run until October 15,
2019. GLWA partnered with On Demand featuring actor Rob Lowe to create two videos for
member partners to use on their web sites, social media feeds and closed-circuit television
broadcasts. The core idea articulated by public information director is to establish
?the trust factor in a post-Flint world?. This key insight speaks volumes.

Between the spring of 2014 and the fall of 201 5, Flint?s water infrastructure was severely damaged
by Flint?s emergency managers? mismanagement. Those blunders led to widespread lead,
legionella bacteria, and other serious water contamination for about 18 months. During that same
time period, Detroit?s emergency manager initiated widespread water shut offs and simultaneously
pursued the con?dential, mediated negotiations that culminated in establishing the GLWA. Local
activists, the United Nations and others denounced shut offs as a violation of the human right to
water and sanitation, to the extent they denied water to residents who cannot afford to pay the full
rates. These earth shaking developments in local communities? water security have indeed
sensitized and even in?amed public perceptions around water and sewer services and their costs
and bene?ts. What was once taken for granted as the effective functioning of faucets, toilets,
spigots and drains, is now a cause for widespread public alarm virtually every time anything goes
wrong with these far-?ung, expensive and technically sophisticated infrastructure systems. LPD
concurs wholeheartedly with the objective of building trust around water issues via transparency,
repeated iterative explanation of the basics of water and wastewater management, and honest, open
communication about current issues.

In that regard, considering together the Wastewater Master Plan, the Sewer Cost of Service
Methodology Review, and the Brand Awareness campaign, suggests the possibility of productive
regional policy making conversation to which Detroit City Council should be a party, along with
representatives of the other member partner communities in GLWA.

In essence, oft-announced intention to pursue complete transparency,
organizational excellence, increased regional integration, and maximum water quality
requires incorporation of issues of water affordability, equity, security and infrastructure
funding as they affect the urban core. record on this score, especially insofar as the
City of Detroit is deemed territory, so that critical human rights issues arising from water
shut offs and lack of equitable funding across all communities in the region lead to critical
disconnects, has been decidedly mixed in few short years of operation so far. The
timeliness of the current GLWA initiatives discussed here offer an opportunity to address these
issues with a new sense of urgency and signi?cance for needed policy reforms.

The balance of this report will itemize certain individual ?scal issues that should inform this
dialog.11 We will address the following ?scal issues:
1) What are the ?nancial results of DWSD since January 1, 2016?

2) What can we do about water affordability for Detroit residents?

What are the ?nancial results of DWSD since January 1, 2016?

Since the inception of GLWA, there have been three separate Comprehensive Annual Financial
Reports (CAFRs) issued by GLWA and DWSD. The ?rst CAFR for the City for the 6-month
period that ended June 30, 2016, contained ?nancial statements of DWSD. It was reported that
the 6-month period was a dif?cult period as there were still negotiations regarding the speci?c
provisions relating to the transition of assets and liabilities. This June 30, 2016 CAFR recognized
that the amounts included in the 2016 CAFR may change in the following years. DWSD did report
excess revenues over expenses in the Water Fund and the Sewage Disposal Fund, and incurred a
large gain due to the bifurcation agreement between DWSD and GLWA. The large gain was a
result of the initial splitting of the assets and liabilities of DWSD with GLWA. The DWSD Water
Fund reported a gain of $776.5 million, and the DWSD Sewage Disposal Fund reported a gain of
$808.9 million.

In the June 30, 2016 Audited Financial Statements of the City of Detroit Sewage Disposal Fund it
was stated that these large bifurcation gains were a result of the lease of the regional water and
sewage disposal systems. In ?scal year 2016, the Water Fund reported a gain of $776.5 million,
and the Sewage Disposal Fund reported a gain of $808.9 million, which are the differences
between the consideration receivable and the net position allocated to GLWA in each ?nd. The
consideration receivable is the net present value of the $50 million to be received over 40 years,
assuming a discount rate of3.677%.12

 

11 LPD notes, without further discussing at this time, the outstanding dispute resolution process
provided for in the City Charter, regarding the refusal of the administration and DWSD to seek
Council?s approval of their annual budget and retail rates in the City. Corporation Counsel is the
of?cial identi?ed by the Charter as responsible for moving forward with dispute resolution on this
issue, which has been the subject of multiple previous reports and discussions, including
appointment of independent counsel for City Council, if necessary.

[2 Page 121 ofthe City of Detroit 2016 CAFR

In the 2016 Audited Financial Statements for DWSD, for both the Water Fund and the Sewage
Disposal Fund, it was noted that DWSD ?nance made certain assumptions regarding the discount
rate (3.677%) and methodology used when valuing the consideration receivable ?om GLWA.
Variation in the assumptions from the rate considered by GLWA could cause a material variation
from the consideration payable recorded by GLWA. ?3 There was a material variation between the
two CAFRs, as DWSD used 3.677%, while GLWA used 4.17%. These different rates used
resulted in DWSD stating their receivable from GLWA $39.0 million higher than the payable
recorded by GLWA for the water fund, and $32.0 million higher in the sewage disposal fund.
There also could have been an incentive for DWSD to use the lower percentage, as using a lower
discount percentage results in a higher receivable balance, thus showing a higher net position.
These different rates have been discussed with DWSD and GLWA representatives, and perhaps
could be discussed with auditors.

The details of the bifurcation gain in ?scal year 2016:

 

 

 

 

Water Sewage

Present value of consideration receivable 484,313,371 591,938,565
Cash, cash equivalents, and investments at 12-31-2015 (349,833,408) (462,833,499)
Receivables assumed by GLWA (67,167,538) (248,776,115)
Assets leased to GLWA (1,386,073,421) (2,295,028,738)
Bonds assumed by GLWA 2,020,221,695 3,093,035,814
Other liabilities assumed by GLWA 66,233,037 121,715,649
Day one cash 8839,000 8,911,500

Total 776,532,736 808,963,176

 

 

The CAFR for the City for the ?rst full year of operations under the split with GLWA,
the period ending June 30, 2017, again stated that some issues still needed to be worked out.

DWSD continued to negotiate some of the ?nal issues concerning the bifurcation, including the
portion of the debt assumed by GLWA that was utilized for local system improvements, whose
debt will continue to be funded by DWSD. As a result of these negotiations during ?scal year
2017, DWSD has reduced the recognition of the gain previously recognized in ?scal year 2016
from the bifurcation by $85.9 million in the Water Fund and $72.1 million in the Sewage Disposal
Fund. There was also an accounting adjustment for pension costs because of the City?s
bankruptcy, and the Water Fund reported an Operating Net Income of $12.5 million, while the
Sewer Fund reported a Net Operating Loss of $20.2 million.

The City should closely observe the ?nancial performance of the Water and Sewage Disposal
Funds after the bifurcation. The large operating loss of the Sewage Disposal Fund in ?scal year
2017 is of concern, and should be discussed further with DWSD representatives, as cash receipts
have been less than required disbursements since June 30, 2016.

 

?3 Page 34 of the DWSD Sewer Fund Financial Report FY 2016
9

In the most recent City CAFR, for the period ending June 30, 2018, DWSD reported a gain due to
the bifurcation, and both funds reported $8.8 million in net operating income.

The following shows the gains and the losses from the bifurcation for three ?scal years:

Mite?r ewer 
2016 776,532,736 33 808,913,176 1,585,445,912
2017 (85,895,242) (72,059,278) (157,954,520)
2018 35,482,690 66,377,334 101,859,924

726,120,184 803,231,132 1,529,351,316

 

 

GLWA, per the Master Bond Ordinance, receives and disburses all cash for both DWSD and
GLWA. Included in the agreement with GLWA, is the requirement of the Reconciliation
Committee to address any ?cumulative negative variance? of more than two percent of the
total budget for either Local System (Water or Sewage Disposal).

 

At June 30, 2018, GLWA reported a negative balancc of $47.8 million of rcquircd trust receipts
and disbursements for the DWSD sewer fund, which exceeds the two percent variance threshold.
This $47.8 million ?gure (for the ?rst three ?scal years, 2016 2018) was adjusted up to $53.6
million (after adding $5.8 million for the ?rst ?ve months of ?scal year 2019), and is shown as 
Due to Great Lakes Water Authority in the Sewer fund in the 2018 City CAFR. This amount is
due to the fact that DWSD received a ?loan? from GLWA to meet their cash needs. As this is a
loan, it must be paid back and future shortages of receipts over disbursements should be avoided.
There are no details provided in the City CAF or the DWSD audited ?nancial report explaining
this amount. We met with GLWA representatives to analyze this amount. Some of it was
explained in 2018 CAFR, and some of it was included in reports to
its Finance Committee and Board. GLWA provides a highly detailed report each month (130 
140 pages) to its Finance Committee. Included in this report is a sheet detailing DWSD - Net Cash
Receipts and Disbursements as GLWA controls all DWSD cash.14 This sheet identi?es that
GLWA paid more in expenditures than DWSD receipted in each year since 2016. DWSD must
pay this amount back with interest based on the three-year U.S. Treasury rate plus 150
basis points. This interest rate of4. 13% equates to $1,900,500 in interest expense which will have
to be built into future rate increases.

Since July 1, 2018, DWSD has been making payments ($866,000) to GLWA on a portion
of this loan to GLWA, but will end ?scal year 2019 with a balance due of approximately $43.2
million, all of which goes back to the period 2016 2018. DWSD would have added to this debt
balance in ?scal year 2019, had they not transferred $11.6 million from the operating 
maintenance budget for May and June 2019 to reduce their debt. Thus, the sewer fund will end
?scal year 2019 with a positive net cash ?ow with this transfer, but the balance from 2016 2018
still is there, and we must continually verify that future receipts exceed disbursements.

 

14 Attachment Table 2 - DWSD Net Cash Receipts and Disbursements January 31, 2019
10

The unaudited ?nances of DWSD since July 1, 2018 are shown in documents presented to the
Board of Water Commissioners (BOWC) at their meetings. ?5 These reports do not show
actual revenues and expenditures compared to budgeted revenues and expenditures.
Such a report is shown only for the General Fund in the annual CAFR reports for the City. We
believe that such a report would be highly desirable to all.

One area of ?nancial concern is the Accounts Receivable of DWSD. Recently dated reports show
that of the total receivables for all active accounts for both the water fund and the sewage disposal
fund - $163.8 million, 55.6% ($91.1 million) is over 180 days past due, and 18.9% ($31.0 million)
is over 60 days past due. All of these past due accounts are not just residential accounts, but are
commercial, industrial, tax-exempt, and governmental entities. All have about 50% in the over
180-day category. Of the total customer accounts of 590,594, 259,464, or 43.9% are inactive
accounts. These 259,494 inactive accounts total $19,605,640, or 10.7% of total receivables.
DWSD receivables have been an ongoing problem over the years, and should be thoroughly
analyzed. We must realize that if a customer does not pay its bills, these costs must be spread to
the ones who do pay.

One customer identi?ed, Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) is billed for 714 acres
of state highways whose water run-off drains into sewers that feed into the downriver Water
Resource Recovery Facility (WRRF). They have an estimated balance due of $2.8 million. Since
the date of transition to revised drainage charge methodology, MDOT has disputed the
amount of acreage and phase-in rate on their bill, and continues to pay the amount they
were billed prior to the transition. DWSD contends the amount of acreage and billable rate should
increase. DWSD have been engaged in pre-litigation discussions with the Attorney General and
MDOT. These negotiations have been ongoing for almost two years, and were interrupted by a
?lame duck? administration and the change in the Governor?s of?ce. Due to the dispute, 
phase-in rate to the revised methodology is currently frozen at $93 per impervious acre, which
appears to be a drastic reduction in the amount they are charged compared to other customers.
MDOT is paying only about one-half of the amount they are currently billed. According to a
consent judgment from 1989, MDOT is to be charged for 714 acres, yet DWSD has been charging
MDOT for 2,094 acres based upon updated engineering studies. Given the con?dentiality of
negotiations, we are not privy to the full details regarding the dispute and potential resolutions;
however, we will request updates from DWSD. Additionally, the Michigan Department
of Corrections and Department of Natural Resources dispute their bills and have balances due for
the Ryan Correctional Facility and Belle Isle. Total debt owed by the State is over $5 million.
We remain concerned about rate affordability when a major ratepayer is not paying the full amount
for water, sewer and drainage charges as are other customers, and we challenge DWSD to be more
diligent in collecting these revenues.

The BOWC (Board of Water Commissioners) has requested details of the 50 customers with the
highest balances due, and what DWSD plans to do about collecting the balances due. This
information was provided to the BOWC on July 9, 2019, and was discussed. DWSD staff has
been working diligently on collecting these balances, but the vast majority of the balances due are

 

?5 Attachment DWSD March 2019 Review, Finance Committee.
1 1

because of the recently implemented drainage fees. The changes to the way drainage fees were
implemented and the amounts due because of this change merits discussion with DWSD staff.

What can we do about water affordability for Detroit residents?

After numerous meetings and discussions with DWSD staff, LPD representatives and DWSD staff
are exploring whether an income?based water affordability program could work for Detroit. The
goal is developing approaches that would hopefully overcome the issues and limitations of the
Headlee Amendment and the decision in Bolt vs. Lansing, toward the desired result of universal,
affordable access to necessary water and sewer services for all, including the City?s poorest
residents. This program could be modeled after Philadelphia?s Tiered Assistance Program or
Baltimore?s newly proposed program. More about this will be coming soon. 
affordability programs remain primarily focused on payment assistance, but DWSD staff appear
amenable to looking all options and are reviewing programs and literature from around the
country.

As a preliminary, data-gathering measure toward these ends, DWSD has initiated a joint pilot
project with the City Health Department, identifying 70 water insecure Detroit residential
accounts for in-depth study and intervention, including rate relief and wraparound social services
to help lift these residents out of their water-related predicament. Such a focused initiative
targeting relief for Detroit?s most vulnerable water customers is a welcome development, and
will hopefully lead to longer terms system-wide reforms. DWSD will keep LPD informed of
progress on the pilot project.

Conclusion

Council members may wish to seek more information from DWSD and GLWA regarding:

0 Recent development of a truly integrated regional Wastewater Master Plan;

a The ongoing Sewer Cost of Service Methodology Review (especially the historical
splitting of CSO costs with 83% being charged to the City of Detroit, as well as
other regional ?nancial settlements that affect the City);

0 development of their new brand awareness campaign of intentional public
relations, framing the regional ?One Water? initiatives as building ?trust in a post-
Flint world?;

The ?nancial results of DWSD since January 1, 2016, especially the fact that
sewerage cash receipts have been less than their disbursements, creating
a loan from GLWA, and the ongoing issues with their accounts receivable 
balances, including increases in since the implementation of the changes
implemented by drainage fees; and

12

 More information will be coming on pursuing how an income-based water
affordability program could work for Detroit.

As we are all aware of the complexities involved with the issues of providing clean, safe and
affordable water, sewerage and drainage services to the residents of Detroit, there will be several
more reports informing your Honorable Body on these subjects.

We thank the DWSD Director, Gary Brown and his staff, the GLWA CEO, Sue McCormick and
her staff, for their assistance as weprepared this report. We must especially commend the DWSD
Director, Gary Brown and his staff for the excellent work that they have accomplished over the
past three and a half years in several areas. They took a system with billions of dollars in debt,
survived through a dif?cult bankruptcy, a bifurcation with GLWA, and continued providing clean
water and safe disposal of sewage.

One of our long-range objectives in providing this report is to make every effort to ensure that our
grandchildren and their grandchildren have access to safe, clean and affordable water and safe

disposal of waste water including drainage.

If Council has any other questions or concerns regarding this subject, LPD will be happy to provide
further research and analysis upon request.

13

l' 


I: I:
lit.

r' r'?uxi u-

(37:Wholesale Sewer Charge Methodology Review
June  2019

RAFTELIS

 

 

 

Overview of Process

i/Early May Meetings with 13 Member Partners 

May 31 Review of Prioritized Key Concerns with GLWA
Staff

a/June 13 Draft Report delivered to GLWA

m/June 21 Draft Report distributed to SHARES Work
Group

0 June 28 Presentation to and Workshop with
SHARES Work Group on Potential Approaches

0 July 17 Updated Draft Report with Recommendations
0 July 31 Final Report clue to GLWA

August 15 Presentation of Final Recommendations to
SHARES Work Group

 

 

6/27/2019

 

 

 



W990

Key concerns

 

1. StabilityinCharges Unanigmus Concerns

2. Simpli?cation and Understanding of Methodology and
Data

incentives to Remove Reduce Flows

 

 

Phase?In IGrace Period on any Changes Implemented

Recognition of Peak Flows and how it relates to
existing 83/17 CSO Methodology

6. Recognition of Investments in Local Systems that
bene?t the GLWA Regional System

u?

 

 

6/27/2019

6/27/2019

 

 

Key Concerns (continued)

7. Recognition of Contract Capacities

8. Minimize changes in distribution among communities
9. Affordability

10. Impact of New Development/ Impact Fees

11. Accuracy of existing Cost Asset Allocations

a" 

Are there critical issues that
have been missed?



 

 

 

Cost of Service in a
.'NutSheH?

 

 

 

.Cost of Service in a Nut Shell

Determination of Revenue Requirement
How much money)

a Functionalization of Costs Putting the
dollars in cost pools)

a Allocation of Costs Levels of Service)

Distribution of Costs to Customers based
on Units of Service

 

 

Potential Charge
Approaches. 

 

6/27/2019

 

 

Average Total Volume (Current)

 

Total volumetric contribution to the GLWA Regional System

(including wet weather volume and dry weather 

 

 

Plus

Simple and
understandable

 

 

I-Cost Poi?? Approximately 42% of c-urrentirfa/enue

 

requirement

Minus

 

 

 

Signi?cant assumptions

needed to determine som
customers volume 

Lacks recognition of historic

nature of system



 

 

 

 

 

 

Units of Service Measured and estimated flow from

Member Partner Communities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9
Pollutants (Current)
Cost of treating pollutants by GLWA treatment facilities
(BOD, TSS, P. and FOG).
Plus Minus h? 
COHSiS?ten?EWith industry Signi?cant assumptions
Standards necessary for different
Differentiates different types of ?ow
Components OfAYerage Complex and dif?cult to
Volume sanitary vs. understand
Cost Pool Approximately 42%_of current revenue 
requirement
Units of Service Measured and assumEd contributed
pollutants in pounds
10

6/27/2019

 

 

CSO Facilities (Current)

 

Capital and costs of dedicated CSO facilities

 

 

Plus

0 Established by1999
settlement agreements and
memorialized in contracts

Intended to assign CSO
cost responsibility to
communities based on CSO
impact I

 

 

 

requirement

Minus

83/17 split not strictly
based on cost of service

a Disagreement over what
assets should be
considered CSO facilities

 

 

Cost Pool ApprrEmgtely i3% of?current revenue

 

 

 

Units of Service Based on negotiated settlement

 

 

 

11

 

 

Specfic (Current)

 

Allocation directly to OMID for debt service, 08M, and
share of other costs based on amended contracts

 

 

Plus

0 Consistent with existing
contract

9 Costs have been agreed
upon and identi?ed

 

 

Minus

None signi?cant

 

 

requirement

 

 

Cost Pool Approximately 2% of current revenue

 

 

 

Units of Service Not applicable, direct allocation of
identified costs to a single customer entity

 

 

 

 

12

6/27/2019

 

 

Suburban Only (Current)

 

Allocation to suburban customers primarily related to cost
of measuring their Volumes

 

 

 

 

.
Plus Minus

4 Aligns with cost causation 8 Added complexity for
small share of costs

 

Doesn't alight with 
cost allocation

 

 

Cost Pool ?'Approximately 2% of current revenue
requirement

 

 

knits of Service Average volume

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13
Sanitary Velume
Contributed sanitary volumes from each Member Partner
Community
PIUS Minus 1
Ties to retail billing Of each a Does not recognize
Member Partner Community differences in wet
- Recognition of historical weather volume and dry
development of combined weather Ill
and separated areas
Cost Pool PotEntial cost pool could be GLWA 
regional treatment facilities
Units of Service Contributed retail sanitary volume
14

6/27/2019

 

 

Peak Volume

 

Peak volume conveyed to GLWA regional system by each

Member Partner Community

 

 

Plus

0 Recognition of capacity
used in GLWA regional
system

Price signal to reduce
peak contributions

 

 

 

a Dif?cult to accurately
measure peak volume

 

 

East?Pool Potential cost poolcou?ld be GLWIK

regional collection and conveyance assets

 

 

 

Units of Service Peak volume

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15
Population
Population of service area in each Member Partner
community

Plus Minus
Recognition of bene?ts  Not commonly used to
provided by regional distribute wastewater
system costs
4 Concern over data
sources
Cost Pool Potentially use simpli?ed single cost pool
Units of Service Residential population and/or work force?
population
16

6/27/2019

Table Discussions

 

 

 

ObjeCtives of Table Discussions

0 Which approaches are most promising?

0 Which approaches give you the most
reservations?

 

 

18

6/27/2019

 

 

Stags

July 17 Updated Draft Report with Recommendations
July 31 Final Report due to GLWA

August 15 Presentation of Final Recommendations to
SHARES Work Group

 

 

19

6/27/2019

10

Great Lakes Water
Authority

Sewer Cost of Service
Methodology Review

 

Interim Draft Report June 21, 2019

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

INTRODUCTION .. 1
REVENUE REQUIREMENT ..1
ALLOCATION OF REVENUE REQUIREMENT TO FUNCTIONS .. 1
Operations and Maintenance Expense ..2
Capital Expenses ..2
ALLOCATION OF FUNCTIONAL COSTS TO COST DRIVERS .. 3
UNITS OF SERVICE ..3
FLOW BALANCE .. 3
Suburban Customers ..4
Detroit+ ..4
CSO Discharges ..4
Common Flow ..4
Determination of Sanitary, DWll, WWII Flows ..4
POLLUTANTS .. 5
Pollutant ..5
SHARES ..- ..5
CUSTOMER CHARGES ..5
AREAS FOR CONSIDERATION ..5
MEMBER PARTNER MEETINGS ..7
MEMBER PARTNER KEY CONCERNS ..7
POTENTIAL RATE APPROACHES ..8
AVERAGE VOLUME .. 9
POLLUTANTS .. 9
C80 FACILITIES .. 10
OMID SPECIFIC .. 10

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology

SUBURBAN ONLY .. 10

SANITARY .. 10
PEAK VOLUME .. 11
POPULATION .. 11

PATH  11

LIST OF FIGURES

 

Figure 1: Personnel Cost Allocation .. 13
Figure 2: Allocation of Functions to Cost Drivers .. 13
Figure 3: Total Revenue Requirement Allocation .. 14
Figure 4: Current Strength of Flow .. 14
Figure 5: Strength of Flow  15
Figure 6: Development of SHARES .. 16

Figure 7: Customer Charge  17

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology

INTRODUCTION

The methodology used to allocate wholesale service costs in the greater Detroit area has been continually
evolving for the past half century. A series of agreements between the City of Detroit and surrounding
suburbs in the late 1970's laid the groundwork for today?s rates. The current process distributes costs
between wholesale customers of the Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA) based on their estimated use of
the system, measured by estimates of ?ow volume and amount of pollutants contributed.

The process of determining charges begins with a total revenue requirement. Each component of the
requirement is allocated to a function ofproviding service, and each function is allocated to a cost driver as a
way of distributing those costs to customers based on their unique usage characteristics.

GLWA has engaged Raftelis, in conjunction with HDR, to assist both GLWA and the Member Partner
Communities in review the existing methodology for recovering costs, provide expertise and assistance in
proposing potential changes to the methodology, and determine the steps necessary to move forward with
such proposed changes.

This report summarizes our findings to date as part of this engagement. The major sections ofthis report are
in chronological order as they have been developed through this engagement, we began by reviewing and
documenting the existing methodology and provided our perspective on areas for consideration based on
preliminary direction from GLWA staff. We next conducted member interviews with Member Partner
Communities and have documented the feedback we received in those meetings. We then discuss potential
rate approaches that currently are or could be incorporated into the sewer rate methodology for GLWA
moving forward. This report then discusses how the proposed 'Path Forward? that was recently presented
may address our ?ndings so far.

REVENUE REQUIREMENT

 

At a basic level, the total revenue requirement includes operating expenses, debt service, and rate financed
capital. After GLWA develops a detailed financial plan forecasting these expenses, they conduct a cost of
service study to determine how much each customer pays for service.

ALLOCATION OF REVENUE REQUIREMENT TO FUNCTIONS

The first step in the cost of service process is to allocate the revenue requirement to functions. The WRRF
functions currently used by GLWA are:

WRRF:

Primary Pumping
Rack and Grit
Primary Treatment
Aeration

Secondary Treatment
Dewatering

9917993.??

 

 

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 1

7. Sludge Disposal
8. WRRF General

Wastewater Collections:
9. Lift Stations
10. C30 Facilities
11. Interceptors
12. Industrial Waste Control
13. Master Meters
14. GLWA Sewer General

Operations and Maintenance Expense

The revenue requirement is divided into seven departments:

Wastewater Operations
Wastewater Process Control
Wastewater Primary Processing
Wastewater Secondary Processing
Wastewater Dewatering Process
Wastewater Incinerations Process
Biosolids Dryer Facility



Each of these departments are subdivided into Personnel, Electricity, Chemicals, Other Utilities, and Other.
The resulting 35 categories plus Wastewater Engineering and Analytical Laboratory costs are allocated to
the functions listed above based on judgement and experience. Figure 1 presents an example allocation of FY
2019 Personnel Costsl. In addition, costs associated with lift stations, CSO facilities, and Industrial Waste
Control, are separated from the seven departments and allocated 100% to their respective functions.

Administrative costs are allocated proportionally based on the results of functionalized personnel costs. 54%
of the total GLWA budgets for Centralized Services and Administrative Services are allocated to the sewer
utility. The sewer portion of Centralized Services is allocated between WRRF General and Wastewater
Collection functions, while administrative services are allocated 100% to GLWA Sewer General.

Costs allocated to WRRF General are allocated to the other seven WRRF functions based on the proportions
of directly allocated non-commodity costs (Personnel, Other, Support Services). GLWA Sewer General costs
are allocated among the other 12 functions based on the proportions of all previously allocated non-
commodity costs.

Capital Expenses

GLWA Debt Service, transfers to and and non-rate revenues are allocated to functions in the same
proportion as existing assets plus CWIP. Once all assets are allocated to functions, total annual depreciation
and current net book value for each function are used to determine a utility basis capital revenue

 

1 All cost allocation examples based on FY 2019 Cost ofService Study and may no longer be applicable to the FY 2020
Study. Figures may be different than published TFG figures due to rounding.

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 2

requirement. A 60% adjustment factor is applied to depreciation to approximate "pre-valuation"
depreciation expense, and all costs not covered by deprecation are considered return on rate base and are
allocated to functions in proportion to current net book value. The return and depreciation components are
added to obtain a total capital revenue requirement by function.

ALLOCATION OF FUNCTIONAL COSTS TO COST DRIVERS

The second step in the Cost of Service is to allocate functionalized costs to cost drivers.
The current allocation factors are based on the 1979 and 1980 Settlement Agreements. The functions are
allocated to ten cost drivers:

1 Flow

2. BOD

 TSS

4i PHOS

5. FOG

6. Suburban
7 OMID

8. C80

9. Industrial Waste Control
'10. Detroit Only

Figure 2 shows the current cost allocation factors in use. Different factors are used for 08M and capital.

Final cost pools are determined using the proportions of each cost driver developed in this step (for total
non-commodity 08M, and capital) to allocate all budget elements as shown in Figure 3.

08M and Contribution to Operating Reserves are allocated on the basis.

Pension Obligations are allocated on the non?commodity basis

Debt Service and transfers to and are allocated on the capital basis

WRAP, Lease Payment, and non?rate revenues are allocated proportionally to everything else.

UNITS OF SERVICE

The SHARES process introduced a simplified method of distribution costs among all customers. At a basic
level, it determines what "share" of common to all costs each customer should be responsible for based on a
four-year average [currently FY13 to FY16) of contributed volume and estimated pollutant This

 


age 13 men used for distributing

FLOW BALANCE

The first step of developing SHARES is conducting a flow balance to determine total flows for suburban
customers (M), the Detroit+ group, and common inflow and infiltration (Z).

in the new th ree fiscal vears.

v.11. luv?. 

7 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 3

Suburban Customers

The process begins with error-corrected meter readings for each of the suburban customers to measure
their total volume contribution. This total is then corrected for known factors; the amount of 1&1 from GLWA
water mains (N NNW) is estimated based on known non-revenue water from the system and proportionally
subtracted from customers based on inch-miles of GLWA water mains within their sewer service area.
Historic ?ows for appropriate customers are also corrected for the diversion in 2016 and WTUA
?ows being sent to YCUA beginning in FY 2018. The net amount for each customer represents their total
?ows into the Water Resource Reclamation Facility 

Detroit+

The area includes Detroit, Hamtramck, Highland Park, and a few small parts ofother communities. Flow
from is not directly metered, however there are 13 system meters covering areas referred to as Direct.
Data from these meters are used to estimate total flows from the Direct districts in a similar manner as the 
customers.

Districts within the area that do not contain a system meter are referred to as Incremental. Total ?ows
in the Incremental area are built up from three components: sanitary (discussed below), DWII, and WWII.
DWII and WWII are estimated through a process that considers WWII or DWII per unit of impervious area
within the Direct areas relative to impervious area in Incremental areas, an estimate of interceptor
DWII, and an estimate of DWII related to non-revenue water.

Direct and incremental are added for a total estimate of ?ow, which is then adjusted for NNW.

CSO Discharges

During extreme wet weather events, WW ?ows can exceed WWRF treatment capacity and C80 basin storage
capacity. The excess amount is discharged into the Detroit River and is not treated. 11.3% of this excess is
subtracted from ?ows in proportion to their CSO cost allocation, and the remaining 88.7% is subtracted
from ?ows. The sum of the final and flows are referred to as Total Wastewater Toward Treatment.

Common Flow

However, total WWRF in?uent (after historic OMID and WTUA adjustments) is not equal to Total
Wastewater Towards Treatment. The portion of this difference that is not attributable to recycled ?ows used
in the treatment process is considered common ?ow. These are not allocable units to which costs can be
distributed, effectively making the cost to treat this common ?ow shared proportionally among all
customers.

Determination of Sanitary, DWII, WWII Flows

In the area, sanitary ?ows are assumed to be 95% of retail and industrial winter water sales; in the 
areas, sanitary ?ows are 90% of winter water sales. DWII is estimated by subtracting the sanitary ?ows from
total ?ows on ?dry? days. WWII is estimated by subtracting total ?ow on dry days from total flow on wet
days.

 

 

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 4

POLLUTANTS

The second step is estimating the amount of BOD, TSS, Phosphorus, and Fats, Oils, and Greases each
customer contributes to the system.

Pollutant 

Due to the infeasibility of measuring each customer?s strength of ?ow, the current process assumes that all
customers have the same for each category of flow. Using published national data, the Strength of
Flow Subcommittee estimated DWII and WWII as a proportion of sanitary flow for each
pollutant and used weighted WRRF loadings and volumes to estimate for each type of flow. See
Figure. 4- for currently used and ratios, and Figure 5 for the development of these Total
pounds of pollutants for each customer are calculated using these estimated and the sanita ry.
DWII, and WWII flows previously estimated.

SHARES

Now that volume and pollutant totals have been developed for each customer and total flow volumes
and pounds of each pollutant are converted to percentages for each customer. Common to All SHARES are
calculated with a weighted average, currently set to 50% 50%, of the volume SHARE and pollutant SHARE.
Figure 6 contains an example of SHARE development using FY 2018 units of service.

Suburban only SHARES are based on each customer?s portion of total ?ow.
CSO SHARES are based on the 1999 Settlement Agreement. 83% of C80 costs are distributed to Detroit. The

remaining 17% is distributed among suburban customers based upon an agreed upon methodology by those
customers.

CUSTOMER CHARGES

 

Industrial surcharges revenues are netted out of the total customer revenue requirement. Remaining ?ow,
BOD, TSS, PHOS, and FOG costs are combined to create a single common to all cost pool. This total is then
multiplied by each customer's CTA SHARE. The same process is performed with suburban only costs and
SHARES, OMID only costs and SHARES, and C30 costs and SHARES. The sum of these costs for each customer
represents their share of revenue requirement. See Figure 7 for an example of the development of
customer charges.

The final step is to account for Detroit?s equity in the system and suburban bad debt. Each of these costs is

distributed to suburban customers using Suburban Only SHARES, and the equity amount is subtracted from

Detroit?s total charge. The ?nal annual total is billed to each customer on a fixed basis.

AREAS FOR CONSIDERATION

 

Based on our preliminary review of the existing methodology and our experience assisting wastewater
utilities with examination and development of cost of service methodologies, we have identi?ed several

 

 



GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 5

areas that warrant consideration for change. The existing methodology is more complicated than typical,
even for a utility like GLWA that provides service to its numerous member communities on solely a
wholesale basis. The desire expressed by GLWA and Member Partner Communities to simplify further is
consistent with the views of other wastewater utilities.

The preliminary areas we have identified are described below. It is important to note that these are
preliminary and subject to further refinement and addition as our work on this assignment continues.

One area that warrants consideration for simplification is the use of strength of ?ow in the existing
methodology. It is important that pollutant strength and the costs associated with the treatment and
disposal of regulated pollutants be considered for purposes of determining excess strength surcharges for
industrial customers to meet EPA requirements. In some cases utilities analyze wastewater samples from
wholesale customers, however, this is less common due to recognition of the difficulty of securing
representative samples and the associated costs ofsuch sampling and analysis as well as the variability in
the results. existing methodology that considers the strength of?ow for sanitary discharges dry
weather river induced I/l and wet weather related ?ows is a level of complexity not typically seen. Great
effort has been made to estimate the strength of these different ?ows in the GLWA system, but ultimately,
they remain to be estimates with a limited level of accuracy. While additional effort and resources could be
expended to improve the accuracy of these estimates, the results would remain relatively inaccurate
compared to the other units of service used to allocate and distribute costs to customers.

However, it should be noted that removal of strength of?ow without consideration of other facets ofthe cost
of service methodology would not be consistent with the overriding objective of achieving a fair distribution
of costs. The existing methodology that accounts for the volume of wet weather and dry weather I I
somewhat necessitates consideration of strength of ?ow to reasonably allocate costs to those customers with
high wet weather volumes and dry weather I Some utilities with similar service areas, for instance,
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD) in the metropolitan Cleveland area, charge their
customers based primarily on sanitary flow, so all customers share in wet weather and dry weather I I costs
proportional to their sanitary ?ow.

Another area of consideration is the split of costs for the C80 facilities that are currently allocated 83% to
DWSD and 17% to other Member Partner Communities. While we understand that these numbers are based
on many years of technical discussions, hydraulic modeling and negotiation and as such may be a reasonable
estimate of use of C80 facilities at that time, such an allocation may not appropriately recognize the
historic nature of the development of the system with relation to regulation of combined sewer systems. For
example, as mentioned previously, NEORSD recovers cost in proportion to sanitary flow of all communities,
even though some areas are combined and others are separated.

Some consideration should be given to distributing costs to Member Partner Communities based on peak
flow. Peak ?ow is a driver of many sewer utility?s capital and operating costs; facilities must be sized to meet
peak ?ow and some regulatory requirements are driven by peak flow impacts. By recognizing peak ?ow as a
factor in cost of service, there is a price signal to customers that reducing peak flow will reduce their share of
costs of the utility.

 

 

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 6

Based on our preliminary discussion with the Member Partner Communities, the impact of facilities
constructed, funded, and operated by Member Partner Communities that can benefit the entire regional
system may need to be recognized. As GLWA begins its next round of negotiations with MDEQ for its NPDES
permit renewal, optimization of the collections system, including the components of the networks within the
Member Partner Communities could achieve desired levels of environmental quality at a lower cost than
would otherwise be required.

Finally, some consideration will need to be given to the timing of any changes and future updates. We
understand that GLWA and the Member Partner Communities appreciate the consistency of the current
approach where the distribution of costs is only updated every three years. To mitigate impacts on
customers, GLWA might consider determining the impact of proposed changes in advance of implementation
so that the Member Partner Communities can prepare and react, and then the changes may also be phased in
over multiple years.

MEMBER PARTNER MEETINGS

 

 

An important aspect of this engagement is input from the Member Partner Communities. To that end the
Raftelis Project Team, in conjunction with Member Outreach Consultant, Bridgeport Consulting,
conducted meetings with most of the Tier 1 Member Partner Communities over the course of several weeks.
The Member Partner Communities that met with us, in order of their meeting were:

Macomb County (OMID)

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department

Oakland County and Oakland GWK)
Melvindale

Highland Park

Grosse Pointe Park

SEMSD and Harper Woods

Dearborn

Allen Park

Grosse Pointe Farms

Farmington (including Evergreen Farmington)
Wayne County [Rouge Valley]

The Member Partner Communities were encouraged to provide their honest and frank feedback concerning

their perspective and concerns regarding methodology for recovering sewer costs from all Member
Partner Communities.

MEMBER PARTNER KEY CONCERNS

 

 

Based on the meetings with the Member Partner Communities, the Raftelis Project Team compiled a list of
Key Concerns about the sewer rate methodology. These concerns are general in nature, not necessarily

 

 

.. -1: 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 7

directed at only the existing methodology, but meant to provide guidance on consideration of changes to the
methodology.

Issues are ranked by the number of Member Partner Communities that expressed their concern with that
issue, in descending order. Communities were unanimous in their concern with stability and simplification.

1. Stability in charges Minimize each Member Partner Community's change in charges from GLWA.

2. Simplification ofmethodology Understanding ofmethodology Simplify rate methodology so it can
be easily understood and explained to others elected officials)

3. Incentives to remove reduce ?ows Provide pricing signal for Member Partner Communities that
reduce contributions to the regional GLWA system.

4. Phase-In Grace period on any changes implemented - Allow Member Partner Communities an
opportunity to respond to changes in the rate methodology before they are implemented or fully
implemented.

5. Recognition ofpeak ?ows and how it relates to existing 83/17 CSO allocation How does any new
methodology or supplant the existing 83/17 CSO allocation.

6. Recognition of investments in local systems that benefit the GLWA regional system Member
Partner Communities that reduce peaks for the benefit of the regional system through storage or
other operational measures would like to know how it benefits them form a rate perspective.

7. Recognition of contract capacities How does the rate methodology recognize contract capacities for
customers.

8. Minimize change in distribution among communities - Some Member Partner Communities
expressed concern how changes would disproportionately impact other communities in the region.2

9. Affordability Address affordability considerations for Member Partner Communities retail
customers.

10. Impact of new development Impact fees Should there be recognition for new retail customers that
are benefitting from the GLWA regional system.

11. Accuracy of existing cost asset allocations Are the existing cost and asset allocations suitable for
any proposed new rate methodology.

POTENTIAL RATE APPROACHES

 

Based on the concerns of the Member Partner Communities and the understanding that the existing GLWA
sewer rate methodology accounts for basically five factors in allocating and distributing costs (Average
Volume, Pollutants, CSO facilities, OMID Specific, and Suburban Only), we will examine how the existing and
other factors may be considered and used as part of the GLWA sewer rate methodology moving forward.

 

2 This differs from item 1 in that this item indicates concern about shifting costs to communities other than themselves.
Even if their share of costs were unchanged under a new methodology, they are concerned about the share of costs
being shifted to other Member Partner Communities.

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 8

AVERAGEVOLUME

Average volume in effect recognizes each Member Partner Communities' total volumetric contributions to
the GLWA regional system for the year. The average volume includes sanitary volume, dry weather 1/1, and
wet weather volume. While some of costs relate to total volume treated, electricity and chemicals
for example, many of costs are driven by other factors besides total volume treated. Under the
current methodology approximately 42% of the GLWA revenue requirement is recovered from Member
Partner Communities based on average volume.

While average volume certainly accomplishes the objective of being simple and understandable, due to the
nature of the GLWA regional system and the customers, some assumptions need to be made to determine
the share of average volumes among customers, so there may be some concern over the accuracy ofthat
allocation.

The primary concern we have with average volume is that it does not differentiate the historic development
ofthe system and recognize the average volumes from combined areas differently from separated areas on
its own. Under the existing methodology, this is accomplished through the strength of [low allocation of
costs associated with pollutants, which will be discussed separately.

Some other utilities with both older inner-city combined areas as well as newer suburban separated areas do
not consider average volume or similar measures because ofthe burden it would place on those customers
with combined systems.

POLLUTANTS

Pollutants recognizes the cost of treating extra strength surcharge pollutants by the GLWA treatment
facilities, specifically BOD, TSS, Phosphorous, and FOG. Philosophical arguments can be made that if not for
the pollutants in the wastewater we would not need any treatment facilities, but generally accepted
allocation approaches recognize that treatment is driven by the volume of wastewater as well as pollutant
loadings.

Under the current methodology approximately 42% of the GLWA revenue requirement is recovered from
Member Partner Communities as well as retail surcharge customers. This share of costs allocated to
pollutants is based on the 50/50 allocation of costs between volume and pollutants that was established
during the previous rate simplification process. Based on our experience, this is a very high allocation of
costs to pollutants for a large regional wastewater utility.

In the context of the GLWA rate methodology, the use of pollutants as a cost allocation factor, especially
when considering the strength of each component of flow, is important because of the use ofaverage volume.
If only average volume were considered, those customers with combined systems would pay a much greater
share ofthe GLWA regional costs due to their high levels of rain dependent 

Throughout our customer meetings in discussing potential simplification, the strength of flow is one area
that Member Partner Communities universally had concern about because of the number ofassumptions
needed to arrive at a determination.

 

 

 

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 9

No matter what is ultimately decided there will always need to be a consideration of pollutants in
determining excess strength surcharges, but there is a desire among the Member Partner Communities to
simplify this aspect of the rate methodology. Any adjustment must be considered carefully due to its impact
on costs of different types of ?ow sanitary volume, dry weather UL and wet weather volume).

CSO FACILITIES

Costs are allocated to CSO facilities and those facilities are allocated based on the 83/17 split between the
City of Detroit and other customers. The 83/17 split was negotiated about 20 years ago and has been in
place since while the allocation of the 17% split among the non-Detroit customers was based on an analysis
performed around the same time. The share of the revenue requirement allocated to CSO facilities is
approximately 13% under the current methodology.

There are concerns about what costs are included in this pool, with some Member Partner Communities
believing more should be included in the cost pool while the City of Detroit thinks some costs should be
excluded.

There are also concerns related to the 83/17 split and whether it is representative of the cost ofservice.

Given the concern over this specific cost pool, both what is included and how it is allocated, it may be
desirable to move to another cost allocation approach to accomplish the same pricing objectives in the rate
structure. One approach may to be use wet weather volume in place ofthe 83/17 split for some cost pools.

OMID SPECIFIC

Certain debt service and costs as well as shares in GLWA's other costs are allocated directly to OMID in
addition to their share of other costs. This allocation would most likely remain in place regardless of any
proposed change in methodology for the remainder of the revenue requirement under the existing
contractual agreements. There was no mention of concerns about this cost allocation during our meetings
with the Member Partner Communities. This represents approximately 2% of total revenue
requirement.

SUBURBAN ONLY

There is an allocation of costs to suburban only customers, related primarily to the cost of measuring their
volumes. There was no mention of concerns about this cost allocation during our meetings with the Member
Partner Communities. This accounts for approximately 2% of the total GLWA revenue requirement.

These costs are allocated proportionally based on average volume excluding the City of Detroit. Given the
minimal share of the total revenue requirement, any simplification may consider the elimination of this cost
pool and allocation.

SANITARY VOLUME

A common methodology to allocating costs for sewer utilities is the use of sanitary volume. Sanitary volumes
are typically estimated based on metered water usage, especially in regions like Michigan where winter
average water usage should provide a reasonable estimate of sanitary volumes for most retail customers.

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 10

Some other large regional sewer utilities that serve both combined and separated areas use sanitary volume
as a key component of their rate methodology. In effect this results in customers throughout their service
area paying for combined areas in proportion to their sanitary volume. The rationale for this approach is
often based on a historical perspective that the combined areas were the nucleus of the larger metropolitan
area and they were built to accepted standards at the time, which allowed for combined sewers and the
over?ow of those sewers during rain events.

It may be appropriate to consider allocation ofsome of revenue requirement on the basis of sanitary
flow. A potential approach would be to have to primary cost pools, conveyance and treatment, with the
treatment cost pool being allocated based on sanitary flows. However, there may still be challenges with
such an approach in how some future CSO facilities are allocated between conveyance and treatment.

PEAK VOLUME

Many facilities and operations in the GLWA system are constructed to meet peak volume demands, yet it is
not a component of the existing GLWA rate methodology. One potential challenge is the difficulty of
determining peak volume by Member Partner Community. An attempt has been made for some recent
discussions, but that estimate is for peak month, while ideally such a determination would be for a shorter
period of time, such as a peak day or possibly a longer period to encompass a peak event over more than a 24
hour period.

Peak volume may be a good approach for allocating some costs of the GLWA regional system, and in
particular it may make the most sense to allocate the cost of conveyance facilities that need to be sized to
meet potential peak volumes.

POPULATION

There has been discussion that population may be a factor used to allocate some portion of revenue
requirements. In our discussions with Member Partner Communities there is some concern over how
population is measured permanent residents, daytime workforce, etc]. There is also a concern that
population and another proposed factor, sanitary volume, are closely correlated and may provide the
appearance of a more precise approach than is really being delivered.

It is not common to use population as a cost allocation methodology [though it is common for utilities to
allocate some costs based on number of customers, which may also correlate with population).

PATH FORWARD

 

A potential option for a ?Path Forward' with regards to the sewer SHARES and rate simpli?cation was
presented at a recent meeting. This approach would use sanitary volume, peak volume, and population to
allocate a simplified cost pool that includes everything but industrial surcharge revenues and OMID specific
costs.

 

 



GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 11

Each of the three factors was discussed in the previous section of this report. The largest concern from the
Member Partner Communities related to population, how it would be measured and whether it was
significantly different from sanitary volume.

Combining all costs into a single cost pool may be a little too extreme for cost simpli?cation, as mentioned in
the previous section it may make sense for some cost pools to still be used such as conveyance and
treatment, depending on the units of service ultimately decided upon to allocate costs.

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 12

Figure 1: Personnel Cost Allocation

 

WRRF I Wastewater Collection Facilities 
i Industrial
Revenue Primary Rack and Primary Secondary Sludge WRRF Lift CSO Waste Master
Requirement Pumping Grit Treatment Aeration Treatment Dewaterlng Disposal General Stations Facilities Interceptors Control Meters General
Personnel Costs
Wastewater Operations 1,257,900 7.50% 4.00% 3.00% 16.0096 12.00% 10.11156 37.5056 511156
Wastewater Process Control 2.313.500 7.5096 4.0096. Em 16.0156 12.0096 25.0096 3.0056 2.5056
Wastewater Primary Processing 3,701,800 101'?! 15.0196 75.0096
Wastewater Secondary Processing 3,997,201? 50.00% 50.0056
Wastewater Dewatering Process 3,723,300 101.00%
Wastewater Incinerations Process 3,953,700 100.00%
Biosoiids Dryer Facility 306,100 100.00%

Total:Personnel Costs $13,758,500 $638,410 $698,325 $3,062,462 $2,570,824 $2,427,768 $4,428,715 $5,811,138 - - - $120,858 - -

 

Figure 2: AllocatiOn of Functions'to Cost Drivers

Common to All,

 

Revenue
Function Requirement Flow Suburban CE Detroit
Primary Pumping 6,369,710 100.00%
Rack and Grit 4,069,013 100.0096
Primary Chemical Additon 2,103,000 160.03%
Primary Sedimentation 10,615,000 70.03% 20.00% 10.00%
Aeration 17,140,010 101.00%
Secondary ClarificatiOn 11,000,100 75.00% 65.1106 10.0096
Chlorination 2,639,900 100.0094
Dewatering 18,098,439" 15.00% 70.0396 15.0056
Sludge Treatment 56,791,383 100.0096
Process Water and Outfail - 103.0096
Lift Stations 22,533,175 75.00% 25.00%
C50 Facilities 13,781,675 103.00%
Interceptors 11,814,473- 96.50!6 3.50%
Industrial Waste Control 7,239,484 100.00%
Master Meters 3,926, 133 100.00%

Total: $133,121,500 $41,379,475 $79,396,184 $27,249,472 8,040,776 1,061,500 5 3,926,133 6,046,800 $18,781,675 ES 7,351,434 5 
21.43% 41.11% 14.11% 4.16% 0.55% 2.03% 3.13% 9.73% 3.75% 0.00%

 

 

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology 13

Figure 3: Total Revenue Requirement Allocation

Common to All

Suburban OMID

PHOS FOG

Allocation Pro ortion
Total
Non-Commodity
Capital
Indirect

 

3.13%
3.80%
1.31%
2.23%

2.03%
2.47%
2.05%
2.06%

0.55%
0.60%
0.48%
0.52%

4.16%
3.08%
3.71%
3.88%

14.11%
14.02%
18.28%
16. 24%

41.11%
38. 86%
10.73%
25.42%

21.43%
20.81%
47.92%
34.99%

wode-

Budget Elements


Operating Pension

Debt Service

Non Operating Pension
WRAP



Detroit 



Operating Reserves
Non Operating Revenue

6, 046,816
411,301
2, 817,116
441,574
50,445
8,216
613,555
157,380
58,044
(101, 982)

1, 061, 503
65,240
1, 025, 543
70,042
11, 646
2, 991
141, 649
57, 293
10, 189
23,544)

3, 926, 143
267,054
4,407,728
286,710
46,663
12, 855
567,554
246, 240
37, 687
(94,336)

27,249,543
1,517,956
39,296,791
1,629,685
367,269
114,605
4,467,008
2,195,339
261,571
(742,482)

8,040,797
333,383
7,981,223
357,922
87,663
23,276
1,066,226
445,876
77,185

177, 222)

41,379,582
2, 52, 796
103,033,504
2,418,612
791, 052
300, 487
9,621,372
5,756,028
397, 207
(1,599, 212)

79,396,390
4,206,322
23,075,582
4,515,929
574,657
67,298
6,989,412
1,289,131
762,135
(1,161,742)

193, 122,000
10, 824, 000
214, 991,000
11, 620, 700
2, 261, 000
627, 000
27,500,000
12, 010, 600
1, 853, 800
(4,570,900)



Total: Revenue Requirement $470,239,200 164,351,428 119,715,114 76,357,286 18,236,328 2,422,552 9,704,300 10,502,466

Figure 4: Current Strength of Flow

TSS PHOS
322.94 100.00% 7.62 100.00%
6. 78 2.10% 0.30 4. 00% -
125.95 39.00% 0.19 2.50%

BOD FOG

274.45 100.00%
6.59 2.40%
14. 55 5. 30%

Stren hs 

Sanitary
DWII
WWII

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology

?52

9.73%
11.80%
15.37%
12.73%

18,781,724
1, 277,521
33,042,669
1,371, 553
287,726
96,366
3,499, 537
1,845, 948
180, 288
(581, 674)

59, 801,657

34.82 100.00%
0.00%
13.96 40.10%

IWC

3.75%
4.55%
0.14%
1. 94%

7,239,503
492,427
310,845
528,672

43,879
907
533,686
17,366
69,493
(88,706)

9, 148, 068

my
0.00%
0.00%

0.00%
0.00%



14

Figure 5: Strength of Flow Calculation



Item Item Descrigtion BOD PHOS FOG
1 Total: WRRF Loadings (lbs) 4? year average 176,691,300 255,289,9(1) 4,910,400 27,112,600
2 DWII - Sanitary 50F Work Group  7 2,10% 4.03% 0.01%
3 WWII - Sanitary 50F Work Group 5.30% 3941196 2.50% 40.10%
Total Influent Volumes
4 Sanitary 4-year average 9, 634,000 9, 634, 000 9, 634, 000 9, 634,000
5 DWI 4?year average 12,822,200 12,822, 200 12,822, 200 12,822,200
6 WWII 4? year average 7,090,300 7,090,300 7, 090, 300 7, 090, 300
7 Total: Flows 29,546,500 29, 546, 500 29, 546,500 29, 546, 500
Weighted Influent Split
8 Sanitary 9,634,000 9, 634,000 9,634,000 9, 634,000
9 DWII (5) 307,733 269,266 512,888 -
10 WWII (6) 375,786 2,765,217 177,258 2,843,210
11 Total: Weighted Influent 10,317,519 12,668,483 10,324, 146 12,477, 210
Loading Allocation Factors
12 Sanitary (11) 93.4% 76.0% 93.3% 77.2%
13 DWII (11) 3.0% 2.1% 5.0% 0.0%
14 WWII (11) 3.6% 21.8% 1.7% 22.8%
Allocated Loadings
15 Sanitary (12) 164,991,394 194,140,282 4,582,151 20,934,390
16 DWII (13) 5,270,216 5,426,138 243,941 -
17 WWII (14) 6,435,690 55,723,480 84,308 6,178,210
Stren he BOD PHOS FOG
18 Sanitary 15) (4), converted 274.45 322.94 7.62 34.82
19 DWII 16) (5), converted 6.59 6.78 0.30 
20 WWII (6), converted 14.55 125.95 0.19 13.96
15

 

 

 

 

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology

 

 

 

Hde?l-?t?ho?m


HHI-lI-ll-IHHr-lv-l




20



1

(m

OMID

Rouge Valley
Oakland GWK
Evergreen Farmington
NE Wayne Co

Allen Park

Center IJne
Farmington

Grosse Pointe Park
Melvindale

Grosse Pointe Farms
Dearborn
Hamtramck

Grosse Pointe
Harper Woods
Highland Park
Redford Township
Wayne County #3

Total: Suburban Customers
Detroit
Total: Allocable Units

Sanitam

2,181,200
1,449,200
1,011, 100
997,400
571,600
23,300
28,700
30,400
41,700
41,800
53, 100
420, 200
51,200
12,300
3,600
76,000
3,200
500

6,997,000
2,637,000
9,634,000

DWII

524,900
751,500
645,800
472,500
306,500
8,600
7,800
18, 700
25,200
18, 600
43, 100
286,700
106,500
26, 700
7,500
153,300
6,600
1,000

3,416,500
5,491,200
3,907,700

 



244,900
506, 200
820,900
222, 100
454,900
10, 100
12,400
10, 100
32,300
15, 200
46, 800
346,200
44, 600
11,200
3,200
66, 200
2,300
400

2,350,500
2,293,600
5,149,100

Figure 6: DeveIOpment of SHARES

Total 

2,951,000 37, 793, 156
2,706,900 25,587,274
2,477,800 18,326,596
1,692,000 17,477,225
1,333,000 10,323,072
42,000 411,737
48,900 505,976
59,200 537,482
99,200 753,323
75, 600 737,306
143,000 969, 582
1,053,100 7,623,401
202,300 961,105
50,700 240, 352
14,300 67,641
300,500 1,426,725
12, 600 60,057
1,900 9,337

13,264,000 123,821,854
10,426,800 49, 504, 518
23,690,800 173,326, 372

 



46,101,443
33,499, 970
27,100,097
22,044, 645
15,223,458
552, 548
679, 104
699, 898
1,104,834
969,666
1,456,094
11, 309, 844
1,427,346
357, 261
100, 869
2, 118,783
89,284
13,643

164,848,787
73,528,449
238,377,237

PHOS

1,050,327
709,589
502,950
486, 016
283, 106
11,366
13,946
14,935
20,697
20,416
26,632
209,428
26,908
6,729
1,893
39,946
1,681
262

3,426,826
1,386,019

 

4,812,845

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology



4,953, 078
3, 590, 151
2,912,390
2, 360,849
1,638,452
59,431
73,169
74, 859
118, 758
104,075
156, 164
1, 214,747
150, 119
37,573
10,611
222, 830
9, 393
1,435

17,683,083
7,733,031
25,421,114

Volume

12.46%
11.43%
10.46%
7.14%
5.63%
0.18%
0.21%
0.25%
0.42%
0.32%
0.60%
4 45%
0.85%
0.21%
0 06%
1 27%
0.05%
0.01%

55.99%
44.31%

3%
21 30%
14 76%
10.57%
10 03%
5.96%
0.24%
0.29%
0 31%
0.43%
0.43%
0.56%
4.40%
0 55%
0.14%
0.0456%



19.34%
14.05%
11.37%
9.2529%
0.46%
0.41%
0.61%
4.74%
0.60%
0.15%
0 04%
0.89%
0 04%
0.01%

69.15%
30 85%

PHOS

21.82%
14 74%
10.45%
10 10%
5.88%
0.24%
0.29%
0.31%
0.43%
0 42%
0.55%
4. 35%
0 56%
0.14%
0.04%
0.83%
0.03%
0.01%

71.20%
28.80%


19.48%
14.12%
11.46%
9.29%
6.45%
0.23%
0 29%
0.29%
0 47%
0.41%
0.61%
4.73%
0 59%
0.15%
0.04%
0.33%
0.04%
0.01%

69. 58%
30.42%

100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%

Volume Pollutant

Share

 

12.46%
11.43%
10.46%
7.14%
5.63%
0.18%
0.21%
0.75%
0.42%
0 32%
0. 60%
4.45%
0.85%
0.21%
0.06%
1.27%
0.05%
0.01%

55.99%
44.01%
100.00%

Share

 

20.42%
14. 36%
11.01%
9. 61%
6.19%
0.23%
0.29%
0.30%
0.45%
0.41%
0.59%
4.59%
0.58%
0.15%
0.04%
0 86%
0.04%
0 01%

70.13%
29.87%
100.00%




16.44%
12.89%
10.73%
8. 38%
5.91%
0.21%
0.25%
0.28%
0.43%
0.37%
0.60%
4.52%
0.72%
0.18%
0.05%
1.06%
0.04%
0.01%

63.06%
36.94%
100.00%

16

Budget From Charges
Total Revenue Requirement
Allocated to Industrial

Net Budget from Charges

Customer
OMID
Rouge Valley
Oakland GWK
Evergreen Farmington
SE Macomb San District
Dearborn
Grosse Pointe Farms
Grosse Pointe Park
Melvindale
Farmington
Center Line
Allen Park
Highland Park
Hamtramck
Grosse Pointe
Harper Woods
Redford Township
Wayne County #3

Subtotal: Suburban Wholesale

City of Detroit

Total:

g4.

381, 082, 708


Figure 7: Customer Charge Development

Suburban C50

9, 704, 300



10, 502,466

59, 801, 657

Total

 

9,148,068 470,239,200
9,148,068"l $14,263,168

 

375, 967, 608

gm
61,792, 156
48,475,384
40,360, 123
31,496,686
22,219,686
17,138,483
2,240,767
1,635,459
1,379,801
1,035,791
928,640
772,613
3, 908, 183
3,088,574
751,935
208,662
137,228
20,678

9, 704, 300

mm

2, 152, 556
1, 974, 558
1, 807,449
1, 234, 229
972,417
781, 114
104,379
72,409
55, 127
43, 203
35, 599
30, 588
209,967
171, 257
40,438
10, 887

7, 085

1, 037

10,502,466

OMID

10, 502,466

59, 801, 657



1, 585, 342
1, 767, 737
1, 349, 125
888,055
702, 07 1
975,365
301,400
37,077
44, 253
31, 097
33,489
18, 539

1, 234, 904
953, 836
13 6, 348
7, 774

79, 536
20, 931

455,976,032

Total

 

76,032,520
52, 217, 679
43, 516, 697
33,618,970
23, 894, 174
18, 894, 962
2, 646, 546
1,744, 945
1,479, 182
1, 110,091
997,728
821,740
5,353,055
4, 213, 668
928,721
227,323
223,850
42, 646

Ownershig


1,223,529
1,122,354
1,027,368
701,545
552,730
443,991
59,330
41,158
31,335
24,557
20,235
17,386
119,347
97,344
22,985
6,188
4,027
589

Ad]. Total

77,256,050
53,340,033
44, 544, 065
34, 320, 515
24,446,904
19,338,953
2,705,876
1,786, 102
1, 510, 516
1, 134,648
1,017,963
839, 126
5,472,402
4, 3 11, 012
951, 707
233, 512
227, 877
43, 235

 

237, 590, 850

138, 380, 518

9, 704, 300

10, 502,466

10, 166, 880

49, 635,375

267,964,496

188, 015, 893

5, 516, 000

(5,516,000)

273,480,496

182,499,893

 

375,971, 368

9, 704,300

10,502,466

59, 802, 255

GLWA Sewer Cost of Service Methodology

455,980, 389

455,980,389

17

 

a Water Sewerage
cm or Department
DETROIT

 

MAY 2019 REVIEW

FINANCE 

July 9, 2019



Summary Financial Metrics  

DETROIT

 

Month Ended Aug-18 Sap-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 Jan-19 Feb-19 Mar-19 Apr-19 May-19 Jun-19
Flscal Quarter 2019.Q1 2019.01 2019.02 2019.02 2019.Q2 20.9.03 2019.03 2019.03 I 2019.041 2019.Q4 2019.04
Target 269,000 273.100 270.500 233.800 224.500 206.500 226.600 216.400 213.300 223,100 211.000 240.200
Water Volumes Actual 372.613 302,476 221.531 215.105 232.770 202.636 227.697 232.094 213.435 208.812

 

 

 

Status
Target 178.000 178.000 178,000 178,000 178,000 178,000 178,000 178,000 178,000 178,000 178.000 178.000
Tata' Adive Meters Actual 177,027 176,729 176.573 176.594 176.538 176.379 177.094 177.495 178.805 179.400 178.905

 

 

 

 

Status
Target 28.475

 

 

23,475 23,475 23.475 23.475 23.475
Billable Impervlous Acreage Actual 27.342 27.796 27,302 27,722 27,633 27,636 27,699 27,702 27 512 27,495

 

 

Status
Target 190 190 190 190 190 190 190 190 190 190 190 190
i" ACCOUNTS Receivable - Residential Actual 136 184 133 134 136 133 190 192 194 196 199

 

 

 

 

Status
Target 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92%
3-Month Rolling Average Collection Rate Actual 106% 93% 91% 91% 89% 37% 37% 90% 92% 90% 91%
Target 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92%
12-Month Rolling Average Collection Rate Actual 92% 91% 91% 91% 92% 92% 92% 93% 93% 93% 91%
Target 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 120
Operating Cash Days on Hand Actual 188 219 235 233 229 227 223 234 230 237 151

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Status
Target Days Pavab'e amending Actual Status
Target 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611
Headcount Actual 537 526 526 524 545 550 547 547 543 543 541 541
Status
Target 9.592.255 9.592.255 I 9.592.255 9.592.255 9.592.255 9.592.255 9 592.255 9,592,255 9.592.255 9.592,.255 9.592.255 9,592,255
03"? spending Actual 7,534,065 4,458,249 11,680,248 9,400,983 10,544,595 15,052,971 5 839,015 10,133,568 5,104,907 9,024,517 6,841,727

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Status

 

 

 

 

 

7/2/2019 - detroitml 

 

Account Receivable Aging - Combined

Sales Class
Residential

Commercial

Industrial

Tax Exempt Entities

Gove rn ment Entities

Subtotal - Active Accounts

Inactive Accounts

Total
of Total 

Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Total

7/2/2019

of Accounts
287,131

28, 189

4, 804

8,147

2,797

331,068

262,013





Avg. Balance
348.12

1, 254.98

3,332.65

1,852.66

1,381.36

514.40

82.64

Current

5 13,421,822 

13.4%

8,191,882
23.2%

4,095,039
25.6%

1,989,066
13.2%

975,803
25.3%

28,673,612
168%

180, 654
0.8%

30 Days
7, 293,580
7.3%

2,596,370
7.3%

1,438, 226
9.0%

1,475,626
9.8%

207,475
5.4%
13,011,276
7.6%

194,870
9.9%

60 Days



Water 8: Sewerage
Department

180 Days

19,483,008 5 59,758,480

19.5%

6,775,449
19.2%

2,713,151
1 6.9%

3, 109,733
20.6%

846,990
21.9%
32,928,330
19.3%

1, 193, 659
5.5%

59.8%

17,812,997
50.4%

7, 763, 646
48.5%

8,519,213
56.4%

1,833,396
47.5%

95,687,732

56.2%

20,082,923
92.8%

 

Accounts

Receivable

Balance
99,956,890
100.0%

35,376, 698
100.0%

16,010,061
100.0%

15,093,639
100.0%
3,863,664
100.0%

5 170,300,951

100.0%

21,652, 106
100.0%

 

593,081

224,090
284, 106
593,081

323. 65

183.56
530.86
323.65

28, 854,267
15.0%

6,806,902
22,047,365
28,854,267

13,206, 146

34, 121, 990

 

5.9%

2, 562, 253
10, 643,893
13, 206, 146

17.8%

5, 962, 517
28, 159,473
34, 121, 990

115,770,655

60.3%

25, 801, 842
89,968,813
115, 770, 655

191,953,058

100.0%

41,133,513
150,819,545
191,953,058

 

detroitmi.gov/dwsd

Month
July
August

September

October

November
December

January
February
March
April
May
June

Volume (Mcf)

 

Prior Year

274,267
269,802
259,341
247,700
208,783
213,026
235,142
235,436
216,866
215,643
241,641
258,608

Budget Current Year Variance (Mcf)

269,000
273,100
270,500
233,800
224,500
206,500
226,600
216,400
213,300
223,100
211,000
240,200

300, 613
302,476
221, 531
215, 105
232, 770
202, 686
227, 697
232,094
218,435
208,812

31,613
29,376
(48,969)
(18,695)

8,270
(3,814)
1,097
15,694
5,135
(14,288)

Variance 

11.8%
10.8%


3.7%

0.5%
7.3%
2.4%


 

(000.) 5931A) LI) agesn

Retail Water Customers - Volumes

350

300

000

Water 8. Sewerage
Department

 

Jar Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec

Totals 2,876,255
Subtotals YTD 2,376,006

2,808,000
2, 356, 800

2,362,218 5,418 0.2%

2,362, 218 5, 418 0.2%

2017 Actual I 2018 Actual Budget/Forecast .- 2019 Actual

7/2/2019

 

detroitmigov/dwsd

Month
July
August

September

October

November
December

January
February
March
April
May
June

Prior Year

244,512
239,911
228,122
224,159
188,312
190,811
213,373
193,452
196,148
213,393
237,626
234,144

Volume (Mcf)

Budget Current Year Variance (Mcf) Variance 

242,100
244,200
239,600
211,000
197,600
182,400
198,600
191,600
191,000
197,300
187,300
210,300

273,862
262,525
221,660
205,267
205,806
193,791
201,171
220,021
205,424
193,725

31,762
18,325
(17,940)
(5,733)
8,206
11,391
2,571
28,421
14,424
(3,575)

13.1%
7.5%

(2. 7% 
4.2%
6.2%
1.3%
14.8%
7.6%


 

Retail Sewer Customers - Volumes

(000.) Sam UI 38250

Water 8: Sewerage
Department

 

300

250
Totals 2,603,964
Subtotals YTD 2, 132,194

2,493, 000
2, 095, 400

Z, 183, 253
2, 183, 253

87,853 3.5%

87,853 4.2% I 2017 Actual 2018 Actual I Budget/Forecast 2019 Actual

 

7/2/2019

detroitmi.gov/dwsd

DITIOIT

Water 8: Sewerage
Department

CITY OF

DETRIOIT

Retail (Customers - Revenue

 

Revenue (5) Revenue (5)

 

Month PriorYear Budget Current Year Variance (5) Variance Month PriorYear Budget

July
August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
April

May

June

Totals

9,060,075 

8,904,085
8,985,289
8,137,675
7,473,555
7,523,827
8,067,860
8,054,769
7,527,076
7,744,106
8,380,467
8,865,874

9,424,500 5 10,203,409

9,377,700
8,494,300
8,165,900
7,750,100
8,224,900
7,978,800
7,980,200
8,163,900
7,856,900
9,109,200
9,063,600

9,833,149
8,996,692
8,010,524
8,325,013
7,659,930
8,250,078
8,649,072
8,165,904
8,014,291

5 778,909
455,449
502,392

(155,376)
574,913
(564,970)
271,278
668,872

2,004
157,391

8.3%
4.9%
5.9%
1. 9% 
7.4%

3.4%
8.4%
0.0%
2. 0%

 

5 98,724,659 5 101,590,000 5 86,108,061

Subtotals YTD 5 81,478,318 5 83,417,200 5 86,108,061

5 2,690,861
2, 690, 861

2.6%
3.2%

July
August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
April

May

June

Totals

24, 760, 250
23,983, 587
23,936,728
22, 627,682
22,405,515
23, 250, 935
22, 291, 876
22, 184, 361
22, 288, 132
24, 665, 214
24,439, 888

27,232,200
25,367,500
25,177,200
23,861,000
25,293,500
24,852,800
25,329,400
25,474,500
24,789,700
26,205,200
26,730,700

Current Year; Variance (96)

3 24,994,676 5 27,423,400 27,851,140 5

27,401,816
25,552,254
24,230,273
24,314,979
23,925,500
24,407,247
25,593,281
24,648,366
23,882,510

427,740
169,616
184,754

(946,927)
453,979
(1,368,000)
(445,553)
263,881
(826,134)
(907,190)

1.6%
0.6%
0. 7%


1.9%




1.0%





 

$281,828,843 307,737,100 $251,807,365 5 (2,993,835)

Subtotals YTD $232, 72 ,742 254,801,200 $251,807,365 5 (2,993,835)




 

7/2/2019

detroitmigov/dwsd

Water 8- Sewerage
Department

Collection Rates 

 

110.00%

105.00%

100.00%

95.00%

 

90.00%

85.00%

80.00%

75.00%

70.00%

 

12M0nth - Target

 

7/2/2019 detroitmigov/dwsd

Cash Balance Summary

Unrestricted

Operating

Improvement and Extension
Pension

Restricted
Bond
Affordability
Retainage
Construction

Total Cash

7/2/2019

Water Fund

6/30/2018

15, 266, 537
42, 994, 009
9,073,472

5/ 31/ 2019

15, 535, 869
46,989,022
3,021, 285

DITIOII

Water 8. Sewerage
Department

 

Sewer Fund

6/ 30/ 2018

44, 694, 855
35, 059, 899
181

5/31/ 2019

3 1, 989, 187
34, 161, 171
2, 553, 285

 

67, 334, 019

36, 346, 022
1, 184, 871
2, 699, 459
3, 464, 524

65, 546, 176

12,425, 536
1, 320, 935
4, 263, 523

953,035

79, 754,935

654,839
519, 787

68, 703, 642

92, 063, 610

3, 200, 190
500, 711

 

43, 694, 876

111,028,895

18,963,029

84, 509, 205

1, 174, 626

80,929,561

95,764,511

164, 468, 153

 

detroitmigov/dwsd

ll
Water 8. Sewerage

cm a, Department
DETROIT
a 



   

Appendix:

Financial Statements
Eleven Months Ended May 31,2019

 

detroitmigov/dwsd

 

City of Detroit Water Fund

 

Statement of Net Position

 

June 30, 2018 May 31, 2019
(Audited)

Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 67,327,735 65,546,176
Restricted Cash and investments 45,800,588 20,963,029
Accounts receivable Net of Allowance 18,884,376 23,787,041
Due from other funds 34,674,582 28,572,977
Inventory 3,380,693 3,380,693
Prepaid expenses 452,491 275,381
Receivables from Great Lakes Water Authority 477,230,749 473,039,574
Capital assets - net 525,909,122 540,838,862

Total assets 1,173,660,336 1,156,403,733

 

Deferred Outflows of Resources - Pensions 14,359,284 14, 359,284

 

 

 

 

7/2/2019 detroitmigov/dwsd

7/2/2019

 

City of Detroit Water Fund

 

Statement of Net Position (Continued)

 

 

Liabilities

Current liabilities:
Accounts and contracts payable
Due to otherfunds
Due to Great Lakes Water Authority
Accrued interest
Other liabilities
Accrued compensated absences
Current portion debt
Long-te rm debt
Net pension liability

Total liabilities

Deferred Inflows of Resources ?Pensions

Net Position
Fund Balance End of year

Total net position



June 30, 2018
(Audited)

5,887,060 3

44,482,592
(8,446,945)
1,941,491
40,790,929
1, 675,525
520,056,143
46,948,714

May 31, 2019

8,141,907
35,265,461
(2,545,393)

1,941,491
36,658,752
1,675,525

501,341,546

46,948,714

 

653, 335,509

7, 119, 846

629, 428, 003

7, 119, 846

 

527, 564, 263

534,215, 169

 

527,564,263

534, 215, 169

 

 

 

detroitmigov/dwsd

7/2/2019

 

City of Detroit Water Fund

 

Statement of Revenue, Expenses, and Changes in Fund Net Position

 

 

Eleven Months Ended
May 31, 2019

Accrual Basis Contract Basis

 

Operating Revenue
Retail sales Detroit 
Other fees
Other revenue

87,906,720 

5,056, 127
2,460.757

87, 906460, 757

 

Total operating revenue

Operating Expenses
Salaries, wages and benefits
Contractual Services
Other operating expense
Wholesale Charges
Depreciation

95,423,604

25,460,530
12,866,443

9,230,006
18,535,792
15,547,691

95,423,604

25,460,530
12,866,443

9, 230,006
18,535,792

 

Total operating expenses

Operating Income

Nonoperating Revenue (Expenses)
Investment income
Capital Lease
Capital Outlay/Acquisions
Debt Service
Gain (loss) on sale of assets

81, 640,462

13,783, 143

995,929
15,294,717
(19,094)

(21,743,196)

(1,660,593)

66,092,771

29,330,833

995,929
20,625,000

(19,094)
(35,189,289)

 

Total nonoperating expenses Net

(7,132,237)

13, 587, 454]

 

Change in Net Position 5

6,650,906 

15, 743, 380

 

 

 

 

detroitmigOv/dwsd

 

7/2/2019

 

City of Detroit Sewage Disposal Fund

 

Statement of Net Position

 

Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Restricted - Cash and investments
Accounts receivable - Net of Allowance
Due from otherfunds
Inventory
Prepaid expenses
Receivables from Great Lakes Water Authority
Capital assets - net

Total assets

Deferred Outflows of Resources - Pensions

June 30, 2018
(Audited)

May 31, 2019

5 79,749, 584 
6, 674, 626
73,437, 178
49,382, 322
848,085
433, 558
606,549, 558
491,981,714

68,703,642
101,264,511
87,865,365
46,189,487
848,085
433,558
602,883,167
509,039,641

 

1,309,056, 625 1,417, 227,456

10,392,771 10,924, 542

 

 

 

13

 

detroitmi.gov/dwsd

 

7/2/2019

 

City ofrDetroit;;Sewage Disposal Fund

 

Statement of Net Position (Contitnuedi)

 

 

 

Liabilities

Current liabilities:
Accounts and contracts payable
Due to otherfunds
Due to Great Lakes Authority
Accrued interest
Other liabilities
Accrued compensated absences
Current portion debt
Long?te rm debt
Net pension liability

Total liabilities

Deferred Inflows of Resources -Pensions

Net Position
Fund Balance End of year

Total net position

June 30, 2018
(Audited)

5 8, 871,455
53,931, 165

53,639, 106

3, 169, 374
54,935,846

2,513, 288
395,922,651
32,618, 179

May 31, 2019

7,829,736
69,576,593
57,489,008

3, 169, 374
47,979,825

2,513,288

463,203,992
32,618, 179

 

605, 601, 064

6,258,922

684,379,995

6, 258,922

 

707,589,412

737,513,082

 

707,539,412

737, 513,082

 

 

 

 



7/2/2019

 

City of Detroit Sewage Disposal Fund

 

Statement of Revenue, Expenses, and Changes in Fund Net Position

 

 

Operating Revenue
Retail sales - Detroit 
Other fees
Other revenue

Eleven Months Ended

May 31, 2019

Accrual Basis

249,236, 675 

3, 827, 161
9, 694, 948

Contract Basis

249, 236,675
3,827, 161
9,694, 948

 

Total operating revenue

Operating Expenses
Salaries, wages and benefits
Contractual Services
Other operating expense
Wholesale Charges
Depreciation

262,758, 785

32,531,352
11,616,898
13,386,747
166,524,765
10,960,174

262,758,785

32,531,352
11,616,898
13,386,747
166,524,765

 

Total operating expenses

Operating Income

Nonoperating Revenue (Expenses)
Investment earnings
Capital Lease
Capital Outlay/Acquisions
Debt Service
Gain (loss) on sale of assets

235,019,935

27,738, 849

1, 857,833

18, 693,539 1

6,105
(17,619,085)
(753,521)

224,059,762

38, 699, 023

1,857,833
25,208,333
6,105
(27,391,864)

 

Total nonoperating expenses Net

2, 184, 821

(319,592)

 

Change in Net Position 5

29,923,670 5

38,379,431

 

 

15

 



ThankYbu

DETROIT

Water Sewerage
Department

CITY OF



 

  

@DetroitWaterDep

 @detro?watersewerage

 LWA

Trust Receipts 8-. Disbursements

Table 2 DWSD Net Cash Flowsfrom Trust Reteip ts Disbursements

in 0) 



1.6

Water
Receipts
MO Adjush?nents

Adjusted Receipts
Disbursements

Net Receipts

Ratio of Receipts to
Disbursements
Sewer

Receipts

MO Adjustments

Adjusted Receipts
Disbursements

Net Receipts

Ratio of Receipts to
Disbursements

Receipts
Adjustments

Adjusted Receipts
Disbursements

 et Receipts

Ratio ofReceipts to
Disbursements

for the Month Ended January 31. 2019

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FY 2019-1 - - - -
FY 2015 FY 2017 FY 2018 0 me to Date

Date Total
9 25,201,881 95,451,105 101,715,017 58,280,930 282,599,953
18,495,100 - - - 18,945,100
44,64?,981 95,451,105 101,715,017 58,280,950 301,095,053
47,809,552 93,055,141 93,099,957 55,988,575 290,913,728
9 {3,151.5711, 3,384,961 8,555,550 1.292375 10,182,325
93% 1.94% 109% 102% 109%
 55,255,731. 233,723,357 217,975,170 152,917,255 599,372,835
1 55,755,100 - 5.527200 52,282,300
121,011,834- 233,723,367 247,975,470 158,944,465 761,655,136
255,217,825 159,788,451 815,757,559
(1.285.466li {28,240,5051 [18,242,355] 15.893995' (53.512423:
 93% 95% 93%
5 91,458,515 330,170,472 399,591,187 210,598,215 982,022,789
79,201,200 - 5,527,200 80,728,400



1135,5598 15 330,174,972 399,591,487 217,225,415 1,052,751,189
170,105,852 35 030.117 359,257,282 221,777,035 1,105,181,287
[9,447,037] (9,575,795) 9,551,521) [43,930,098]
97% 93% 97% 98% 95%

 

Note I: The $29,300,000for the WSD loan receivable balance is talculated 

[1,285,466] FY 2016 Shortfall
[28,240,606] FY 2017 Shortfall
l29,526,072] Subtotal

238,264 lune not due unti July
(29,287,808) FY 2017 Shortfall-to? Date

29,300,000 FY 201 7 Shortfall-to?Date, Rounded

Note 2: During the preparation oftlzis report made payments totaling approximately
$9 7 million in principal towards this loan receivable balance. This payment activity will be
reflected in the February2019 TRD report.

All ("mounts are unaudited unless otherwise noted.

Page 41-9

GLWA Audit Committee April 21, 2019

 

a Water Sewerage

Department

 

MARCH 2019 REVIEW
FINANCE COMMITTEE

May 1, 2019

DIIO

Summary Financial Metrics  pggm269,000 200,500 226,600 216,400 213,300 223,100 211,000 240,200
372,613 202,535 227.65? 232,099

Target

  

273,100
302,476

270,500
221,531

233,800
215,105

224,500
232,770

    
     

 
   

 
 
  

 

   
      

  
  
       

    

      

   

   

 

 
    

                        

 
 

     

Water Volumes Actual

  

 

Status

 

 

          

    

    

   

Target 178,000 178,000 178,000 178,000 178,000 1781810 178,000 178,000 178,000 178,000 178,000
Total Active Meters Actual 178,435 178,222 178,318 178,219 178,114 178,791 179.249 180.292
- Status

Targel 28,000 28,000 28,000 28,000 28,000 28,000 28,000 28,000 28,000 28,000 28,000 28,000
Billable Imperv'rous Acreage Actual 27,842 27,795 27,802 27,722 27,588 :7 ,595 27.559 27,702
Status

Target 1-1I- :40 1 140 140 140 140 140 140 140 140 140
Days in Accounts Receivable - Residential Actual 135 134 133 134 135 133 190 192 194
Status

Target 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92%
3-M0nth Rollins Average Collection Rate Actual 105% 93% 91% 91% 89% 87% 87% 901-; 92% :l
Status

Target 92% 92% 92% - 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92% 92%
12-Month Rolling Average Collection Rate Actual 92% 91% 91%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Status

 

 

 

 

Target 120 :0 130
Operating Cash Days on Hand I Actual 188 219 235 233 229 227 223 234 230
Status

120 120 120

 

 

 

 

 

 

Targar Balls Pavable Out?tandin? Actual 113 Status

 

 

Target 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611 611
Headcount Actual 537 526 526 524 545 550 547 547 543

Status

 

 

 

 

        

     

           

   

Target "1,5511" 9,592,355 9'19? 235

 

9,592,255

9,400,983

9.593.:er

10,544,595

9,592,255
15,052,971

9,592,255
5,839,015

9,592,255 9,592,255 9,592,255 9,592,255 9,592,255
10,133,563 5.104.902

           

 

 

 

          

 

 

 
 

      

             

    

 

 

Spending Actual 7

Status

 

4,458,249

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4/29/2019 detroitmigov/dwsd

Dl?llOlT

Water 8- Sewerage
Department

DETROIT

 

Account Receivable Aging - Combined

Accounts
Receivable

Sales Class
Residential

Commercial

Industrial

Tax Exempt Entities

Government Entities

Subtotal - Active Accounts

inactive Accounts

of Accounts
287,163

28, 170

4,797

8,396

2, 604



Avg. Balance
333.95

1,214.26

3,213.76

1,535.14

2,072.27

Current

13,086,411

13.6%
8,200,196
24.0%

5,017,496
32.5%

2,289,341
1 7.8%

720,956
13.4%

30 Days

6,964,191 

7.3%
2,645,743
7.7%

1,075,617
7.0%

1,162,767
9.0%

511,113
9.5%

60 Days
18,014,716
18.8%

6,774,295
19.8%

2,635,108
1 7.1 

2,514,012
19.5%

1,043,297
19.3%

180 Days

57,832,050 

60.3%
16,585,500
48.5%

6,688,180
43.4%

6,922,887
53.7%

3,120,816
57.8%

Balance
95,897,368
100.0%

34,205,734
100.0%

15,416,401
100.0%

12,889,006
100.0%

5,396,181
100.0%

 

331, 130

259,464

494.68

75.56

29,314,400
1 7.9%

326,341
1.7%

12,359,431 

7.5%

160,039
0.8%

30,981,428
1 8.9%

981,602
5.0%

91,149,432

55.6%

18, 137, 657
92.5%

163,804,691

100.0%

19,605,640
1 00.0%

 

Total 590,594 310.55 29,640,741 12,519,470 31,963,031 109,287,089 133,410,331
of 16.2% 6.8% 17.4% 59.6% 100.0%

Water Fund 211,500
Sewe Fund 268,019
Total 590,594

188.63 7,040,579 2,461,937 5,717,160  24,675,493 39,895,169
10,057,533 26,245,871 84,611,596: 

12,519,470 31,963,031 109,287,089 183,410,331

535.47 22,600,163 
29,640,741 

310.55 

 

4/29/2019 detroitmigov/dwsd

 

. Water 8: Sewerage
Department

Retail Water Customers Volumes 

 

Volume 350
Month Prior Year Budget Current Year Variance (Mcf) Variance 

July 274, 267 269,000 300, 613 31, 613 11.8% 300
August 269,802 273,100 302,476 29,376 10.8% 

September 259,341 270,500 221,531 (48,969) 25 



(000.) 533w Ul eBesn






October 247,700 233,800 215,105 (18,695) 20
November 208,783 224,500 232,770 8,270 3.7%
December 213,026 206,500 202,686 (3,814) 15
January 235,142 226,600 227,697 1,097 0.5%
February 235,436 216,400 232,094 15,694 7.3% 10
March 216,866 213,300
April 215,643 223,100 0
May 241,641 211,000

000

258, 608 240Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec

 

Totals 2,876,255 2,808,000 1,934,971 14,571 0.5%
Subtotals YTD 1, 943, 498 1, 920, 400 1, 934, 971 14,571 0. 8% 2017 Actual 2018 Actual I Budget/Forecast rd 2019 Actual

 

4/29/2019 I 4 detroitmlgov/dwsd

 

Retail Sewer Customers - Volumes

Volume (Mcf)

 

Budget Current Year Variance (Mcf)
242, 100 273, 862 31, 762
244,200 262,525 18,325
239, 600 221, 660 (17, 940)
211,000 205,267 (5,733)
197, 600 205, 806 8, 206
182,400 193,791 11,391
198, 600 201, 171 2,571
191,600 220,021 28,421
191,000
197,300
187,300
210,300

Prior Year
244,512
239,911
228, 122
224, 159
188,312
190,811
213,373
193,452
196,148
213,393
237,626
234, 144

Month
July
August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
April

May

June

Variance 
13.1%

7.5%

7. 5% 

(2. 7% 

4.2%

6.2%

1.3%

14.8%

 

2,493,000
1, 707, 100

1,784, 104
1, 784, 104

77,004
77, 004

Totals 2,603,964
Subtotals YTD 1, 722, 652

4/29/2019

3.1%
4.5%

300

250






2
(000.) 513w u! aaesn

05



000

IT

Water 8: Sewerage
Department

CITY OF

DETROIT

 

i i 

Jan

I 2017 Actual

Feb Mar

Apr May

I 2018 Actual

Jun Jul

Budget/Forecast

 

Aug Sep Oct

Nov Dec

2019 Actual

detroitmi.gov/dwsd

 



Water Sewerage
Department

CITY OF

DETROIT

 

Retail Customers - Revenue

Revenue (5)
Budget Current Year
9,424,500 10,203,409 5

Revenue 
Current Year Variance (96)
27,851,140 427,740 1.6%

Month
July 

Prior Year
9,060,075 5

Prior Year Budget
24,994,676 5 27,423,400

Variance (5) Variance (96) Month
778,909 8.3% July

August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
April

May

June

Totals

8,904,085
8,985,289
8,137,675
7,473,555
7,523,827
8,067,860
8,054,769
7,527,076
7,744,106
8,380,467
8,865,874

9,377,700
8,494,300
8,165,900
7,750,100
8,224,900
7,978,800
7,980,200
8,163,900
7,856,900
9,109,200
9,063,600

9,833, 149
8,996, 692
8,010, 524
8, 325,013
7,659, 930
8, 250,078
8,649,072

455,449
502,392
(155,376)
574,913
(564,970)
271,278
668,872

4.9%
5.9%

7.4%

3.4%
8.4%

 

5 98,724,659 5 101,590,000 69,927,867

Subtotals YTD 5 66,207,136 3 67,396,400 5 69,927,867

4/29/2019

 

 

5 2,531,467

5 2,531,467

2. 5%
3. 8%

August
September
October
November
December
January
February
March
April

May

June

Totals

24,750,250
23,983, 587
23,936, 728
22,627,682
22,405,515
23, 250,935
22,291, 876
22, 184, 361
22, 288, 132
24,665, 214
24,439, 888

27,232, 200
25,367, 500
25,177,200
23,861,000
25, 293,500
24,852,800
25, 329,400
25,474,500
24,789,700
26, 205, 200
26, 730,700

27,401,816
25,552, 254
24, 230, 273
24,314, 979
23,925, 500
24,407,247
25,593, 281

169,616
184,754
(946,927)
453,979
(1,368,000)
(445,553)
263,881

0.5%
0.7%

1.9%


1.0%

 

281,828,843

307,737,100

Subtotals YTD $188,251,249 204,537,000

203,276,489
5 203,2 76, 489

(1,260,511)
6 (1,260,511)




detroiimigov/dwsd

DITIOIY

Water 81 Sewerage
Department

CITY OF

Collection Rates 

 

110.00%

105.00%

100.00%

95.00%

90.00%

85.00%

80.00%

75.00%

 

 

4/29/2019 7 detroitmi.gov/dwsd

 

DITEOIT
Water Sewerage
Department

CITY OF

DETROIT

 

Appendix:
Financial Statements
Nine Months Ended March 31, 2019

detroitmi.g0v/dwsd

 

 

City of Detroit Water Fund

 

Statement of Net Position

 

June 30, 2018 March 31, 2019
(Audited)

Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 67,327,735 68,279,357
Restricted - Cash and investments 45,800,588 29,604,968
Accounts receivable - Net of Allowance 18,884,376 24,383,568
Due from other funds 34,674,582 48,637,983
lnve nto ry 3, 380, 693 3, 380, 693
Prepaid expenses 452,491 452,491
Receivables from Great Lakes Water Authority 477,230,749 473,309,275
Capital assets net 525,909,122 539,388,176

Total assets 1, 173,660,336 1,187,436,511

 

Deferred Outflows of Resources - Pensions 14,359,284 14,359,284

 

 

 

 

4/29/2019 9 detroitmi.gov/dwsd

 

4/29/2019

 

City of Detroit Water Fund

 

Statement of Net Position (Continued)

 

 

 

Liabilities

Current liabilities:
Accounts and contracts payable
Due to otherfunds
Due to Great Lakes Water Authority
Accrued interest
Other liabilities
Accrued compensated absences
Current portion debt
Long?te rm debt
Net pension liability

Total liabilities

Deferred Inflows of Resources ?Pensions

Net Position
Fund Balance - End of year

Total net position

53

June 30, 2018
(Audited)

5, 887,060 5

44,482,592
(8,446,945)
1,941,491
40,790,929
1, 675,525
520056143
46,948,714

March 31, 2019

7,983,736
55,465,402
(6,889,944)

1,941,491
39,909,979
1,675,525

511,671,286

46,948,714

 

653,335,509

7, 119,846

658,706, 189

7, 119,846

 

527, 564,263

535, 969,760

 

527,564,263

535,969,760

 

 

10

  

detroitmi.gov/dwsd

 

 

4/29/2019

 

City of Detroit Water Fund

 

Statement of Revenue, Expenses, and Changes in Fund Net Position

 

 

Nine Months Ended

March 31, 2019

Accrual Basis

Operating Revenue
Retail sales - Detroit 5
Otherfees
Other revenue

73, 092,886 5
4,352,708
2576,570

Contract Basis

73, 092, 886
4, 352, 708
2, 576, 570

 

Total operating revenue 80.022,164

Operating Expenses
Salaries, wages and benefits 21,088,208
10,686,255
7,277,963
15,244,578

12, 699, 687

Contractual Services
Other operating expense
Wholesale Charges
Depreciation

80,022, 164

21, 088, 208
10, 686, 255

7, 277, 963
15, 244, 578

 

Total operating expenses 66,996,691

Operating Income 13,025,473

Nonoperating Revenue (Expenses)

322,435
Capital Lease 12,527,350
Capital Outlay/Acquisions (85)
(17,469,675)
Gain (loss) on sale of assets 

Investment income

Debt Service

54, 297,004

25, 725, 160

322,435
16,875,000

(85)
(28,791,236)

 

Total nonope rating expenses - Net [4,619,976]

[11,593, 887)

 

Change in Net Position 5 8,405,497 5

14,131,273

 

 

 

detroitmi.gov/dwsd

 

4/29/2019

 

City of Detroit Sewage Disposal Fund

 

Statement of Net Position

 

Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Restricted Cash and investments
Accounts receivable - Net of Allowance
Due from other funds
Inventory
Prepaid expenses
Receivables from Great Lakes Water Authority
Capital assets - net

Total assets

Deferred Outflows of Resources - Pensions

June 30,2018
(Audited)

March 31, 2019

5 79,749,584 
6, 674, 626

67,981,836
100,049,342
73,437,178 89,238,625
49,382,322 86,086,039
848,085 848,085
433,558 433,558
606,549,558 601,372,835
491,981,714 503,771,745

 

1,309,056,625 1,449,782,065

10,392,771 10,924,542

 

 

 

 

 

detroitmi .gov/dwsd

4/29/2019

 

City of Detroit Sewage Disposal Fund

 

Statement of Net Position (Continued)

 

 

Liabilities

Current liabilities:
Accounts and contracts payable
Due to otherfunds
Due to Great Lakes Authority
Accrued interest
Other liabilities
Accrued compensated absences
Current portion debt
Long-term debt
Net pension liability

Total liabilities

Deferred Inflows of Resources -Pensions

Net Position
Fund Balance End of year

Total net position

June 30, 2018
(Audited)

8,871,455
53,931,165
53,639,106

3,169,374
54,935,846
2,513, 288

395,922, 651
32,618,179

March 31, 2019

6,665,668
87,219,080
52,081,064
3,169,374
53,628,808
2,513,288
478,924,072
32,618,179

 

605, 601, 064

6,258,922

716,819,533

6,258,922

 

707,589,412

737, 628,152

 

707,589,412

737,628,152

 

 

13

 

 

detroitmigov/d 

4/29/2019

 

City of Detroit Sewage Disposal Fund

 

Statement of Revenue, Expenses, and Changes in Fund Net Position

 

 

Operating Revenue
Retail sales - Detroit
Other fees
Other revenue

Total operating revenue

Operating Expenses
Salaries, wages and benefits
Contractual Services
Other operating expense
Wholesale Charges
Depreciation

Total operating expenses

Operating Income

Nonoperating Revenue (Expenses)
Investment earnings
Capital Lease
Capital Outlay/Acquisions
Debt Service
Gain (loss) on sale of assets

Total nonope rating expenses Net

Change in Net Position



Nine Months Ended

March 31, 2019

Accrual Basis

206,626,937
2,895,099
11, 102, 282



Contract Basis

206,626,937
2, 895,099
11, 102, 282

 

220, 624,318

26, 650, 743
8, 925, 117
10, 175, 058
137, 255,697
8,951, 346

191,957,959

28, 666, 359

15,311,202
(6,756)
I: 13,932,064)

220,624,318

26, 650, 743
8, 925, 117
10, 175, 058
137, 255, 697

183,006,614

37, 617, 705

20,625,000
(6,756)
(22,411,525)

 

1,372,381

(1,753,281)

 

5

30,038,740



35,324,424

 

 

 

14

 

 

detroitmi.gov/dwsd

 


Water 8- Sewerage
Department

 

Treasury Update

March 31, 2019
NiKoIe Howard-Whitsett

detroitmigov/dwsd

 

Water Sewerage
Department

 

Cash Balance Summary

Water Fund Sewer Fund
6/30/2018 3/ 31/2019 6/ 30/2018 3/31/ 2019

Unrestricted

Operating 15,266,537 5 21,446,914 $44,694,855 51,183,374
Improvement and Extension 42,994,009 44,527,028 35,059,899 14,722,301
Pension 9,073,472 2,308,015 181 2,076,165

5 67,334,019 68,281,956 $79,754,935 67,981,840

 

 

Restricted
nd 36,346,022 19,389,092 - 91,760,425
Affordability 1,184,871 1,297,321 -
Retain age 2, 699,459 3,923, 627 654, 839 2,736,015
Construction 3,464,524 2,994,923 519,787 52,914

43, 694,876 27,604,962 1, 174,626 94,549,355

 

 

Total Cash 5 111,028,895 95,836,919 $80,929,561 162,531,194

 

 

4/29/2019

 

detroitmigov/dwsd

 

Insured

Banking Institution

Comerica

First Independence

JP Morgan Chase

US Bank

Total Cash

 

4/29/2019

Balance Summary

Insured
93,954,360

67, 242, 932

297,048

500, 000

Uninsured
$91,760,425

1,575,867

1,047,321

2, 040, 123

CITY OF

DETROIT

Total



Water 8: Sewerage
Department

 

185,714,785

68,818,800

1, 344, 368

2, 540, 123

 

 

5 161,994,340

$96,423,736

258,113,075

  

detroitmi .gov/dwsd

 

Thank You

DETROIT

Water 8: Sewerage
Department

CITY or 

DETROU

 

la  

..

 @DetroitWaterDep

Q. @detroutwatersewerage

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WODDWARD AVENUE, SUITE I026
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

or Damon PHONE: 313 - 628-2 I 58
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FM. 3 I 3 224 0542
OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 7

July 11, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
A1TN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Authorization to submit a grant application to the U.S. Department of
Transportation for the FY 2019 Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development
(BUILD) Grant

The City of Detroit Department of Public Works. in partnership with the Michigan
Department of Transportation, is hereby requesting authorization from Detroit City Council
to submit a grant application to the U.S. Department of Transportation for the FY 2019
Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Grant. The amount being
sought Is $25,000,000.00. The Federal share is $25,000,000.00 of the approved amount,
and there is a total cash match of 514.989.875.00. The Department of Public Works will
provide $9,959,500.00 in match funding and the Michigan Department of Transportation will
provide $5,030,375.00 In match funding. The total project cost is $39,989,875.00.

The FY 2019 Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Grant will
enable the department to:

- Create robust and integrated road improvements to channel surface truck traf?c from
the planned Gordie Howe International Bridge (GHIB) to Fort Street and mitigate
traffic congestion for the surrounding community

- Reconstruct Jefferson Avenue from the GHIB to downtown and provide a safer and
easy to navigate non-motorized route

If the application is approved, a cash match will be provided from appropriation 20453 and
apprOpriation 04189.

We respectfully request your approval to submit the grant application by adopting the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,

Ryan Friedrichs

Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants
CC:

Kateni Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This Request has been approved by the Office of Budget



Office of Development and Grants cm'ornmon

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Department of Public Works has requested authorization from City Council to
submit a grant application to the U3. Department of Transportation, for the FY 2019 Better
Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Grant, in the amount of $25,000,000.00,
to mitigate traf?c congestion coming off of the planned Gordie Howe International Bridge 
and

WHEREAS, the Department of Public Works is partnering with the Michigan Department of
Transportation to submit this application, and the Michigan Department of Transportation will
provide match funds in the amount of $5,030,375.00; and

WHEREAS, the Department of Public Works has $3,319,833.33 available in its bond funds
Departmental allocation in appropriation 20453. In addition, the department has committed
$2,319,833.33 from its FY 2020-2021 Departmental allocation, and committed $4,319,833.34 from
its FY 2021-2022 Departmental allocation, in its Major Street Funds in appropriation 04189. in order
to provide funds for the total City match requirement, in the amount of 9,959,500.00, for the FY
2019 Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Grant; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget; now

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Department of Public Works is hereby authorized to submit
a grant application to the U.S. Department of Transportation for the FY 2019 Better Utilizing
Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Grant.

Page 1 of 1

COLBIAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPALCENTEI
2 Avmue. surre I026

Cm?or Demon Dmorr. Mmow 48126
OFFICE Prone: 3i: - 628-358
Of?ce or DEVELOPMENT ma GIANTS Fug; 313 . 224 0542



 

Grant Application Request Form (BARF)

In order to secure the office of Development and Grants (ODS) approval required under Section 18-4-2 of the
Detroit City Charter, form Is to be ?lled out by City Departments as soon as possible upon learning of an
opportunity that the Department would like to pursue. This form must be signed and submitted not later than
20 business days prior to the application deadline.

Please submit this form to the following 006 staff: Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director.
parkersagdetroltmigou and Greg Andrews. Program Analyst IV, and rewsgr?detroitmtgov

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City Department DPW
Date 719
Department Contact Name Collin Maroon
Department Contact Phone 313-2244906
Department Contact Email 
Grant Opportunity Title FY 2019 BUILD Transportadm grants program
Grant Opporturity Fundin?ency US 001
Web Link to Opportunity Information . oewaniwu
Award Amount (that Department will apply for) $25,000,000
Application Due Date 7115:2019
Anticipated Proposed Budget Amount stamens
City Match Contribution Amount saucepan
Source of Cl Match include A re riation
Number, to: Centerfand A01: 51 [Bonds (sea "Ote below)
?51 51? 1" Reconstruct Jeilerson from Stev Yzerman to West Grand.
funded and the nuclear for each indudlng the addition or parking adiacenl to Centennial Park:
Sample: lo
is: and Clark Street lrom Fort to Wat Jefferson. and add 
protecled cyclotrack; Reconstruct Jolierson lrom Clark St
- Salary/Bene?ts: 595.000 to Campbell s: and add protected cycleIraclt.

- Supplies: $5,000
Brief Statement oi Priorities] Purpose for the

 

To create robust and integrated road improvements to

channel surface truck trailic lrom GHIB to Fort St. mitigate
Sample: To support expansion of promising congestion. and reconstruct Jefferson from to

youth In W0 dWl?llDW? lO amnion a 53fo easy IO "39.9310
neighborhood. non-motorized route

 

Key Performance Indicators to be Used to

Mum". the of miles reconstructed

 

 

 

 

 

50mm: of miles resurfaced
afkm, new}, enraged A35 andm miles of non-mote rlzed supports added
96 of ABC who demonstrate
improved educational performance

Caitlin Malloy-Marcon - AM) 7/10119
Director's Name [Please Print) lrector?s Signa Date
Match Source Amount Account String
Bond Funds 3 3.319.833.33 3301-20453-193337-632100

FY 2020?2021 2,319,833.33 3301-04189-193871-632100
FY 2021-2022 4,319,833.34 3301-04189-193871-632100
Total: 9.959.500.00

DRAFT BUDGET

 

CITY OF

DETROIT

PARTNER BUILD ASK

CITY OF DETROIT $14,939,250 $9,959,500 $24,898,750

 

MDOT UP TO $5,030,375
$10,060,750 $15,091,125

PROJECT TOTAL UP TO 37.5%
$25,000,000 $14,989,875 $39,989,875

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. SUITE. [026
DETROIT. MICI 43226
CWOFDETROIT PHONE: 313 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER m: 3 I 3 224 . 05?

OFFICE OF AND GRANTS 

July 11. 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Authorization to submit a grant application to the U.S. Department of Justice
for the FY 2019 Innovations in Communitvaased Crime Reduction Program

The Detroit Police Department is hereby requesting authorization from Detroit City
Council to submit a grant application to the U.S. Department of Justice for the FY 2019
innovations in Community-Based Crime Reduction Program. The amount being sought
is $1,000,000.00. There is no match requirement. The total project cost is
$1 300,000.00.

The FY 2019 Innovations in Community-Based Crime Reduction Program will enable
the department to:

- Convene a cross sector partnership to develop and implement a place-based.
data-driven strategy to address violent crime.

We respectfully request your approval to submit the grant application by adopting the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,

4:59

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjish Parker. Assistant Director. Grants

This Request has been approved by the Of?ce of the Budget.



Office of Development and Grants rm'ornemmr

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department has requested authorization from City Council to
submit a grant application to the U.S. Department of Justice, for the FY 2019 Innovations in
Community-Based Crime Reduction Program. in the amount of $1,000,000.00. to convene a cross
sector partnership to deveIOp and implement a place-based. data-driven strategy to address
violent crime; now

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Detroit Police Department is hereby authorized to submit a
grant application to the U.S. Department of Justice for the FY 2019 Innovations in Community-
Based Crime Reduction Program.

Page 1 0H

CITY OF Demon
OFFICE OFTHE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Ornce or DEVELOPMENT ma Chums

Grant Application Request Form (GARF)

In order to secure the Office of Development and Grants (006) approval required under Section 18-4-2 of the

COLEMAN A. Your": MUNICIPAL CLN 1 ER
2 Wooawnrm AVENUE. sums i026
Demon. MICHIGAN 48226

PHONE: Jl3 58

FAX: 3 i3 224 0542


Detroit City Charter, this form is to be filled out by City Departments as soon as possible upon learning of an

opportunity that the Department would like to pursue. This form must be signed and submitted not later than

20 business days prior to the appliCatian deadline.

Please submit this form to the following 006 staff: Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director,
parkersa@detroitmi.gav and Greg Andrews, Program Analyst iV, andrewsgr?detraitmi.gov

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City Department Dalroll Police Department roe)

Date sums

Deputment Contact Name Trisha Sicln

Department Contact Phone 313-593-2913

Department Contact Email sumrgdorrorrmmov

Grant Opportunity Title innovations in Communriy Based Cdme Reduction

 

Grant Opportunity Funding Agency

DOJ-OJP

 

Web Link to Opportunity Information



 

Award Amount (that Department will apply tori

$1,000,000 (48 months)

 

 

 

Application Due Date July I5. 2019
Antidpated Proposed Budget Amount 51.000.000
City Match Contribution Amount 0

 

Source of City Match (include Appropriation
Number. Cost Center, and Object Code)



 

List of programs/services/activltles to be
funded and the Budget for each

Sample:

- ABC Afterschool program: $150,000

XYZ Youth leadership program: 51 00,000
- Salary/Bene?ts: $95,000

- Supplies: $5,000

Convene a cross sector partnership to
develop and implement a place-base,
data-driven strategy to address violent crime
in squad car areas 9-10 and 5-01

 

Brief Statement of Priorities/Purpose for the
Application

Sample: To support expansion of promising
youth development programs in MNO
neighborhood.

Reduce gun-related violent and drug crime in
areas targeted for demolition of vacant
properties and redevelopment.

 

Key Performance Indicators to be Used to
Measure the Programs/ServiceslActhritles
Sample:

ll of kids newly enrolled in ABC and XYZ

96 of kids from ABC who demonstrate
improved educational performance

 

 

Completion of place-based plan to reduce gun and
drug-related violence plan in targeted area.
Reduced amount of gun and drug violence

Early action project completed

 

 
1(1 . SJ 
Director?s Name-(Please-Print)

 


If Cry/? 
{smears Signature Date

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 AVENUE, suns l026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

PHONE: 3l3 -628-2l 58

Fax: 313 224 0542


or Demon
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS

 

June 14, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Authorization to submit a grant application to the Federal Transit
Administration for the FY 2019 Bus and Bus Facilities Grant

The Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT) is hereby requesting authorization
from Detroit City Council to submit a grant application to the Federal Transit
Administration for the FY 2019 Bus and Bus Facilities Grant. The amount being sought
is 510.618.515.00. If awarded, the Michigan Department of Transportation will provide a
match award. in the amount of $2,123,703.00. to support this project. There is no City
match requirement.

The FY 2019 Bus and Bus Facilities Grant will enable the department to:

0 Purchase new fare boxes for DDOT buses
Acquire hardware. software and other equipment to support improvements to
DDOT fare boxes

We respectfully request your approval to submit the grant application by adopting the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,

$35533?

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

75



Office of Development and Grants cm a? mum

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS. the Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT) has requested authorization from
City Council to submit a grant application to the Federal Transit Administration. for the FY 2019
Bus and Bus Grant, in the amount of $10.618,515.00. to Purchase new fare boxes for
DDOT buses; and

WHEREAS, if the department is awarded, the Michigan Department of Transportation will provide
a match award, in the amount of $2,123,703.00, to support this project; now

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT) is hereby
authorized to submit a grant application to the Federal Transit Administration for FY 2019 Bus and
Bus Facilities Grant.

Page 1 of 1

Crnror Demon-
OFFICE FINANCIAL CR
GRANTS

Grant Application Request Form 

 

In order to secure the Of?ce of Development and Grants (DOG) approval required under Section 18-4-2 of the

 

Couaum A. Youuo Mumcrm. Cram-1
2 Woonmuto AVENUE. surre i016
Demon". MICHIGAN 40226

PHONE: 3 l3 - 628-2 I 58

Fax: JIJ - 224 ?1542


Detroit City Charter, this form is to be ?lled out by City Departments as soon as possible upon learning of an

opportunity that the Department would like to pursue. This form must be signed and submitted not later than

20 business days prior to the application deadline.

Please submit this farm to the following 006 staff: Parker, Assistant Director,
parkersa?idetroitmigou and Greg Andrews, Program Analyst iv, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City Department Departrnenl of Transportation (0001?)

Date Juno11,20i9

Department Contact Name Elias Fischer

Department Contact Phone 3134334531

Department Contact Email BliBGdolroilrnipou

Grant Opportunity Title FY 2019 Grants for Buses Ind Bus Fadlillas Program
Grant Opportunity Federal Transit Administration (PTA)

 

Web Unit to Opportunity information

hilas lew povinlo 

 

Award Amount (that Department will apply for]

510,618,515

 

 

 

Application Due Date June 21. 2019
AntidEtad ProEsad Budget Amount suaasnzo iinicudos FY 2019 Section 5307 landing}
City Match Contribution Amount NM

 

Source of City Match (include Appropriation
Number. Cost Center. and Object Code)

Match to be provided by MDOT - $2,123.703

 

List at pmgrains/senriceslactlvitles to be
funded and the Budget for each

Sornple:

- ABCAfterschoal program: $150,000

- XYZ You leadership program $100,000
Salary/Bene?ts: $95,000

- Supplies: $5,000

- Fareboxes: $5,500,000
- Hardware. soitware and equipment;
$9,489,120

 

Brief Statement of Priorities] Purpose for the
Application

Sample: To support expansion of promising
youth development programs in MM)
neighborhood.

To sopport the replacement of the current fare
collection system on all transit buses. This will
include new fareboxes. so?ware. hardware and
support equipment.

 

Key Performance Indicators to be Used to
Measure the 
Sample:

newly enrolled in ABC and 

96 of kids from ABC who demonstrate
improved educational performance

 

 

NIA

 

 

Angelica Jones

Director?s Name [Please Print)

 

Signature


Dat

79

 

ME MORAN DUM

TO: Mr. David Whitaker, Director

Legislative Policy Division

City of Detroit
FROM: Roy McCalister, Jr., Councilman 

City of Detroit
DATE: July 17, 2019
RE: How can we create a (Parking) ?Kiosk Free Zone? prohibiting installation on speci?c

thorough fares within the City of Detroit?

1. Requesting to have a ?Kiosk Free Zone? on Livernois Avenue between Eight Mile Road to the
North and Lodge Freeway to the south, on both the east and west sides of the street?

2. Do we have to create an ordinance or some sort or a?Kiosk Free Zone? petition process?

Can City Council as a body vote on ?Kiosk Free Zone? requests or sectors?

4. If there is a way to keep parking kiosks from speci?c areas can you please advise this body on
the best practice to enact?

D.)

This is an effort to assist the current and future businesses along the above described Livernois
corridor in building their customer base. This measure would also further the efforts in customer
appreciation during the various stages of streetscapes, construction and other renovations.

Sincerely,

    

Roy 
Detroit City Council

CC: Esteemed Colleagues
City Clerk

 

Qtity of Eetrnit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM
DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

 

TO: James E. Craig, Chief of Police, Detroit Poli r:
FROM: Council President Pro Tem Mary Shef?el
DATE: July 16, 2019

RE: Detroit Police Department Surveillance Technology Questions

 

1) Since the approval of the Data Works contract in 2017, how many times has the facial
recognition software been used?

2) How many times has the facial recognition software been used, as the deciding factor,
when bringing a case to a close?

3) What camera locations have been utilized in order to screen shot images for the use of the
Data Works facial recognition software?

4) How many times has the facial recognition software falsely identi?ed persons who were
processed by the software?

CQE i Honorable Colleagues
City Clerk

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


 

 

CITY COUNCIL

 

MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM

DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

THRU:

DATE:

Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel, Law Department

Council President Pro Tem Mary Shef?eld

Council Member Benson, Chair, Public Health Safety Standing Committee
July 18, 2019

Community Input Over Government Surveillance (CIOGS) Ordinance

 

Please see the attached ordinance for Community Input Over Government Surveillance (CIOGS)
and approve as to form.

CC:

Honorable Colleagues
City Clerk

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


10

11

12

SUMMARY

This proposed ordinance amends Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and
Taxation, by amending Article V, Purchase and Supplies, to add Division 12, Community Input
Over Government Surveillance; Sections 18?12-191 through 18-12-200; to de?ne essential terms,
to require City Council approval of all surveillance technology procurements, to require a public
City Council hearing prior to any City Council surveillance technology procurement approvals, to
require submission of a Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report with procurement
requests to City Council, to require an annual Surveillance Technology Procurement Report from
relevant municipal agencies to City Council of all new acquisitions of surveillance technology, to
require an Annual Surveillance Use Report from relevant municipal agencies to City Council of
government surveillance activities, to require a public engagement meeting regarding the Annual
Surveillance Use Report, to establish a public reporting system for government surveillance

procurements, to provide for use of unapproved surveillance technology in exigent circumstances,

to prohibit certain problematic contractual provisions, and to establish whistleblower protections.



COUNCIL MEMBER

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and
Taxation, by amending Article V, Purchase and Supplies, to add Division 12, Community Input
Over Government Surveillance; Sections 18?12-191 through 18-12-200; to de?ne essential terms,
to require City Council approval of all surveillance technology procurements, to require a public
City Council hearing prior to any City Council surveillance technology procurement approvals, to
require submission of a Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report with procurement
requests to City Council, to require an annual Surveillance Technology Procurement Report from
relevant municipal agencies to City Council of all new. acquisitions of surveillance technology, to
require an Annual Surveillance Use Report from relevant municipal agencies to City Council of
government surveillance activities, to require a public engagement meeting regarding the Annual
Surveillance Use Report, to establish a public reporting system for government surveillance
procurements, to provide for use of unapproved sun-*eillance technology in exigent circumstances,
to prohibit certain problematic contractual pro visions, and to establish whistleblower protections.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section I: That Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation, Article
V, Purchases and Supplies, Division 12, Commtmity Input Over Government Surveillance,
Sections 18-12-1?91 through 18-12-200 be added to read as follows:

CHAPTER 18. FINANCE AND TAXATION

ARTICLE V. PURCHASE AND SUPPLIES

 

Sag, 13-12-191. De?nitions.

For the purpose of this division, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings

respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Surveillance data means any electronic data collected. captured. recorded. retaing
processed. intercepted. analyzed. or shared by surveillance technology.

technology means any electronic surveillance device. hardware. or software
that is capable of collecting, capturing. recording. retaining. processing. intercepting. analyzing.
monitoring. or sharing audio. visual. digital. location. thermal. biometric. or similar information
or communications specifically associated with. or capable ofbeing associated with. any speci?c
individual or group; or any system. device. or vehicle that. is on nipped with an electronic
surveillance device. hardware. or software.

(I) Surveillance technology is not limited to:

 

 

 

 

 

a. International mobile subscriber identity'WSl) catchers  other cell site
simulators

b. Automatic license plite readers;

c. . Electronic-toll readers;

(1. Closed-circuit television catheters;

e. Aometri?c surveillance technology. including facial. voice. iris. and gait-

 

recognition software and databases;

f. Mobile DNA capture technologg

g. Gunshotdetection and location hardware and services;

11. Kim! Van's:

i. Video and audio monitoring and/or recording technology. such as
surveillance cameras. wide?angle cameras. and wearable body cameras;

j. Surveillance enabled or capable iightbulbs or light ?xture_s;_

Tools, including software and hardware, used to gain unauthorized access

to a computer, computer service, or computer network;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Social media monitoring software;

111. Through~the-wall radar or similar imaging technologv,

n. Passive scanners of radio networks,

0. Long-range Bluetooth and other wireless-jse'anning devices,

13. Radio-freq uencv I.D. (REID) scanners, and

q. Software designed to integrate or analyze. data from Surveillance

Technologv, including  not limited to  video andfor audio
monitoring, social media rnonitori=nigl surveillance itarge?t__- tracking, and
predictive policing ao?ware.

Surveillance technolo gv doesnot include the foll'ov?ng devices or hardware, unless

they have been equipped with, or are modi?ed?to become or include, a surveillance

techno logy as de?ngtlin this section;

a. Routine-of?ce hardwage,_suchzas televisions, computers, and printers, that
is in widespremUblie use and will not he used for any Surveillance or

. surveillanLe-related function;

h, Parking  Devices 

c. Cell- phones;

(1. Manually-operated, non-wearable, handheld digital cameras, audio
recorders, and video recorders that are not designed to be used
surreptitiously and whose functionalitv is limited to manually capturing and

manuallv downloading video andfor audio recordings;

Sec. 18-12-192.

e. Surveillance devices that cannot record or transmit audio or Video or be

remotely accessed. such as image stabilizing binoculars or night vision
0 les'

f. Municipal agency databases that do not and will not contain any data or
other information collected. captured, recorded. retained, processedr
intercepted or analyzed by surveillancetechnology; and

g. Manually-operated technological access that are used primarily for internal
municipal agency communications and are not designed to surreptitiously

collect surveillance dates such as radios and email smems.

City Council approval of all surveillance technologg? fgrocurernents;

submission of. and reliance upon, Syveillauce Reports.



Pursuant to Section 4?122 of the municipal agencies must obtain City

Council approvalpsubsequent to a preperly-noticed public Cin Council hearing, before
engaging in an_y- "o the

following procurements:

ll}

Seekingpr accepting nonu'City Council approved funds for the

procurement of a? surveillauw no: 



 

approved by the City Council? including but not limited to applying for a grant,

 

soliciting or accepting other local, state, or federal funding for new surveillance

 

technology, or soliciting or accepting in?kind or other donations of or for new

 

surveillance technology;
Acquiring or borrowing a surveillance technology not previously approved by the
City Council. whether or not that procurement is made through the exchange of

monies or other consideration or at no cost; or

(3) Using new or previouslv procured surveillance technology for a purpose or in a
manner not previouslv enumerated in a Surveillance Technologv Speci?cation

Report that was submitted pursuant to Subsection (cl of this section; or

The public City Council hearing required by Subsection of this section may be foregone,
with respect to a speci?c procurement request, pursuant to a vote by a two thirds majority of
City Council membeis serving.

All applicable Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Reports associated with a

surveillance technology, as well as any other applicable policies, isth ards, and procedures, shall be
submitted to the City Council

 

by the requesting agency or, in the case of the-Police Department, in conjunction with the Police

 

Board of Commissioners, concurrently with any request for the approval of'theprocurement of a

surveillance technology. In the case ofa procurement reggt bv the Police Department, the
Council shall be provided a com; of the applicable govern ing_polieyr approved bv the Board of
Police Commissioners at the time the rquzst is submitted.

 

Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Reports submitted for procurement of new
surveillance technology shall be made available to the public, at a designated page on the City

website and, where apublic City Council hearing-is required pursuant to Subsections and of this
section, it shall be posted at least 30 days prior to the City Council hearing.

 

Any Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report that is submitted with a

 

surveillance teclmology procurement approval request approved by City Council shall be made

 

available to the public for as long as the related surveillance technology remains in use by or in

 

the possession of the municipal agency.

The City Council shall only approve a procurement request for a Surveillance
technology under this section if it determines the bene?ts of the surveillance technology outweigh
its costs. that the proposal will safeguard civil liberties and civil rights, and that the uses and

deplovments of the surveillance technologv will not be based upon discriminatory or viewpoint?

based factors or have a disparate impact on any community or group.



Any granting of permission to procure a surveillance technology

made pursuant to this

division shall be ore-conditioned and done in reliance upon the information. obligations. and

limitations set forth in the Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report provided to the City

Council pursuant to Subsection of this section.

(1)





Any non-trivial inaccuracies contained in the information provided in a
Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report-er any non trivial violations of the
obligations or limitations set forth in a- iSuweimce Technology Speci?cation
Report provided to the City Council'pursuant to Subsec=tgm of this section shall
be deemed grounds for the City Council to revoke its authorization for
the related surveillance technology.

Upon a vote of the City Council to revoke it's eillance technology procurement
authorization, pursuant to Subsection 1) of this section. all uses of the
previously authorized cease until such time as they
are approved in accordance with Subsection a) of this section.

Pennission to  or use 18. new make or model of a surveillance technology

does not have to be sought where it's ?ngctionality and capabilities do not differ in any signi?cant

way from a previously approved version of the same surveillance technology.

Sec. 18-12-193. Surveillance Technolog}r Speci?cation Reports.

A Surveillance Teebggilogy Speci?cation Report. the contents of which shall constitute
an enumeration of preconditions for the City Council?s approval of the procurement and
ongoing use of any surveillance technology, shall be a publicly-released report,

written by the requesting agency or. in the case of the Police Department: in coniunction with the

6

Police Board of Commissioners, that includes. at a minimum, the following:

(1)

(2)

(3)





Description: Information describing the surveillance technology and its

capabilities;

Purpose: What speci?c purpose(s) the surveillance technology is intended to

advance.

Deployment: If the surveillance technology will not be uniformly deployed or

targeted throughout the City, what factors will be used to determine where the

technology is deployed er targeted;

Fiscal impact: The fiscal impact of the surveillance technology; and

Civil Rights! Liberties Impacts: An assessMidentifying with speci?city:

a. Any potential adverse impacts the surveillance technology, if deployed,
might have on civil liberties and civil rights; and

b. What specific, af?rmative measures will be implemented to safeguard the

public from the pretends; adverse impacts identi?ed in Subsection 5(a) of
this section.

 

(6)

Authorized Use: For what specific capabilities and uses of the surveillance

 

technology is authorization being Sought, and

 

a. What legal :and?vprocedural rules will govern each authorized use;

 

b. What potential uses of the surveillance technology will be expressly

Qrohibi?ted;

 

. Who, by employment category or position, will be authorized to operate the

 

'teehnologtanda?or access its data; and

 

d. How and under what circumstances will surveillance data that was

collected. captured: recorded. or intercepted by the surveillance technology

7

analyzed and reviewed.

Data Collection:
a. What types of surveillance data will be collected, captured, recorded,

intercepted, or retained by the surveillance technology;

b. What surveillance data maybe inadvertenth collected during the authorized

uses of the surveillance teclmology, and what measures will be taken to

minimize the inadvertent collection of data; and

 

 

 

 

 

c. How inadvertently collected surveill?ce data will be expeditiously
identi?ed and deleted.
Data Protection: What safeguards Will be used to ptoteot surveillance data from
unauthorized access, including and access control- mechanisms.
(9) Data Retention: Insofar as the privacy of tl?hlic can be severer compromised

 

by the long-term storage ofm'ass surveillance data, what rules and procedures will

govern the retention of surveillance daJLincluding those governing:

a. The limited time periodLif any; survtt?lggce data will be retained. Such
informatiOn shall include a I statement explaining why the designated
retention letiod is negate: than that which is absolutely necessary to
achieve the speci?c purposets) enumerated in the Surveillance Technology
Speci?cation Report

b. The spec'?g conditions that must be met to retain surveillance data beyond
the-retention period identi?ed pursuant to Subsection a) of this section;

0. The process utilized to regularly delete surveillance data after the retention
period stated in Subsection at of this section has elapsed and the auditing

procedures that will be implemented to ensure data is not improperly
retained;

(10) Surveillance Data Sharing: If a municipal agency is seeking authorization to share
access to surveillance technology or surveillance data with any other governmental
agencies. departments. bureaus. divisions. or units. or non-governmental persons or
entities in the absence of a judicial warrant or other legal mandate. it shall detail:
a. Which governmental agencies, departments, bureaus, divisions, or units, or

non-governmental persons or entities be approved for surveillance
technology sharing, and for ('iil surveillance data sharing;
b. How such sharing is necessary for the stated purpose and use of the
surveillance technology;
c. How it will ensure any to the surveillance technology
or surveillance data cemplies with the?applicable Surveillance Technology
Speci?cation Report?and dome not further the surveillance data to
menthol-iced persons and egtj?es; and I
d. What processes . will be  to seek City Council approval of future
surveillance technology or surVeillance data sharing agreements.
Demands fer Access to..Surveillance Data: What legal standard must be met by
government entities or third parties seeking or demanding acceSs to surveillance

Auditing and Oversight: What mechanisms will be implemented to ensure the

 

Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report is followed, including what
independent persons or entities will be given oversight authority. if and how regular

audits will be conducted, and in the ease of the Detroit Police Department. also how

(13)

(14)

the Board of Police Commissioners will be involved in the auditing and oversight
process.

Training: What training requirements will be required in connection with the use of
the surveillance technologv. What quali?cations and special skills will be required
of persons authorized to use the surveillance technoloav.

Complaints: What procedures will allow members of the public to register
complaints or concerns, or submit questions about the deplovment or use of a
speci?c surveillance the municipal agencv will ensure each

question and complaint is respOgibd to in a timer manner. 

Sec. 18?12-194. Annual Surveillance Technology Procurement Report.



Not later than March sitsl?ofeach vear. anviginicipal agency using a surveillance

technolon must submit to itv Council a_n__da in the case of the Detroit Police Department also to

the Board of Police Cominissioners, and-make available on its public website, an Annual

 

Surveillance Technolo gvi Procurement Report.



The Annual Surveillance" -'Teelmologv Procurement Report shall include the

followinginfonnation for'the?previous calendar year:



(3)

The total dollar value of all contracts associated with procurement of new
surveillance technology;

The total nurnberiot? contracts entered into for the procurement of new surveillance
mgr;

The number of occasions where surveillance technology was acquired temporarily
from other iurisdictions or entities. as well as the name(s} of the applicable

iurisdictionts) or entitvts?].

10

Sec. 18?12-195. Annu



rveillan Use Re 

Not later than March 31St of each year, any municipal agency using a surveillance

technologv must submit to the Citv Council and. in the case ot?the Detroit Police Department also

to the Board of Police Commissioners. and make available en its public website. an Annual

Surveillance Use Report for each speci?c surveillance technolggv used at am time during the

calendar veer.

(bl

The Annual Surveillance Use Report shall include the following information for

the previous calendar veer:

l1}



(6)

A brief overview of how surveillance technology coll'eeltedvdata;

The total number of hours the surveillance was used;

The total number of incidents for which thezweillance technologv was used 
The number of tim es surveil=l?1nce data the surveillance technologv was shared
with external entities, the namefs) of. all . reagent entities, the tvpe(s) of data
disclosed, and the general reason for the disclosure(s), unless disclosing such
information would disrupt the operation of a valid, con?dential agreement between
or among law enforcement agencies;

The number of times surveillance data was acquired from external entities the
namet's?if all entities sharing surveillance data. the tvpefs) of data acquired. and
the general reason for acquisition.

The geographic deplovment of surveillance technologv. by individual census tract
as de?ned in the relevant vear bv the United States Census Bureau. For each census
tract, the municipal agencv shall report how manv individual davs the surveillance

tecluiologv was deploved.

11

The length of time surveillance technology was used to monitor internet activity;
as well as the number of specifically targeted people who were monitored.

(8) A summary of complaints or concerns that were received about the surveillance
technology;

(9) The results of any internal audits, any information about violations of the applicable

Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Reports. and any actions taken in response?L

 

 

a_nc_1
(10) Total annual costs for the surveillaneevtechnologv, including personnel and other
ongoing costs. and the sources of =ft_u1ding for the technolo gy the next ?scal year.
For purposes of this section, ?external ?eei?shall not include persons acting in

 

 

their individual capacities.
Sec. 18-12-196. Public engagement meeting;

Not later than 45 days of submission ofthe Annual Surveillance Use Report to Citv Council
in accordance with Subsetition 18-12-195fa) of .this code, anv municipal agency using a
surveillance technolmapproveipursuant to Q's ordinance, and in the case of the Detroit Police
Department in coordination with the Board of Police Commissioners, shall hold one or more well-

publicized and conveniently located comnmnitv engagement meetings at which the general public

is invited to discuss-and ask questions regarding the Annual Surveillance Use Report and the
municipal

 

agency?s use of surveillance technologies.

 

Not later than April 30th of each vear, the Citv Council or its appointed designee, shall
release an annual public report, in print and on the City website, containing the following

information for the proceeding calendar vear:

12

(1) The number of requests for approval submitted to the City Council for the 
funding, acquisition. and new uses of surveillance technologv;
(2) The number of times the City Council approved requests submitted for the 
funding acquisition. and new uses of surveillance tecimologv;
(3) The number of times the City Council rejected requests submitted for the 
funding, acquisition, and new uses of surveillance tecluiology;
(4) All Annual Surveillance Use Reports issued with}; the previous year.
See. 18-12-198. Use of unapproved surveillance te'chnologv in exigent circumstances
A municipal agencv may temporarili,r acquire. or temporgr?y uset surveillance
technologv in exigent circumstances without following the-pro?sions of this ordinance provided
that the municipal agency does all of the following:
(I) Use the surveillance to solelyr respond to the exigent circumstances:
(2) Cease mute the Surveillance technol=ogv within seven calendar days, or when the
exigent circumstance-end. whichever is sooner;

(3.) 'Keepgnd maintain onl data related to the exigent circumstances and dispose
of any

 

data that is not relevant to an ongoing investigation, unless its retention is 

 

authorized by a court based on a ?nding of probable cause to believe the

 

information constitutes evidence of a crime; or otherwise required by law;

 

(4) Not disclose to any third party any information acquired during exigent
circumstances unless such disclosure is a) authorized bv a court based on a ?nding
ofprobable cause to believe the information constitutes evidence of a crime: or 

otherwise required by law:

13

Within 45 days of the initiation of the exigent circumstances submit a written report

to the City Council summarizing that acquisition and/or use:

Any technology temporarily acquired in exigent circumstances shall be returned
within seven davs following its acquisition, or when the exigent circumstances end. whichever is
w.
?ag, 18-12-199. Certain contracts prohibited.

It shall be unlawful for any municipal  to enter into any centract or
agreement that con?icts with the provisions of this-ordinance, includingbut not limited to contracts
or agreements containing non-disclosure agreements.

It shall be unlawful for any municipal agech to enter into any contract or
agreement that facilitates the exchange of sru'veillance dag in return for monetarv or any other
form of consideration, including the assessment of additional fees or Surcharges on unpaid ?nes
or debts.

Sec. 18-12?200. Prohibitions; protections.

It shall be unlaw?rl for anv municipg] agencv to violate anv provision of this
ordinance-including but not-limited to. funding, acquiring, or using a surveillance technolotrv that
has not been approved pursuant: to this ordinance or utilizing a surveillance technologv in a manner
or for a purpose that has not been enumerated in a Surveillance Technolonv Speci?cation Report
that accompanied an approved surveillance technology procurement request submitted pursuant to
Section 18-12-192 of this code.

Municipal employees or agents shall not use any surveillance technology in a

manner that is inconsistent with or exceeds the terms of the Surveillance Technology Speci?cation

Report that accompanied an approved surveillance technolon procurement pursuant to Subsection

14

18-12-192(c) of this section. or pursuant to Section 18-12-197 of this code. and may in no
circumstances utilize surveillance technology in a manner which is discriminatory, vievvpointw
based, or violates the Charter, State Constitution, or United States Constitution.

Any municipal employee or agent who violates this ordinance shall be subiect to
appropriate disciplinary measures.

No municipal agency or anyone acting on 1131131719 of a municipal agency may take
or fail to take. or threaten to take or fail to talte, a personnel aetion with respect to any employee
or applicant for employment, including but not limited to di?c=rimination with respect to
compensation, terms, conditions. access to information, restrictions-ion due process rights,
privileges of employment, or civil or criminal liability, because the employee or applicant was
perceived to. about to, or assisted in,  lam disclosure of information concerning the funding,
acquisition, or use of a surveillance teChnology or Surveillance data, to any relevant municipal
agency, municipal law enforcement, prosecutorjgl, or investigatorv of?ce, or Citv Council
Member. based upon a good faithbelief that the disclosure evidenced a violation of this ordinance.

Section 2. All ordinanCes, parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are

repealed.

Section 3. The provisions in this ordinance are severable. If any part or provision of
this ordinance, or the application of this ordinance to any person, entity, or circumstance,
is held invalid, the remainder of this ordinance, including the application of such part or
provision to other persons, entities, or circumstances, shall not be affected by such
holding and shall continue to have force and effect.

Section 4. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary for the preservation of the public
peace, health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 5. Where this ordinance is passed by two thirds majority of City
Council

Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon publication

15

22 in accordance with Section 4?118(1) of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is

23 passed by less than two thirds majority of City Council members serving, it shall become

1 effective thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with Section 4?1 18(2) of the 2012 Detroit

 

2 City Charter.

3 Approved as to form:
4

5

6

7 Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

 
  

16

 

(titty of Eetrm?t

CITY 

 

 

JAMES E. TATE, Jr.
COUNCIL MEMBER

MEMORANDUM

CC:

TO: David Whitaker
Director, Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Councilman James E. Tate, Jr.  
DATE: July 18, 2017
RE: Hospital Parking Standards

 

It has come to my attention that while many hospitals within the City of Detroit
currently charge patients and visitors for off-street parking, many hospitals
elsewhere provide on?site off-street parking free of charge. Understanding the
dif?culty associated with being hospitalized or caring for a loved one who is
hospitalized, the additional burden of having to pay for parking appears to be an
unnecessary one that should at the very least be minimized to the extent possible.

Therefore, I am requesting that the Legislative Policy Division provide a report
outlining which hospitals in the metro-Detroit area currently require patients and
visitors to pay for on?site off-street parking on their respective campuses and
which hospitals provide such parking free of charge. In addition, please identify
what legislative remedies, if any, may be available for the City of Detroit to
encourage hospitals located within the City to provide free parking for patients
and visitors. Lastly, please also identify any legislation that has been adopted by
other governmental entities across the country to do the same.

If you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to contact DeAndree
Watson of my of?ce at (313) 224-0278. Thank you in advance for your prompt
attention to this matter.

Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, City Clerk?s Of?ce
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226

(313) 224-1027 Fax (313) 224-0372


