 ?23 - 5101' 
(?aw-mm

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

 

 

Submitted by Council
Member Castaneda-Lopez
7/18/2019

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

Patterson Dog and Cat Hospital

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

  

One Hundred Seventy-Five Year Anniversary

In 2019, Patterson Dog and Cat Hospital celebrates 175 years of service. The hospital,
located at 3800 Grand River in the Woodbridge Community of Detroit, Michigan, is the
oldest continuously-operated small business in Detroit and the oldest veterinary hospital in
the country. The hospital was established in 1844 at 19 Griswold Street by James Patterson,
an English immigrant. The practice served the city?s draft horses and farm animals; and

In 1909, James son, Elijah Patterson, took over the practice and moved it to an interim
location before settling at the current Grand River location. The ?rst floor could house 25
horses. Some patients arrived in a horse ambulance, now on display at The Henry Ford
Museum?s Green?eld Village; and

The Patterson family practice was an integral part of the city?s transportation history. When
Detroiters transitioned from horses to cars, the practice gradually began seeing more pets.
Elijah?s son, James, took over the practice in 1926 and converted it into a small animal
hospital with cat and dog kennels, labs and operating rooms. Patterson?s history tells much
of the city?s story, from small-town farming and shipping community, through its rise as a
world-class city, including its toughest years. Patterson Dog and Cat Hospital is registered
as part of the National Historic District of Woodbridge; and

In 1966, it was purchased by Eugene Miller, who modernized and maintained the operation
until I985, when the clinic?s current owner, Dr. Glynes Graham purchased the hOSpital. Dr.
Graham was no stranger to the practice having worked there since she was 15. Dr. Graham
reports in recent years the hospital has seen an increase in visits in response to Detroit?s
resurgence. The surge in new visitors has lead the practice to expand hours and hire a
second full-time veterinarian; and

A historic marker for Detroit?s oldest business, Patterson Dog and Cat Hospital, will be
dedicated during a block party on July 20, 2019 celebrating 175 years worth of the highest
quality, compassion-driven veterinary care for dogs and cats. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez and her colleagues on the Detroit City Council
celebrates with the Patterson Dog and Cat Hospital and staff on 175 years of commitment
to the City of Detroit. Thank you for providing the very best care for the dogs and cats of
Detroit.

 

.4

90

 

7 COUNCIL .- BER

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER

COUNCIL PRESIDENT 49
.. .1 1 


    

 

COUNCIL MEMBER
July 20, 2019

DATE

 

