SSA #2 Commissioners’ Meeting
5534 W. Belmont Avenue
April 16, 2019, 2pm

Commissioners Present: Darlene Ortiz, John Toumplis, Mike Valenti, Kelly Rauch,
Zbigniew Kruczalak, Mark Roschen (DPD-Ex Officio)
Commissioners Absent: none
Others Present: Paul Reise (DPD), Joy Coombes (Eilts & Associates), Reid Mackin
(BCCC), Larry Lynch (Coldwell Banker), Michael Caldarulo (BCCC), David Potete
(Northwest Community Church), Vic Rini (Retired CPD), Teresa Kovacs (Central
Pharmacy).
Quorum & Meeting Minutes
With six commissioners present, a quorum was determined to exist. Mike motioned to
accept the February minutes; Darlene seconded the motion, and the motion was
approved unanimously.
Administration
Reid reminded the commissioners that the City and the County require separate
Statements of Financial Interest that need to be submitted by May 1 for the County and
May 31 for the City.
Joy reviewed and explained each page of the draft audit. Kelly asked whether the
insurance premiums are affected by the staffing levels at the garage. Reid replied that
the insurance company’s primary basis for setting premiums is the number of claims
submitted of which there has been only one in the past eight years; however, he will
question the insurance broker during the annual review in June. Mike motioned to
approve the 2018 audit; John seconded the motion, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
No action was taken on the commission bylaws, but a special meeting in May will be
called to discuss the bylaws. Kelly said she wants to see the commission expanded by
four members and have it included in the new bylaws.
Finances
The 2019 balance sheet, first quarter actual versus budget, first quarter actual versus
2018, and proposed 2020 budget were presented. No comments were made, but a
special meeting will be held in May to discuss the 2020 budget.

 Other/New Business
Vic commented that he would like to see the foot patrol restored on Belmont Avenue
and the speed limit be reduced to 20 mph on Belmont.

Proposed 2019 Meeting Schedule
Mark recommended that a “Doodle.com” be emailed to find the most accommodating
date in May to hold the next meeting.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 4:00 p.m.

 