Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Subcommittee on Workers' Compensation
11:45 AM
Wednesday, July 24, 2019

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairman S. Morrison, Vice-Chairman Britton, Degnen, Johnson and K. Morrison (5)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman S. Morrison asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
No public speakers
Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner K. Morrison, moved that the Workers’
Compensation Subcommittee convene in Open Session to consider matters of pending
Workers’ Compensation. The motion carried.
Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner K. Morrison, moved Approval of the
cases over $25,000.00. The motion carried.
19-4509
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 6/25/2019.
A motion was made by Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, to approve
19-4509. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman S. Morrison, Vice-Chairman Britton, Degnen, Johnson and K. Morrison (5)

1. SETTLEMENTS AND DECISIONS

 BURT, NORA
10 WC 39851

Petitioner injured her lower back and left hand while trying to
restrain two detainees from fighting.
Vice Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

COFFEY, MATTHEW
18 WC 005144

Petitioner was parked in his work vehicle when it was hit by
another driver.
Vice Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

DADE, CHIRL A.
17 WC 34488

Petitioner sustained injuries to her head, neck, right arm, elbow
and wrist.
Vice Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

FERGUSON, WILLIAM
18 WC 582

Petitioner sustained injuries to his ribs and sternum after the car
he was driving was hit on the driver’s side.

Vice Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.
FOWLER, JASON
15WC 33315

15 WC 33316

Petitioner injured his left hand and wrist while attempting to
subdue a combative detainee.
Petitioner injured both of his knees while attempting to subdue a
combative detainee.

Vice Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.
HALL, SCOTT
16 WC 0497

Petitioner was working in visitations when he was hit on the head
with a glass bottle and crutch.
Vice Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

 HAYES, THOMAS
16 WC 28470

18 WC 03783

Petitioner was working with heavy machinery when he felt severe
knee pain.
Petitioner was placing construction materials into a dumpster. The
next morning, he woke with swelling and pain in his knees.
Vice Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

ROBINSON, EVELYN
11 WC 00174

Petitioner stepped off the elevator and slipped on water left on the
floor and fell injuring her knees, left shoulder and right thumb.
Vice Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

SPAIN, JOSEPH
16 WC 25283

Petitioner slipped on ice and fell in the employee parking lot
injuring his right elbow and right leg.

Vice Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner K. Morrison, seconded by Vice-Chairman Britton, to
adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman S. Morrison, Vice-Chairman Britton, Degnen, Johnson and K. Morrison (5)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

 