SSA 54 Commission Meeting Thurs., April 11, 2019, 8am, Royal Coffee

Minutes
In Attendance: Heather Hill, Commissioner; Jennifer Clark, Commissioner; Chris Bell, Commissioner;
Tony Fox, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, SSA #54 Manager

1.Welcome
2. Community & Public Input
There was no community & public input.
3. Approval of February 14, 2019 Minutes
Tony Fox moved to approve the minutes. Chris Bell seconded it. Jennifer Clark abstained. Motion
passed.
4. 2018 Audit by A.C.T. Group
Amy Pooley of A.C.T. Group presented the 2018 draft audit and went through the report. There were no
questions. Jennifer Clark moved to approve the audit. Chris Bell seconded it. Motion passed.
5. Commissioner Seats Open
Currently there are three seats open. There was a discussion to reach out to businesses on Sheridan
Road and it doesn’t matter if the business is an independent or chain retailer.
6. CDOT Update for Electrical Boxes
Cynthia reported that CDOT has approved a pilot program to wrap one electrical box and one street
lamp post with Street Graffiti Solutions anti-graffiti wrap for 60 days. At the end of the 60 days, CDOT
will make a decision whether or not we can move forward. If approved, we could then we could issue a
RFP for mural artists to design the wraps. Cynthia also spoke with Principal Augie Emuwa of Gale
Academy who stated that their art teacher does not have any interest in designing artwork for this
project.
7. Landscape Rebate
The Commissioners want to offer the landscaping rebate program to property owners or business
owners who want to plant flowers. We will reimburse up to 50% of the cost with a maximum of $500 for
each owner.
8. Loyola Contribution Financials
There were no questions regarding the Loyola Contribution Financials.

 9. Program Tracker 2019
There were no questions regarding the Program Tracker.

10. Old Business
11. New Business
Meeting adjourned at 9:25 am.

***Upcoming Commission #54 Meeting Dates***
Second Thursday of Every Other Month – Thurs., June 6, 2019 at 8 am

 