STATE OF ILLINOIS
COUNTY OF COOK

July 11, 2019

MINUTES FOR THE REGULAR MONTHLY BOARD MEETING
NORTH SHORE MOSQUITO ABATEMENT DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
At the convened monthly meeting for the North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Board of Trustees held at the District office, 117 Northfield Road, Northfield, Illinois,
Thursday, July 11, 2019. President Zbesko called the meeting to order at 7:01 pm.
ROLL CALL
Trustee Carol Blustein
Trustee Nelson Howard
Trustee Kathleen Kendrick
Trustee John Zbesko
Trustee William Zimmer

Present
Present (Arrived at 7:15)
Present
Present
Present

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE
Executive Director Mark Clifton
Communications Manager David Zazra
Attorney Ross Secler of Odelson & Sterk
Internal Operations Manager Jennifer Zimmer
I.

MINUTES

Approval of Minutes: Minutes of the June 6, 2019, meeting of the NSMAD were
approved as corrected and distributed to the members of the Board. Trustee Kendrick
moved to approve, Trustee Blustein seconded. All ayes.
II.

REPORT FROM BOARD OFFICERS

President: No report.
Vice President: No report.
Secretary: No report.
Trustee: No report.
Treasurer: Trustee Zimmer read financials as well as June bills and payrolls. In June, total
receipts were $0, total disbursements were $134,167 and total assets were $1,985,471.
All totals rounded to the nearest dollar. The finance report was accepted. The report will
be filed for the audit.

1

 III.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S AND LAB REPORT:

Operationally, the Executive Director informed the Trustees that the first round of
larvicide treatments has been completed. This first round includes just about 50,000
basins and is on pace with treatments done last year. Early season floodwater larviciding
efforts have paid off, there are few nuisance complaints and no adult mosquito control
has been conducted so far this season.
At the August meeting the Executive Director will ask for Board approval for Fieldseeker
software. Final quotes look to be $5,000-$10,000 less than what was estimated in the
District’s Five Year Plan. The information will be available ahead of the August meeting.
Also, the Executive Director will be attending the AMCA Board of Directors meeting in
Portland on the day of the scheduled November Board meeting. There will be a request
to reschedule meeting on the August meeting agenda.
In September, the District will be receiving native plants to plant a pollinator garden in
the front of the building. Also, a surplus RAMP reader will be donated to Stickney
Township at the request of Cook County Public Health.
In the lab, testing and surveillance has shown that overall mosquito abundance is average
for this time of the year and the vector index is far below the index seen at this time in
2018. Nuisance mosquitoes numbers are low and below the amount trapped last year. As
a result, there have been few complaint calls from residents.
The District’s PCR system is working well. Due the improvement in testing methods
West Nile virus was detected earlier in the season than usual, but the vector index
remains low. If the vector index rises, adult mosquito control will be considered.
The lab is almost ready to begin testing mosquitoes for St. Louis Encephalitis. Materials
have also been ordered to be able to test dog ticks that may carry Rocky Mountain
Spotted Fever, which a few residents of Cook County have contracted in years past.
(Trustee Nelson Howard arrived at 7:15 pm)
Finally, the Trustees were presented with the District’s second photovoltaic system
production quarterly report for 2019. Executive Director Clifton explained to the Trustees
that the system continues to work well.
IV.

REPORT FROM LEGAL COUNSEL:

Attorney Ross Secler informed the Trustees that he is working on an update to the
District’s Full Time Employee Manual for the Trustees to review and vote on at the
August meeting.

2

 V.

COMMUNICATION MANAGER’S REPORT:

Communications Manager, Dave Zazra, updated the Board on public relations and
communications activities for the month of June, including media releases regarding
WNV positives, public outreach to residents, intergovernmental outreach, updates to the
website and GovDelivery and Twitter messaging metrics.
VI. INTERNAL OPERATION MANAGER’S REPORT:
Internal Operations Manager, Jennifer Zimmer, updated the Board on the financial
operations of the District, information on upcoming activities at the next Board meeting
and a second quarter financial report.
VII.

OLD BUSINESS: None

IX.

NEW BUSINESS: None

Announcements:
August 1, 2019, at 7:00 P.M. and NSMAD headquarters, 117 Northfield Road,
Northfield, IL, were fixed as the time and place of the next regular meeting. Trustee
Zbesko asked for a motion to adjourn. Trustee Blustein seconded. All ayes.
Adjournment: The July 11th meeting was adjourned at 7:39 pm.
ATTESTED
President, John Zbesko

SUBMITTED
Secretary, Kitty Kendrick

3

 