MINUTES
Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday July 18th, 2019
Location: Belle Isle Flynn Pavilion
Meeting called to order at 9:02 a.m.
EXCUSED ABSENCES
Bryan Barnhill
PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Chair Michele Hodges
Michael Curis
Bud Denker
Rev. Lonnie Peek
Sommer Woods
DNR STAFF PRESENT
Ron Olson
Michael Terrell
Karis Floyd
Darlisa Rickman
REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Approval of Minutes for May 16th, 2019:
Moved by: Michael Curis
Seconded by: Sommer Woods
On June 20th no Quorum was established the minutes will be received and filed.
General Updates
DNR Chief Ron Olson
We have invited a representative from the Army Corps of Engineers to update everyone on the
Great Lakes levels. The impact from the high-water level has been felt all over Michigan not
just here at Belle Isle Park. We even had to move our annual Metro Youth Day to the drier area
of the park due to those issues. It was a success and the staff did a great job. It was a great
highlight event at the park.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 18, 2019
1

 United States Army Corp of Engineers Presentation
Lauren M. Fry, Ph.D.
All the information from the presentation can be found online at:
https://www.lre.usace.army.mil/
The slides will also be posted on the Belle Isle Website: BelleIslePark.org
Ron Olson: There were 2 major things that we confronted due to the ongoing flooding:
One of the DTE electric supply substations had to be closed due to the flooding and we came
very close to losing complete power on the island. There was also a concern from Detroit Water
and Sewer Department (DWSD) about there being too much water run-off from the land into the
storm sewer, and the possibility of it mixing and causing a backup. The Department of
Environment, Great Lakes and Energy (EGLE) was out here and did some testing and extra
efforts had to be made due to that issue. So those were the two issues that were raising the most
concern for now. There are a lot of issues at work that are difficult to control. It does create
safety issues because people want to fish and get close to the water. There are also kayakers that
the currents can create an issue for.
Bud Denker: What do you expect for us next year relative to the trends that you’ve seen? What
is your relationship to the International Joint Commission on the Great Lakes?
Lauren Fry: There is really no way to fully anticipate what the trend will be, but we utilize a
tool called the Water Level Outlook Scenario. Folks in our office support the International Joint
Commission in terms of forecasting and monitoring the waters of the Great Lakes as well as
supporting the regulation of Lake Superior outflow through the Lake Superior Border patrol.
Rev. Lonnie Peek: Relative to Belle Isle what kind of processes do we have in place as far as
water quality?
Ron Olson: The beach out here is tested periodically through the Health Department and we
haven’t had many beach closures like many of the other parks. This water here is really fresh the
flow of water here is substantial. This is some of the cleanest water around.
DNR Law Enforcement Update
Damon Owens, C.O., DNR
Jennifer Johnson, MSP
• Law Enforcement continues with being vigilant about our parking issues and watching for
drivers going the wrong way on our one-way streets.
• On June 30th and July 4th, we had to shut down the island for a bit due to traffic, but other
than that everything has been relatively quiet. There have been no big issues. The beaches
have been packed and the flooding has resulted in even less parking areas than usual.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 18, 2019
2

 Park Operations Update
Karis Floyd
• Thank you to the staff for their hard work during the flooding.
• We have hired 2 rangers which will be introduced at the next BIPAC meeting. The new
GOA for the events department has been hired. Her name is Kimberly Hicks and she will be
assisting Darlisa Rickman in the events department.
• We still have 2 ranger positions available to fill and 132 applications to review for the
positions.
• The Army Corp of Engineers are anticipating at least 4-6 more inches before the water crests.
• The Metro Youth Day was successful. We had to move it to the Cricket Field due to the
flooding.
• The Youth Connection and the Police Cadets have started. You will see them completing
projects like tables, grills and helping to pick up litter throughout the island.
• We will have periodic beach and bridge closures to try to keep traffic flowing on the park we
will try to get notifications out as quickly as we can.
• Part of the road on Central has collapsed due to the flooding so you will see safety cones and
barriers on that section of the road. MDOT has moved the date for the road repair back. We
have had several park guests move and drive around the barriers to look at the eagle’s nest
and get stuck. We request that you please steer clear of the area for your own health and
safety.
Bud Denker: As far as the issues with the power station, is that still down relevant to the highwater levels?
Karis Floyd: It is still down, yes.
Ron Olson: Just to aid in that process we brought down some large water pumps from DNR
Forestry Division up North. They are helping to keep the water levels in the canals moving and
dispersing excess water out to the river.
Sommer Woods: Karis, you made a response to my email about the grass and it still looks a bit
tricky. Is there any status on the mowers that you said were down?
Karis Floyd: We have a mowing contract that we have put in place to accommodate some of
those issues. With the terrain that we are dealing with out here at Belle Isle we are getting some
more heavy-duty mowers. The purchases for these will be next season but currently we have our
big mower back up and running so that will be 4 mowers and the contract that will be utilized to
keep the island intact.
Infrastructure Updates
Amanda Treadwell (See attachment)
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 18, 2019
3

 Scott Pratt: The Flower Clock was working temporarily due to a small fix, but there is a bigger
issue where the wires have burned all the way through so it will not be functional. We decided
to keep the flowers there for the aesthetics but once the season ends you will see construction
there to make the necessary improvements and updates.
Outreach and Upcoming Events
Darlisa Rickman
• Our shelters have been impacted by the flooding and we have had to cancel 31 Shelter
Reservations, 14 Weddings and 2 special events. We have relocated 39 families to
accommodate their events as a result of the cancellation.
• We are at capacity for all weekends in July and August as far as the Shelters and event space.
• The Annual Kite Festival and it was a great success it was also listed as one of the 10 popular
island festivals in the National Geographic.
• We have also had to cancel some of our walks and runs that we host due to the routes not
being available due to flooding.
• 8/3-8/4-Art Fair
• 8/15- Grand Opening for the dome at the Conservatory
Sommer Woods: Is there a permit needed to take pictures? There were a couple of
photographers for people’s weddings that reached out and they wanted to take pictures at the
Scott Fountain and different places on Belle Isle. They said they’ve been asked for a photo shoot
permit for pictures. I can understand if it’s pictures for an ad or for commercial purposes. But to
ask people for a permit to take pictures is a little tricky for me. So I guess I need some
understanding for why that process is necessary.
Darlisa Rickman: Yes, permits are required. One of the functions of the permit is that it helps
to regulate the traffic at our wedding venues and make sure that the photographers are courteous
to other park users. Some of these rules we kept in place from before, and it made sense because
we need to control where people go. It’s difficult for us to have weddings take place and then
have 4- or 5-party busses show up trying to take photos. Most of our designated wedding spots
are at places that all people want to take photos.
Sommer Woods: The communication of that is important. If there is a process it is very
important with how that is communicated. And are the photo shoots prices the same as a
commercial shoot?
Darlisa Rickman: The information is available on our website. We issue probably 75-100
photography permits a year. Again, we do about 250 weddings a year, so it is certainly
necessary to know where people are especially when you have guests celebrating their important
day. This process has been in place since before we arrived in 2014, photo shoot pricing is not
commensurate with Commercial shoots pricing but the pricing for all of. We have all of the
prices listed on the website

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 18, 2019
4

 Belle Isle Conservancy Update
Chair Michelle Hodges
• The Oudolf Garden may be delayed due to the flooding, but you can get updates by visiting
https://oudolfgardendetroit.org
• Sept. 10th Garden Party at the Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory
• Polish the Jewel October 10th
• The Keep Belle Isle Beautiful Initiative continues
• The Aquarium will be open this weekend, but we are taking measures to keep it cool because
it is not air conditioned.
• The Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory is open on Wednesdays until 8 pm.
• Lake St. Clair appreciation day is on July 31st
• City Parks Alliance Conference is next week
• A fundraiser we have done in the past with the Fenton family that involves Yoga is going
online this year making it easier to donate to that cause. You can find links to that event on
our Belle Isle page or Facebook page.
• Thank the Wheeler Family Foundation that donated $60,000 to the Belle Isle Aquarium.
PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Don Graham

Admiring of the management and the activities that have been taking
place on the park.

Debra Taylor

Would like to make a public comment about the condition of Belle Isle
and lack of access to “appropriate” clean & healthy bathrooms. If
something is going to be closed there should be proper communication
of that. When a park goer pays for a Shelter they should not have to
resort to port-a-johns when there are buildings available for usage.
There are many areas of the park that are unkempt and uncut, and I
have pictures to reflect that.

Michael Betzold

Michele Hodges has a severe conflict of interest and shouldn’t be on
the committee. This committee was appointed nearly 6 years ago for a
4 year term aren’t their terms.

Mary Ellen Howard

The damage to the island from the Grand Prix has not been repaired.
Threat of Auto Show invading Belle Isle-what is the status? Fewer
picnic tables every summer-they are not being replaced.

Donald Green

A little girl was injured at the Kite Fest as a result of damage to the
terrain by the Grand Prix. Her mother was upset that the DNR & Belle
Isle “Conservancy” fully support the Grand Prix. A DNR staff
member lied in a response to a report that an agency employee stole a
directional sign from a gathering of citizens on Belle Isle in May 2019.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 18, 2019
5

 Angela Lugo-Thomas

Against use of Belle Isle Park by the Grand Prix. Do not extend or
renew contract. Are there any concrete plans for the old Children’s
Zoo space? When do your board appointments to BIPAC end? What
is the process of getting new/replacement members? Request a 3rd
party environmental impact study of effect on Belle Isle of the Grand
Prix set-up, race event and break down. Thank you to the DNR staff
for all that you do on Belle Isle.

Carol Rhoades

Safety of attendees of the Kite Festival - there were ruts in the cricket
field. Dangerous due to the Grand Prix and the damage they left behind.
I have a concern for the safety and preservation of the Scott Fountain
seeing as though people were putting their kites in the fountain.

COMMITTEE MEMBER ITEMS
No Committee Member Items
Motion to Adjourn:
Moved by: Bud Denker
Seconded by: Michael Curis
Meeting Concluded: 10:56 a.m.
NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
August 15th, 2019
Flynn Pavilion
Belle Isle Park
Detroit, MI 48207
6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.
Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – July 18, 2019
6

  

 

 

 

 

.elle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019

May 16, 2019 etroit, Ml?

 

 

 

 

Belle Isle Park
Headquarters

 

  
     

LIMITS OF WOI


BARRELS OR GRABBER 
. TO BLOCK DRIVEWAY AC 
THROUGH DURATION 0

CONSTRUCTION

 

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, July 2019

 

James Scott
Memorial Fountain

• DNR working to
secure original plans
to inform structural
and masonry repairs
and a
comprehensive
operations manual.

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, July 2019
3

 Iron Belle Trailhead
Development
• The second phase of
the trailhead will be
constructed with phase
1 of the trail.
• Construction is
expected to begin in
Spring 2020.
• DNR and consultant will
be coordinating with
Detroit Design Center
to design gateway
sculpture.

Phase 2 of the Trailhead has been funded by Ralph C. Wilson, Jr. Foundation

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, July 2019
4

 Iron Belle Trail Belle Isle
Multi-Use Trail Design

• Belle Isle Trailhead
will be the
southern terminus
of the Iron Belle
Trail.

Proposed Iron Belle Trail

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
5

 Iron Belle Trail Belle Isle
Multi-Use Trail Design

• Phase 1 runs from
the trailhead to
the MacArthur
Bridge (north half
of Belle Isle Park
trail).

Proposed Iron Belle Trail on Belle Isle

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
6

  

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, July 2019

 

 

-.I
l"


:1 Kg?

10:031.:



Repairs

 

lpmmusemsecmu

 

rob-1"" 3 

03 :1 h:

20:02.:

 

'ototo 33310333310

 

run--
all I 


a . 
EL-rll'l

Iq?l?'lil
- II5'55?
-12.-



 

 

 

 

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, July 2019

 

Comprehensive Planning for the
Belle Isle Aquarium (BIA) and Anna
Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory
(ASWC)
• ASWC Historical Feasibility
Study is underway
• Geothermal feasibility
study scheduling boring
tests.
• Initial scoping for
Drainage study of BIA and
ASWC is complete
Dome completed 1904

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
9

 Detroit River Boating
Access Study
•

•

DNR has reviewed final
draft by OHM with City of
Detroit. Will incorporate
city comments into final
report.
Final report is a
comprehensive
assessment of
opportunities for access
along the upper Detroit
River

Milliken State Park is a popular harbor on the Detroit River

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
10

 Lake Okonoka
Habitat Restoration
• MDOT has approved the
construction permit for the
Strand Culvert.
• Construction is expected to
be complete in late August.
• Total budget for project is
$6,450,000 funded by the
Great Lakes Restoration
Initiative administrated largely
through the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA)

Bridge has been installed, decking was poured last week

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
11

 DWSD Water Meter
Chamber
Replacement
•

DWSD has scheduled the
reconstruction of the existing
water meter chamber

•

The construction scheduled
through August 2019.

•

DWSD has not plan any water
outage during Park hours

•

Limited water isolation/outage to
the Island will be required on a
few days for few hours during tiein periods mostly during night
hours.

DTE Gas Replacement is complete

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
12

 DTE Detroit River
Electric Conversion
•

DTE installation of conduit,
transformers and stations are
underway

•

Conduit lines will be installed
through October 2019

•

Connections will be made to
island facilities in 2020
DTE Gas Replacement is complete

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
13

 Sawmill
Assessment
and

• 50% Plans for roof
replacement and
Structural repairs will
be provided today from
Quinn Evans.

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
14

 Fiscal Year 2019
Projects
Ongoing Projects
• Lake Okonoka Shelter and
Playground Improvements
• Athletic Complex Handball
Courts
• (SAW) Stormwater, Asset
Management, and Wastewater

Wet sit of future playground

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
15

 Fiscal Year 2019
Projects
Ongoing Assessment
Projects
• BIC - Belle Isle Beach
Revitalization
• Belle Isle Boat House – Friends
of Detroit Rowing (FODR)
Physical Assessment and
Facility Master Plan
Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
16

 Fiscal Year 2019
Projects
New Projects
• James Scott Memorial Fountain
Masonry Maintenance and Weir
Concrete Floor Repair
• James Scott Memorial Fountain
Maintenance Manual
• Athletic Shelter Roof
Replacement
• Maintenance and Operations
Garage and Site Improvements
Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
17

 Transportation and
Mobility Study
•

Plan Now to Align
Improvements and
Funding Resources going
forward

•

Reduce Vehicle
Congestion to Improve
Visitor Experience

•

Improve Safety for
Pedestrians and Bicyclists

Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
18

 Piet Oudolf
Garden
• Site Construction is
expected to begin June
11th, 2019
• Irrigation and planting are
scheduled for fall, 2019
•

The second phase of
planting is anticipated for
spring 2020
Belle Isle Park Infrastructure Update, May 2019
19

 