STAFF REPORT 08-14-2019 REGULAR MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6371
ADDRESS: 2444 SEMINOLE STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT: INDIAN VILLAGE
APPLICANT: EMMALYN HELGE
STAFF SITE VISIT: 08-02-2019

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

PROPOSAL
The building located at 2444 Seminole Street is a 2½-story single-family residence constructed in 1913. The structure
is clad in painted brick at the first floor and stucco at the second floor and features carved wood details. The sidegabled roof is covered in dark brown asphalt shingles and includes a small dormer facing the street and centered
within the symmetrical front elevation, above the covered entry porch.

With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to remove the existing light tan paint
from all brick and repaint with faux brick paint scheme per the attached application. Included in the proposal
are the following scope items:
• Brick repair and repointing as needed to match existing
• Remove existing paint from all brick including pre-washing, scraping, and wire-brushing loose material to
prep for painting
• Paint all brick with dark brown and red paint colors B:18, B:8, and A:9 from associated Color System D with
faux-finish painting method to return the brick and mortar to its original appearance.
STAFF OBSERVATIONS
• The application states, “On the ‘Color System D’ Guide it states that if the brick has been painted ‘the paint

 •
•

should be removed or repainted in dark red or dark brown to match the original brick color.” While this is a
true statement, please note that the Color System D guide is referencing painted brick within half-timbering
(see highlighted portion of Color System D attached).
It is unknown as to whether or not the brick was originally painted. The designation slides appear to show
unpainted brick, however, building permit records show the building was painted in 1975 and 1984.
Staff is concerned about the proposed paint-removal method. Scraping and wire-brushing is considered to
be abrasive and should not be used on historic masonry. In general, all cleaning work to be performed
on historic masonry should be done using the gentlest means possible (See National Park Services
Preservation Briefs and excepts from the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards Illustrated
Recommendations for Rehabilitation).

ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(1) Height. Virtually all of the houses in the district have two (2) full stories plus attic or finished third floor within the
roof; these are generally called "two-and-a-half" story houses. Additions to existing buildings shall be related to the
existing structure; new buildings shall meet the following standards:
(i) The eight (8) adjoining houses on the same face, excluding any houses built since 1930, churches, schools and
commercial structures, shall be used to determine an average height. If eight (8) houses are not available on
the same block face, then one or more houses as close as possible to being directly across the street from the
proposed structure may be used. On Jefferson Avenue, the five (5) existing houses shall be used. The height
of the two (2) adjoining houses shall be added into the total twice, with a divisor of ten (10) (seven (7) on
Jefferson Avenue) used to determine the average. Any new building must have a height of the main roof of at
least eighty (80) per cent of the resulting average; in no case shall a new building be taller than the tallest roof
height included in the computation. In determining the height of existing structures and proposed structures,
the highest point of the main roof shall be used, even where towers, cupolas, or other minor elements may be
higher.
(ii) The level of the eaves of a proposed new structure having as much or more significance for compatibility as
the room height, an average eave or cornice height shall be determined by the same process as that described
above. The proposed new structure shall have a height at the eaves, or cornice, of not less than ninety (90) per
cent of the average determined from existing structures, and in no case shall the eaves or cornice of the
proposed structure be lower than the lowest eave or cornice height used in the computation, nor higher than
the highest.
(2) Proportion of buildings' front facades. Proportion varies in the district, depending on age, style, and location in a
specific subdivision. Height being established by the standards above, proportion will be established by permitting no
proposed building or addition to create a front facade wider or narrower than those existing on the same block.
(3) Proportion of openings within the facade. Window openings are virtually always taller than wide; several windows
are sometimes grouped into a combination wider than tall. Window openings are always subdivided, the most
common window type being guillotine sash, whose area are generally further subdivided by muntins. Facades have
approximately fifteen (15) per cent to thirty-five (35) per cent of their area glazed: Sunporches with a very high
proportion of glass subdivided by mullions and muntins are common.
(4) Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. In buildings derived from classical precedents, voids are usually arranged
in a symmetrical and evenly-spaced manner within the facade. In examples of other styles, especially those of neoTudor and Victorian substyles, voids are arranged with more freedom, but usually is a balanced composition.
(5) Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally determined by the setback from
the side lot lines; these tend to be consistent, even though lot width may vary. Because of the existence of several
subdivisions and their related subdivision and deed restrictions, the placement of buildings on lots varies from area to
area in the district. In the case of very wide properties, two (2) conditions exist. A very wide site may have a house
placed centrally upon it, with extensive side yard space; this occurs only with extremely large houses by district
standards. A more typical placement of houses of avenge size for the district is at the side of the wide site, placed
normally in relation to one of the adjoining houses. The rest of the property is a side yard on the other side of the
house, and the entrance is often oriented toward that side yard.
(6) Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. In those examples of classical inspiration, entrances and porches, if
any, tend to be centered on the front facade. Other examples display more freedom with entrance and porch
placement, with some having the main entrance at the side. Porches, often permanently enclosed sun porches, are
often placed at the side of the building.
(7) Relationship of materials. The majority of the buildings are faced with brick, while many are partially or totally

 stucco. There are some stone buildings; clapboard is rare, and almost never the sole material. Wood shingle is
occasionally used as a wall covering, usually at the second floor level, and never as the sole material. Roofing
includes slate, tile, and wooden and asphalt shingles. Stone trim is common. Wood is almost universally used for
window frames and other functional trim, and is used in many examples for all trim. Because of the existence of
several subdivisions and their related deed restrictions, the exterior textures and materials may vary from block to
block in the district.
(8) Relationship of textures. The most common relationship of textures in the district is that of the low-relief pattern of
mortar joints in brick contrasted to the smooth surface of wood or stone trim. The use of stucco or concrete, with or
without half-timbering, as a contrast to brick surfaces is not unusual. Tile, slate, or wood shingle roofs have particular
textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles, generally, have little textural interest, even in those types which
purport to imitate some other variety.
(9) Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors (red, yellow, brown, buff) predominate in wall surfaces. Natural stone
colors also exist. Where stucco or concrete exists, it is usually left in its natural state, or painted in a shade of cream.
Roofs are in natural colors (tile and slate colors, wood colors) and asphalt shingles are predominantly within this same
dark color range. Paint colors often relate to style. The classically inspired buildings, particularly neo-Georgian,
generally have woodwork painted white, cream or in the range of those colors, including "putty." Doors and shutters
are frequently dark green or black. Colors known to have been in use on buildings of this type in the eighteenth or
early nineteenth centuries on similar buildings may be considered for suitability. Buildings of Medieval inspiration
(notably neo-Tudor) generally have painted woodwork and window frames of dark brown or cream color. Halftimbering is almost always stained dark brown. Queen Anne or late Victorian examples may have several paint colors
on a single facade. These tend to be dark in tone and frequently of the "earth tone" family. The original colors of any
house, as determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for that house, and may provide suggestions for
similar houses.
(10) Relationship of architectural details. These generally relate to style. Neo-Georgian buildings display classic details,
mostly in wood, and sometime in stone. Areas commonly, but not always, treated are porches, shutters, window
frames, cornices, and dormer windows. Details on Mediterranean style or vernacular buildings are often done in
stone, brick, tile, and sometimes in stucco. They include arched windows, door openings, and porches. Buildings of
medieval inspiration tend to have details in the form of carved wood or carved stone ornament on window frames,
door frames, and eaves. Queen Anne or late Victorian style buildings tend to have details in wood, stone, or molded
brick commonly embellishing cornices, window frames and door frames. In general, the various styles are rich in
architectural details.
(11) Relationship of roof shapes. Roofs with triangular gables and hip roofs predominate. A few examples of the gambreltype roof exist. Complex arrangements of the gabled and/or hip types, with subsidiary roofs, are not unusual. Dormers
are common. Flat roofs exist primarily on porches and sunrooms, and other minor elements; large hip roofs sometimes
have relatively small flat sections in the center.
(12) Walls of continuity. The major wall of continuity is created by the buildings, with their uniform setbacks within the
blocks. New buildings should contribute to this wall of continuity. Where gaslights are sufficiently numerous, and
where trees in rows have survived in sufficient numbers, minor walls of continuity are created. Fences across side lots
contribute to the major wall of continuity where placed at the front yard setback line.
(13) Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatment. The typical treatment of individual properties
is a flat front lawn area in grass turf, often subdivided by a walk leading to the front entrance, and sometimes with a
walk at the side leading to the rear. Materials for such walks are concrete, brick, or stone, or combinations of those
materials. Some front yards have rectangular raised earthwork terraces upon which the house stands. These unpaved
terraces have sloping embankments or brick and/or stone retaining walls at the change of grade. Foundation plantings,
often of a deciduous character, characteristic of the period 1895—1930, are present virtually without exception.
Hedges between properties, and ornamental front yard fences or hedges are not uncommon. The American elm is
virtually extinct in the district, though once the dominant tree. Replacement trees should be characteristic of the area
and period, though only a disease-resistant American elm would be a practical choice. Plantings of new trees should
be directed toward the restoration of the former straight-line rows of large trees on the front yards and "tree lawns."
Straight side driveways leading from the street to rear garages exist, but alley-facing garages are common, particularly
in the southern portion of the district. Where alley-facing garages are common, the lack of driveways lends a unity to
the succession of front lawns. Driveway materials include concrete, brick and gravel. Side lots are not uncommon in
the district, and a number of these form a part of the original site plan for the residence. Such side lots are usually
landscaped, often fenced at or near the setback line, and very occasionally contain paved areas such as a tennis court.
The street right-of-way of eighty (80) feet combined with a pavement width of between twenty-four (24) and twentynine (29) feet creates wide "tree lawns" or berm areas, which adds to the generous ambience of the urban landscape of

 the district. Street pavements are now asphalt; cut stone curbs still exist in portions of the district. Alleys are
frequently paved with brick, particularly where alley-facing garages are common. Fencing ranges widely in type;
fencing in public view was generally designed to compliment the style, design material, and date of the residence.
(14) Relationship of open space to structures. Open space in the district occurs in the form of vacant land, a city park,
school yards for the Waldorf and Nichols Schools, and side lots. Where an original or early arrangement of a house
and grounds included and still includes landscaped lots which form part of the landscaping plan for the residence,
such landscaped lots are significant landscape features.
(15) Scale of facades and facade elements. There is a variety in scale from block to block and style to style; most houses
have a large and substantial appearance. The size and complexity of facade elements and details either accentuate or
subdue the scale of the facades. Facade elements have been determined by what is appropriate for the style. Large
wings at the front are atypical, while small wings at the side, usually in the form of sunrooms and sunporches, are
common. Window sash are usually subdivided by muntins, which affects the apparent scale of the windows within the
facades.
(16) Directional expression of front elevations. In general, the expression of direction is neutral.
(17) Rhythm of building setbacks. Because of the existence of various subdivisions and their related subdivision and deed
restrictions, setbacks vary from area to area within the district, though they are consistent within each block or area.
The varying designs of the houses, occasionally with slight setbacks in the facades, cause the houses to relate to the
front setback line in different ways; this creates a slight variation in the setback line. Nevertheless, within each block
or area a wall of continuity is created.
(18) Relationship of lot coverage. Lot coverage ranges from fifty (50) per cent to twelve 912) per cent or less in the case
of homes with large yards. Most homes are in the twenty (20) per cent to thirty (30) per cent range of lot coverage.
(19) Degree of complexity within the facade. The degree of complexity has been determined by what is typical and
appropriate for a given style. The classically inspired buildings usually have simple, rectangular facades with varying
amounts of ornamentation. Other styles, such as "Queen Anne" and those of Medieval inspiration, frequently have
facades complicated by gables, bays, slight setbacks, porches, and occasionally, turrets.
(20) Orientation, vistas, overviews. While most of the buildings are oriented toward the street, it is not unusual for an
entrance to face the side, especially in the case of a landscaped side lot or corner house. The street facade in these
cases is well coordinated with the rest of the street facades. Garages are frequently oriented either toward an alley or a
side street; almost all garages are detached and at the rear of the lot. In those few cases where pre-1930 houses have
attached garages, they are at the rear and are entered from the side or rear. The doors of such attached garages are
generally not visible from the street.
(21) Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Neo-Georgian and other classically inspired buildings are generally
symmetrical. Other styles, including the neo-Tudor, are generally asymmetrical, but balanced compositions.
(22) General environmental character. The Indian Village District, with its long, straight streets, its hierarchy of walls of
continuity (lamps, trees, buildings) and its large, dignified homes, has an urban, substantial, low density residential
character.

RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion that the work, as proposed, has the potential to destroy historic materials. Staff therefore
recommends that the Commission find removal of the existing paint on the brick to be inappropriate as the scope of
work does not meet the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation
• 7) Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause damage to historic materials shall not
be used. The surface cleaning of structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
• 9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its
environment.
Regarding the scope of work related to repainting the existing painted brick with a faux-brick paint, staff is
withholding a recommendation as staff has never seen the faux-brick painting treatment proposed or executed in the
field. Staff is also withholding a recommendation due to the lack of certainty as to whether or not the brick was
originally painted. If the building was originally painted, it should remain painted. If the building was originally
unpainted, it may be able to return to its unpainted finish depending on the condition of the original brick surface. If

 the face surface of the brick is damaged and the interior material of the brick exposed, the brick is vulnerable to
moisture penetration and deterioration. If the face surface of the brick is intact and solid and the applicant is choosing
to remove the existing paint, the paint should be removed using the gentlest means possible to prevent the
compromise of the weather-proof surface of the brick.

 - - 3
original. ""235: 

lDetz'nit .
f-J-qu.? as:
,3 
I
E5903 
Hana . ?inch?Hall I'Hf?mri? I .31" 

gt? "z ?illnh??aamimmn' . at?
imagery @2019 Eungk,

Map-data E21319 Un'rted Staten Ten-nan Sendfeed?ac 515m?

. . .. I-1W "le 
side planet -








- E111 Ina!
. - .. I Ej??gtinit 

Inlmagenr @201 9 Bungle. Hip data Lhited 51m Term: 52nd Feet?lad: Ft

 

 

 

 

. LI.

 

warmin?? 9.4.: . .

a Hamfvh?w? .r

.. 




 

 .. .
. . . 
Fl.-h.burnipn.8.8.r.F.l1?J
. 

 



.-

. ?"317

iyiti

115?.)




.JIJ-

II.


II 1.- 
Ivhhl . I 
. aft}

1 ?t 

.
gum-1:-
--

qmI-.- -

sz'FF 



.

?71

 

1' 1:.53, .
.15STAFF SITE 

"3le
-EIE:

1..



 

REPORT

v 2444 Seminole Brick Restoration Proposal v
Dear Historic District Commissioners,
Thank you for considering our proposal to restore our painted brick to its original colors. As you can see
in the photos below, the brick was painted light grey-beige by previous home owners. We are hoping to
remedy that mistake. The bottom half of our home and chimney is brick, while the top half is stucco.
(Our stucco and trim historic paint colors have already been approved and are being completed now.)
On the ‘Color System D’ Guide it states that if the brick has been painted “the paint should be removed or
repainted in dark red or dark brown to match the original brick color.” That is our intention. We will match
the dark brown and red paint colors B:18, B:8, and A:9 in the brick restoration.
If our request is not approved, we will keep the existing brick as it is and make no change.
Thank you for your consideration,
Emmalyn Helge & Kyle Langvardt

wCurrent House Photos w

 REPORT

v 2444 Seminole Brick Restoration Proposal Page 2 v

wOur Contractor: The Brick Painters.com Ltd.w
We have done hours of research, phone calls, and on-site estimates before choosing The Brick
Painters as our contractor. They are located in Port Hope, Ontario, which is just east of Toronto.
From their website: Restore your building to its original, historic, “Unpainted Appearance”.
The Brick Painters can do it at a fraction of the cost of paint stripping or sand blasting.
You will avoid unleashing lead paint and chemicals from existing paint and avoid EPA approvals.
TheBrickPainters.com has developed a proprietary faux-finish painting technique. We re-paint
previously painted brick and mortar to achieve the natural and authentic appearance of unpainted
brick and mortar.
The Brick Painters.Com has developed a patented faux-finish technique that leaves an original
appearance that even under the closest scrutiny is virtually undetectable. No two bricks are alike.
Each brick and the mortar will have a natural, variable range of color throughout.
TheBrickPainter.com offers all the services you need for restoring your brickwork back to its
original unpainted appearance.
• Commercial, industrial, and residential brick painting
• Free job quote
• Limited 10 year warranty on all labour and materials
• Quality work from our award winning team painting team
• Full range brick staining service, for masonry that has never been painted. Great for
matching additions, areas of tuck pointing, bricked in window areas that don’t match, etc.
• Patch deteriorating masonry
• Vandalized wall restoration / graffiti cover up
• Wide range of faux finish colour options
• Touch up on arches & decorative brick work
• Stone sill re-painting
• Wall preparation (For example: Wire brushing or scraping of loose material, pre-washing,
impediment removal, etc.)
• Brick repair or re-pointing that may be necessary prior to painting
• Large wall painting – we have access to ladders, scaffolding or lift equipment if necessary

 REPORT

v 2444 Seminole Brick Restoration Proposal Page 3 v
wScope of Workw
v (If Needed) Brick Repair and Tuck Pointing:
Cutout loose mortar joints with diamond tip circular saw blade to a depth of 1/2” or more as needed,
remove all adherent dirt and grime and so as to receive the tuckpointing of the new mortar, and
pressure point areas with type O mortar, matching as close as possible in terms of the size, texture and
mortar of existing color of present mortar joints.
v Wall Preparation: Pre-washing, scraping, wire brushing loose material to prep for painting
v Paint bricks on lower portion of house, all sides, to restore original appearance
v Bricks painted with dark brown and red paint colors B:18, B:8, and A:9 from Historic Commission
Color System D with faux-finish painting method developed by The Brick Painters.com
v Mortar to be the same grey stone color as the stone elements under windows and in columns

wBefore and After Photos from The Brick Painters Ltd.w

 



 

 

 

DESIGNATION SLIDE 1971

 





 

-

REPORT mime-m,

 
  

Eitg Dr Burnt g: .
BUILDINGS AND SAFETY ENGINEERING DEART 

4th Floor City-County Building - .
Telephone: 224-3235 


APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT USE OF LAND

APPLICANT SHALL FILL IN ALL BLANKS PERTINENT T0 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES
Separate applications and two sets of plans are required for each building or structure. Such

 

 

 

 

 

. plans shall include lot
plots. Applications must be IYPEWRITTEN or PRINTED IN INK.
. 
FOR ADDITIONS, ALTERATIONS 0R REPAIRS (Exterior or Interior) 

Describe in o? HomE 3 Stamina 0% sustains Eng-m 
WAN, ensues skim mews morass -

RE ROB. u: u. Wt?anni 2.24m." \ng
swam *0 BR 
I

wits 
i?RWK-us \o {SN-us 66 rasmws 

it. WIDE by ft. LONG by it. HIGH 1? 1- Stories

 
  
   
 

 

 

 

 


q.

Will the prop building or structure encroach upon any easement, alley or public property?JRon?s
sirucco - OLD rum-kmw

USE OF LAND (Fill in this section only when securing a permit for the use of vacant land)
Existing or previous occupancy of premises

 

Are there any existing buildings or structures on this parcel?

 

Present use of such buildings or structures

 

'Proposed use of such buildings or structures

 

 

Proposed occupancy of premises

 

 

Are toilet facilities available

ENCLOSURES: (Fences, etc.)

 

 

COOLING TOWERS, PONDS, ETC.: (For air conditioners or other refrigeration equipment)
. (Two lot plots and structural plans and three mechanical plans required)

Is unit water cooled? Total weight of unit

 

 

Is unit air cooled?

 

Total weight of unitr

Tonnage or horsepower rating of cooling tower

 

Size and number of existing refrigerating units this tower will serve

 

Size and number of new refrigc *ing units this tower will serve

 

Total number of refrigerating units tower will serve

 

.. 

 gripes: FILL IN All. ITEMS ON THIS PAGE
Location, ownership and details must be CORRECT, COMPLETE and 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if .5 
OR BUILDER RUSSELL WC.
Address Lam manner: RQPD stasis mm mm. Faced
(Number) Stmt)? (City and Zip Code}
Phone No. 1-1? ?30 Federal ID or Social Security No.
Residential m? 
State License NO.
OWNER OF RECORD Std,?- K. 
new 0U: mum? mwem Loam ..
(Rabat) (Street) (City and.le Code) . 
?Phone 17?] Federal ID or Social Security No. 3?LOCATION: Side of 5 b. S?mm OLE .. 
. seem I1 st: and caesium Owe e, .
{Cross Street) (Cross Street) 
Lot Number Subdivision
Corner
LOT WIDE ft. DEEP Alley Width . 

 

 

1- I 

DEED or OTHER EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP must be presented before a building permitr will be issued.

EXISTING (Involved in Change of Occupancy, Alteration, Repair or Addition)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mob Hum
GENERAL TYPE - Exterior Walls_.
Frame. Veneer. Brick. Cement Block. etc.
woob
Floor Construction Roof Construction

SIZE WIDE harm it. LONG it. HIGH Stories
PRESENT USE of Entire Building 

Basement or Cellar 

First Floor

Second Floor

Third Floor . 

 

Other Floors 
- I - 
Are there any other buildings on Edam Use 3'

Will ?ammable liquids or substances be used or stored on the premises?

 

 

?Is any portion of building used for shipping or receiving room into which motor ?vehicles are driven?

 

Will approved garbage grinding equipment he installed? incinerating equipment?

Female

 

If commercial or indus? occupancy, state number of employees. Male

 



 



REPORT

COLOR SYSTEM D
ASSOCIATED ARCHITECTURAL STYLES: (13) ENGLISH REVIVAL

Detroit is particularly rich in examples of the Tudor, Gothic, and English Cottage Styles erected after the turn
of the century. Usually of stone, brick, and heavy timber construction, these houses were often influenced
by the Arts and Crafts Movement which stressed the use of such natural materials. As a consequence, the
colors used on these houses should reflect this concern for nature and an understanding of the original
English prototypes on which the styles were based.
A particular problem is encountered with the half-timbering that is so typical of these styles. In the original
medieval buildings, these exposed timbers were the structural supports of the frame and roof with spaces
between filled with lime plaster or rough cast sand stucco, stone, or brick. With this in mind, these heavy
frames should be painted to look like weathered English oak; black, dark brown, or, perhaps, dark green, or
olive. When the infill is brick, that area is not a problem unless it has been painted, in which case the paint
should be removed or repainted in dark red or dark brown to match the original brick color. If, however, the
infill between the framing is stucco, it should be painted white, as so many English originals are, to suggest
the lime rich plastering which is naturally white or one of the river sand stuccoes which are more nearly
yellow or cream when left in their natural state. On rare occasions when the sand used was of a reddish cast,
the stucco assumed a faint rose beige.
Normally, the window and door frames and the projecting cornices will be painted the color selected for the
heavy timber frames or a gray, brown or greenish stone color to match the actual stone trim of the house if
such exists, or, a dark color such as black, dark brown, or dark green to suggest the metal casement windows
which were normally iron and lead set in oak, frames which, like the heavy framing, darkened with age.
The trim of such houses rarely looks well done in a color lighter than the stone trim and certainly not in light
reds, blues, yellows or greens. Occasionally, these houses were trimmed in white, but this generally provides
too great a contrast to the usual brick and stone construction; as a consequence it is not recommended.
The more self-consciously Art and Crafts houses will hew closely to the guidelines set down above, stressing
the darker browns, reds and greens and a concern for stucco that is natural in color and lighter than the dark
framing of heavy wood and stone.

 REPORT

COLOR SYSTEM D
ACCEPTABLE COLOR COMBINATIONS *MS = MUNSELL STANDARD
BODY

TRIM

SASH

SHUTTERS

Stucco:
Match half-timbering color Match trim color or A:9,
Leave natural or match original stucco color, or match existing stone trim B:18, B:19
or A:3, A:4, C:4, C:5, D:1, D:2
color or match shingle color
or A:8, A:9, B:6, B:8, B:11,
Half-timbering:
B:12, B:13, B:14, B:18
A:8, B:6, B:8, B:11, B:12, B:13, B:14, B:19

Match trim color or match
sash color

Shingles/Clapboard:
B:6, B:8, B:11 (rare), B:12, B:13, B:14
Existing brick or stone

A:3 Light Yellow
MS: 5Y 8/6

A:4 Pale Yellow
MS: 2.5Y 8.5/4

A:8 Blackish Green
MS: 2.5BG 2/2

A:9 Moderate
Reddish Brown
MS: 7.5R 3/6

B:6 Moderate Brown
MS: 7.5YR 4/4

B:8 Grayish
Brown
MS: 5YR 3/2

B:11 Grayish Olive
Green
MS: 5GY 4/2

B:12 Grayish Green
MS: 10G 4/2

B:13 Moderate Olive
Brown
MS: 2.5Y 4/4

B:14 Dark Grayish
Olive
MS: 10Y 2/2

B:18 Dark Reddish
Brown
MS: 2.5YR 2/4

B:19 Black
MS: N 0.5/

C:4 Yellowish White
MS: 5Y 9/1

C:5 Yellowish White
MS: 2.5Y 9/2

D:1 Brownish Pink
MS: 7.5YR 7/2

D:2 Light Brown
MS: 5YR 6/4

FIND OUT MORE! www.detroitmi.gov/hdc
SUBMIT ALL DOCUMENTATION TO: hdc@detroitmi.gov

 REHABILITATION
REHABILITATION

STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION & GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC BUILDINGS

Rehabilitation

Rehabilitation is defined as the act or process of making possible a
compatible use for a property through repair, alterations, and additions
while preserving those portions or features which convey its historical,
cultural, or architectural values.

75

 REHABILITATION

Standards for Rehabilitation
1.  A property will be used as it was historically or be given a new use that requires minimal
change to its distinctive materials, features, spaces and spatial relationships.
2.  The historic character of a property will be retained and preserved. The removal of dis­
tinctive materials or alteration of features, spaces and spatial relationships that character­
ize a property will be avoided.
3.  Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time, place and use. Changes
that create a false sense of historical development, such as adding conjectural features or
elements from other historic properties, will not be undertaken.
4.  Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in their own right will be
retained and preserved.
5.  Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of
craftsmanship that characterize a property will be preserved.
6.  Deteriorated historic features will be repaired rather than replaced. Where the severity
of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature will match
the old in design, color, texture and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing
features will be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence.
7.  Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken using the gentlest
means possible. Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will not be used.
8.  Archeological resources will be protected and preserved in place. If such resources must
be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken.
9.  New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction will not destroy historic
materials, features, and spatial relationships that characterize the property. The new work
will be differentiated from the old and will be compatible with the historic materials, fea­
tures, size, scale and proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of the property and
its environment.
10. New additions and adjacent or related new construction will be undertaken in such a
manner that, if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic
property and its environment would be unimpaired.

76

 REHABILITATION

GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC BUILDINGS


INTRODUCTION
In Rehabilitation, historic building materials and character-defining
features are protected and maintained as they are in the treatment
Preservation. However, greater latitude is given in the Standards
for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic
Buildings to replace extensively deteriorated, damaged, or miss­
ing features using either the same material or compatible substi­
tute materials. Of the four treatments, only Rehabilitation allows
alterations and the construction of a new addition, if necessary for a
continuing or new use for the historic building.

during rehabilitation work. A historic building undergoing rehabilita­
tion will often require more extensive work. Thus, an overall evalua­
tion of its physical condition should always begin at this level.

Repair Historic Materials and Features

The guidance for the treatment Rehabilitation begins with recom­
mendations to identify the form and detailing of those architectural
materials and features that are important in defining the building’s
historic character and which must be retained to preserve that char­
acter. Therefore, guidance on identifying, retaining, and preserving
character-defining features is always given first.

Next, when the physical condition of character-defining materials
and features warrants additional work, repairing is recommended.
Rehabilitation guidance for the repair of historic materials, such as
masonry, again begins with the least degree of intervention possible.
In rehabilitation, repairing also includes the limited replacement in
kind or with a compatible substitute material of extensively dete­
riorated or missing components of features when there are surviv­
ing prototypes features that can be substantiated by documentary
and physical evidence. Although using the same kind of material is
always the preferred option, a substitute material may be an accept­
able alternative if the form, design, and scale, as well as the substi­
tute material itself, can effectively replicate the appearance of the
remaining features.

Protect and Maintain Historic Materials and
Features

Replace Deteriorated Historic Materials and
Features

After identifying those materials and features that are important
and must be retained in the process of Rehabilitation work, then
protecting and maintaining them are addressed. Protection generally
involves the least degree of intervention and is preparatory to other
work. Protection includes the maintenance of historic materials and
features as well as ensuring that the property is protected before and

Following repair in the hierarchy, Rehabilitation guidance is pro­
vided for replacing an entire character-defining feature with new
material because the level of deterioration or damage of materials
precludes repair. If the missing feature is character defining or if it
is critical to the survival of the building (e.g., a roof), it should be
replaced to match the historic feature based on physical or his-

Identify, Retain, and Preserve Historic
Materials and Features

INTRODUCTION

77

 REHABILITATION

toric documentation of its form and detailing. As with repair, the
preferred option is always replacement of the entire feature in kind
(i.e., with the same material, such as wood for wood). However,
when this is not feasible, a compatible substitute material that can
reproduce the overall appearance of the historic material may be
considered.

significance, reestablishing missing historic features generally
should not be undertaken if the missing features did not coexist
with the features currently on the building. Juxtaposing historic
features that did not exist concurrently will result in a false sense of
the building’s history.

It should be noted that, while the National Park Service guidelines
recommend the replacement of an entire character-defining feature
that is extensively deteriorated, the guidelines never recommend
removal and replacement with new material of a feature that could
reasonably be repaired and, thus, preserved.

Some exterior and interior alterations to a historic building are
generally needed as part of a Rehabilitation project to ensure its
continued use, but it is most important that such alterations do
not radically change, obscure, or destroy character-defining spaces,
materials, features, or finishes. Alterations may include changes
to the site or setting, such as the selective removal of buildings or
other features of the building site or setting that are intrusive, not
character defining, or outside the building’s period of significance.

Design for the Replacement of Missing
Historic Features
When an entire interior or exterior feature is missing, such as a
porch, it no longer plays a role in physically defining the historic
character of the building unless it can be accurately recovered in
form and detailing through the process of carefully documenting
the historic appearance. If the feature is not critical to the survival
of the building, allowing the building to remain without the feature
is one option. But if the missing feature is important to the historic
character of the building, its replacement is always recommended
in the Rehabilitation guidelines as the first, or preferred, course
of action. If adequate documentary and physical evidence exists,
the feature may be accurately reproduced. A second option in a
rehabilitation treatment for replacing a missing feature, particularly
when the available information about the feature is inadequate to
permit an accurate reconstruction, is to design a new feature that
is compatible with the overall historic character of the building.
The new design should always take into account the size, scale, and
material of the building itself and should be clearly differentiated
from the authentic historic features. For properties that have
changed over time, and where those changes have acquired

78

INTRODUCTION

Alterations

Code-Required Work:
Accessibility and Life Safety
Sensitive solutions to meeting code requirements in a
Rehabilitation project are an important part of protecting the
historic character of the building. Work that must be done to meet
accessibility and life-safety requirements must also be assessed for
its potential impact on the historic building, its site, and setting.

Resilience to Natural Hazards
Resilience to natural hazards should be addressed as part of a
Rehabilitation project. A historic building may have existing
characteristics or features that help to address or minimize the
impacts of natural hazards. These should always be used to best
advantage when considering new adaptive treatments so as to have
the least impact on the historic character of the building, its site,
and setting.

 REHABILITATION

Sustainability
Sustainability should be addressed as part of a Rehabilitation proj­
ect. Good preservation practice is often synonymous with sustain­
ability. Existing energy-efficient features should be retained and
repaired. Only sustainability treatments should be considered that
will have the least impact on the historic character of the building.
The topic of sustainability is addressed in detail in The Secretary
of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation & Illustrated Guidelines
on Sustainability for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings.

New Exterior Additions and Related New
Construction
Rehabilitation is the only treatment that allows expanding a historic
building by enlarging it with an addition. However, the Rehabilita­
tion guidelines emphasize that new additions should be considered
only after it is determined that meeting specific new needs cannot
be achieved by altering non-character-defining interior spaces. If the
use cannot be accommodated in this way, then an attached exterior
addition may be considered. New additions should be designed and
constructed so that the character-defining features of the historic
building, its site, and setting are not negatively impacted. Generally,
a new addition should be subordinate to the historic building. A new
addition should be compatible, but differentiated enough so that
it is not confused as historic or original to the building. The same
guidance applies to new construction so that it does not negatively
impact the historic character of the building or its site.

Rehabilitation as a Treatment. When repair and replacement of
deteriorated features are necessary; when alterations or additions to the
property are planned for a new or continued use; and when its depiction
at a particular time is not appropriate, Rehabilitation may be considered
as a treatment. Prior to undertaking work, a documentation plan for
Rehabilitation should be developed.

INTRODUCTION

79

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED
Identifying, retaining and preserving masonry features that are
important in defining the overall historic character of the build­
ing (such as walls, brackets, railings, cornices, window and door
surrounds, steps, and columns) and decorative ornament and
other details, such as tooling and bonding patterns, coatings, and
color.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing or substantially changing masonry features which are
important in defining the overall historic character of the building
so that, as a result, the character is diminished.
Replacing or rebuilding a major portion of exterior masonry walls
that could be repaired, thereby destroying the historic integrity of
the building.
Applying paint or other coatings (such as stucco) to masonry that
has been historically unpainted or uncoated to create a new appear­
ance.
Removing paint from historically-painted masonry.

[1] An alkaline-based
product is appropriate
to use to clean historic
marble because it will
not damage the marble,
which is acid sensitive.

80

MASONRY

Protecting and maintaining masonry by ensuring that historic
drainage features and systems that divert rainwater from masonry
surfaces (such as roof overhangs, gutters, and downspouts) are
intact and functioning properly.

Failing to identify and treat the causes of masonry deterioration,
such as leaking roofs and gutters or rising damp.

Cleaning masonry only when necessary to halt deterioration or
remove heavy soiling.

Cleaning masonry surfaces when they are not heavily soiled to
create a “like-new” appearance, thereby needlessly introducing
chemicals or moisture into historic materials.

Carrying out masonry cleaning tests when it has been determined
that cleaning is appropriate. Test areas should be examined
to ensure that no damage has resulted and, ideally, monitored
over a sufficient period of time to allow long-range effects to be
predicted.

Cleaning masonry surfaces without testing or without sufficient time
for the testing results to be evaluated.

 REHABILITATION

[2] Mid-century modern
building technology
made possible the
form of this parabolashaped structure and
its thin concrete shell
construction. Built in
1961 as the lobby of
the La Concha Motel
in Las Vegas, it was
designed by Paul
Revere Williams, one
of the first prominent
African-American
architects. It was moved
to a new location and
rehabilitated to serve
as the Neon Museum,
and is often cited as
an example of Googie
architecture. Credit:
Photographed with
permission at The Neon
Museum, Las Vegas,
Nevada.

MASONRY

81

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Cleaning soiled masonry surfaces with the gentlest method pos­
sible, such as using low-pressure water and detergent and natural
bristle or other soft-bristle brushes.

Cleaning or removing paint from masonry surfaces using most
abrasive methods (including sandblasting, other media blasting, or
high-pressure water) which can damage the surface of the masonry
and mortar joints.
Using a cleaning or paint-removal method that involves water or
liquid chemical solutions when there is any possibility of freezing
temperatures.
Cleaning with chemical products that will damage some types of
masonry (such as using acid on limestone or marble), or failing to
neutralize or rinse off chemical cleaners from masonry surfaces.

[3] Not Recommended:
The white film on the upper corner
of this historic brick row house is
the result of using a scrub or slurry
coating, rather than traditional
repointing by hand, which is the
recommended method.
[4] Not Recommended:
The quoins on the left side of the
photo show that high-pressure
abrasive blasting used to remove
paint can damage even early 20th­
century, hard-baked, textured brick
and erode the mortar, whereas
the same brick on the right, which
was not abrasively cleaned, is
undamaged.

82

MASONRY

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Using biodegradable or environmentally-safe cleaning or paintremoval products.
Using paint-removal methods that employ a poultice to which
paint adheres, when possible, to neatly and safely remove old
lead paint.
Using coatings that encapsulate lead paint, when possible, where
the paint is not required to be removed to meet environmental
regulations.
Allowing only trained conservators to use abrasive or laser-clean­
ing methods, when necessary, to clean hard-to-reach, highlycarved, or detailed decorative stone features.
Removing damaged or deteriorated paint only to the next sound
layer using the gentlest method possible (e.g., hand scraping)
prior to repainting.

Removing paint that is firmly adhered to masonry surfaces, unless
the building was unpainted historically and the paint can be
removed without damaging the surface.

Applying compatible paint coating systems to historically-painted
masonry following proper surface preparation.

Failing to follow manufacturers’ product and application instruc­
tions when repainting masonry features.

Repainting historically-painted masonry features with colors
that are appropriate to the historic character of the building and
district.

Using paint colors on historically-painted masonry features that are
not appropriate to the historic character of the building and district.

Protecting adjacent materials when cleaning or removing paint
from masonry features.

Failing to protect adjacent materials when cleaning or removing
paint from masonry features.

Evaluating the overall condition of the masonry to determine
whether more than protection and maintenance, such as repairs
to masonry features, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
masonry features.

Repairing masonry by patching, splicing, consolidating, or other­
wise reinforcing the masonry using recognized preservation meth­
ods. Repair may include the limited replacement in kind or with
a compatible substitute material of those extensively deteriorated
or missing parts of masonry features when there are surviving
prototypes, such as terra-cotta brackets or stone balusters.

Removing masonry that could be stabilized, repaired, and con­
served, or using untested consolidants and unskilled personnel,
potentially causing further damage to historic materials.
Replacing an entire masonry feature, such as a cornice or bal­
ustrade, when repair of the masonry and limited replacement of
deteriorated or missing components are feasible.
MASONRY

83

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED
Repairing masonry walls and other masonry features by repointing the mortar joints where there is evidence of deterioration,
such as disintegrating mortar, cracks in mortar joints, loose
bricks, or damaged plaster on the interior.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing non-deteriorated mortar from sound joints and then
repointing the entire building to achieve a more uniform appearance.

Removing deteriorated lime mortar carefully by hand raking the
joints to avoid damaging the masonry.
Allowing unskilled workers to use masonry saws or mechanical tools
Using power tools only on horizontal joints on brick masonry in
to remove deteriorated mortar from joints prior to repointing.
conjunction with hand chiseling to remove hard mortar that is
deteriorated or that is a non-historic material which is causing
damage to the masonry units. Mechanical tools should be used
only by skilled masons in limited circumstances and generally not
on short, vertical joints in brick masonry.
Duplicating historic mortar joints in strength, composition, color,
and texture when repointing is necessary. In some cases, a limebased mortar may also be considered when repointing Portland
cement mortar because it is more flexible.

Repointing masonry units with mortar of high Portland cement
content (unless it is the content of the historic mortar).
Using “surface grouting” or a “scrub” coating technique, such as
a “sack rub” or “mortar washing,” to repoint exterior masonry units
instead of traditional repointing methods.
Repointing masonry units (other than concrete) with a synthetic
caulking compound instead of mortar.

Duplicating historic mortar joints in width and joint profile when
repointing is necessary.

Changing the width or joint profile when repointing.

Repairing stucco by removing the damaged material and patching Removing sound stucco or repairing with new stucco that is differ­
with new stucco that duplicates the old in strength, composition, ent in composition from the historic stucco.
color, and texture.
Patching stucco or concrete without removing the source of deterio­
ration.
Replacing deteriorated stucco with synthetic stucco, an exterior
finish and insulation system (EFIS), or other non-traditional materi­
als.

84

MASONRY

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED
Using mud plaster or a compatible lime-plaster adobe render,
when appropriate, to repair adobe.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Applying cement stucco, unless it already exists, to adobe.

Sealing joints in concrete with appropriate flexible sealants and
backer rods, when necessary.
Cutting damaged concrete back to remove the source of deterio­
ration, such as corrosion on metal reinforcement bars. The new
patch must be applied carefully so that it will bond satisfactorily
with and match the historic concrete.

Patching damaged concrete without removing the source of deterio­
ration.

[5] Rebars in the reinforced concrete ceiling have rusted, causing the concrete
to spall. The rebars must be cleaned of rust before the concrete can be patched.
[6] Some areas of the concrete brise soleil screen on this building constructed in
1967 are badly deteriorated. If the screen cannot be repaired, it may be replaced
in kind or with a composite substitute material with the same appearance as the
concrete.

MASONRY

85

 REHABILITATION

[7] (a) J.W. Knapp’s Department Store, built 1937-38, in Lansing, MI, was
constructed with a proprietary material named “Maul Macotta” made of
enameled steel and cast-in-place concrete panels. Prior to its rehabilitation,
a building inspection revealed that, due to a flaw in the original design and
construction, the material was deteriorated beyond repair. The architects for the
rehabilitation project devised a replacement system (b) consisting of enameled
aluminum panels that matched the original colors (c). Photos and drawing (a-b):
Quinn Evans Architects; Photo (c): James Haefner Photography.

86

MASONRY

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Using a non-corrosive, stainless-steel anchoring system when
replacing damaged stone, concrete, or terra-cotta units that have
failed.
Applying non-historic surface treatments, such as water-repellent
coatings, to masonry only after repointing and only if masonry
repairs have failed to arrest water penetration problems.

Applying waterproof, water-repellent, or non-original historic coat­
ings (such as stucco) to masonry as a substitute for repointing and
masonry repairs.

Applying permeable, anti-graffiti coatings to masonry when
appropriate.

Applying water-repellent or anti-graffiti coatings that change the
historic appearance of the masonry or that may trap moisture if the
coating is not sufficiently permeable.

Replacing in kind an entire masonry feature that is too deterio­
rated to repair (if the overall form and detailing are still evident)
using the physical evidence as a model to reproduce the feature
or when the replacement can be based on historic documenta­
tion. Examples can include large sections of a wall, a cornice,
pier, or parapet. If using the same kind of material is not feasible,
then a compatible substitute material may be considered.

Removing a masonry feature that is unrepairable and not replacing
it, or replacing it with a new feature that does not match.
Using substitute material for the replacement that does not convey
the same appearance of the surviving components of the masonry
feature.

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a replacement masonry feature, such as
a step or door pediment, when the historic feature is completely
missing. It may be an accurate restoration based on documentary
and physical evidence, but only when the historic feature to be
replaced coexisted with the features currently on the building. Or,
it may be a new design that is compatible with the size, scale,
material, and color of the historic building.

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for
the missing masonry feature is based upon insufficient physical or
historic documentation, is not a compatible design, or because the
feature to be replaced did not coexist with the features currently on
the building.
Introducing a new masonry feature that is incompatible in size,
scale, material, or color.

MASONRY

87

 REHABILITATION

WOOD: CLAPBOARD, WEATHERBOARD, SHINGLES, AND
OTHER FUNCTIONAL AND DECORATIVE ELEMENTS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Identifying, retaining and preserving wood features that are
important in defining the overall historic character of the building
(such as siding, cornices, brackets, window and door surrounds,
and steps) and their paints, finishes, and colors.

Removing or substantially changing wood features which are impor­
tant in defining the overall historic character of the building so that,
as a result, the character is diminished.
Removing a major portion of the historic wood from a façade
instead of repairing or replacing only the deteriorated wood, then
reconstructing the façade with new material to achieve a uniform or
“improved” appearance.
Changing the type of finish, coating, or historic color of wood fea­
tures, thereby diminishing the historic character of the exterior.
Failing to renew failing paint or other coatings that are historic
finishes.
Stripping historically-painted surfaces to bare wood and applying a
clear finish rather than repainting.
Stripping paint or other coatings to reveal bare wood, thereby
exposing historically-coated surfaces to the effects of accelerated
weathering.
Removing wood siding (clapboards) or other covering (such as
stucco) from log structures that were covered historically, which
changes their historic character and exposes the logs to accelerated
deterioration.

Protecting and maintaining wood features by ensuring that his­
toric drainage features that divert rainwater from wood surfaces
(such as roof overhangs, gutters, and downspouts) are intact and
functioning properly.

88

WOOD

Failing to identify and treat the causes of wood deterioration, such
as faulty flashing, leaking gutters, cracks and holes in siding, dete­
riorated caulking in joints and seams, plant material growing too
close to wood surfaces, or insect or fungal infestation.

 REHABILITATION

WOOD: CLAPBOARD, WEATHERBOARD, SHINGLES, AND
OTHER FUNCTIONAL AND DECORATIVE ELEMENTS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Applying chemical preservatives or paint to wood features that
are subject to weathering, such as exposed beam ends, outrig­
gers, or rafter tails.

Using chemical preservatives (such as creosote) which, unless they
were used historically, can change the appearance of wood features.

Implementing an integrated pest management plan to identify
appropriate preventive measures to guard against insect damage,
such as installing termite guards, fumigating, and treating with
chemicals.
Retaining coatings (such as paint) that protect the wood from
moisture and ultraviolet light. Paint removal should be consid­
ered only when there is paint surface deterioration and as part
of an overall maintenance program which involves repainting or
applying other appropriate coatings.

Stripping paint or other coatings from wood features without recoat­
ing.

[8] Rotted clapboards
have been replaced
selectively with new
wood siding to match the
originals.

WOOD

89

 REHABILITATION

WOOD: CLAPBOARD, WEATHERBOARD, SHINGLES, AND
OTHER FUNCTIONAL AND DECORATIVE ELEMENTS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Removing damaged or deteriorated paint to the next sound layer
using the gentlest method possible (e.g., hand scraping and hand
sanding) prior to repainting.

Using potentially-damaging paint-removal methods on wood sur­
faces, such as open-flame torches, orbital sanders, abrasive meth­
ods (including sandblasting, other media blasting, or high-pressure
water), or caustic paint-removers.
Removing paint that is firmly adhered to wood surfaces.

Using chemical strippers primarily to supplement other methods
such as hand scraping, hand sanding, and thermal devices.

Failing to neutralize the wood thoroughly after using chemical paint
removers so that new paint may not adhere.
Removing paint from detachable wood features by soaking them in
a caustic solution, which may roughen the surface, split the wood,
or result in staining from residual acids leaching out of the wood.

Using biodegradable or environmentally-safe cleaning or paintremoval products.
Using paint-removal methods that employ a poultice to which
paint adheres, when possible, to neatly and safely remove old
lead paint.
Using thermal devices (such as infrared heaters) carefully to
remove paint when it is so deteriorated that total removal is nec­
essary prior to repainting.

Using a thermal device to remove paint from wood features without
first checking for and removing any flammable debris behind them.
Using thermal devices without limiting the amount of time the wood
feature is exposed to heat.

Using coatings that encapsulate lead paint, when possible, where
the paint is not required to be removed to meet environmental
regulations.

90

WOOD

Applying compatible paint coating systems to historically-painted
wood following proper surface preparation.

Failing to follow manufacturers’ product and application instruc­
tions when repainting wood features.

Repainting historically-painted wood features with colors that are
appropriate to the building and district.

Using paint colors on historically-painted wood features that are not
appropriate to the building or district.

 REHABILITATION

WOOD: CLAPBOARD, WEATHERBOARD, SHINGLES, AND
OTHER FUNCTIONAL AND DECORATIVE ELEMENTS
RECOMMENDED
Protecting adjacent materials when working on other wood
features.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Failing to protect adjacent materials when working on wood fea­
tures.

Evaluating the overall condition of the wood to determine whether Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
wood features.
more than protection and maintenance, such as repairs to wood
features, will be necessary.

[9] Smooth-surfaced cementitious
siding (left) may be used to replace
deteriorated wood siding only on
secondary elevations that have
minimal visibility.

[10] Not Recommended:
Cementitious siding with a raised
wood-grain texture is not an
appropriate material to replace
historic wood siding, which has a
smooth surface when painted.

WOOD

91

 REHABILITATION

WOOD: CLAPBOARD, WEATHERBOARD, SHINGLES, AND
OTHER FUNCTIONAL AND DECORATIVE ELEMENTS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Repairing wood by patching, splicing, consolidating, or otherwise
reinforcing the wood using recognized conservation methods.
Repair may include the limited replacement in kind or with a
compatible substitute material of those extensively deteriorated
or missing components of wood features when there are surviving
prototypes, such as brackets, molding, or sections of siding.

Removing wood that could be stabilized, repaired, and conserved,
or using untested consolidants and unskilled personnel, potentially
causing further damage to historic materials.

Replacing in kind an entire wood feature that is too deteriorated to repair (if the overall form and detailing are still evident)
using physical evidence as a model to reproduce the feature or
when the replacement can be based on historic documentation.
Examples of such wood features include a cornice, entablature,
or a balustrade. If using wood is not feasible, then a compatible
substitute material may be considered.

Removing a wood feature that is unrepairable and not replacing it,
or replacing it with a new feature that does not match.

Replacing a deteriorated wood feature or wood siding on a pri­
mary or other highly-visible elevation with a new matching wood
feature.

Replacing a deteriorated wood feature or wood siding on a primary
or other highly-visible elevation with a composite substitute mate­
rial.

Replacing an entire wood feature, such as a cornice or balustrade,
when repair of the wood and limited replacement of deteriorated or
missing components is feasible.

Using substitute material for the replacement that does not convey
the same appearance of the surviving components of the wood
feature.

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a replacement masonry feature, such as
a step or door pediment, when the historic feature is completely
missing. It may be an accurate restoration based on documentary
and physical evidence, but only when the historic feature to be
replaced coexisted with the features currently on the building. Or,
it may be a new design that is compatible with the size, scale,
material, and color of the historic building.

92

WOOD

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for
the missing masonry feature is based upon insufficient physical or
historic documentation, is not a compatible design, or because the
feature to be replaced did not coexist with the features currently on
the building.
Introducing a new wood feature that is incompatible in size, scale,
material, or color.

 REHABILITATION

METALS: WROUGHT AND CAST IRON, STEEL, PRESSED METAL, TERNEPLATE,
COPPER, ALUMINUM, AND ZINC
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Identifying, retaining, and preserving metal features that are
important in defining the overall historic character of the building
(such as columns, capitals, pilasters, spandrel panels, or stairways) and their paints, finishes, and colors. The type of metal
should be identified prior to work because each metal has its own
properties and may require a different treatment.

Removing or substantially changing metal features which are impor­
tant in defining the overall historic character of the building so that,
as a result, the character is diminished.

Protecting and maintaining metals from corrosion by providing
proper drainage so that water does not stand on flat, horizontal
surfaces or accumulate in curved decorative features.

Failing to identify and treat the causes of corrosion, such as mois­
ture from leaking roofs or gutters.

Removing a major portion of the historic metal from a façade
instead of repairing or replacing only the deteriorated metal, then
reconstructing the façade with new material to achieve a uniform or
“improved” appearance.

Placing incompatible metals together without providing an appropri­
ate separation material. Such incompatibility can result in galvanic
corrosion of the less noble metal (e.g., copper will corrode cast iron,
steel, tin, and aluminum).
Cleaning metals when necessary to remove corrosion prior to
repainting or applying appropriate protective coatings.

Leaving metals that must be protected from corrosion uncoated
after cleaning.

[11] The stainless steel
doors at the entrance to
this Art Deco apartment
building are important
in defining its historic
character and should be
retained in place.

METALS

93

 REHABILITATION

METALS: WROUGHT AND CAST IRON, STEEL, PRESSED METAL, TERNEPLATE,
COPPER, ALUMINUM, AND ZINC
RECOMMENDED
Identifying the particular type of metal prior to any cleaning
procedure and then testing to ensure that the gentlest cleaning
method possible is selected; or, alternatively, determining that
cleaning is inappropriate for the particular metal.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Using cleaning methods which alter or damage the color, texture,
or finish of the metal, or cleaning when it is inappropriate for the
particular metal.
Removing the patina from historic metals. The patina may be a
protective layer on some metals (such as bronze or copper) as well
as a distinctive finish.

Using non-corrosive chemical methods to clean soft metals (such
as lead, tinplate, terneplate, copper, and zinc) whose finishes can
be easily damaged by abrasive methods.

Cleaning soft metals (such as lead, tinplate, terneplate, copper, and
zinc) with abrasive methods (including sandblasting, other abrasive
media, or high-pressure water) which will damage the surface of the
metal.

Using the least abrasive cleaning method for hard metals (such
as cast iron, wrought iron, and steel) to remove paint buildup and
corrosion. If hand scraping and wire brushing have proven inef­
fective, low-pressure abrasive methods may be used as long as
they do not abrade or damage the surface.

Using high-pressure abrasive techniques (including sandblasting,
other media blasting, or high-pressure water) without first trying
gentler cleaning methods prior to cleaning cast iron, wrought iron,
or steel.

Applying appropriate paint or other coatings to historically-coated
metals after cleaning to protect them from corrosion.

Applying paint or other coatings to metals (such as copper, bronze
or stainless steel) if they were not coated historically, unless a coat­
ing is necessary for maintenance.

Repainting historically-painted metal features with colors that are
appropriate to the building and district.

Using paint colors on historically-painted metal features that are
not appropriate to the building or district.

Applying an appropriate protective coating (such as lacquer or
wax) to a metal feature that was historically unpainted, such as a
bronze door, which is subject to heavy use.

94

METALS

 REHABILITATION

METALS: WROUGHT AND CAST IRON, STEEL, PRESSED METAL, TERNEPLATE,
COPPER, ALUMINUM, AND ZINC
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Protecting adjacent materials when cleaning or removing paint
from metal features.

Failing to protect adjacent materials when working on metal fea­
tures.

Evaluating the overall condition of metals to determine whether
more than protection and maintenance, such as repairs to metal
features, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
metal features.

[12] This historic steel
window has been
cleaned, repaired, and
primed in preparation for
painting and reglazing.

[13] The gold-colored,
anodized aluminum geodesic
dome of the former Citizen’s
State Bank in Oklahoma
City, OK, built in 1958 and
designed by Robert Roloff,
makes this a distinctive mid­
20th century building.

METALS

95

 REHABILITATION

[14] Interior cast-iron
columns have been
cleaned and repainted as
part of the rehabilitation
of this historic market
building for continuing
use.

[15] New enameled-metal
panels were replicated
to replace the original
panels, which were too
deteriorated to repair,
when the storefront of
this early 1950s building
was recreated.

96

METALS

 REHABILITATION

METALS: WROUGHT AND CAST IRON, STEEL, PRESSED METAL, TERNEPLATE,
COPPER, ALUMINUM, AND ZINC
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Repairing metal by reinforcing the metal using recognized pres­
ervation methods. Repair may include the limited replacement in
kind or with a compatible substitute material of those extensively
deteriorated or missing components of features when there are
surviving prototypes, such as column capitals or bases, store­
fronts, railings and steps, or window hoods.

Removing metals that could be stabilized, repaired, and conserved,
or using improper repair techniques, or unskilled personnel, poten­
tially causing further damage to historic materials.

Replacing in kind an entire metal feature that is too deteriorated
to repair (if the overall form and detailing are still evident) using
the physical evidence as a model to reproduce the feature or
when the replacement can be based on historic documentation.
Examples of such a feature could include cast-iron porch steps or
steel-sash windows. If using the same kind of material is not fea­
sible, then a compatible substitute material may be considered.

Replacing an entire metal feature, such as a column or balustrade,
when repair of the metal and limited replacement of deteriorated or
missing components are feasible.
Removing a metal feature that is unrepairable and not replacing it,
or replacing it with a new metal feature that does not match.
Using a substitute material for the replacement that does not
convey the same appearance of the surviving components of the
metal feature or that is physically or chemically incompatible.

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a replacement metal feature, such as a
metal cornice or cast-iron column, when the historic feature is
completely missing. It may be an accurate restoration based on
documentary and physical evidence, but only when the historic
feature to be replaced coexisted with the features currently on
the building. Or, it may be a new design that is compatible with
the size, scale, material, and color of the historic building.

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for the
missing metal feature is based upon insufficient physical or historic
documentation, is not a compatible design, or because the feature
to be replaced did not coexist with the features currently on the
building.
Introducing a new metal feature that is incompatible in size, scale,
material, or color.

METALS

97

 REHABILITATION

ROOFS
RECOMMENDED
Identifying, retaining, and preserving roofs and their functional
and decorative features that are important in defining the overall
historic character of the building. The form of the roof (gable,
hipped, gambrel, flat, or mansard) is significant, as are its deco­
rative and functional features (such as cupolas, cresting, para­
pets, monitors, chimneys, weather vanes, dormers, ridge tiles,
and snow guards), roofing material (such as slate, wood, clay
tile, metal, roll roofing, or asphalt shingles), and size, color, and
patterning.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing or substantially changing roofs which are important in
defining the overall historic character of the building so that, as a
result, the character is diminished.
Removing a major portion of the historic roof or roofing material
that is repairable, then rebuilding it with new material to achieve a
more uniform or “improved” appearance.
Changing the configuration or shape of a roof by adding highly vis­
ible new features (such as dormer windows, vents, skylights, or a
penthouse).
Stripping the roof of sound historic material, such as slate, clay tile,
wood, or metal.

Failing to clean and maintain gutters and downspouts properly so
Protecting and maintaining a roof by cleaning gutters and
that water and debris collect and cause damage to roof features,
downspouts and replacing deteriorated flashing. Roof sheathing
should also be checked for indications of moisture due to leaks or sheathing, and the underlying roof structure.
condensation.

98

ROOFS

Providing adequate anchorage for roofing material to guard
against wind damage and moisture penetration.

Allowing flashing, caps, and exposed fasteners to corrode, which
accelerates deterioration of the roof.

Protecting a leaking roof with a temporary waterproof membrane
with a synthetic underlayment, roll roofing, plywood, or a tarpau­
lin until it can be repaired.

Leaving a leaking roof unprotected so that accelerated deteriora­
tion of historic building materials (such as masonry, wood, plaster,
paint, and structural members) occurs.

Repainting a roofing material that requires a protective coating
and was painted historically (such as a terneplate metal roof or
gutters) as part of regularly-scheduled maintenance.

Failing to repaint a roofing material that requires a protective
coating and was painted historically as part of regularly-scheduled
maintenance.

Applying compatible paint coating systems to historically-painted
roofing materials following proper surface preparation.

Applying paint or other coatings to roofing material if they were not
coated historically.

Protecting a roof covering when working on other roof features.

Failing to protect roof coverings when working on other roof features.

Evaluating the overall condition of the roof and roof features to
determine whether more than protection and maintenance, such
as repairs to roof features, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
roof features.

 REHABILITATION

ROOFS
RECOMMENDED
Repairing a roof by ensuring that the existing historic or compatible non-historic roof covering is sound and waterproof. Repair
may include the limited replacement in kind or with a compatible
substitute material of missing materials (such as wood shingles,
slates, or tiles) on a main roof, as well as those extensively
deteriorated or missing components of features when there are
surviving prototypes, such as ridge tiles, dormer roofing, or roof
monitors.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Replacing an entire roof feature when repair of the historic roof­
ing materials and limited replacement of deteriorated or missing
components are feasible.

Using corrosion-resistant roof fasteners (e.g., nails and clips) to
repair a roof to help extend its longevity.

[16] The deteriorated asphalt shingles
of this porch roof are being replaced in
kind with matching shingles.

ROOFS

99

 REHABILITATION

ROOFS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Replacing in kind an entire roof covering or feature that is too
deteriorated to repair (if the overall form and detailing are still
evident) using the physical evidence as a model to reproduce
the feature or when the replacement can be based on historic
documentation. Examples of such a feature could include a large
section of roofing, a dormer, or a chimney. If using the same kind
of material is not feasible, then a compatible substitute material
may be considered.

Removing a feature of the roof that is unrepairable and not replac­
ing it, or replacing it with a new roof feature that does not match.

Replacing only missing or damaged roofing tiles or slates rather
than replacing the entire roof covering.

Failing to reuse intact slate or tile in good condition when only the
roofing substrate or fasteners need replacement.

Using a substitute material for the replacement that does not
convey the same appearance of the roof covering or the surviving
components of the roof feature or that is physically or chemically
incompatible.

Replacing an incompatible roof covering or any deteriorated nonhistoric roof covering with historically-accurate roofing material,
if known, or another material that is compatible with the historic
character of the building.
The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a new roof covering for a missing roof or
a new feature, such as a dormer or a monitor, when the historic
feature is completely missing. It may be an accurate restoration
based on documentary and physical evidence, but only when
the historic feature to be replaced coexisted with the features
currently on the building. Or, it may be a new design that is
compatible with the size, scale, material, and color of the historic
building.

100

ROOFS

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for the
missing roof feature is based upon insufficient physical or historic
documentation, is not a compatible design, or because the feature
to be replaced did not coexist with the features currently on the
building.
Introducing a new roof feature that is incompatible in size, scale,
material, or color.

 REHABILITATION

ROOFS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Alterations and Additions for a New Use
Installing mechanical and service equipment on the roof (such
as heating and air-conditioning units, elevator housing, or solar
panels) when required for a new use so that they are inconspicu­
ous on the site and from the public right-of-way and do not
damage or obscure character-defining historic features.

Installing roof-top mechanical or service equipment so that it dam­
ages or obscures character-defining roof features or is conspicuous
on the site or from the public right-of-way.

Designing rooftop additions, elevator or stair towers, decks or ter­
races, dormers, or skylights when required by a new or continu­
ing use so that they are inconspicuous and minimally visible on
the site and from the public right-of-way and do not damage or
obscure character-defining historic features.

Changing a character-defining roof form, or damaging or destroying
character-defining roofing material as a result of an incompatible
rooftop addition or improperly-installed or highly-visible mechanical
equipment.

Installing a green roof or other roof landscaping, railings, or
furnishings that are not visible on the site or from the public
right-of-way and do not damage the roof structure.

Installing a green roof or other roof landscaping, railings, or furnish­
ings that are visible on the site and from the public right-of-way.

[17] New wood
elements have been
used selectively to
replace rotted wood
on the underside of
the roof in this historic
warehouse.

ROOFS

101

 REHABILITATION

WINDOWS
RECOMMENDED
Identifying, retaining, and preserving windows and their functional and decorative features that are important to the overall
character of the building. The window material and how the
window operates (e.g., double hung, casement, awning, or
hopper) are significant, as are its components (including sash,
muntins, ogee lugs, glazing, pane configuration, sills, mullions,
casings, or brick molds) and related features, such as shutters.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing or substantially changing windows or window features
which are important in defining the overall historic character of the
building so that, as a result, the character is diminished.
Changing the appearance of windows that contribute to the historic
character of the building by replacing materials, finishes, or colors
which noticeably change the sash, depth of the reveal, and muntin
configurations; the reflectivity and color of the glazing; or the
appearance of the frame.
Obscuring historic wood window trim with metal or other material.
Replacing windows solely because of peeling paint, broken glass,
stuck sash, or high air infiltration. These conditions, in themselves,
do not indicate that windows are beyond repair.

Protecting and maintaining the wood or metal which comprises
the window jamb, sash, and trim through appropriate treatments,
such as cleaning, paint removal, and reapplication of protective
coating systems.

Failing to protect and maintain window materials on a cyclical basis
so that deterioration of the window results.

Protecting windows against vandalism before work begins by
covering them and by installing alarm systems that are keyed into
local protection agencies.

Leaving windows unprotected and subject to vandalism before work
begins, thereby also allowing the interior to be damaged if it can be
accessed through unprotected windows.

Making windows weathertight by recaulking gaps in fixed joints
and replacing or installing weatherstripping.

102

WINDOWS

Protecting windows from chemical cleaners, paint, or abrasion
during work on the exterior of the building.

Failing to protect historic windows from chemical cleaners, paint, or
abrasion when work is being done on the exterior of the building.

Protecting and retaining historic glass when replacing putty or
repairing other components of the window.

Failing to protect the historic glass when making window repairs.

 REHABILITATION

WINDOWS
RECOMMENDED
Sustaining the historic operability of windows by lubricating
friction points and replacing broken components of the operat­
ing system (such as hinges, latches, sash chains or cords) and
replacing deteriorated gaskets or insulating units.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Failing to maintain windows and window components so that win­
dows are inoperable, or sealing operable sash permanently.
Failing to repair and reuse window hardware such as sash lifts,
latches, and locks.

Adding storm windows with a matching or a one-over-one pane
configuration that will not obscure the characteristics of the his­
toric windows. Storm windows improve energy efficiency and are
especially beneficial when installed over wood windows because
they also protect them from accelerated deterioration.
Adding interior storm windows as an alternative to exterior storm
windows when appropriate.

[18] The historic metal
storm windows in this
1920s office building
were retained and
repaired during the
rehabilitation project.

[19] Installing a
mockup of a proposed
replacement window
can be helpful to
evaluate how well the
new windows will match
the historic windows
that are missing or too
deteriorated to repair.

WINDOWS

103

 REHABILITATION

[20 a-d] The original steel windows
in this industrial building were
successfully repaired as part of the
rehabilitation project (left).

104

WINDOWS

 REHABILITATION

WINDOWS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Installing sash locks, window guards, removable storm windows,
and other reversible treatments to meet safety, security, or energy
conservation requirements.
Evaluating the overall condition of the windows to determine
whether more than protection and maintenance, such as repairs
to windows and window features, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
window features.

Repairing window frames and sash by patching, splicing, consolidating, or otherwise reinforcing them using recognized preserva­
tion methods. Repair may include the limited replacement in
kind or with a compatible substitute material of those extensively
deteriorated, broken, or missing components of features when
there are surviving prototypes, such as sash, sills, hardware, or
shutters.

Removing window features that could be stabilized, repaired, or
conserved using untested consolidants, improper repair techniques,
or unskilled personnel, potentially causing further damage to the
historic materials.
Replacing an entire window when repair of the window and limited
replacement of deteriorated or missing components are feasible.

Removing glazing putty that has failed and applying new putty;
or, if glass is broken, carefully removing all putty, replacing the
glass, and reputtying.
Installing new glass to replace broken glass which has the same
visual characteristics as the historic glass.
Replacing in kind an entire window that is too deteriorated to
repair (if the overall form and detailing are still evident) using
the physical evidence as a model to reproduce the feature or
when the replacement can be based on historic documentation.
If using the same kind of material is not feasible, then a compatible substitute material may be considered.

Removing a character-defining window that is unrepairable or is not
needed for the new use and blocking up the opening, or replacing it
with a new window that does not match.
Using substitute material for the replacement that does not convey
the same appearance of the surviving components of the window or
that is physically incompatible.

WINDOWS

105

 REHABILITATION

WINDOWS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Modifying a historic single-glazed sash to accommodate insulated Modifying a historic single-glazed sash to accommodate insulated
glass when it will jeopardize the soundness of the sash or signifi­
glass when it will not jeopardize the soundness of the sash or
cantly alter its appearance.
significantly alter its appearance.

[21] The windows on the
lower floor, which were
too deteriorated to repair,
were replaced with new
steel windows matching
the upper-floor historic
windows that were
retained.

Using low-e glass with the least visible tint in new or replacement
windows.

Using low-e glass with a dark tint in new or replacement windows,
thereby negatively impacting the historic character of the building.

Using window grids rather than true divided lights on windows on
the upper floors of high-rise buildings if they will not be notice­
able.

Using window grids rather than true divided lights on windows in
low-rise buildings or on lower floors of high-rise buildings where
they will be noticeable, resulting in a change to the historic charac­
ter of the building.

Ensuring that spacer bars in between double panes of glass are
the same color as the window sash.

Using spacer bars in between double panes of glass that are not the
same color as the window sash.

Replacing all of the components in a glazing system if they have
failed because of faulty design or materials that have deteriorated
with new material that will improve the window performance
without noticeably changing the historic appearance.

Replacing all of the components in a glazing system with new mate­
rial that will noticeably change the historic appearance.

Replacing incompatible, non-historic windows with new windows
that are compatible with the historic character of the building; or
reinstating windows in openings that have been filled in.
The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a new window or its components, such
as frames, sash, and glazing, when the historic feature is completely missing. It may be an accurate restoration based on
documentary and physical evidence, but only when the historic
feature to be replaced coexisted with the features currently on
the building. Or, it may be a new design that is compatible with
the size, scale, material, and color of the historic building.

106

WINDOWS

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for the
missing window is based upon insufficient physical or historic docu­
mentation, is not a compatible design, or because the feature to be
replaced did not coexist with the features currently on the building.
Installing replacement windows made from other materials that are
not the same as the material of the original windows if they would
have a noticeably different appearance from the remaining historic
windows.

 REHABILITATION

(a)

(b)

(c)
[22] Not Recommended: (a-b) The original wood windows in this late-19th-century
building, which were highly decorative, could likely have been repaired and retained.
(c) Instead, they were replaced with new windows that do not match the detailing of
the historic windows and, therefore, do not meet the Standards (above).
(b)

WINDOWS

107

 REHABILITATION

[23] (a)This deteriorated
historic wood window
was repaired and
retained (b) in this
rehabilitation project.

108

WINDOWS

 REHABILITATION

WINDOWS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Alterations and Additions for a New Use
Adding new window openings on rear or other secondary, lessvisible elevations, if required by a new use. The new openings
and the windows in them should be compatible with the overall
design of the building but, in most cases, not duplicate the
historic fenestration.

Changing the number, location, size, or glazing pattern of windows
on primary or highly-visible elevations which will alter the historic
character of the building.
Cutting new openings on character-defining elevations or cutting
new openings that damage or destroy significant features.
Adding balconies at existing window openings or new window open­
ings on primary or other highly-visible elevations where balconies
never existed and, therefore, would be incompatible with the his­
toric character of the building.

Replacing windows that are too deteriorated to repair using the
same sash and pane configuration, but with new windows that
operate differently, if necessary, to accommodate a new use.
Any change must have minimal visual impact. Examples could
include replacing hopper or awning windows with casement
windows, or adding a realigned and enlarged operable portion of
industrial steel windows to meet life-safety codes.

Replacing a window that contributes to the historic character of
the building with a new window that is different in design (such as
glass divisions or muntin profiles), dimensions, materials (wood,
metal, or glass), finish or color, or location that will have a noticeably different appearance from the historic windows, which may
negatively impact the character of the building.

Installing impact-resistant glazing, when necessary for security,
so that it is compatible with the historic windows and does not
damage them or negatively impact their character.

Installing impact-resistant glazing, when necessary for security, that
is incompatible with the historic windows and that damages them
or negatively impacts their character.

Using compatible window treatments (such as frosted glass,
appropriate shades or blinds, or shutters) to retain the historic
character of the building when it is necessary to conceal mechan­
ical equipment, for example, that the new use requires be placed
in a location behind a window or windows on a primary or highlyvisible elevation.

Removing a character-defining window to conceal mechanical
equipment or to provide privacy for a new use of the building by
blocking up the opening.

WINDOWS

109

 REHABILITATION

ENTRANCES AND PORCHES
RECOMMENDED
Identifying, retaining, and preserving entrances and porches and
their functional and decorative features that are important in
defining the overall historic character of the building. The materi­
als themselves (including masonry, wood, and metal) are signifi­
cant, as are their features, such as doors, transoms, pilasters,
columns, balustrades, stairs, roofs, and projecting canopies.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing or substantially changing entrances and porches which
are important in defining the overall historic character of the build­
ing so that, as a result, the character is diminished.
Cutting new entrances on a primary façade.
Altering utilitarian or service entrances so they compete visually
with the historic primary entrance; increasing their size so that they
appear significantly more important; or adding decorative details
that cannot be documented to the building or are incompatible with
the building’s historic character.

[24] Rotted boards
in the beaded-board
porch ceiling are being
replaced with new
matching beaded board.

110

Retaining a historic entrance or porch even though it will no
longer be used because of a change in the building’s function.

Removing a historic entrance or porch that will no longer be
required for the building’s new use.

Protecting and maintaining the masonry, wood, and metals which
comprise entrances and porches through appropriate surface
treatments, such as cleaning, paint removal, and reapplication of
protective coating systems.

Failing to protect and maintain entrance and porch materials on a
cyclical basis so that deterioration of entrances and porches results.

Protecting entrances and porches against arson and vandalism
before work begins by covering them and by installing alarm
systems keyed into local protection agencies.

Leaving entrances and porches unprotected and subject to vandal­
ism before work begins, thereby also allowing the interior to be
damaged if it can be accessed through unprotected entrances.

Protecting entrance and porch features when working on other
features of the building.

Failing to protect materials and features when working on other
features of the building.

Evaluating the overall condition of entrances and porches to
determine whether more than protection and maintenance, such
as repairs to entrance and porch features, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
entrance and porch features.

Repairing entrances and porches by patching, splicing, consolidating, and otherwise reinforcing them using recognized preser­
vation methods. Repair may include the limited replacement in
kind or with a compatible substitute material of those extensively
deteriorated features or missing components of features when
there are surviving prototypes, such as balustrades, columns, and
stairs.

Removing entrances and porches that could be stabilized, repaired,
and conserved, or using untested consolidants, improper repair
techniques, or unskilled personnel, potentially causing further
damage to historic materials.

ENTRANCES AND PORCHES

Replacing an entire entrance or porch feature when repair of the
feature and limited replacement of deteriorated or missing compo­
nents are feasible.

 REHABILITATION

ENTRANCES AND PORCHES
RECOMMENDED
Replacing in kind an entire entrance or porch that is too deteriorated to repair (if the overall form and detailing are still evident)
using the physical evidence as a model to reproduce the feature
or when the replacement can be based on historic documenta­
tion. If using the same kind of material is not feasible, then a
compatible substitute material may be considered.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing an entrance or porch that is unrepairable and not replac­
ing it, or replacing it with a new entrance or porch that does not
match.
Using a substitute material for the replacement that does not
convey the same appearance of the surviving components of
entrance or porch features or that is physically incompatible.

[25] The new infill
designs for the garage
door openings in this
commercial building (a)
converted for restaurant
use and in this mill
building (b) rehabilitated
for residential use are
compatible with the
historic character of the
buildings.

ENTRANCES AND PORCHES

111

 REHABILITATION

ENTRANCES AND PORCHES
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a new entrance or porch when the
historic feature is completely missing or has previously been
replaced by one that is incompatible. It may be an accurate restoration based on documentary and physical evidence, but only
when the historic entrance or porch to be replaced coexisted with
the features currently on the building. Or, it may be a new design
that is compatible with the size, scale, material, and color of the
historic building.

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for
the missing entrance or porch is based upon insufficient physical or
historic documentation, is not a compatible design, or because the
feature to be replaced did not coexist with the features currently on
the building.

Alterations and Additions for a New Use
Enclosing historic porches on secondary elevations only, when
required by a new use, in a manner that preserves the historic
character of the building (e.g., using large sheets of glass and
recessing the enclosure wall behind existing posts and balus­
trades).

Enclosing porches in a manner that results in a diminution or loss
of historic character by using solid materials rather than clear glaz­
ing, or by placing the enclosure in front of, rather than behind, the
historic features.

Constructing secondary or service entrances and porches that are
Designing and constructing additional entrances or porches on
incompatible in size and scale or detailing with the historic building
secondary elevations when required for the new use in a manner
that preserves the historic character of the building (i.e., ensuring or that obscure, damage, or destroy character-defining features.
that the new entrance or porch is clearly subordinate to historic
primary entrances or porches).

[26] Not Recommended: Installing a screened
enclosure is never recommended on a front or
otherwise prominent historic porch. In limited
instances, it may be possible to add screening on a
porch at the rear or on a secondary façade; however,
the enclosure should match the color of the porch and
be placed behind columns and railings so that it does
not obscure these features.

112

ENTRANCES AND PORCHES

 REHABILITATION

STOREFRONTS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Identifying, retaining, and preserving storefronts and their functional and decorative features that are important in defining the
overall historic character of the building. The storefront materials
(including wood, masonry, metals, ceramic tile, clear glass, and
pigmented structural glass) and the configuration of the storefront are significant, as are features, such as display windows,
base panels, bulkheads, signs, doors, transoms, kick plates,
corner posts, piers, and entablatures. The removal of inappropriate, non-historic cladding, false mansard roofs, and other later,
non-significant alterations can help reveal the historic character
of the storefront.

Removing or substantially changing storefronts and their features
which are important in defining the overall historic character of the
building so that, as a result, the character is diminished.
Changing the storefront so that it has a residential rather than commercial appearance.
Introducing features from an earlier period that are not compatible
with the historic character of the storefront.
Changing the location of the storefront’s historic main entrance.
Replacing or covering a glass transom with solid material or inap­
propriate signage, or installing an incompatible awning over it.

Retaining later, non-original features that have acquired signifi­
cance over time.

Removing later features that may have acquired significance.

[28] This new storefront,
which replaced one
that was missing, is
compatible with the
historic character of the
building.

STOREFRONTS

113

 REHABILITATION

STOREFRONTS
RECOMMENDED
Protecting and maintaining masonry, wood, glass, ceramic tile,
and metals which comprise storefronts through appropriate
treatments, such as cleaning, paint removal, and reapplication of
protective coating systems.

Failing to protect and maintain storefront materials on a cyclical
basis so that deterioration of storefront features results.

Protecting storefronts against arson and vandalism before work
begins by covering windows and doors and by installing alarm
systems keyed into local protection agencies.

Leaving the storefront unprotected and subject to vandalism before
work begins, thereby also allowing the interior to be damaged if it
can be accessed through unprotected entrances.

Protecting the storefront when working on other features of the
building.

Failing to protect the storefront when working on other features of
the building.

Evaluating the overall condition of the storefront to determine
whether more than protection and maintenance, such as repairs
to storefront features, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
storefront features.

[27] This original c. 1940s
storefront, with its characterdefining angled and curved
glass display window and
recessed entrance with a
decorative terrazzo paving, is
in good condition and should
be retained in a rehabilitation
project.

114

STOREFRONTS

NOT RECOMMENDED

 REHABILITATION

STOREFRONTS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Repairing storefronts by patching, splicing, consolidating, or
otherwise reinforcing them using recognized preservation meth­
ods. Repair may include the limited replacement in kind or with
a compatible substitute material of those extensively deteriorated
or missing components of storefronts when there are surviving
prototypes, such as transoms, base panels, kick plates, piers, or
signs.

Removing storefronts that could be stabilized, repaired, and conserved, or using untested consolidants, improper repair techniques,
or unskilled personnel, potentially causing further damage to
historic materials.

Replacing in kind an entire storefront that is too deteriorated to
repair (if the overall form and detailing are still evident) using
the physical evidence as a model to reproduce the feature or
when the replacement can be based on historic documentation.
If using the same kind of material is not feasible, then a compat­
ible substitute material may be considered.

Replacing a storefront feature when repair of the feature and
limited replacement of deteriorated or missing components are
feasible.
Using a substitute material for the replacement that does not
convey the same appearance of the surviving components of the
storefront or that is physically incompatible.
Removing a storefront that is unrepairable and not replacing it or
replacing it with a new storefront that does not match.

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a new storefront when the historic
storefront is completely missing or has previously been replaced
by one that is incompatible. It may be an accurate restoration
based on documentary and physical evidence, but only when
the historic storefront to be replaced coexisted with the features
currently on the building. Or, it may be a new design that is
compatible with the size, scale, material, and color of the historic
building.

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for
the missing storefront is based upon insufficient physical or historic
documentation, is not a compatible design, or because the feature
to be replaced did not coexist with the features currently on the
building.
Using new, over-scaled, or internally-lit signs unless there is a historic precedent for them or using other types of signs that obscure,
damage, or destroy character-defining features of the storefront and
the building.

STOREFRONTS

115

 REHABILITATION

STOREFRONTS
RECOMMENDED
Replacing missing awnings or canopies that can be historically
documented to the building, or adding new signage, awnings, or
canopies that are compatible with the historic character of the
building.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Adding vinyl awnings, or other awnings that are inappropriately
sized or shaped, which are incompatible with the historic character
of the building; awnings that do not extend over the entire length of
the storefront; or large canopies supported by posts that project out
over the sidewalk, unless their existence can be historically docu­
mented.

Alterations and Additions for a New Use
Retaining the glazing and the transparency (i.e., which allows the
openness of the interior to be experienced from the exterior) that
is so important in defining the character of a historic storefront
when the building is being converted for residential use. Window
treatments (necessary for occupants’ privacy) should be installed
that are uniform and compatible with the commercial appearance
of the building, such as screens or wood blinds. When display
cases still exist behind the storefront, the screening should be set
at the back of the display case.

­
[29] The rehabilitation of the 1910 Ma’alaea
General
Store (a), which served the workers’ camp at the
Wailuku Sugar Company on the Hawaiian island of Maui,
included the reconstruction of the original parapet (b).

116

STOREFRONTS

Replacing storefront glazing with solid material for occupants’ pri­
vacy when the building is being converted for residential use.
Installing window treatments in storefront windows that have a resi­
dential appearance, which are incompatible with the commercial
character of the building.
Installing window treatments that are not uniform in a series of
repetitive storefront windows.

 REHABILITATION

CURTAIN WALLS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Identifying, retaining, and preserving curtain wall systems and
their components (metal framing members and glass or opaque
panels) that are important in defining the overall historic charac­
ter of the building. The design of the curtain wall is significant,
as are its component materials (metal stick framing and panel
materials, such as clear or spandrel glass, stone, terra cotta,
metal, and fiber-reinforced plastic), appearance (e.g., glazing
color or tint, transparency, and reflectivity), and whether the glaz­
ing is fixed, operable or louvered glass panels. How a curtain wall
is engineered and fabricated, and the fact that it expands and
contracts at a different rate from the building’s structural system,
are important to understand when undertaking the rehabilitation
of a curtain wall system.

Removing or substantially changing curtain wall components which
are important in defining the overall historic character of the building so that, as a result, the character is diminished.

Protecting and maintaining curtain walls and their components
through appropriate surface treatments, such as cleaning, paint
removal, and reapplication of protective coating systems; and by
making them watertight and ensuring that sealants and gaskets
are in good condition.

Failing to protect and maintain curtain wall components on a cycli­
cal basis so that deterioration of curtain walls results.

Protecting ground-level curtain walls from vandalism before work
begins by covering them, while ensuring adequate ventilation,
and by installing alarm systems keyed into local protection
agencies.

Leaving ground-level curtain walls unprotected and subject to van­
dalism before work begins, thereby also allowing the interior to be
damaged if it can be accessed through unprotected glazing.

Protecting curtain walls when working on other features of the
building.

Failing to protect curtain walls when working on other features of
the building.

Cleaning curtain wall systems only when necessary to halt dete­
rioration or to remove heavy soiling.

Cleaning curtain wall systems when they are not heavily soiled,
thereby needlessly introducing chemicals or moisture into historic
materials.

Replacing historic curtain wall features instead of repairing or
replacing only the deteriorated components.

Failing to identify, evaluate, and treat various causes of curtain wall
failure, such as open gaps between components where sealants
have deteriorated or are missing.

CURTAIN WALLS

117

 REHABILITATION

CURTAIN WALLS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Carrying out cleaning tests, when it has been determined that
cleaning is appropriate, using only cleaning materials that will
not damage components of the system, including factory-applied
finishes. Test areas should be examined to ensure that no
damage has resulted.

Cleaning curtain wall systems without testing or using cleaning
materials that may damage components of the system.

Evaluating the overall condition of curtain walls to determine
whether more than protection and maintenance, such as repair of
curtain wall components, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to protect curtain wall
components.

Repairing curtain walls by ensuring that they are watertight by
augmenting existing components or replacing deteriorated or
missing sealants or gaskets, where necessary, to seal any gaps
between system components. Repair may include the limited
replacement of those extensively deteriorated or missing compo­
nents of curtain walls when there are surviving prototypes.

Removing curtain wall components that could be repaired or using
improper repair techniques.
Replacing an entire curtain wall system when repair of materials
and limited replacement of deteriorated or missing components are
feasible.

Applying sealants carefully so that they are not readily visible.

118

CURTAIN WALLS

Replacing in kind a component or components of a curtain wall
system that are too deteriorated to repair (if the overall form and
detailing are still evident) using the physical evidence as a model
to reproduce the feature. If using the same kind of material is not
feasible, then a compatible substitute material may be consid­
ered as long as it has the same finish and appearance.

Removing a curtain wall component or the entire system, if neces­
sary, that is unrepairable and not replacing it or replacing it with a
new component or system that does not convey the same appearance.

Replacing masonry, metal, glass, or other components of a
curtain wall system (or the entire system, if necessary) which
have failed because of faulty design with substitutes that match
the original as closely as possible and which will reestablish the
viability and performance of the system.

Using substitute material for the replacement that does not convey
the same appearance of the surviving components of the curtain
wall or that is physically incompatible.

 REHABILITATION

[31 a-c:] (a) The
rehabilitation of the
First Federal Savings
and Loan Association
building in Birmingham,
AL, constructed in 1961,
required replacing the
deteriorated historic
curtain wall system
because the framing and
the fasteners holding
the spandrel glass
and the windows had
failed. (b) Comparative
drawings show that the
differences between the
replacement system,
which incorporated new
insulated glass to meet
wind-load requirements,
and the original system
are minimal. (c) The
replacement system,
shown after completion
of the project, has not
altered the historic
character of the building.

[30] Rather than replace the original curtain wall system of the 1954 Simms
Building in Albuquerque, NM, with a different color tinted glass or coat it with a nonhistoric reflective film, the HVAC system was updated to improve energy efficiency.
Photo: Harvey M. Kaplan.

CURTAIN WALLS

119

 REHABILITATION

CURTAIN WALLS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a new curtain wall or its components
when the historic feature is completely missing. It may be an
accurate restoration based on documentary and physical evi­
dence, but only when the historic feature to be replaced coex­
isted with the features currently on the building. Or, it may be a
new design that is compatible with the size, scale, material, and
color of the historic building.

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for
the missing curtain wall component is based upon insufficient
physical or historic documentation, is not a compatible design, or
because the feature did not coexist with the features currently on
the building.
Introducing a new curtain wall component that is incompatible in
size, scale, material, color, and finish.

Alterations and Additions for a New Use

120

CURTAIN WALLS

Installing new glazing or an entire new curtain wall system, when
necessary to meet safety-code requirements, with dimensions,
detailing, materials, colors, and finish as close as possible to the
historic curtain wall components.

Installing new glazing or an entire new curtain wall system, when
necessary to meet safety-code requirements, with dimensions and
detailing that is significantly different from the historic curtain wall
components.

Installing impact-resistant glazing, when necessary for security,
so that it is compatible with the historic windows and does not
damage them or negatively impact their character.

Installing impact-resistant glazing in a curtain wall system, when
necessary for security, that is incompatible with the historic curtain
walls and damages them or negatively impacts their character.

 REHABILITATION

STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Identifying, retaining, and preserving structural systems and vis­
ible features of systems that are important in defining the overall
historic character of the building. This includes the materials that
comprise the structural system (i.e., wood, metal and masonry),
the type of system, and its features, such as posts and beams,
trusses, summer beams, vigas, cast-iron or masonry columns,
above-grade stone foundation walls, or load-bearing masonry
walls.

Removing or substantially changing visible features of historic
structural systems which are important in defining the overall his­
toric character of the building so that, as a result, the character is
diminished.
Overloading the existing structural system, or installing equipment
or mechanical systems which could damage the structure.
Replacing a load-bearing masonry wall that could be augmented
and retained.
Leaving known structural problems untreated, such as deflected
beams, cracked and bowed walls, or racked structural members.

Protecting and maintaining the structural system by keeping
gutters and downspouts clear and roofing in good repair; and
by ensuring that wood structural members are free from insect
infestation.

Failing to protect and maintain the structural system on a cyclical
basis so that deterioration of the structural system results.
Using treatments or products that may retain moisture, which
accelerates deterioration of structural members.

[33] Retaining as much
as possible of the
historic wood sill plate
and replacing only the
termite-damaged wood is
always the preferred and
recommended treatment.

STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS

121

 REHABILITATION

STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS
RECOMMENDED
Evaluating the overall condition of the structural system to deter­
mine whether more than protection and maintenance, such as
repairs to structural features, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
structural systems.

Repairing the structural system by augmenting individual com­
ponents, using recognized preservation methods. For example,
weakened structural members (such as floor framing) can be
paired or sistered with a new member, braced, or otherwise
supplemented and reinforced.

Upgrading the building structurally in a manner that diminishes the
historic character of the exterior or that damages interior features or
spaces.

[32] (a-b) The rehabilitation of the 1892 Carson Block Building in Eureka, CA, for
its owner, the Northern California Indian Development Council, included recreating
the missing corner turret and sensitively introducing seismic reinforcement (c)
shown here (opposite page) in a secondary upper floor office space. Photos: Page
& Turnbull.

122

STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS

NOT RECOMMENDED

Replacing a historic structural feature in its entirety or in part when
it could be repaired or augmented and retained.

 REHABILITATION

STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Installing seismic or structural reinforcement, when necessary,
in a manner that minimizes its impact on the historic fabric and
character of the building.
Replacing in kind or with a compatible substitute material large
portions or entire features of the structural system that are either
extensively damaged or deteriorated or that are missing when
there are surviving prototypes, such as cast-iron columns, trusses,
or masonry walls. Substitute material must be structurally suf­
ficient, physically compatible with the rest of the system, and,
where visible, must have the same form, design, and appearance
as the historic feature.

Using substitute material that does not equal the load-bearing
capabilities of the historic material; does not convey the same
appearance of the historic material, if it is visible; or is physically
incompatible.
Installing a visible or exposed structural replacement feature that
does not match.

Replacing to match any interior features or finishes that may
have to be removed to gain access to make structural repairs, and
reusing salvageable material.

STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS

123

 REHABILITATION

STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Alterations and Additions for a New Use
Limiting any new excavations next to historic foundations to avoid Carrying out excavations or regrading land adjacent to a historic
building which could cause the historic foundation to settle, shift,
undermining the structural stability of the building or adjacent
or fail, or which could destroy significant archeological resources.
historic buildings. The area next to the building foundation
should be investigated first to ascertain potential damage to site
features or archeological resources.
Correcting structural deficiencies needed to accommodate a new
use in a manner that preserves the structural system and indi­
vidual character-defining features.

Making substantial changes to significant interior spaces or damag­
ing or destroying features or finishes that are character defining to
correct structural deficiencies.

Designing and installing new mechanical or electrical equipment,
when necessary, in a manner that minimizes the number and size
of cuts or holes in structural members.

Installing new mechanical or electrical equipment in a manner
which reduces the load-bearing capacity of historic structural mem­
bers.

Inserting a new floor that damages or destroys the structural system
Inserting a new floor when required for the new use if it does not
negatively impact the historic character of the interior space; and or abuts window glazing and is visible from the exterior of the buildif it does not damage the structural system, does not abut window ing and, thus, negatively impacts its historic character.
glazing, and is not visible from the exterior of the building.
Creating an atrium, light court, or lightwell to provide natural
light when required for a new use only when it can be done in
a manner that preserves the structural system and the historic
character of the building.

124

STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS

Removing structural features to create an atrium, light court, or
lightwell if it negatively impacts the historic character of the building.

 REHABILITATION

MECHANICAL SYSTEMS: HEATING, AIR CONDITIONING, ELECTRICAL, AND PLUMBING
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Identifying, retaining, and preserving visible features of early
mechanical systems that are important in defining the overall
historic character of the building, such as radiators, vents, fans,
grilles, and plumbing and lighting fixtures.

Removing or substantially changing visible features of mechanical
systems that are important in defining the overall historic character
of the building so that, as a result, the character is diminished.

Protecting and maintaining mechanical, plumbing, and electrical
systems and their features through cyclical maintenance.

Failing to protect and maintain a functioning mechanical system,
plumbing, and electrical systems and their visible features on a
cyclical basis so that their deterioration results.

Improving the energy efficiency of existing mechanical systems
to help reduce the need for a new system by installing storm
windows, insulating attics and crawl spaces, or adding awnings,
if appropriate.
Evaluating the overall condition of mechanical systems to deter­
mine whether more than protection and maintenance, such as
repairs to mechanical system components, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
mechanical system components.

Repairing mechanical systems by augmenting or upgrading
system components (such as installing new pipes and ducts),
rewiring, or adding new compressors or boilers.

Replacing a mechanical system when its components could be
upgraded and retained.

Installing a visible replacement feature of a mechanical system, if it
Replacing in kind or with a compatible substitute material those
extensively deteriorated or missing visible features of mechanical is important in defining the historic character of the building, that
systems when there are surviving prototypes, such as ceiling fans, does not convey the same appearance.
radiators, grilles, or plumbing fixtures.

MECHANICAL SYSTEMS

125

 REHABILITATION

MECHANICAL SYSTEMS: HEATING, AIR CONDITIONING, ELECTRICAL, AND PLUMBING
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Alterations and Additions for a New Use

126

MECHANICAL SYSTEMS

Installing a new mechanical system, if required, so that it results
in the least alteration possible to the historic building and its
character-defining features.

Installing a new mechanical system so that character-defining
structural or interior features are radically changed, damaged, or
destroyed.

Providing adequate structural support for the new mechanical
equipment.

Failing to consider the weight and design of new mechanical equip­
ment so that, as a result, historic structural members or finished
surfaces are weakened or cracked.

Installing new mechanical and electrical systems and ducts,
pipes, and cables in closets, service areas, and wall cavities to
preserve the historic character of the interior space.

Installing systems and ducts, pipes, and cables in walls or ceilings
in a manner that results in extensive loss or damage or otherwise
obscures historic building materials and character-defining features.

Concealing HVAC ductwork in finished interior spaces, when pos­
sible, by installing it in secondary spaces (such as closets, attics,
basements, or crawl spaces) or in appropriately-located, furreddown soffits.

Leaving HVAC ductwork exposed in most finished spaces or install­
ing soffits in a location that will negatively impact the historic
character of the interior or exterior of the building.

Installing exposed ductwork in a finished space when necessary
to protect and preserve decorative or other features (such as
column capitals, pressed-metal or ornamental plaster ceilings,
coffers, or beams) that is painted, and appropriately located so
that it will have minimal impact on the historic character of the
space.

Installing exposed ductwork in a finished space when necessary to
protect and preserve decorative or other features that is not painted,
or is located where it will negatively impact the historic character of
the space.

Lowering ceilings, installing a dropped ceiling, or constructing
soffits to conceal ductwork in a finished space when this will not
result in extensive loss or damage to historic materials or decora­
tive and other features, and will not change the overall character
of the space or the exterior appearance of the building (i.e.,
lowered ceilings or soffits visible through window glazing).

Lowering ceilings, installing a dropped ceiling, or constructing sof­
fits to conceal ductwork in a finished space in a manner that results
in extensive loss or damage to historic materials or decorative and
other features, and will change the overall character of the space or
the exterior appearance of the building.

 REHABILITATION

MECHANICAL SYSTEMS: HEATING, AIR CONDITIONING, ELECTRICAL, AND PLUMBING
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Installing appropriately located, exposed ductwork in historicallyunfinished interior spaces in industrial or utilitarian buildings.
Installing a split system mechanical unit in a manner that will
have minimal impact on the historic character of the interior and
result in minimal loss of historic building material.

Installing a split system mechanical unit without considering its
impact on the historic character of the interior or the potential loss
of historic building material.

Installing heating or air conditioning window units only when
the installation of any other system would result in significant
damage or loss of historic materials or features.
Installing mechanical equipment on the roof, when necessary,
so that it is minimally visible to preserve the building’s historic
character and setting.

Installing mechanical equipment on the roof that is overly large or
highly visible and negatively impacts the historic character of the
building or setting.

Placing air conditioning compressors in a location on a secondary
elevation of the historic building that is not highly visible.

Placing air conditioning compressors where they are highly visible
and negatively impact the historic character of the building or
setting.

[34] The new ceiling
ducts installed during
the conversion of this
historic office building
into apartments are
minimal in design and
discretely placed above
the windows.

MECHANICAL SYSTEMS

127

 REHABILITATION

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Identifying, retaining, and preserving a floor plan or interior
spaces, features, and finishes that are important in defining
the overall historic character of the building. Significant spatial
characteristics include the size, configuration, proportion, and
relationship of rooms and corridors; the relationship of features to
spaces; and the spaces themselves, such as lobbies, lodge halls,
entrance halls, parlors, theaters, auditoriums, gymnasiums, and
industrial and commercial interiors. Color, texture, and pattern
are important characteristics of features and finishes, which can
include such elements as columns, plaster walls and ceilings,
flooring, trim, fireplaces and mantels, paneling, light fixtures,
hardware, decorative radiators, ornamental grilles and registers,
windows, doors, and transoms; plaster, paint, wallpaper and wall
coverings, and special finishes, such as marbleizing and graining;
and utilitarian (painted or unpainted) features, including wood,
metal, or concrete exposed columns, beams, and trusses and
exposed load-bearing brick, concrete, and wood walls.

Altering a floor plan, or interior spaces (including individual rooms),
features, and finishes, which are important in defining the overall
historic character of the building so that, as a result, the character
is diminished.
Altering the floor plan by demolishing principal walls and partitions
for a new use.
Altering or destroying significant interior spaces by inserting addi­
tional floors or lofts; cutting through floors to create lightwells, light
courts, or atriums; lowering ceilings; or adding new walls or remov­
ing historic walls.
Relocating an interior feature, such as a staircase, so that the circulation pattern and the historic relationship between features and
spaces are altered.
Installing new material that obscures or damages character-defining
interior features or finishes.
Removing paint, plaster, or other finishes from historically-finished
interior surfaces to create a new appearance (e.g., removing plaster
to expose brick walls or a brick chimney breast, stripping paint from
wood to stain or varnish it, or removing a plaster ceiling to expose
unfinished beams).
Applying paint, plaster, or other coatings to surfaces that have been
unfinished historically, thereby changing their character.
Changing the type of finish or its color, such as painting a histori­
cally-varnished wood feature, or removing paint from a historicallypainted feature.

128

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES

 REHABILITATION

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Retaining decorative or other character-defining features or
finishes that typify the showroom or interior of a historic store,
such as a pressed-metal ceiling, a beaded-board ceiling, or
wainscoting.

Removing decorative or other character-defining features or finishes
that typify the showroom or interior of a historic store, such as a
pressed-metal ceiling, a beaded-board ceiling, or wainscoting.

Protecting and maintaining historic materials (including plas­
ter, masonry, wood, and metals) which comprise interior spaces
through appropriate surface treatments, such as cleaning, paint
removal, and reapplication of protective coating systems.

Failing to protect and maintain interior materials and finishes on a
cyclical basis so that deterioration of interior features results.

Protecting interior features and finishes against arson and vandal- Leaving the building unprotected and subject to vandalism before
work begins, thereby allowing the interior to be damaged if it can be
ism before project work begins by erecting temporary fencing or
accessed through unprotected entrances.
by covering broken windows and open doorways, while ensuring
adequate ventilation, and by installing alarm systems keyed into
local protection agencies.
Protecting interior features (such as a staircase, mantel, flooring,
or decorative finishes) from damage during project work by cover­
ing them with plywood, heavy canvas, or plastic sheeting.

Failing to protect interior features and finishes when working on the
interior.

[35] (a) Although
deteriorated, the
historic school corridor,
shown on the left, with
its character-defining
features, including doors
and transoms, was
retained and repaired as
part of the rehabilitation
project (b).

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES

129

 REHABILITATION

[36] The elaborate
features and finishes
of this historic banking
hall in the Union Trust
Company Building, in
Cleveland, OH, were
retained and repaired as
part of its conversion into
a food market.

130

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES

 REHABILITATION

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES
RECOMMENDED
Removing damaged or deteriorated paint and finishes only to
the next sound layer using the gentlest method possible prior to
repainting or refinishing using compatible paint or other coating
systems.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Using potentially damaging methods, such as open-flame torches or
abrasive techniques, to remove paint or other coatings.
Removing paint that is firmly adhered to interior surfaces.

Using abrasive cleaning methods only on the interior of industrial Using abrasive methods anywhere but utilitarian and industrial
interior spaces or when there are other methods that are less likely
or warehouse buildings with utilitarian, unplastered masonry
walls and where wood features are not finished, molded, beaded, to damage the surface of the material.
or worked by hand. Low-pressure abrasive cleaning (e.g., sand­
blasting or other media blasting) should only be considered if test
patches show no surface damage and after gentler methods have
proven ineffective.
Evaluating the overall condition of the interior materials, features, Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
interior materials, features, and finishes.
and finishes to determine whether more than protection and
maintenance, such as repairs to features and finishes, will be
necessary.
Repairing interior features and finishes by patching, splicing,
consolidating, or otherwise reinforcing the materials using recognized preservation methods. Repairs may include the limited
replacement in kind or with a compatible substitute material of
those extensively deteriorated or missing parts of interior features
when there are surviving prototypes, such as stairs, balustrades,
wood paneling, columns, decorative wall finishes, and ornamental
pressed-metal or plaster ceilings. Repairs should be physically
and visually compatible.

Removing materials that could be repaired or using improper repair
techniques.
Replacing an entire interior feature (such as a staircase, mantel, or
door surround) or a finish (such as a plaster) when repair of materi­
als and limited replacement of deteriorated or missing components
are feasible.

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES

131

 REHABILITATION

[37] Exposed and painted
ducts were appropriately
installed here in a retail
space in Denver’s historic
Union Station after
considering other options
that would have impacted
the ceiling height, or
damaged or obscured the
ornamental plaster crown
molding. Photo: Heritage
Consulting Group.

[39] Leaving the ceiling
structure exposed
and installing exposed
ductwork where it
does not impact
the windows, are
appropriate treatments
when rehabilitating an
industrial building for
another use.
[38] The rehabilitation
project retained the
industrial character of this
historic factory building,
which included installation
of a fire-rated, clear glass
enclosure that allows the
stairway, an important
interior feature, to remain
visible.

132

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES

 REHABILITATION

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Replacing in kind an entire interior feature that is too deterio­
rated to repair (if the overall form and detailing are still evident)
using the physical evidence as a model to reproduce the feature.
Examples could include wainscoting, window and door surrounds,
or stairs. If using the same kind of material is not feasible, then a
compatible substitute material may be considered.

Removing a character-defining interior feature that is unrepairable
and not replacing it, or replacing it with a new feature or finish that
does not match the historic feature.
Using a substitute material for the replacement that does not
convey the same appearance of the interior feature or that is physi­
cally incompatible.
Using a substitute material for the replacement that does not
convey the same appearance of the interior feature or that is physi­
cally incompatible.

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a new interior feature or finish when
the historic feature or finish is completely missing. This could
include missing walls, stairs, mantels, wood trim, and plaster, or
even entire rooms if the historic spaces, features, and finishes
are missing or have been destroyed by inappropriate alterations.
The design may be an accurate restoration based on documentary
and physical evidence, but only when the feature or finish to be
replaced coexisted with the features currently in the building. Or,
it may be a new design that is compatible with the size, scale,
material, and color of the historic building.

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for
the missing feature is based upon insufficient physical or historic
documentation; is not a compatible design; or because the feature
did not coexist with the feature currently on the building.
Introducing a new interior feature or finish that is incompatible in
size, scale, material, color, and finish.

Alterations and Additions for a New Use
Installing new or additional systems required for a new use for
the building, such as bathrooms and mechanical equipment, in
secondary spaces to preserve the historic character of the most
significant interior spaces.

Subdividing primary spaces, lowering ceilings, or damaging or
obscuring character-defining features (such as fireplaces, windows,
or stairways) to accommodate a new use for the building.

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES

133

 REHABILITATION

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES
RECOMMENDED
Installing new mechanical and electrical systems and ducts,
pipes, and cables in closets, service areas, and wall cavities to
preserve the historic character of interior spaces, features, and
finishes.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Installing ducts, pipes, and cables where they will obscure charac­
ter-defining features or negatively impact the historic character of
the interior.

Creating open work areas, when required by the new use, by
selectively removing walls only in secondary spaces, less sig­
nificant upper floors, or other less-visible locations to preserve
primary public spaces and circulation systems.
Retaining the configuration of corridors, particularly in buildings with multiple floors with repetitive plans (such as office
and apartment buildings or hotels), where not only the floor plan
is character defining, but also the width and the length of the
corridor, doorways, transoms, trim, and other features, such as
wainscoting and glazing.

Making extensive changes to the character of significant historic
corridors by narrowing or radically shortening them, or removing
their character-defining features.

Reusing decorative material or features that had to be removed as Discarding historic material when it can be reused to replace misspart of the rehabilitation work (including baseboards, door casing, ing or damaged features elsewhere in the building, or reusing matepaneled doors, and wainscoting) and reusing them in areas where rial in a manner that may convey a false sense of history.
these features are missing or are too deteriorated to repair.

134

Installing permanent partitions in secondary, rather than pri­
mary, spaces whenever feasible. Removable partitions or partialheight walls that do not destroy the sense of space often may be
installed in large character-defining spaces when required by a
new use.

Installing partitions that abut windows and glazing or that damage
or obscure character-defining spaces, features, or finishes.

Enclosing a character-defining interior stairway, when required by
code, with fire-rated glass walls or large, hold-open doors so that
the stairway remains visible and its historic character is retained.

Enclosing a character-defining interior stairway for safety or func­
tional reasons in a manner that conceals it or destroys its character.

Locating new, code-required stairways or elevators in secondary
and service areas of the historic building.

Making incompatible changes or damaging or destroying characterdefining spaces, features, or finishes when adding new coderequired stairways and elevators.

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES

 REHABILITATION

[41] Not Recommended:
Leaving fragments
of deteriorated or
“sculpted” plaster is not
a compatible treatment
for either finished or
unfinished interior
spaces.

[40] Not Recommended:
Removing a finished
ceiling and leaving the
structure exposed in a
historic retail space does
not meet the Standards
for Rehabilitation.

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES

135

 REHABILITATION

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES
RECOMMENDED

136

NOT RECOMMENDED

Creating an atrium, light court, or lightwell to provide natural
light when required for a new use only when it can be done in a
manner that preserves significant interior spaces, features, and
finishes or important exterior elevations.

Destroying or damaging character-defining interior spaces, features,
or finishes, or damaging the structural system to create an atrium,
light court, or lightwell.

Inserting a new floor, mezzanine, or loft when required for a new
use if it does not damage or destroy significant interior features
and finishes and is not visible from the exterior of the building.

Inserting a new floor, mezzanine, or loft that damages or destroys
significant interior features or abuts window glazing and is visible
from the exterior of the building, and, thus, negatively impacts its
historic character.

Inserting a new floor, when necessary for a new use, only in large
assembly spaces that are secondary to another assembly space
in the building; in a space that has been greatly altered; or where
character-defining features have been lost or are too deteriorated
to repair.

Inserting a new floor in significant, large assembly spaces with
distinctive features and finishes, which negatively impacts their
historic character.

Installing exposed ductwork in a finished space when necessary
to protect and preserve decorative or other features (such as
column capitals, ornamental plaster or pressed-metal ceilings,
coffers, or beams) that is designed, painted, and appropriately
located so that it will have minimal impact on the historic char­
acter of the space.

Installing exposed ductwork in a finished space when necessary to
protect and preserve decorative or other features that is not painted,
or is located where it will negatively impact the historic character of
the space.

Lowering ceilings, installing a dropped ceiling, or constructing
soffits to conceal ductwork in a finished space when they will not
result in extensive loss or damage to historic materials or decora­
tive and other features, and will not change the overall character
of the space or the exterior appearance of the building (i.e.,
lowered ceilings or soffits visible through window glazing).

Lowering ceilings, installing a dropped ceiling, or constructing sof­
fits to conceal ductwork in a finished space in a manner that results
in extensive loss or damage to historic materials or decorative and
other features, and will change the overall character of the space or
the exterior appearance of the building.

Installing a split system mechanical unit in a manner that will
have minimal impact on the historic character of the interior and
will result in minimal loss of historic building material.

Installing a split system mechanical unit without considering its
impact on the historic character of the interior or the potential loss
of historic building material.

INTERIOR SPACES, FEATURES, AND FINISHES

 REHABILITATION

BUILDING SITE
RECOMMENDED
Identifying, retaining, and preserving features of the building site
that are important in defining its overall historic character. Site
features may include walls, fences, or steps; circulation systems,
such as walks, paths or roads; vegetation, such as trees, shrubs,
grass, orchards, hedges, windbreaks, or gardens; landforms, such
as hills, terracing, or berms; furnishings and fixtures, such as
light posts or benches; decorative elements, such as sculpture,
statuary, or monuments; water features, including fountains,
streams, pools, lakes, or irrigation ditches; and subsurface arche­
ological resources, other cultural or religious features, or burial
grounds which are also important to the site.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing or substantially changing buildings and their features
or site features which are important in defining the overall historic
character of the property so that, as a result, the character is dimin­
ished.

[42] This garden is an
important characterdefining landscape
feature on this college
campus.

BUILDING SITE

137

 REHABILITATION

BUILDING SITE
RECOMMENDED
Retaining the historic relationship between buildings and the
landscape.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing or relocating buildings or landscape features, thereby
destroying the historic relationship between buildings and the land­
scape.
Removing or relocating buildings on a site or in a complex of related
historic structures (such as a mill complex or farm), thereby dimin­
ishing the historic character of the site or complex.
Moving buildings onto the site, thereby creating an inaccurate his­
toric appearance.
Changing the grade level of the site if it diminishes its historic
character. For example, lowering the grade adjacent to a building
to maximize use of a basement, which would change the historic
appearance of the building and its relation to the site.

138

BUILDING SITE

Protecting and maintaining buildings and site features by provid­
ing proper drainage to ensure that water does not erode founda­
tion walls, drain toward the building, or damage or erode the
landscape.

Failing to ensure that site drainage is adequate so that buildings
and site features are damaged or destroyed; or, alternatively, chang­
ing the site grading so that water does not drain properly.

Correcting any existing irrigation that may be wetting the build­
ing excessively.

Neglecting to correct any existing irrigation that may be wetting the
building excessively.

Minimizing disturbance of the terrain around buildings or elsewhere on the site, thereby reducing the possibility of destroying or damaging important landscape features, archeological
resources, other cultural or religious features, or burial grounds.

Using heavy machinery or equipment in areas where it may disturb
or damage important landscape features, archeological resources,
other cultural or religious features, or burial grounds.

Surveying and documenting areas where the terrain will be
altered to determine the potential impact to important landscape
features, archeological resources, other cultural or religious fea­
tures, or burial grounds.

Failing to survey the building site prior to beginning work, which
may result in damage or loss of important landscape features,
archeological resources, other cultural or religious features, or burial
grounds.

 REHABILITATION

BUILDING SITE
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Protecting (e.g., preserving in place) important site features,
archeological resources, other cultural or religious features, or
burial grounds.

Leaving known site features or archeological material unprotected so
that it is damaged during rehabilitation work.

Planning and carrying out any necessary investigation before
rehabilitation begins, using professional archeologists and meth­
ods, when preservation in place is not feasible.

Allowing unqualified personnel to perform data recovery on archeo­
logical resources, which can result in damage or loss of important
archeological material

Preserving important landscape features through regularly-sched­
uled maintenance of historic plant material.

Allowing important landscape features or archeological resources to
be lost, damaged, or to deteriorate due to inadequate protection or
lack of maintenance

Protecting the building site and landscape features against arson
and vandalism before rehabilitation work begins by erecting tem­
porary fencing and by installing alarm systems keyed into local
protection agencies.

Leaving the property unprotected and subject to vandalism before
work begins so that the building site and landscape features,
archeological resources, other cultural or religious features, or burial
grounds can be damaged or destroyed.
Removing or destroying features from the site, such as fencing,
paths or walkways, masonry balustrades, or plant material.

Installing protective fencing, bollards, and stanchions on a build- Installing protective fencing, bollards, and stanchions on a building
site, when necessary for security, without taking into consideration
ing site, when necessary for security, that are as unobtrusive as
their location and visibility so that they negatively impact the his­
possible.
toric character of the site.
Providing continued protection and maintenance of buildings
and landscape features on the site through appropriate grounds
and landscape management.

Failing to protect and maintain materials and features from the
restoration period on a cyclical basis so that deterioration of the site
results.

Protecting buildings and landscape features when working on the Failing to protect building and landscape features during work on
site.
the site or failing to repair damaged or deteriorated site features.

BUILDING SITE

139

 REHABILITATION

BUILDING SITE
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Evaluating the overall condition of materials and features to
determine whether more than protection and maintenance, such
as repairs to site features, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
the site.

Repairing historic site features which have been damaged, are
deteriorated, or have missing components order reestablish the
whole feature and to ensure retention of the integrity of the
historic materials. Repairs may include limited replacement in
kind or with a compatible substitute material of those extensively
deteriorated or missing parts of site features when there are
surviving prototypes, such as paving, railings, or individual plants
within a group (e.g., a hedge). Repairs should be physically and
visually compatible.

Removing materials and features that could be repaired or using
improper repair techniques.
Replacing an entire feature of the site (such as a fence, walkway, or
drive) when repair of materials and limited replacement of deterio­
rated or missing components are feasible.

[43] The industrial
character of the site
was retained when
this brewery complex
was rehabilitated for
residential use.

[44] Not Recommended: (a-b) The historic character of this plantation house
(marked in blue on plan on opposite page) and its site was diminished and
adversely impacted when multiple new buildings like this (#3 on plan) were
constructed on the property (c).

140

BUILDING SITE

 REHABILITATION

BUILDING SITE
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Replacing in kind an entire feature of the site that is too deteriorated to repair (if the overall form and detailing are still evident)
using the physical evidence as a model to reproduce the feature.
Examples could include a walkway or a fountain, a land form, or
plant material. If using the same kind of material is not feasible,
then a compatible substitute material may be considered.

Removing a character-defining feature of the site that is unrepair­
able and not replacing it, or replacing it with a new feature that does
not match.
Using a substitute material for the replacement that does not convey
the same appearance of the surviving site feature or that is physi­
cally or ecologically incompatible.
Adding conjectural landscape features to the site (such as period
reproduction light fixtures, fences, fountains, or vegetation) that are
historically inappropriate, thereby creating an inaccurate appearance
of the site.

BUILDING SITE

141

 REHABILITATION

BUILDING SITE
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a new feature on a site when the historic feature is completely missing. This could include missing
outbuildings, terraces, drives, foundation plantings, specimen
trees, and gardens. The design may be an accurate restoration
based on documentary and physical evidence, but only when the
feature to be replaced coexisted with the features currently on
the site. Or, it may be a new design that is compatible with the
historic character of the building and site.

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for
the missing feature is based upon insufficient physical or historic
documentation, is not a compatible design, or because the feature
did not coexist with the features currently on the site.
Introducing a new feature, including plant material, that is visually
incompatible with the site or that alters or destroys the historic site
patterns or use.

Alterations and Additions for a New Use

[45] Undertaking a
survey to document
archeological resources
may be considered in
some rehabilitation
projects when a new
exterior addition is
planned.

142

BUILDING SITE

Designing new onsite features (such as parking areas, access
ramps, or lighting), when required by a new use, so that they
are as unobtrusive as possible, retain the historic relationship
between the building or buildings and the landscape, and are
compatible with the historic character of the property.

Locating parking areas directly adjacent to historic buildings where
vehicles may cause damage to buildings or landscape features or
when they negatively impact the historic character of the building
site if landscape features and plant materials are removed.

Designing new exterior additions to historic buildings or adjacent
new construction that are compatible with the historic character
of the site and preserves the historic relationship between the
building or buildings and the landscape.

Introducing new construction on the building site which is visu­
ally incompatible in terms of size, scale, design, material, or color,
which destroys historic relationships on the site, or which damages or destroys important landscape features, such as replacing a
lawn with paved parking areas or removing mature trees to widen a
driveway.

Removing non-significant buildings, additions, or site features
which detract from the historic character of the site.

Removing a historic building in a complex of buildings or removing a
building feature or a landscape feature which is important in defin­
ing the historic character of the site.

Locating an irrigation system needed for a new or continuing use
of the site where it will not cause damage to historic buildings.

Locating an irrigation system needed for a new or continuing use of
the site where it will damage historic buildings.

 REHABILITATION

SETTING (DISTRICT / NEIGHBORHOOD)
RECOMMENDED
Identifying, retaining, and preserving building and landscape
features that are important in defining the overall historic
character of the setting. Such features can include circulation
systems, such as roads and streets; furnishings and fixtures,
such as light posts or benches; vegetation, gardens and yards;
adjacent open space, such as fields, parks, commons, or wood­
lands; and important views or visual relationships.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing or substantially changing those building and landscape
features in the setting which are important in defining the historic
character so that, as a result, the character is diminished.

[46] The varied size, shapes, and architectural styles of these historic
buildings are unique to this street in Christiansted, St. Croix, USVI, and
should be retained in a rehabilitation project.
[47] Original paving stones contribute to the character of the historic
setting and distinguish this block from other streets in the district.

SETTING (DISTRICT / NEIGHBORHOOD)

143

 REHABILITATION

SETTING (DISTRICT / NEIGHBORHOOD)
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Retaining the historic relationship between buildings and
landscape features in the setting. For example, preserving the
relationship between a town common or urban plaza and the
adjacent houses, municipal buildings, roads, and landscape and
streetscape features.

Altering the relationship between the buildings and landscape fea­
tures in the setting by widening existing streets, changing landscape
materials, or locating new streets or parking areas where they may
negatively impact the historic character of the setting.
Removing or relocating buildings or landscape features, thereby
destroying the historic relationship between buildings and the land­
scape in the setting.

[48] Old police and fire call boxes,
which are distinctive features in this
historic district, have been retained,
and now showcase work by local
artists.
[49] Low stone walls are characterdefining features in this hilly,
early-20th-century residential
neighborhood.

144

SETTING (DISTRICT / NEIGHBORHOOD)

 REHABILITATION

SETTING (DISTRICT / NEIGHBORHOOD)
RECOMMENDED
Protecting and maintaining historic features in the setting
through regularly-scheduled maintenance and grounds and landscape management.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Failing to protect and maintain materials in the setting on a cycli­
cal basis so that deterioration of buildings and landscape features
results.
Stripping or removing historic features from buildings or the setting,
such as a porch, fencing, walkways, or plant material.

Installing protective fencing, bollards, and stanchions in the
setting, when necessary for security, that are as unobtrusive as
possible.

Installing protective fencing, bollards, and stanchions in the setting,
when necessary for security, without taking into consideration their
location and visibility so that they negatively impact the historic
character of the setting.

Protecting buildings and landscape features when undertaking
work in the setting.

Failing to protect buildings and landscape features during work in
the setting.

Evaluating the overall condition of materials and features to
determine whether more than protection and maintenance,
such as repairs to materials and features in the setting, will be
necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
materials and features in the setting.

Repairing features in the setting by reinforcing the historic
materials. Repairs may include the replacement in kind or with a
compatible substitute material of those extensively deteriorated
or missing parts of setting features when there are surviving pro­
totypes, such as fencing, paving materials, trees, and hedgerows.
Repairs should be physically and visually compatible.

Failing to repair and reinforce damaged or deteriorated historic
materials and features in the setting.
Removing material that could be repaired or using improper repair
techniques.
Replacing an entire feature of the building or landscape in the
setting when repair of materials and limited replacement of deterio­
rated or missing components are feasible.

SETTING (DISTRICT / NEIGHBORHOOD)

145

 REHABILITATION

SETTING (DISTRICT / NEIGHBORHOOD)
RECOMMENDED
Replacing in kind an entire building or landscape feature in
the setting that is too deteriorated to repair (if the overall form
and detailing are still evident) using the physical evidence as a
model to reproduce the feature. If using the same kind of mate­
rial is not feasible, then a compatible substitute material may be
considered.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing a character-defining feature of the building or landscape
from the setting that is unrepairable and not replacing it or replac­
ing it with a new feature that does not match.
Using a substitute material for the replacement that does not convey
the same appearance of the surviving building or landscape feature
in the setting or that is physically or ecologically incompatible.

The following work is highlighted to indicate that it is specific to Rehabilitation projects and should only be considered after the preservation concerns have
been addressed.
Designing the Replacement for Missing Historic Features
Designing and installing a new feature of the building or land­
scape in the setting when the historic feature is completely
missing. This could include missing steps, streetlights, terraces,
trees, and fences. The design may be an accurate restoration
based on documentary and physical evidence, but only when the
feature to be replaced coexisted with the features currently in
the setting. Or, it may be a new design that is compatible with
the historic character of the setting.

Creating an inaccurate appearance because the replacement for
the missing feature is based upon insufficient physical or historic
documentation; is not a compatible design, or because the feature
did not coexist with the features currently in the setting.
Introducing a new building or landscape feature that is visually or
otherwise incompatible with the setting’s historic character (e.g.,
replacing low metal fencing with a high wood fence).

Alterations and Additions for a New Use

146

Designing new features (such as parking areas, access ramps,
or lighting), when required by a new use, so that they are as
unobtrusive as possible, retain the historic relationships between
buildings and the landscape in the setting, and are compatible
with the historic character of the setting.

Locating parking areas directly adjacent to historic buildings where
vehicles may cause damage to buildings or landscape features or
when they negatively impact the historic character of the setting if
landscape features and plant materials are removed.

Designing new exterior additions to historic buildings or adjacent
new construction that are compatible with the historic character
of the setting that preserve the historic relationship between the
buildings and the landscape.

Introducing new construction into historic districts which is visually
incompatible or that destroys historic relationships within the set­
ting, or which damages or destroys important landscape features.

Removing non-significant buildings, additions, or landscape fea­
tures which detract from the historic character of the setting.

Removing a historic building, a building feature, or landscape
feature which is important in defining the historic character of the
setting.

SETTING (DISTRICT / NEIGHBORHOOD)

 REHABILITATION

CODE-REQUIRED WORK
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Sensitive solutions to meeting accessibility and life-safety code requirements are an important part of protecting the historic character of the building and
site. Thus, work that must be done to meet use-specific code requirements should be considered early in planning a Rehabilitation of a historic building
for a new use. Because code mandates are directly related to occupancy, some uses require less change than others and, thus, may be more appropriate for a
historic building. Early coordination with code enforcement authorities can reduce the impact of alterations necessary to comply with current codes.

ACCESSIBILITY
Identifying the historic building’s character-defining exterior
features, interior spaces, features, and finishes, and features of
the site and setting which may be affected by accessibility coderequired work.

Undertaking accessibility code-required alterations before identify­
ing those exterior features, interior spaces, features, and finishes,
and features of the site and setting which are character defining
and, therefore, must be preserved.

Complying with barrier-free access requirements in such a
manner that the historic building’s character-defining exterior fea­
tures, interior spaces, features, and finishes, and features of the
site and setting are preserved or impacted as little as possible.

Altering, damaging, or destroying character-defining exterior fea­
tures, interior spaces, features, and finishes, or features of the site
and setting while making modifications to a building, its site, or
setting to comply with accessibility requirements.

[50] This kitchen in
a historic apartment
complex was
rehabilitated to
meet accessibility
requirements.
[51] A new interior
access ramp with a
simple metal railing is
compatible with the
character of this mid­
century-modern building.

CODE-REQUIRED WORK   ACCESSIBILITY

147

 REHABILITATION

CODE-REQUIRED WORK
RECOMMENDED

[52] The access ramp
blends in with the
stone façade of the
First National Bank in
Stephenville, TX, and is
appropriately located on
the side where it is does
not impact the historic
character of the building.
Photo: Nancy McCoy,
QuimbyMcCoy
Preservation
Architecture, LLP.

NOT RECOMMENDED

Working with specialists in accessibility and historic preservation
to determine the most sensitive solutions to comply with access
requirements in a historic building, its site, or setting.

Making changes to historic buildings, their sites, or setting without
first consulting with specialists in accessibility and historic preser­
vation to determine the most appropriate solutions to comply with
accessibility requirements.

Providing barrier-free access that promotes independence for the
user while preserving significant historic features.

Making modifications for accessibility that do not provide indepen­
dent, safe access while preserving historic features.

Finding solutions to meet accessibility requirements that mini­
mize the impact of any necessary alteration on the historic build­
ing, its site, and setting, such as compatible ramps, paths, and
lifts.

Making modifications for accessibility without considering the
impact on the historic building, its site, and setting.

[54] The gently-sloped path in a historic park in
Kansas City, MO, which accesses the memorial below,
includes a rest area part way up the hill.
Photo: STRATA Architecture + Preservation.
[53] This entrance ramp (right) is compatible with the
historic character of this commercial building.

148

CODE-REQUIRED WORK   ACCESSIBILITY

 REHABILITATION

CODE-REQUIRED WORK
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Using relevant sections of existing codes regarding accessibil­
ity for historic buildings that provide alternative means of code
compliance when code-required work would otherwise negatively
impact the historic character of the property.
Minimizing the impact of accessibility ramps by installing them
on secondary elevations when it does not compromise accessibil­
ity or by screening them with plantings.

Installing elevators, lifts, or incompatible ramps at a primary
entrance, or relocating primary entrances to secondary locations to
provide access without investigating other options or locations.

Adding a gradual slope or grade to the sidewalk, if appropriate,
to access the entrance rather than installing a ramp that would
be more intrusive to the historic character of the building and the
district.
Adding an exterior stair or elevator tower that is compatible
with the historic character of the building in a minimally-visible
location only when it is not possible to accommodate it on the
interior without resulting in the loss of significant historic spaces,
features, or finishes.
Installing a lift as inconspicuously as possible when it is neces­
sary to locate it on a primary elevation of the historic building.
Installing lifts or elevators on the interior in secondary or less
significant spaces where feasible.

Installing lifts or elevators on the interior in primary spaces which
will negatively impact the historic character of the space.

[55] The lift is compatible with the
industrial character of this former
warehouse.

CODE-REQUIRED WORK   ACCESSIBILITY

149

 REHABILITATION

CODE-REQUIRED WORK
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

LIFE SAFETY
Identifying the historic building’s character-defining exterior
features, interior spaces, features, and finishes, and features of
the site and setting which may be affected by life-safety coderequired work.

Undertaking life-safety code-required alterations before identifying
those exterior features, interior spaces, features, and finishes, and
features of the site and setting which are character defining and,
therefore, must be preserved.

Complying with life-safety codes (including requirements for
impact-resistant glazing, security, and seismic retrofit) in such a
manner that the historic building’s character-defining exterior fea­
tures, interior spaces, features, and finishes, and features of the
site and setting are preserved or impacted as little as possible.

Altering, damaging, or destroying character-defining exterior fea­
tures, interior spaces, features, and finishes, or features of the site
and setting while making modifications to a building, its site, or
setting to comply with life-safety code requirements.

Removing building materials only after testing has been con­
ducted to identify hazardous materials, and using only the least
damaging abatement methods.

Removing building materials without testing first to identify the
hazardous materials, or using potentially damaging methods of
abatement.

Providing workers with appropriate personal equipment for pro­
tection from hazards on the worksite.

Removing hazardous or toxic materials without regard for work­
ers’ health and safety or environmentally-sensitive disposal of the
materials.

Working with code officials and historic preservation specialists
to investigate systems, methods, or devices to make the building compliant with life-safety codes to ensure that necessary
alterations will be compatible with the historic character of the
building.

Making life-safety code-required changes to the building without
consulting code officials and historic preservation specialists, with
the result that alterations negatively impact the historic character of
the building.

Using relevant sections of existing codes regarding life safety for
historic buildings that provide alternative means of code compli­
ance when code-required work would otherwise negatively impact
the historic character of the building.
[56 a-b] In order to continue in its historic use, the
door openings of this 1916 Colonial Revival-style fire
station had to be widened to accommodate the larger
size of modern fire trucks. Although this resulted
in some change to the arched door surrounds, it is
minimal and does not negatively impact the historic
character of the building. (a) Above, before; Photo:
Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department
(FEMS), Washington, D.C.; below, after.

150

CODE-REQUIRED WORK   LIFE SAFETY

 REHABILITATION

[57] Workers wear
protective clothing while
removing lead paint from
metal features.

[59] (a-b) The decorative concrete balcony railings on this 1960s building did
not meet life-safety code requirements. They were replaced with new glass
railings with a fritted glass pattern matching the original design—a creative
solution that satisfies codes, while preserving the historic appearance of the
building when viewed from the street (c-d). Photos: (a, b, d) ERA Architects, Inc.;
(c) Nathan Cyprys, photographer.

CODE-REQUIRED WORK   LIFE SAFETY

151

 REHABILITATION

CODE-REQUIRED WORK
RECOMMENDED
Upgrading historic stairways and elevators to meet life-safety
codes so that they are not damaged or otherwise negatively
impacted.

Damaging or making inappropriate alterations to historic stairways
and elevators or to adjacent features, spaces, or finishes in the
process of doing work to meet code requirements.

Installing sensitively-designed fire-suppression systems, such as
sprinklers, so that historic features and finishes are preserved.

Covering character-defining wood features with fire-retardant
sheathing, which results in altering their appearance.

Applying fire-retardant coatings when appropriate, such as intu­
mescent paint, to protect steel structural systems.

Using fire-retardant coatings if they will damage or obscure charac­
ter-defining features.

Adding a new stairway or elevator to meet life-safety code
requirements in a manner that preserves adjacent characterdefining features and spaces.

Altering, damaging, or destroying character-defining spaces,
features, or finishes when adding a new code-required stairway or
elevator.

Using existing openings on secondary or less-visible elevations or,
if necessary, creating new openings on secondary or less-visible
elevations to accommodate second egress requirements.

Using a primary or other highly-visible elevation to accommodate
second egress requirements without investigating other options or
locations.

Placing a code-required stairway or elevator that cannot be
accommodated within the historic building in a new exterior addi­
tion located on a secondary or minimally-visible elevation.

Constructing a new addition to accommodate code-required stairs
or an elevator on character-defining elevations or where it will
obscure, damage, or destroy character-defining features of the
building, its site, or setting.

Designing a new exterior stairway or elevator tower addition that
is compatible with the historic character of the building.

[58] Fire doors that
retract into the walls
have been installed here
(not visible in photo)
preserve the historic
character of this corridor.

152

NOT RECOMMENDED

CODE-REQUIRED WORK   LIFE SAFETY

 REHABILITATION

RESILIENCE TO NATURAL HAZARDS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Resilience to natural hazards should be addressed as part of the treatment Rehabilitation. A historic building may have existing characteristics or features
that help address or minimize the impacts of natural hazards. These should be used to best advantage and should be taken into consideration early in the
planning stages of a rehabilitation project before proposing any new treatments. When new adaptive treatments are needed they should be carried out in a
manner that will have the least impact on the historic character of the building, its site, and setting. .
Identifying the vulnerabilities of the historic property to the
impacts of natural hazards (such as wildfires, hurricanes, or
tornadoes) using the most current climate information and data
available.

Failing to identify and periodically reevaluate the potential vulner­
ability of the building, its site, and setting to the impacts of natural
hazards.

Assessing the potential impacts of known vulnerabilities on
character-defining features of the building, its site, and setting;
and reevaluating and reassessing potential impacts on a regular
basis.
Documenting the property and character-defining features as a
record and guide for future repair work, should it be necessary,
and storing the documentation in a weatherproof location.

Failing to document the historic property and its character-defining
features with the result that such information is not available in the
future to guide repair or reconstruction work, should it be necessary.

Ensuring that historic resources inventories and maps are accu­
rate, up to date, and accessible in times of emergency.
Maintaining the building, its site, and setting in good repair, and
regularly monitoring character-defining features.

Failing to regularly monitor and maintain the property and the
building systems in good repair.

Using and maintaining existing characteristics and features of the
historic building, its site, setting, and larger environment (such
as shutters for storm protection or a site wall that keeps out flood
waters) that may help to avoid or minimize the impacts of natural
hazards

Allowing loss, damage, or destruction to occur to the historic building, its site, or setting by failing to evaluate potential future impacts
of natural hazards or to plan and implement adaptive measures, if
necessary to address possible threats.

Undertaking work to prevent or minimize the loss, damage, or
destruction of the historic property while retaining and preserving
significant features and the overall historic character of the building, its site, and setting.

Carrying out adaptive measures intended to address the impacts
of natural hazards that are unnecessarily invasive or will otherwise
adversely impact the historic character of the building, its site, or
setting.

RESILIENCE TO NATURAL HAZARDS

153

 REHABILITATION

[60] In some instances, it may be necessary to elevate a historic building located in a floodplain to protect it. But
this treatment is appropriate only if elevating the building will retain its historic character, including its relationship
to the site, and its new height will be compatible with surrounding buildings if in a historic district. The house on the
right, which has been raised only slightly, has retained its historic character. The house on the left has been raised
several feet higher, resulting in a greater impact on the historic character of the house and the district.

154

RESILIENCE TO NATURAL HAZARDS

 REHABILITATION

RESILIENCE TO NATURAL HAZARDS
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Ensuring that, when planning work to adapt for natural hazards,
all feasible alternatives are considered, and that the options
requiring the least alteration are considered first.
Implementing a treatment traditionally used in another region or
Implementing local and regional traditions (such as elevating
one typically used for a different property type or architectural style
residential buildings at risk of flooding or reducing flammable
which is not compatible with the historic character of the property.
vegetation around structures in fire-prone areas) for adapting
buildings and sites in response to specific natural hazards, when
appropriate. Such traditional methods may be appropriate if they
are compatible with the historic character of the building, its site,
and setting.
Using special exemptions and variances when adaptive treat­
ments to protect buildings from known hazards would otherwise
negatively impact the historic character of the building, its site,
and setting.
Considering adaptive options, whenever possible, that would
protect multiple historic resources, if the treatment can be imple­
mented without negatively impacting the historic character of
the district, or archeological resources, other cultural or religious
features, or burial grounds.

Sustainability
Sustainability is usually a very important and integral part of the
treatment Rehabilitation. Existing energy-efficient features should
be taken into consideration early in the planning stages of a rehabili­
tation project before proposing any energy improvements. There are
numerous treatments that may be used to upgrade a historic build­
ing to help it operate more efficiently while retaining its character.

The topic of sustainability is addressed in detail in The Secretary of
the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation & Illustrated Guide­
lines on Sustainability for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings.

RESILIENCE TO NATURAL HAZARDS

155

 REHABILITATION

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

New Additions
Placing functions and services required for a new use (including
elevators and stairways) in secondary or non-character-defining
interior spaces of the historic building rather than constructing a
new addition.

Expanding the size of the historic building by constructing a new
addition when requirements for the new use could be met by alter­
ing non-character-defining interior spaces.

Constructing a new addition on or adjacent to a primary elevation
Constructing a new addition on a secondary or non-character­
defining elevation and limiting its size and scale in relationship to of the building which negatively impacts the building’s historic
character.
the historic building.

156

Constructing a new addition that results in the least possible loss
of historic materials so that character-defining features are not
obscured, damaged, or destroyed.

Attaching a new addition in a manner that obscures, damages, or
destroys character-defining features of the historic building.

Designing a new addition that is compatible with the historic
building.

Designing a new addition that is significantly different and, thus,
incompatible with the historic building.

Ensuring that the addition is subordinate and secondary to the
historic building and is compatible in massing, scale, materials,
relationship of solids to voids, and color.

Constructing a new addition that is as large as or larger than the
historic building, which visually overwhelms it (i.e., results in the
diminution or loss of its historic character).

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION

 REHABILITATION

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Using the same forms, materials, and color range of the historic
building in a manner that does not duplicate it, but distinguishes
the addition from the original building.

Duplicating the exact form, material, style, and detailing of the
historic building in a new addition so that the new work appears to
be historic.

Basing the alignment, rhythm, and size of the window and door
openings of the new addition on those of the historic building.
Incorporating a simple, recessed, small-scale hyphen, or con­
nection, to physically and visually separate the addition from the
historic building.
Distinguishing the addition from the original building by setting it
back from the wall plane of the historic building.

[61 a-b] The materials,
design, and location at
the back of the historic
house are important
factors in making this a
compatible new addition.
Photos: © Maxwell
MacKenzie.

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION

157

 REHABILITATION

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Ensuring that the addition is stylistically appropriate for the his­
toric building type (e.g., whether it is residential or institutional).
Considering the design for a new addition in terms of its rela­
tionship to the historic building as well as the historic district,
neighborhood, and setting.

[62] The stair tower
at the rear of this
commercial building
is a compatible new
addition.

158

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION

 REHABILITATION

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Designing a compatible rooftop addition for a multi-story build­
ing, when required for a new use, that is set back at least one full
bay from the primary and other highly-visible elevations and that
is inconspicuous when viewed from surrounding streets.

Constructing a rooftop addition that is highly visible, which nega­
tively impacts the character of the historic building, its site, setting,
or district.

Rooftop Additions

[ 63] (a) A mockup
should be erected
to demonstrate the
visibility of a proposed
rooftop addition and its
potential impact on the
historic building. Based
on review of this mockup
(orange marker), it was
determined that the
rooftop addition would
meet the Standards
(b). The addition is
unobtrusive and blends
in with the building
behind it.

New addition

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION

159

 REHABILITATION

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Limiting a rooftop addition to one story in height to minimize its
visibility and its impact on the historic character of the building.

Constructing a highly-visible, multi-story rooftop addition that alters
the building’s historic character.
Constructing a rooftop addition on low-rise, one- to three-story his­
toric buildings that is highly visible, overwhelms the building, and
negatively impacts the historic district.
Constructing a rooftop addition with amenities (such as a raised
pool deck with plantings, HVAC equipment, or screening) that is
highly visible and negatively impacts the historic character of the
building.

[64] Not Recommended:
It is generally not appropriate to
construct a rooftop addition on a
low-rise, two- to three-story building
such as this, because it negatively
affects its historic character.

160

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION

 REHABILITATION

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Related New Construction
Adding a new building to a historic site or property only if the
requirements for a new or continuing use cannot be accommo­
dated within the existing structure or structures.

Adding a new building to a historic site or property when the project
requirements could be accommodated within the existing structure
or structures.

Locating new construction far enough away from the historic
building, when possible, where it will be minimally visible and
will not negatively affect the building’s character, the site, or
setting.

Placing new construction too close to the historic building so that it
negatively impacts the building’s character, the site, or setting.

[65] (a) This (far left)
is a compatible new
outbuilding constructed
on the site of a historic
plantation house (b).
Although traditional in
design, it is built of wood
to differentiate it from the
historic house (which is
scored stucco) located at
the back of the site so as
not to impact the historic
house, and minimally
visible from the public
right-of-way (c).

new
addition

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION

161

 REHABILITATION

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION
RECOMMENDED
Designing new construction on a historic site or in a historic
setting that it is compatible but differentiated from the historic
building or buildings.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Replicating the features of the historic building when designing a
new building, with the result that it may be confused as historic or
original to the site or setting.

Considering the design for related new construction in terms of
its relationship to the historic building as well as the historic
district and setting.
Ensuring that new construction is secondary to the historic build­
ing and does not detract from its significance.

Adding new construction that results in the diminution or loss of
the historic character of the building, including its design, materi­
als, location, or setting.
Constructing a new building on a historic property or on an adjacent
site that is much larger than the historic building.
Designing new buildings or groups of buildings to meet a new use
that are not compatible in scale or design with the character of
the historic building and the site, such as apartments on a historic
school property that are too residential in appearance.

Using site features or land formations, such as trees or sloping
terrain, to help minimize the new construction and its impact on
the historic building and property.
Designing an addition to a historic building in a densely-built
location (such as a downtown commercial district) to appear as
a separate building or infill, rather than as an addition. In such
a setting, the addition or the infill structure must be compatible
with the size and scale of the historic building and surrounding
buildings—usually the front elevation of the new building should
be in the same plane (i.e., not set back from the historic build­
ing). This approach may also provide the opportunity for a larger
addition or infill when the façade can be broken up into smaller
elements that are consistent with the scale of the historic build­
ing and surrounding buildings.

162

NEW EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION

 1

PRESERVATION
BRIEFS

Assessing Cleaning and Water-Repellent
Treatments for Historic Masonry Buildings
Robert C. Mack, AlA
Anne Grimmer
u.s. Department of the Interior
National Park Service
Cultural Resources
Heritage Preservation Services

Inappropriate cleaning and coating treatments are a major
cause of damage to historic masonry buildings. While
either or both treatments may be appropriate in some cases,
they can be very destructive to historic masonry if they are
not selected carefully. Historic masonry, as considered
here, includes stone, brick, architectural terra cotta, cast
stone, concrete and concrete block. It is frequently cleaned
because cleaning is equated with improvement. Cleaning
may sometimes be followed by the application of a waterrepellent coating. However, unless these procedures are
carried out under the guidance and supervision of an
architectural conservator, they may result in irrevocable
damage to the historic resource.
The purpose of this Brief is to provide information on the
variety of cleaning methods and materials that are available
for use on the exterior of historic masonry buildings, and
to provide guidance in selecting the most appropriate
method or combination of methods. The difference between

water-repellent coatings and waterproof coatings
is explained, and the purpose of each, the suitability of
their application to historic masonry buildings, and the
possible consequences of their inappropriate use are
discussed.
The Brief is intended to help develop sensitivity to the
qualities of historic masonry that makes it so special, and
to assist historic building owners and property managers
in working cooperatively with architects, architectural
conservators and contractors (Fig. 1). Although specifically
intended for historic buildings, the information is applicable
to all masonry buildings. This publication updates and
expands Preservation BriefI: The Cleaning and Waterproof
Coating of Masonry Buildings. The Brief is not meant to be
a cleaning manual or a guide for preparing specifications.
Rather, it provides general information to raise awareness
of the many factors involved in selecting cleaning and
water-repellent treatments for historic masonry buildings.

Figure 1. Low-to medium- pressure steam (hot-pressurized water was/ling), is being used to clean the exterior of th e U.S. Tariff Commission Building, the
first marble building constructed in Wa shington, D.C., in 183 9. This method was selected by an architecural co nservator as the "gentlest means possible"
to clean the marble. Steam ca n soft en heavy soiling deposits such as th ose on the cornice and column capitals, and facilit ate easy removal. Note how
these depos its have been removed from the right side oJ the cornice which has already been cleaned.

 Figure 2. Biological growth as shown on this marble f oundation
can us ually be removed using a low-press ure water wash, possibly witiz
a non-ionic detergent added to it, and scrubbing with a natura l or
syllthetic bristle bru sh.

Figu re 3. Th is small test area has revealed a red brick patch that does 110t
match the original beige brick. Th is may explain why the building was
painted, and may sugges t to the owner that it may be preferable to keep
it pa inted.

Preparing for a Cleaning Project

treatment in a particular historic period? Many buildings
were painted at the time of construction or shortly thereafter;
retention of the paint, therefore, may be more appropriate
historically than removing it. And, if the building appears
to have been painted for a long time, it is also important
to think about whether the paint is part of the character of
the historic building and if it has acquired significance over
time.

Reasons for cleaning. First, it is important to determine
whether it is appropriate to clean the masonry. The objective
of cleaning a historic masonry building must be considered
carefully before arriving at a decision to clean. There are
several major reasons for cleaning a historic masonry
building: improve the appearance of the building by
removing unattractive dirt or soiling materials, or nonhistoric paint from the masonry; retard deterioration by
removing soiling materials that may be damaging the
masonry; or provide a clean surface to accurately match
rep ointing mortars or patching compounds, or to conduct
a condition survey of the masonry.
Identify what is to be removed. The general nature and
source of dirt or soiling material on a building must be
identified to remove it in the gentlest means possible that is, in the most effective, yet least harmful, manner.
Soot and smoke, for example, require a different cleaning
agent to remove than oil stains or metallic stains. Other
common cleaning problems include biological growth such
as mold or mildew, and organic matter such as the tendrils
left on masonry after removal of ivy (Fig. 2).
Consider the historic appearance of the building. If the
proposed cleaning is to remove paint, it is important in
each case to learn whether or not unpainted masonry is
historically appropriate. And, it is necessary to consider
why the building was painted (Fig. 3). Was it to cover bad
rep ointing or unmatched repairs? Was the building
painted to protect soft brick or to conceal deteriorating
stone? Or, was painted masonry simply a fashionable

2

Consider the practicalities of cleaning or paint removal.
Some gypsum or sulfate crusts may have become integral
with the stone and, if cleaning could result in removing
some of the stone surface, it may be preferable not to clean.
Even where unpainted masonry is appropriate, the retention
of the paint may be more practical than removal in terms
of long range preservation of the masonry. In some cases,
however, removal of the paint may be desirable. For
example, the old paint layers may have built up to such
an extent that removal is necessary to ensure a sound
surface to which the new paint will adhere.
Study the masonry. Although not always necessary, in
some instances it can be beneficial to have the coating or
paint type, color, and layering on the masonry researched
before attempting its removal. Analysis of the nature of
the soiling or of the paint to be removed from the masonry,
as well as guidance on the appropriate cleaning method,
may be provided by professional consultants, including
architectural conservators, conservation scientists and
preservation architects. The State Historic Preservation
Office (SHPO), local historic district commissions,
architectural review boards and preservation-oriented
websites may also be able to supply useful information on
masonry cleaning techniques.

 Understanding the Building Materials
The construction of the building must be considered when
developing a cleaning program because inappropriate
cleaning can have a deleterious effect on the masonry as
well as on other building materials. The masonry material
or materials must be correctly identified. It is sometimes
difficult to distinguish one type of stone from another; for
example, certain sandstones can be easily confused with
limestones. Or, what appears to be natural stone may not
be stone at all, but cast stone or concrete. Historically, cast
stone and architectural terra cotta were frequently used in
combination with natural stone, especially for trim elements
or on upper stories of a building where, from a distance,
these substitute materials looked like real stone (Fig. 4).
Other features on historic buildings that appear to be stone,
such as decorative cornices, entablatures and window
hoods, may not even be masonry, but metal.
Identify prior treatments. Previous treatments of the
building and its surroundings should be researched and
building maintenance records should be obtained, if
available. Sometimes if streaked or spotty areas do not
seem to get cleaner following an initial cleaning, closer
inspection and analysis may be warranted. The
discoloration may turn out not to be dirt but the remnant
of a water-repellent coating applied long ago which has
darkened the surface of the masonry over time (Fig. 5).
Successful removal may require testing several cleaning
agents to find something that will dissolve and remove the
coating. Complete removal may not always be possible.
Repairs may have been stained to match a dirty building,
and cleaning may make these differences apparent. Deicing salts used near the building that have dissolved can

Figure 4. The foundation of this brick building is limestone, but th e
decorative trim above is architectural terra cotta intended to simuillte
stone.

Figure 5. Repeated wllter washing did rIOt remove the staining inside
this limestone porte cochere. Upon closer examination, it was
determined to be a water-repellent coating that had been applied many
years earlier. An alkaline cleaner may be effective in removing it.

migrate into the masonry. Cleaning may draw the salts to
the surface, where they will appear as efflorescence (a
powdery, white substance), which may require a second
treatment to be removed. Allowances for dealing with
such unknown factors, any of which can be a potential
problem, should be included when investigating cleaning
methods and materials. Just as more than one kind of
masonry on a historic building may necessitate multiple
cleaning approaches, unknown conditions that are
encountered may also require additional cleaning
treatments.
Choose the appropriate cleaner. The importance of testing
cleaning methods and materials cannot be over emphasized.
Applying the wrong cleaning agents to historic masonry
can have disastrous results. Acidic cleaners can be extremely
damaging to acid-sensitive stones, such as marble and
limestone, resulting in etching and dissolution of these
stones. Other kinds of masonry can also be damaged by
incompatible cleaning agents, or even by cleaning agents
that are usually compatible. There are also numerous kinds
of sandstone, each with a considerably different geological
composition. While an acid-based cleaner may be safely
used on some sandstones, others are acid-sensitive and
can be severely etched or dissolved by an acid cleaner.
Some sandstones contain water-soluble minerals and can
be eroded by water cleaning. And, even if the stone type
is correctly identified, stones, as well as some bricks, may
contain unexpected impurities, such as iron particles, that
may react negatively with a particular cleaning agent and
result in staining. Thorough understanding of the physical
and chemical properties of the masonry will help avoid
the inadvertent selection of damaging cleaning agents.

3

 bottom and proceeding to the top of the building always
keeping all surfaces wet below the area being cleaned.
The rationale for this approach is based on the principle
that dirty water or cleaning effluent dripping from cleaning
in progress above will leave streaks on a dirty surface but
will not streak a clean surface as long as it is kept wet and
rinsed frequently.
Water Cleaning

Figure 6. Timed water soaking can be very effective for cleaning
limestone and marble as shown here at the Marble Collegiate Church
in New York City. In this case, a twelve-hour water soak using a
multi-nozzle manifold was followed by a final water rinse. Photo: Diane
S. Kaese, Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, lnc., N. Y. , N. Y.

Other building materials also may be affected by the
cleaning process. Some chemicals, for example, may have
a corrosive effect on paint or glass. The portions of building
elements most vulnerable to deterioration may not be
visible, such as embedded ends of iron window bars.
Other totally unseen items, such as iron cramps or ties
which hold the masonry to the structural frame, also may
be subject to corrosion from the use of chemicals or even
from plain water. The only way to prevent problems in
these cases is to study the building construction in detail
and evaluate proposed cleaning methods with this
information in mind. However, due to the very likely
possibility of encountering unknown factors, any cleaning
project involving historic masonry should be viewed as
unique to that particular building.

Cleaning Methods and Materials
Masonry cleaning methods generally are divided into
three major groups: water, chemical, and abrasive. Water
methods soften the dirt or soiling material and rinse the
deposits from the masonry surface. Chemical cleaners
react with dirt, soiling material or paint to effect their
removal, after which the cleaning effluent is rinsed off the
masonry surface with water. Abrasive methods include
blasting with grit, and the use of grinders and sanding
discs, all of which mechanically remove the dirt, soiling
material or paint (and, usually, some of the masonry
surface). Abrasive cleaning is also often followed with a
water rinse. Laser cleaning, although not discussed here
in detail, is another technique that is used sometimes by
conservators to clean small areas of historic masonry. It
can be quite effective for cleaning limited areas, but it is
expensive and generally not practical for most historic
masonry cleaning projects.
Although it may seem contrary to common sense, masonry
cleaning projects should be carried out starting at the
4

Water cleaning methods are generally the gentlest means
possible, and they can be used safely to remove dirt from
all types of historic masonry.* There are essentially four
kinds of water-based methods: soaking; pressure water
washing; water washing supplemented with non-ionic
detergent; and steam, or hot-pressurized water cleaning.
Once water cleaning has been completed, it is often
necessary to follow up with a water rinse to wash off the
loosened soiling material from the masonry.
Soaking. Prolonged spraying or misting with water is
particularly effective for cleaning limestone and marble.
It is also a good method for removing heavy accumulations
of soot, sulfate crusts or gypsum crusts that tend to form
in protected areas of a building not regularly washed by
rain. Water is distributed to lengths of punctured hose or
pipe with non-ferrous fittings hung from moveable
scaffolding or a swing stage that continuously mists the
surface of the masonry with a very fine spray (Fig. 6). A
timed on-off spray is another approach to using this
cleaning technique. After one area has been cleaned, the
apparatus is moved on to another. Soaking is often used
in combination with water washing and is also followed
by a final water rinse. Soaking is a very slow methodit may take several days or a week-but it is a very gentle
method to use on historic masonry.
Water Washing. Washing with low-pressure or mediumpressure water is probably one of the most commonly
used methods for removing dirt or other pollutant soiling
from historic masonry buildings (Fig. 7). Starting with a
very low pressure (100 psi or below), even using a garden
hose, and progressing as needed to slightly higher pressure
-generally no higher than 300-400 psi-is always the
recommended way to begin. Scrubbing with natural bristle
or synthetic bristle brushes-never metal which can abrade
the surface and leave metal particles that can stain the
masonry-can help in cleaning areas of the masonry that
are especially dirty.
Water Washing with Detergents. Non-ionic detergents
-which are not the same as soaps -are synthetic organic
compounds that are especially effective in removing oily
soil. (Examples of some of the numerous proprietary nonionic detergents include Igepal by GAF, Tergitol by Union
Carbide and Triton by Rohm & Haas.) Thus, the addition
of a non-ionic detergent, or surfactant, to a low- or mediumpressure water wash can be a useful aid in the cleaning
'Water cleaning methods may not be appropriate to use on some badly
deteriorated masonry because water may exacerbate the deterioration,
or on gypsum or alabaster which are very soluble in water.

 process. (A non-ionic detergent, unlike most household
detergents, does not leave a solid, visible residue on the
masonry.) Adding a non-ionic detergent and scrubbing
with a natural bristle or synthetic bristle brush can facilitate
cleaning textured or intricately carved masonry. This
should be followed with a final water rinse.
Steam/Hot-Pressurized Water Cleaning. Steam cleaning
is actually low-pressure hot water washing because the
steam condenses almost immediately upon leaving the
hose. This is a gentle and effective method for cleaning
stone and particularly for acid-sensitive stones. Steam can
be especially useful in removing built-up soiling deposits
and dried-up plant materials, such as ivy disks and tendrils.
It can also be an efficient means of cleaning carved stone
details and, because it does not generate a lot of liquid
water, it can sometimes be appropriate to use for cleaning
interior masonry (Figs. 8-9).
Potential hazards of water cleaning. Despite the fact that
water-based methods are generally the most gentle, even
they can be damaging to historic masonry. Before beginning
a water cleaning project, it is important to make sure that
all mortar joints are sound and that the building is
watertight. Otherwise water can seep through the walls
to the interior, resulting in rusting metal anchors and
stained and ruined plaster.
Some water supplies may contain traces of iron and copper
which may cause masonry to discolor. Adding a chelating
or complexing agent to the water, such as EDTA (ethylene
diamine tetra-acetic acid), which inactivates other metallic
ions, as well as softens minerals and water hardness, will
help prevent staining on light-colored masonry.
Any cleaning method involving water should never be
done in cold weather or if there is any likelihood of frost
or freezing because water within the masonry can freeze,
causing spalling and cracking. Since a masonry wall may
take over a week to dry after cleaning, no water cleaning
should be permitted for several days prior to the first
average frost date, or even earlier if local forecasts predict
cold weather.
Most essential of all, it is important to be aware that using
water at too high a pressure, a practice common to "power
washing" and "water blasting", is very abrasive and can
easily etch marble and other soft stones, as well as some
types of brick (Figs. 10-11). In addition, the distance of the
nozzle from the masonry surface and the type of nozzle,
as well as gallons per minute (gpm), are also important
variables in a water cleaning process that can have a
significant impact on the outcome of the project. This is
why it is imperative that the cleaning be closely monitored
to ensure that the cleaning operators do not raise the
pressure or bring the nozzle too close to the masonry in
an effort to "speed up" the process. The appearance of
grains of stone or sand in the cleaning effluent on the
ground is an indication that the water pressure may be too
high.

Figure 7. Glazed architectural terra cotta often may be cleaned
successfully with a low-pressu re water wash and hand scrubbing
su pplemented, if necessary, with a non-ionic detergent. Pho to: Na tional
Park Service Files.

Chemical Cleaning
Chemical cleaners, generally in the form of proprietary
products, are another material frequently used to clean
historic masonry. They can remove dirt, as well as paint
and other coatings, metallic and plant stains, and graffiti.
Chemical cleaners used to remove dirt and soiling include
acids, alkalies and organic compounds. Acidic cleaners,
of course, should not be used on masonry that is acid
sensitive. Paint removers are alkaline, based on organic
solvents or other chemicals.
Chemical Cleaners to Remove Dirt
Both alkaline and acidic cleaning treatments include the
use of water. Both cleaners are also likely to contain
surfactants (wetting agents), that facilitate the chemical
reaction that removes the dirt. Generally, the masonry is
wet first for both types of cleaners, then the chemical
cleaner is sprayed on at very low pressure or brushed onto
the surface. The cleaner is left to dwell on the masonry
for an amount of time recommended by the product
manufacturer or, preferably, determined by testing, and
rinsed off with a low- or moderate-pressure cold, or
sometimes hot, water wash. More than one application
of the cleaner may be necessary, and it is always a
good practice to test the product manufacturer's
recommendations concerning dilution rates and dwell
times. Because each cleaning situation is unique, dilution
rates and dwell times can vary considerably. The masonry
surface may be scrubbed lightly with natural or synthetic
bristle brushes prior to rinsing. After rinsing, pH strips
should be applied to the surface to ensure that the masonry
has been neutralized completely.

5

 - but they may not be as effective as they are on acidsensitive masonry.) Alkaline cleaning products consist
primarily of two ingredients: a non-ionic detergent or
surfactant; and an alkali, such as potassium hydroxide or
ammonium hydroxide. Like acidic cleaners, alkaline
products are usually applied to pre-wet masonry, allowed
to dwell, and then rinsed off with water. (Longer dwell
times may be necessary with alkaline cleaners than with
acidic cleaners.) Two additional steps are required to
remove alkaline cleaners after the initial rinse. First the
masonry is given a slightly acidic wash-often with acetic
acid-to neutralize it, and then it is rinsed again with water.
Chemical Cleaners to Remove Paint and Other Coatings,
Stains and Graffiti

Figure 8. (Left) Low-press ure (und er 100 psi) steam cleaning
(hot-press urized water washing), is part of the regular maintenance
program at the Jefferson Memorial, Wa shington , D.C. The white marble
interior of this open structure is subject to constant soiling by birds,
in sects and visitors. (Right) Th is portable steam cleaner enables prompt
clea nup when necessary. Photos: Na tional Park Service Files.

Acidic Cleaners. Acid-based cleaning products may be
used on non-acid sensitive masonry, which generally
includes: granite, most sandstones, slate, unglazed brick
and unglazed architectural terra cotta, cast stone and
concrete (Fig. 12). Most commercial acidic cleaners are
composed primarily of hydrofluoric acid, and often include
some phosphoric acid to prevent rust-like stains from
developing on the masonry after the cleaning. Acid cleaners
are applied to the pre-wet masonry which should be kept
wet while the acid is allowed to "work", and then removed
with a water wash.
Alkaline Cleaners. Alkaline cleaners should be used on
acid-sensitive masonry, including: limestone, polished
and unpolished marble, calcareous sandstone, glazed brick
and glazed architectural terra cotta, and polished granite.
(Alkaline cleaners may also be used sometimes on masonry
materials that are not acid sensitive-after testing, of course

Removing paint and some other coatings, stains and graffiti
can best be accomplished with alkaline paint removers,
organic solvent paint removers, or other cleaning
compounds. The removal of layers of paint from a masonry
surface usually involves applying the remover either by
brush, roller or spraying, followed by a thorough water
wash. As with any chemical cleaning, the manufacturer's
recommendations regarding application procedures should
always be tested before beginning work.
Alkaline Paint Removers. These are usually of much the
same composition as other alkaline cleaners, containing
potassium or ammonium hydroxide, or trisodium
phosphate. They are used to remove oil, latex and acrylic
paints, and are effective for removing multiple layers of
paint. Alkaline cleaners may also remove some acrylic,
water-repellent coatings. As with other alkaline cleaners,
both an acidic neutralizing wash and a final water rinse
are generally required following the use of alkaline paint
removers.
Organic Solvent Paint Removers. The formulation of
organic solvent paint removers varies and may include a
combination of solvents, including methylene chloride,
methanol, acetone, xylene and toluene.

Figure 9. (Left) This small steam cleaner- the size of a vacuum cleaner- offers a very controlled and gentle means of cleaning limited, or hard-to-reach
areas or carved stone details. (Right) It is particularly useful for interiors where it is important to keep moisture to a minumum, such as inside
the Washington Monument, Washington, D.C., where it was used to clean the commemorative stones. Photos: Audrey T. Tepper.

6

 Figure 11 . Rinsing with high-pressure water following chemical
cleaning has left a horizontal line of abrasion across the bricks on this
late-19th century row house.

If not carefully chosen, chemical cleaners can react adversely

Figure 10. High-pressure water washing too close to the surface has
abraded and, co nsequently, marred the limestone on this early-20th
century building.

Other Paint Removers and Cleaners. Other cleaning
compounds that can be used to remove paint and some
painted graffiti from historic masonry include paint
removers based on N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP), or on
petroleum-based compounds. Removing stains, whether
they are industrial (smoke, soot, grease or tar), metallic
(iron or copper), or biological (plant and fungal) in origin,
depends on carefully matching the type of remover to the
type of stain (Fig. 13). Successful removal of stains from
historic masonry often requires the application of a number
of different removers before the right one is found. The
removal of layers of paint from a masonry surface is usually
accomplished by applying the remover either by brush,
roller or spraying, followed by a thorough water wash
(Fig. 14).
Potential hazards of chemical cleaning. Since most
chemical cleaning methods involve water, they have many
of the potential problems of plain water cleaning. Like
water methods, they should not be used in cold weather
because of the possibility of freezing. Chemical cleaning
should never be undertaken in temperatures below 40
degrees F (4 degrees C), and generally not below 50 degrees
F. In addition, many chemical cleaners simply do not work
in cold temperatures. Both acidic and alkaline cleaners
can be dangerous to cleaning operators and, clearly, there
are environmental concerns associated with the use of
chemical cleaners.

with many types of masonry. Obviously, acidic cleaners
should not be used on acid-sensitive materials; however,
it is not always clear exactly what the composition is of
any stone or other masonry material. For, this reason,
testing the cleaner on an inconspicuous spot on the building
is always necessary. While certain acid-based cleaners
may be appropriate if used as directed on a particular type
of masonry, if left too long or if not adequately rinsed from
the masonry they can have a negative effect. For example,
hydrofluoric acid can etch masonry leaving a hazy residue
(whitish deposits of silica or calcium fluoride salts) on the
surface. While this efflorescence may usually be removed
by a second cleaning-although it is likely to be expensive
and time-consuming- hydrofluoric acid can also leave
calcium fluoride salts or a colloidal silica deposit on
masonry which may be impossible to remove (Fig. 15).
Other acids, particularly hydrochloric (muriatic) acid,
which is very powerful, should not be used on historic
masonry, because it can dissolve lime-based mortar,
damage brick and some stones, and leave chloride deposits
on the masonry.

Figure 12. A mild acidic clean ing agent is being used to clean this
heavily soiled brick and granite building. Additional application s of the
cleaner and hand-scrubbing, and even poulticing, may be necessary to
remove the dark stains on th e gran ite arches below. Photo: Sharon C.
Pa rk, FAlA.

7

 Alkaline cleaners can stain sandstones that contain a ferrous
compound. Before using an alkaline cleaner on sandstone
it is always important to test it, since it may be difficult to
know whether a particular sandstone may contain a ferrous
compound. Some alkaline cleaners, such as sodium
hydroxide (caustic soda or lye) and ammonium bifluoride,
can also damage or leave disfiguring brownish-yellow
stains and, in most cases, should not be used on historic
masonry. Although alkaline cleaners will not etch a
masonry surface as acids can, they are caustic and can burn
the surface. In addition, alkaline cleaners can deposit
potentially damaging salts in the masonry which can be
difficult to rinse thoroughly.
Abrasive and Mechanical Cleaning
Generally, abrasive cleaning methods are not appropriate
for use on historic masonry buildings. Abrasive cleaning
methods are just that-abrasive. Grit blasters, grinders,
and sanding discs all operate by abrading the dirt or paint
off the surface of the masonry, rather than reacting with
the dirt and the masonry which is how water and chemical
methods work. Since the abrasives do not differentiate
between the dirt and the masonry, they can also remove
the outer surface of the masonry at the same time, and
result in permanently damaging the masonry. Brick,
architectural terra cotta, soft stone, detailed carvings, and
polished surfaces are especially susceptible to physical and
aesthetic damage by abrasive methods. Brick and
architectural terra cotta are fired products which have a
smooth, glazed surface which can be removed by abrasive
blasting or grinding (Figs. 18-19). Abrasively-cleaned
masonry is damaged aesthetically as well as physically,
and it has a rough surface which tends to hold dirt and
the roughness will make future cleaning more difficult.
Abrasive cleaning processes can also increase the likelihood
of subsurface cracking of the masonry. Abrasion of carved
details causes a rounding of sharp corners and other loss
of delicate features, while abrasion of polished surfaces
removes the polished finish of stone.

Figure 13. Sometimes it may be preferable to paint over a thick asphaltic
coating rather than try to remove it, because it can be difficult to remove
completely. However, in this case, many layers of asphaltic coating
were removed through multiple applications of a heavy duty chemical
cleaner. Each application of the cleaner was left to dwell following the
manufacturer's reccommendations, and then rinsed thoroughly.
(As much as possible of the asphalt was first removed with wooden
scrapers.) Although not all the asphalt was removed, this was
determined to be an acceptable level of cleanliness for the project.

8

Figure 14. Chemical removal of paint from this brick building has
revealed that the cornice and window hoods are metal rather than
masonry.

Mortar joints, especially those with lime mortar, also can
be eroded by abrasive or mechanical cleaning. In some
cases, the damage may be visual, such as loss of joint detail
or increased joint shadows. As mortar joints constitute a
significant portion of the masonry surface (up to 20 per
cent in a brick wall), this can result in the loss of a
considerable amount of the historic fabric. Erosion of the
mortar joints may also permit increased water penetration,
which will likely necessitate repainting.

Figure 15. The whitish deposits left on the brick by a chemical paint
remover may have resulted from inadequate rinsing or from the
chemical being left on the surface too long and may be impossible to
remove.

 Poulticing to Remove Stains and Graffiti

a
b

c

Graffiti and stains, which have penetrated into the masonry,
often are best removed by using a poultice. A poultice
consists of an absorbent material or clay powder (such as
kaolin or fuller 's earth, or even shredded paper or paper
towels), mixed with a liquid (solvent or other remover) to
form a paste which is applied to the stain (Figs. 16-17).
As it dries, the paste absorbs the staining material so that
it is not redeposited on the masonry surface. Some
commercial cleaning products and paint removers are
specially formulated as a paste or gel that will cling to a
vertical surface and remain moist for a longer period of
time in order to prolong the action of the chemical on the
stain. Pre-mixed poultices are also available as a paste or
in powder form needing only the addition of the
appropriate liquid. The masonry must be pre-wet before
applying an alkaline cleaning agent, but not when using
a solvent. Once the stain has been removed, the masonry
must be rinsed thoroughly.

d
Figure 16. (a) The limestone base was heavily stained by runoff
from the bronze statue above. (b) A poultice consisting of copper
stain remover and ammonia mixed with fuller's earth was applied
to the stone base and covered with plastic sheeting to keep it from
drying out too quickly. (c) As the poultice dried, it pulled the stain
out of the stone. (d) The poultice residue was removed carefully
from the stone surface with wooden scrapers and the stone was
rinsed with wa ter. Photos: John Dugger.

Figure 17. A poultice is being used to remove salts from the brownstone
statuary on the facade of this late-19 th century stone chu rch. Pho to:
Nationa l Park Serv ice Files .

9

 Figure 18. The glazed bricks in the center of the pier were covered by a
signboard that protected them being damaged by the sandblasting
which removed the glaze from the surrounding bricks .

Figure 19. A comparison of undamaged bricks surroundng the electrical
conduit with the rest of the brick facade emphasizes the severity of the
erosion caused by sandblasting.

Abrasive Blasting. Blasting with abrasive grit or another
abrasive m aterial is the most frequently used abrasive
method. Sandblasting is most commonly associated with
abrasive cleaning. Finely ground silica or glass powder,
glass beads, ground garnet, powdered walnut and other
ground nut shells, grain hulls, aluminum oxide, plastic
particles and even tiny pieces of sponge, are just a few of
the other materials that have also been used for abrasive
cleaning. Although abrasive blasting is not an appropriate
method of cleaning historic masonry, it can be safely used
to clean some materials. Finely-powdered walnut shells
are commonly used for cleaning monumental bronze
sculpture, and skilled conservators clean delicate museum
objects and finely detailed, carved stone features with very
small, micro-abrasive units using aluminum oxide.

A number of current approaches to abrasive blasting rely
on materials that are not usually thought of as abrasive,
and not as commonly associated with traditional
abrasive grit cleaning. Some patented abrasive cleaning
processes - one dry, one wet -use finely-ground glass
powder intended to "erase" or remove dirt and surface
soiling only, but not paint or stains (Fig. 20). Cleaning with
baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) is another patented
process. Bakmg soda blasting is being used in some
communities as a means of quick graffiti removal.
However, it should not be used on historic masonry which
it can easily abrade and can permanently "etch" the graffiti
into the stone; it can also leave potentially damaging salts
in the stone which cannot be removed. Most of these
abrasive grits may be used either dry or wet, although dry
grit tends to be used more frequently.

Figure 20. (Left) A comparison of the limestone surface of a 1920s office building before and after "cleaning" with a proprietary abrasive process using
fine glass powder clearly shows the effectiveness of this method. But this is an abrasive technique and it has "cleaned" by removing part of the masonry
surface with the dirt. Because it is abrasive, it is generally not recommended for large-scale cleaning of historic masonry, although it may be suitable to
use in certain, very limited cases under controlled circumstances. (Right) A vacum chamber where the used glass powder is collected for environmentally
safe disposal is a unique feature of this particular process. The specially-trained operators in the chamber wear protective clothing, masks and breathing
equipment. Photos: Tom Keohan.

10

 Testing cleaning methods. In order to determine the

gentlest means possible, several cleaning methods or
materials may have to be tested prior to selecting the best
one to use on the building. Testing should always begin
with the gentlest and least invasive method proceeding
gradually, if necessary, to more complicated methods, or
a combination of methods. All too often simple methods,
such as low-pressure water wash, are not even considered,
yet they frequently are effective, safe, and not expensive.
Water of slightly higher pressure or with a non-ionic
detergent additive also may be effective. It is worth
repeating that these methods should always be tested prior
to considering harsher methods; they are safer for the
building and the environment, often safer for the applicator,
and relatively inexpensive.

Figure 21. Low-pressure blasting with ice pellets or ice crystals (l eft) is
an abrasive cleaning method that is sometimes recommended for use
on interior masonry because it does not involve large amounts of water.
However, like other abrasive materials, ice crystals "clean" by removing
a portion of th e masonry surface with the dirt, and may not remove
sOllie sta ins that have penetrated into the l1lasollry withou t causing
furt her abrasion (right) . Photos: Audrey T. Tepper.

Ice particles, or pelletized dry ice (carbon dioxide or C02),
are another medium used as an abrasive cleaner (Fig. 21).
TItis is also too abrasive to be used on most historic masonry,
but it may have practical application for removing mastics
or asphaltic coatings from some substrates.
Some of these processes are promoted as being more
environmentally safe and not damaging to historic masonry
buildings. However, it must be remembered that they are
abrasive and that they "clean" by removing a small portion
of the masonry surface, even though it may be only a
minuscule portion. The fact that they are essentially
abrasive treatments must always be taken into consideration
when planning a masonry cleaning project. In general,

abrasive methods should not be used to clean historic
masonry buildings. In some, very limited instances, highlycontrolled, gentle abrasive cleaning may be appropriate
on selected, hard-to-clean areas of a historic masonry
building if carried out under the watchful supervision of
a professional conservator. But, abrasive cleaning should
never be used on an entire building.
Grinders and Sanding Disks. Grinding the masonry
surface with mechanical grinders and sanding disks is
another means of abrasive cleaning that should not be used
on historic masonry. Like abrasive blasting, grinders and
disks do not really clean masonry but instead grind away
and abrasively remove and, thus, damage the masonry
surface itself rather than remove just the soiling material.

Planning A Cleaning Project
Once the masonry and soiling material or paint have been
identified, and the condition of the masonry has been
evaluated, planning for the cleaning project can begin.

The level of cleanliness desired also should be determined
prior to selection of a cleaning method. Obviously, the
intent of cleaning is to remove most of the dirt, soiling
material, stains, paint or other coating. A "brand new"
appearance, however, may be inappropriate for an older
building, and may require an overly harsh cleaning method
to be achieved. When undertaking a cleaning project, it is
important to be aware that some stains simply may not be
removable. It may be wise, therefore, to agree upon a
slightly lower level of cleanliness that will serve as the
standard for the cleaning project. The precise amount of
residual dirt considered acceptable may depend on the
type of masonry, the type of soiling and difficulty of total
removal, and local environmental conditions.
Cleaning tests should be carried out in an area of sufficient
size to give a true indication of their effectiveness. It is
preferable to conduct the test in an inconspicuous location
on the building so that it will not be obvious if the test is
not successful. A test area may be quite small to begin,
sometimes as small as six square inches, and gradually
may be increased in size as the most appropriate methods
and cleaning agents are determined. Eventually the test
area may be expanded to a square yard or more, and it
should include several masonry units and mortar joints
(Fig. 22). It should be remembered that a single building
may have several types of masonry and that even similar
materials may have different surface finishes. Each material
and different finish should be tested separately. Cleaning
tests should be evaluated only after the masonry has dried
completely. The results of the tests may indicate that

several methods of cleaning should be used on a single
building.
When feasible, test areas should be allowed to weather for
an extended period of time prior to final evaluation. A
waiting period of a full year would be ideal in order to
expose the test patch to a full range of seasons. If this is
not possible, the test patch should weather for at least a
month or two. For any building which is considered
historically important, the delay is insignificant compared
to the potential damage and disfigurement which may
result from using an incompletely tested method. The

successfully cleaned test patch should be protected as it
will serve as a standard against which the entire cleaning
project will be measured.
11

 Environmental considerations. The potential effect of any
method proposed for cleaning historic masonry should be
evaluated carefully. Chemical cleaners and paint removers
may damage trees, shrubs, grass, and plants. A plan must
be provided for environmentally safe removal and disposal
of the cleaning materials and the rinsing effluent before
beginning the cleaning project. Authorities from the local
regulatory agency - usually under the jurisdiction of the
federal or state Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
should be consulted prior to beginning a cleaning project,
especially if it involves anything more than plain water
washing. This advance planning will ensure that the
cleaning effluent or run-off, which is the combination of
the cleaning agent and the substance removed from the
masonry, is handled and disposed of in an environmentally
sound and legal manner. Some alkaline and acidic cleaners
can be neutralized so that they can be safely discharged
into storm sewers. However, most solvent-based cleaners
cannot be neutralized and are categorized as pollutants,
and must be disposed of by a licensed transport, storage
and disposal facility. Thus, it is always advisable to consult
with the appropriate agencies before starting to clean to
ensure that the project progresses smoothly and is not
intermpted by a stop-work order because a required permit
was not obtained in advance.
Vinyl guttering or polyethylene-lined troughs placed around
the perimeter of the base of the building can serve to catch
chemical cleaning waste as it is rinsed off the building.
This will reduce the amount of chemicals entering and
polluting the soil, and also will keep the cleaning waste
contained until it can be removed safely. Some patented
cleaning systems have developed special equipment to
facilitate the containment and later disposal of cleaning
waste.
Concern over the release of volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) into the air has resulted in the manufacture of new,
more environmentally responsible cleaners and paint
removers, while some materials traditionally used in
cleaning may no longer be available for these same reasons.
Other health and safety concerns have created additional
cleaning challenges, such as lead paint removal, which is
likely to require special removal and disposal techniques.
Cleaning can also cause damage to non-masonry materials
on a building, including glass, metal and wood. Thus, it
is usually necessary to cover windows and doors, and
other features that may be vulnerable to chemical cleaners.
They should be covered with plastic or polyethylene, or a
masking agent that is applied as a liquid which dries to
form a thin protective film on glass, and is easily peeled
off after the cleaning is finished. Wind drift, for example,
can also damage other property by carrying cleaning
chemicals onto nearby automobiles, resulting in etching
of the glass or spotting of the paint finish. Similarly,
airborne dust can enter surrounding buildings, and excess
water can collect in nearby yards and basements.
Safety considerations. Possible health dangers of each
method selected for the cleaning project must be considered
before selecting a cleaning method to avoid harm to the

12

Figure 22. Cleaning test areas may be quite small at first and gradually
increase in size as testing determines the "gentlest mean s possible".
Photo: Frances Gale.

cleaning applicators, and the necessary precautions must
be taken. The precautions listed in Material Safety Data
Sheets (MSDS) that are provided with chemical products
should always be followed. Protective clothing, respirators,
hearing and face shields, and gloves must be provided to
workers to be worn at all times. Acidic and alkaline
chemical cleaners in both liquid and vapor forms can also
cause serious injury to passers-by (Fig. 23). It may be
necessary to schedule cleaning at night or weekends if the
building is located in a busy urban area to reduce the
potential danger of chemical overspray to pedestrians.
Cleaning during non-business hours will allow HVAC
systems to be turned off and vents to be covered to prevent
dangerous chemical fumes from entering the building
which will also ensure the safety of the building's occupants.
Abrasive and mechanical methods produce dust which
can pose a serious health hazard, particularly if the abrasive
or the masonry contains silica.

Water-Repellent Coatings and Waterproof
Coatings
To begin with, it is important to understand that waterproof
coatings and water-repellent coatings are not the same.
Although these terms are frequently interchanged and
commonly confused with one another, they are completely
different materials. Water-repellent coatings --Dften
referred to incorrectly as "sealers", but which do not or
should not seal- are intended to keep liquid water from
penetrating the surface but to allow water vapor to enter
and leave, or pass through, the surface of the masonry (Fig.
24). Water-repellent coatings are generally transparent, or
clear, although once applied some may darken or discolor
certain types of masonry while others may give it a glossy
or shiny appearance. Waterproof coatings seal the surface
from liquid water and from water vapor. They are usually
opaque, or pigmented, and include bituminous coatings
and some elastomeric paints and coatings.

 Water-Repellent Coatings
Water-repellent coatings are formulated to be vapor
permeable, or "breathable". They do not seal the surface
completely to water vapor so it can enter the masonry
wall as well as leave the wall. While the first waterrepellent coatings to be developed were primarily acrylic
or silicone resins in organic solvents, now most waterrepellent coatings are water-based and formulated from
modified siloxanes, silanes and other alkoxysilanes, or
metallic stearates. While some of these products are
shipped from the factory ready to use, other waterborne
water repellents must be diluted at the job site. Unlike
earlier water-repellent coatings which tended to form a
"film" on the masonry surface, modem water-repellent
coatings actually penetrate into the masonry substrate
slightly and, generally, are almost invisible if properly
applied to the masonry. They are also more vapor
permeable than the old coatings, yet they still reduce the
vapor permeability of the masonry. Once inside the wall,
water vapor can condense at cold spots producing liquid
water which, unlike water vapor, cannot escape through
a water-repellent coating. The liquid water within the
wall, whether from condensation, leaking gutters, or other
sources, can cause considerable damage.
Water-repellent coatings are not consolidants. Although
modem water repellents may penetrate slightly beneath
the masonry surface, instead of just "sitting" on top of it,
they do not perform the same function as a consolidant
which is to "consolidate" and replace lost binder to
strengthen deteriorating masonry. Even after many years
of laboratory study and testing few consolidants have
proven very effective. The composition of fired products
such as brick and architectural terra cotta, as well as many
types of building stone, does not lend itself to consolidation.
Some modem water-repellent coatings which contain a
binder intended to replace the natural binders in stone
that have been lost through weathering and natural erosion
are described in product literature as both a water repellent
and a consolidant. The fact that newer water-repellent
coatings penetrate beneath the masonry surface instead
of just forming a layer on top of the surface may indeed
convey at least some consolidating properties to certain
stones. However, a water-repellent coating cannot be
considered a consolidant. In some instances, a waterrepellent or "preservative" coating, if applied to already
damaged or spalling stone, may form a surface crust which,
if it fails, may exacerbate the deterioration by pulling off
even more of the stone (Fig. 25).
Is a Water-Repellent Treatment Necessary?
Water-repellent coatings are frequently applied to historic
masonry buildings for the wrong reason. They also are
often applied without an understanding of what they are
and what they are intended to do. And these coatings can
be very difficult, if not impossible, to remove from
the masonry if they fail or become discolored. Most
importantly, the application of water-repellent coatings to
historic masonry is usually unnecessary.

Figure 23. A tarpaulin protects and shields pedestrians from potentially
harmful spray while chemical cleaning is underway on the gra nite
exterior of the U.S. Treasury Building, Washington, D.C.

Most historic masonry buildings, unless they are painted,
have survived for decades without a water-repellent
coating and, thus, probably do not need one now. Water
penetration to the interior of a masonry building is seldom
due to porous masonry, but results from poor or deferred
maintenance. Leaking roofs, clogged or deteriorated
gutters and downspouts, missing mortar, or cracks and
open joints around door and window openings are almost
always the cause of moisture-related problems in a historic
masonry building. If historic masonry buildings are kept
watertight and in good repair, water-repellent coatings
should not be necessary.
Rising damp (capillary moisture pulled up from the
ground), or condensation can also be a source of excess
moisture in masonry buildings. A water-repellent coating
will not solve this problem either and, in fact, may be
likely to exacerbate it. Furthermore, a water-repellent
coating should never be applied to a damp wall. Moisture
in the wall would reduce the ability of a coating to adhere
to the masonry and to penetrate below the surface. But,
if it did adhere, it would hold the moisture inside the
masonry because, although a water-repellent coating is
permeable to water vapor, liquid water cannot pass through
it. In the case of rising damp, a coating may force the
moisture to go even higher in the wall because it can slow
down evaporation, and thereby retain the moisture in the
wall.
Excessive moisture in masonry walls may carry waterborne
soluble salts from the masonry units themselves or from
the mortar through the walls. If the water is permitted to
come to the surface, the salts may appear on the masonry
surface as efflorescence (a whitish powder) upon
evaporation. However, the salts can be potentially
dangerous if they remain in the masonry and crystallize

13

 Figure 24. Although the application of a water-repellent coating W Il S
probably not needed on either of these buildings, the coating on th e
brick building (above), is not visible and ha s not changed tile character
of the brick. But the coating on the brick colllmn (below), has a high
gloss that is inco mpatible with the historic character of the masonry.

beneath the surface as subflorescence. Subflorescence
eventually may cause the surface of the masonry to spall,
particularly if a water-repellent coating has been applied
which tends to reduce the flow of moisture out from the
subsurface of the masonry. Although many of the newer
water-repellent products are more breathable than their
predecessors, they can be especially damaging if applied
to masonry that contains salts, because they limit the flow
of moisture through masonry.

14

When a Water-Repellent Coating May be Appropriate
There are some instances when a water-repellent coating
may be considered appropriate to use on a historic masonry
building. Soft, incompletely fired brick from the 18th- and
early-19th centuries may have become so porous that paint
or some type of coating is needed to protect it from further
deterioration or dissolution. When a masonry building
has been neglected for a long period of time, necessary
repairs may be required in order to make it watertight.
If, following a reasonable period of time after the building
has been made watertight and has dried out completely,
moisture appears actually to be penetrating through the
repointed and repaired masonry wails, then the application
of a water-repellent coating may be considered in selected
areas only. This decision should be made in consultation
with an architectural conservator. And, if such a treatment
is undertaken, it should not be applied to the entire exterior
of the building.
Anti-graffiti or barrier coatings are another type of clear
coating-although barrier coatings can also be pigmentedthat may be applied to exterior masonry, but they are not
formulated primarily as water repellents. The purpose of
these coatings is to make it harder for graffiti to stick to
a masonry surface and, thus, easier to clean. But, like
water-repellent coatings, in most cases the application
of anti-graffiti coatings is generally not recommended for
historic masonry buildings. These coatings are often quite
shiny which can greatly alter the appearance of a historic
masonry surface, and they are not always effective (Fig.
26) . Generally, other ways of discouraging graffiti, such
as improved lighting, can be more effective than a coating.
However, the application of anti-graffiti coatings may be
appropriate in some instances on vulnerable areas of
historic masonry buildings which are frequent targets of
graffiti that are located in out-of-the-way places where
constant surveillance is not possible.
Some water-repellent coatings are recommended by
product manufacturers as a means of keeping dirt and
pollutants or biological growth from collecting on the
surface of masonry buildings and, thus, reducing the need
for frequent cleaning. While this at times may be true, in
some cases a coating may actually retain dirt more than
uncoated masonry. Generally, the application of a waterrepellent coating is not recommended on a historic masonry
building as a means of preventing biological growth.
Some water-repellent coatings may actually encourage
biological growth on a masonry wall. Biological growth
on masonry buildings has traditionally been kept at bay
through regularly-scheduled cleaning as part of a
maintenance plan. Simple cleaning of the masonry with
low-pressure water using a natural- or synthetic-bristled
scrub brush can be very effective if done on a regular basis.
Commercial products are also available which can
be sprayed on masonry to remove biological growth.
In most instances, a water-repellent coating is not
necessary if a building is watertight. The application of
a water-repellent coating is not a recommended treatment
for historic masonry buildings unless there is a specific

 periodically although, if they are truly invisible, it can be
difficult to know when they are no longer providing the
intended protection.
Testing a water-repellent coating by applying it in one
small area may not be helpful in determining its suitability
for the building because a limited test area does not allow
an adequate evaluation of such a treatment. Since water
may enter and leave through the surrounding untreated
areas, there is no way to tell if the coated test area is
"breathable." But trying a coating in a small area may help
to determine whether the coating is visible on the surface
or if it will otherwise change the appearance of the masonry.
Waterproof Coatings
Figure 25. The clear coating applied to this limestone molding has
fa iled and is taking off some of th e stone surface as it peels. Photo:
Frances Ga le.

problem which it may help solve. If the problem
occurs on only part of the building, it is best to treat only
that area rather than an entire building. Extreme exposures
such as parapets, for example, or portions of the building
subject to driving rain can be treated more effectively and
less expensively than the entire building. Water-repellent
coatings are not permanent and must be reapplied

In theory, waterproof coatings usually do not cause
problems as long as they exclude all water from the
masomy. If water does enter the wall from the ground or
from the inside of a building, the coating can intensify the
damage because the water will not be able to escape.
During cold weather this water in the wall can freeze
causing serious mechanical disruption, such as spalling.
In addition, the water eventually will get out by the path
of least resistance. If this path is toward the interior,
damage to interior finishes can result; if it is toward the
exterior, it can lead to damage to the masomy caused by
built-up water pressure (Fig. 27).
In most instances, waterproof coatings should not be
applied to historic masonry. The possible exception to
this might be the application of a waterproof coating to
below-grade exterior foundation walls as a last resort to
stop water infiltration on interior basement walls.
Generally, however, waterproof coatings, which include
elastomeric paints, should almost never be applied above
grade to historic masonry buildings.

Figure 26. The anti-graffiti or barrier coating on this column is very
shiny and wou ld not be appropriate to use on a historic masonry
building. The coating has discolored as it has aged and whitish streaks
reveal areas of bare concrete where the coating was incompletely
applied .

Figure 27. Instead of correcting the roof drainage problems, an
elastomeric coating was applied to the already saturated limeston e
cornice. An elastomeric coating holds moisture in the masonry because
it does not "breathe" and does not allow liquid moisture to escape. If
the water pressure builds up sufficiently it can cause the coating to
break and pop off as shown in this example, often pulling pieces of the
masonry with it. Photo: National Park Service Files .

15

 Summary
A well-planned cleaning project is an essential step in
preserving, rehabilitating or restoring a historic masonry
building. Proper cleaning methods and coating treatments,
when determined necessary for the preservation of the
masonry, can enhance the aesthetic character as well as the
structural stability of a historic building. Removing years
of accumulated dirt, pollutant crusts, stains, graffiti or
paint, if done with appropriate caution, can extend the life
and longevity of the historic resource. Cleaning that is
carelessly or insensitively prescribed or carried out by
inexperienced workers can have the opposite of the intended
effect. It may scar the masonry permanently, and may
actually result in hastening deterioration by introducing
harmful residual chemicals and salts into the masonry or
causing surface loss. Using the wrong cleaning method or
using the right method incorrectly, applying the wrong
kind of coating or applying a coating that is not needed
can result in serious damage, both physically and
aesthetically, to a historic masonry building. Cleaning a
historic masonry building should always be done using
the gentlest means possible that will clean, but not damage
the building. It should always be taken into consideration
before applying a water-repellent coating or a waterproof
coating to a historic masonry building whether it is really
necessary and whether it is in the best interest of preserving
the building.

Selected Reading
Architectural Ceramics: Their History, Manufacture and
Conservation. A Joint Symposium of English Heritage and the
United Kingdom Institute for Conservation, September 22-25,
1994. London: English Heritage, 1996.
Ashurst, Nicola. Cleaning Historic Buildings. Volume One:
Substrates, Soiling & Investigation. Volume Two: Cleaning
Materials & Processes. London: Donhead Publishing Ltd., 1994.
Association for Preservation Technology. Special Issue:
Preservation of Historic Masonry. Papers from the Symposium
on Preservation Treatments for Historic Masonry: Consolidants,
Coatings, and Water Repellents, New York, New York, November
11-12,1994. APT Bulletin. Vol. XXVI, No.4 (1995).
Grimmer, Anne E. Preservation Brief 6: Dangers of Abrasive
Cleaning to Historic Buildings. Washington, D.C: Preservation
Assistance Division, National Park Service, U.s. Department
of the Interior, 1979.
Grimmer, Anne E. Ke~ping it Clean: Removing Exterior Dirt,
Paint, Stains and Graffiti ]rom Historic Masonry Buildings.
Washington, D.C.: Preservation Assistance Division, National
Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1988.
Park, Sharon c., AlA. Preservation Brief39: Holding the Line:
Controlling Unwanted Moisture in Historic Buildings.
Washington, D.C: Heritage Preservation Services, National Park
Service, U.s. Department of the Interior, 1996.
Powers, Robert M. Preservation Tech Note, Masonry No.3,
"Water Soak Cleaning of Limestone". Washington, D.C :
Preservation Assistance Division, National Park Service, U.s.
Department of the Interior, 1992.

16

Sinvinski, Valerie. "Gentle Blasting." Old-House Journal. Vol.
XXIV, No.4 Ouly-August 1996), pp. 46-49.
Weaver, Martin E. Conserving Buildings: A Guide to
Techniques and Materials . New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
1993.
Weaver, Martin E. Preservation Brief 38: Removing Graffiti from
Historic Masonry. Washington, D.C : Preservation Assistance
Division, National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior,
1995.
Winkler, E.M. Stone in Architecture: Properties, Durability.
Third, completely revised and extended edition. Berlin,
Germany: Springer-Verlag, 1997.

Acknowledgments
Robert C. Mack, FAIA, is a principal in the firm of MacDonald
& Mack Architects, Ltd., an architectural firm that specializes in
historic buildings in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Anne Grimmer is a Senior Architectural Historian in the Technical
Preservation Services Branch, Heritage Preservation Services
Program, National Park Service, Washington, D.C
The original version of Preservation Brief 1: The Cleaning and
Waterproof Coating of Masonry Buildings was written by Robert C
Mack, AlA. It inaugurated the Preservation Briefs series when
it was published in 1975.
The following historic preservation specialists provided technical
review of this publication: Frances Gale, Training Director,
National Center for Preservation Technology and Training,
National Park Service, Natchitoches, LA; Judith M. Jacob,
Architectural Conservator, Building Conservation Branch,
Northeast Cultural Resources Center, National Park Service, N.Y.,
NY; Robert M. Powers, Architectural Conservator, Powers and
Company, Inc., Philadelphia, PA; Antonio Aguilar, Kaaren Dodge,
JoEllen Hensley, Gary Sachau, John Sandor and Audrey T. Tepper,
Technical Preservation Services Branch, Heritage Preservation
Services Program, National Park Service, Washington, D.C; and
Kay D. Weeks, Heritage Preservation Services Program, National
Park Service, Washington, D.C.
This publication has been prepared pursuant to the National
Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, which directs the
Secretary of the Interior to develop and make available information
concerning historic properties. Comments on the usefulness of
this publication may be directed to: Sharon C. Park, FAIA, Chief,
Technical Preservation Services Branch, Heritage Preservation
Services Program, National Park Service, 1849 C Street, N.W.,
Suite NC200, Washington, D.C 20240 (www2.cr.nps.gov/tps).
This publication is not copyrighted and can be reproduced without
penalty. Normal procedures for credit to the authors and the
National Park Service are appreciated.
Front Cover: Chemical cleaning of the brick and architectural terra
cotta frieze on the 1880s Pellsioll Buildillg, Washington, D.C. (now the
National Building Mu seulll), is showll here in progress. Photo:
Christina Henry.
Photographs llsed to illustrate this Brief were taken by Anne Grimmer unless
otherwise credited.

ISSN:0885-7016

November 2000

  

 

 

 

 

Removing Exterior Dirt, Paint,
Stains and Graffiti from
Historic Masonry Buildings
Anne E. Grimmer

u.s. Department of the Interior
National Park Service
Cultural Resources
Heritage Preservation Services

 Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Grimmer, Anne E.
Keeping it Clean : Removing Exterior Dirt, Paint,
Stains and Graffiti from Historic Masonry Buildings

Bibliography: p.
1. Historic buildings--':"Conservation and restoration.
2. Masonry-Cleaning. I. United States. National Park
Service. Preservation Assistance Division. II. Title.
TH3411.G725 1988
691 '.3
87-600489
Rev.

 Preface

Despite the inherent hazards, cleaning
historic masonry ,which includes stone,
brick, architectural terra cotta, and cast
stone, stucco and concrete, is one of the
most common-and most visible-undertakings when rehabilitating or restoring
historic masonry structures. Yet basic information and good technical advice may
be hard to find. As a result, those responsible for the care of historic buildings
frequently must rely upon the recommendations of a cleaning contractor or a cleaning product manufacturer who may not be
completely objective, or familiar with all
the cleaning options currently available.
The cleaning of historic masonry should
thus always be carried out under the
supervision and guidance of a preservation
or conservation specialist.
The purpose of this technical report is to
provide information on removing dirt,
stains, paint and related coatings, graffiti,
and other disfiguring or potentially harmful substances from exterior masonry.
First, however, there is a general discussion on all aspects of planning and
carrying out a cleaning project, including
anticipating potential problems; correctly
identifying what is to be removed; identifying all building materials to be cleaned

as well as other materials that might be
affected by cleaning; and testing cleaning
procedures to ensure the most successful
project. The report also includes warnings
about using certain techniques on specific
building materials, as well as possible
dangers to project personnel and the
building's environment.
Unless otherwise credited, photographs
were taken by the author. .
The author wishes to thank Norman R.
Weiss, whose two draft reports prepared
for the National Park Service, Exterior
Cleaning of Historic Masonry Buildings and
Removal of Stains and Paint from Masonry,
were invaluable in developing this publication. In addition, the author also wishes to
acknowledge the contribution of the
following individuals who provided
technical comments on the manuscript:
Frances Gale; Robert C. Mack, AlA;
Frank G. Matero; Hugh C. Miller, FAIA;
Judith Selwyn; National Park Service
Regional Cultural Programs; and the staff
of the Technical Preservation Services
Branch, with special thanks to Kay D.
Weeks, technical editor, Michael Auer and
Theresa Robin.son.

 Contents

Part I What to Consider Before Cleaning
Reasons for Cleaning
Cosmetic Improvement
Slowing the Processes of Deterioration
Identifying the Masonry Substrate
Avoiding Damage
~b~~~

Identifying the Substance to be Removed
Dirt and Pollutant Crusts
Stains
c;raffiti
Paint and Other Coatings
Efflorescence
Combination Problems
Project Personnel
Role of the Preservation Consultant
Selecting a Cleaning Contractor
What to Require in a Contract and Specifications
Testing
Selecting an "Appropriate" Water Pressure
Choosing Representative Types of Masonry
Choosing Representative Soiling
Evaluating the Test Patches
Reasonable Expectations
Scheduling the Cleaning Project
Minimizing Hazards of Cleaning
Protecting the Historic Building
Protecting the Environment
Protecting the Cleaning Personnel

1
1
2
2
2

3
3
4
5
5
5
5
6
6
6
6
7
7
8
9
9
9
10
10
11
11
12
12

 Part II Choosing the "Gentlest Means Possible"
Water Cleaning to Remove Dirt
Soaking (Misting or Spraying)
Low-Pressure and Medium-Pressure Water Washing
Low-Pressure and Medium-Pressure Water Washing
with Detergent Supplement
Steam
Cautions and Precautions
Chemical Cleaning to Remove Dirt
Acidic Cleaners
Cautions and Precautions
Alkaline Cleaners
Cautions and Precautions
Surfactants and Detergents
Chemical Cleaning to Remove Paint and Other Coatings
Alkaline Paint Removers
Organic Solvent Paint Removers
Cautions and Precautions
Poulticing to Remove Stains
Metallic Stains
Industrial Stains
Biological Stains
Graffiti
Salt/Efflorescence
Cautions and Precautions
Other Methods of Stain Removal
Cautions and Precautions
Cleaning to Remove Bird Droppings
Cautions and Precautions

13
13
13
14
14
14
15
16
17
18
18
18
18
19
19

20
20
22
22
23

25
25
26
26

27
27
27

Part III Summary of Guidance

29

Summary of Cleaning Techniques - Chart

31

Selected Bibliography

33

 Part I

What to Consider Before Cleaning
Reasons for Cleaning
There are two primary reasons for cleaning a historic masonry building: 1) to improve the appearance of the structure; and
2) to remove dirt, stains , coatings,
efflorescence (salts) and pollutants that
may be causing deterioration of the
masonry. Generally, the two are intertwined, but the most common motivation
for cleaning masonry is the desire for
cosmetic improvement. It is easy to
understand this rationale, especially considering the positive visual impact of a
clean building.
Cosmetic Improvement
A most important factor to consider before
cleaning a historic masonry building is its
patina-the color and surface texture, or

the appearance which only time can
impart. Patina usually includes a combination of surface stains, deposits, discoloration, and changes to the surface texture
that may result from atmospheric dissolution and erosion. Naturally, patina
includes a certain amount of dirt. As long
as it does not contribute to, or conceal
deterioration, patina is indeed part of the
character of a historic building, and
careful consideration should be given to its
preservation. Determining when patina
may be harmful or disfiguring must be
done on a building-by-building basis, and
will depend on the type oj masonry, the type
and degree. oj soiling, and how much it might be
obscuring damage to the masonry units themselves
or to the mortar Joints. Careful removal of
dirt and pollutant crusts can restore many
aspects of the original appearance of the
masonry-the color, texture and carved
detailing that might have been hidden for
years.
The unwelcome presence of graffiti usually
triggers an urgent need for cosmetic
improvement. An owner or building
manager would likely want to remove
graffiti as quickly as possible after it
appears. Prompt removal is, in itself, a
logical approach to the problem because it
tends to discourage the incidence of more
graffiti. On the other hand, if cleaning is
undertaken too hastily, the results may be
less than satisfactory (figure 1).

Figure 1. Men an inappropn'ate chemical cleaner was used to remove graffiti, it
resulted in permanently bleaching the limestone foundation, and left a mark as
unsightly as the graffiti.

Removing paint from masonry, particularly from brick, is another common
"cleaning" treatment, although it may not
always be an appropriate or successful
treatment for the building. Often, it may
be preferable to retain the paint. Painted
brick buildings were very popular
throughout several historic periods. Many,
in fact, were painted immediately after
construction. Decorative treatments, such
as the penciling of mortar joints, should
be carefully examined; they may be
original or may have acquired significance
over the years. Paint may also have been
applied as a protective coating, usually on
1

 some of the more porous types of brick
and sandstone; or applied to camouflage
alterations or incompatible masonry
repairs. All of these factors should be
taken into consideration before paint
removal is begun. If all nondamaging
methods of paint removal have been tried
and proven ineffective, it may be best to
leave the masonry painted. Or, if the
paint is in poor condition, the best approach may be to remove only the loose
and peeling paint to a sound surface , and
then repaint.

Slowing the Processes of Deterioration
The strongest practical argument in support of masonry cleaning is that it may
slow the processes of deterioration and
decay. Heavy layers of dirt not only interfere with natural weathering and washing
patterns, but also obscure deterioration
(figure 2). Cleaning is often necessary to
help the architect or building conservator
detect problems, and correctly interpret
them, in order to take corrective
measures, and to prepare a regular
maintenance schedule for the building.
The cleaning process itself, as well as the
close-range view of historic masonry
afforded by the scaffolding or other access
equipment, also provides an important
opportunity to evaluate the condition of
the building. Once rid of dirt and
pollutant crusts, the conditon of the
masonry will be more clearly revealed.
One of the best reasons for a regular
cleaning program is that it may remove
efflorescent salts from the masonry,
thereby reducing potentially harmful salt
buildup within the masonry, which can
cause spalling or delamination. Regular
cleaning or washing can help control plant
or other biological growth on a building;
it is a safer and gentler approach than applying herbicides that are potentially
harmful to the masonry.

2

Generally, regular cleaning or washing is
good preservation and maintenance practice for calcareous stones such as limestone
and marble. But it is not as necessary for
the less soluble siliceous stones, such as
granite and some sandstones, nor for some
brick and some glazed architectural terra
cotta, all of which have a harder, more
impervious outer layer, and are thus better protected from dirt penetration than
calcareous stones.

Figure 2. The building on the left is an obvious candidate for cleaning, as the heavy black crust may be
concealing or contributing to deterioration of the stone.
Despite its more recent cleaning, the stone facade of
the house on the right exhibits the same distinctive,
and hard-to-eliminate rainwater wash patterns under
the eaves and window sills, as its unwashed
neighbor.

Identifying the Masonry Substrate
Avoiding Damage
The first and most important step to be
taken before beginning any masonry
cleaning project is to identify the masonry.
When dealing with stone, it is important
to select a cleaning method or chemical
solution best suited for the kind of
stone-that is, one that will not dissolve or
etch it. It is also useful to have information about the chemical and geological
characteristics of the stone. (For example,
although most sandstones may be safely
cleaned using acidic cleaners, some sandstones are calcareous, and thus may be
damaged by acid.) Gathering detailed
geological data is not always possible if the
factors of time and cost are prohibitive .
However, it is essential that the generic
stone be identified (i.e., whether it is
limestone, marble, sandstone, or granite)
because of the differing properties of
porosity, solubility and hardness, and
mineralogical composition . It is these
properties that determine which cleaning
methods can be used without adversely affecting the stone.

 Tricks of the Eye
Another potential problem is that what
might appear to be one type of masonry
may actually be another. For example,
architectural terra cotta, artificial cast
stone, or pre-cast concrete were often
manufactured to imitate natural stone .
Pre-cast concrete or "cast stone " was being used imitatively as early as the late
eighteenth century and still is to this day.
Architectural terra cotta was used with
this intent in the mid-to-Iate nineteenth
century, and through the early twentieth
century. Both materials were popular for
decorative features such as window and
door moldings. Terra cotta, in particular,
was applied on upper floors of tall
buildings where distance enhanced the illusion of stone .
Clearly, it is important to identify the
material, since the best cleaning method
for one type of masonry may not be as
effective on another type, and may even
cause damage . Many buildings feature a
combination of materials. It is not unusual
for a building or even a single facade to
be composed of more than one type of
masonry (brick with stone trim is particularly common), which may mean that
more than one cleaning method will be
necessary. If, after careful examination,
there is any doubt about the type of
masonry, a 3 percent solution of
hydrochloric (muriatic) acid dropped from
an eyedropper on an inconspicuous spot
will quickly clarify the situation. This
solution will bubble on calcareous stone,
and on other acid-sensitive masonry, but
will have no reaction on siliceous stone
and acid-resistant masonry.
Indeed, some parts of a building, particularly decorative features , may not be
masonry at all (figure 3) . Frequently, such
features as window hoods, cornices and
balustrades may be metal, such as cast
iron, galvanized sheet iron or zinc. When
painted, they give an intentional
appearance of masonry. Some features
may have been fabricated of wood, then
coated with a sanded paint to give the illusion of sandstone. Thus, the need to correctly identify the type of masonry, or
other non-masonry materials on a building
cannot be over-emphasized when planning
a cleaning project.

Figure 3. Krww what you are cleaning. If the
painted surfaces of the projecting bay window on this
once elegant Second Empire brick mansion were still
intact, it would not be easy to identify the beltcourse
as sandstone, the windows and window frames as
wood, and the cornice and all of the window hoods
as pressed metal. Cleaning so many different building
materials may require a variety of techniques and
treatments.

Identifying the Substance to be
Removed
After the masonry substrate has been
identified, the next step is to identify the
substance or substances to be removed.
The more information available about the
substance to be removed, the more successful the cleaning effort will be. For example, the cleaning project can be greatly
facilitated by knowing the composition of
each paint layer, the cause or source of
the stains, the primary components of the
dirt, or the probable source of the efflorescence . And it is not uncommon to
discover that all or part of a building has
been treated with water-repellent coating.
Unless the coating has caused discoloration or streaking, the fact that such a
coating exists at all may be known only if
cleaning test patches fail to react as they
would on uncoated masonry.

3

 Dirt and Pollutant Crusts

Dirt or "soiling" on masonry buildings
may consist of particles of dust, sand or
grit, or tarry soot (resulting from incomplete combustion of fuels) . The exact
composition of the dirt will vary according
to the geographic location of the building,
as well as its use. A building in an urban,
or heavily industrial area, is likely to exhibit a completely different type of soiling
from a building in a rural or agricultural
area-or a building near the seacoast or in
the desert. While dirt and dust on one
building may result from heavy vehicular
traffic in the area, soiling on another
building may result from human traffic.

Figures 4a-4b. Decorative architectural features that project from a wall surface,
such as this granite belt course above an intricately-tooled limestone lintel, and this
sandstone pinnacle topping a limestone buttress, may shield or protect masonry surfaces beneath them. But they are also responsible for creating unusual "wash"
patterns and black crusts that form underneath them, further complicating cleaning
projects.

4

Dirt or soiling may include disfiguring
pollutant or sulfate crusts, which usually
build up in sheltered or protected areas
not regularly washed by the natural action
of rain. It is particularly common under
cornices, window sills, or other projecting
decorative features (figures 4a - 4b). Some
pollutant crusts resulting from a chemical
reaction of stone to airborne particulate
matter, or particules in which cementing
material of the stone has actually incorporated itself, indicate the beginning of
dissolution of the stone and incipient
decay. Removing these crusts will
necessarily involve a loss of a small
amount of stone (figure 5). While removal
is generally recommended because pollutant crusts hasten stone dissolution, extreme care must nonetheless be exercised
to ensure that loss of the stone is
minimized.

Figure 5. It is unlikely that this blackened crust can
be removed without some loss of the tooled sandstone
surface, because the sulfate crust has become integral
with the stone.

 Stains

Paint and Other Coatings

Unlike particulate dirt, which tends to lie
on the surface , stains in masonry are
discolorations produced by foreign matter
that has penetrated into-or permeatedthe masonry. Stains can also result from a
chemical reaction between the masonry
and the foreign matter, or from impurities
in the masonry itself. Common masonry
stains include metallic stains caused by
iron (rust) or copper, industrial stains of
grease , oil, and tar, and biological and
plant stains caused by lichens, mosses,
algae, and fungal growth such as mildew.
Even after removal of the vines themselves, ivy and Virginia Creeper can leave
their " marks " on the masonry, which
may also have to be removed by cleaning.
Discloration can also occur when mineral
inclusions or impurities which occur
naturally in some stones, or in the clay of
some bricks, react to water or chemical
cleaners.

Removal of paint or other coatings will, of
course, be facilitated by knowledge about
the kind or kinds of paint, and the
number of layers to be removed. For example, it is useful, if at all possible, to
know whether the paint is oil-based,
water-based, or, as is often the case,
whether it consists of a variety of paints
and coatings, which might include layers
of cementitious masonry paint, whitewash
or limewash. In some cases, the pigment
might be incorporated into the substrate,
as is often typical of stucco and traditional
limewashes .

Graffiti
Graffiti created with paint or another
medium may also be considered a stain. If
graffiti is sprayed-on, it is generally likely
to permeate the masonry (unless glazed or
polished) in the same manner as most
other stains . Thus, its removal must
usually be carried out in the same manner
as other stain removal.

Figure 6. Chalking white paint from decorative metal and stone stringcourses has
"bled" and run down tM unpainted brick walls. Unlike efflorescence, for which
it might be mistaken, chalking generally cannot be washed off, and paint remover
will be required.

Questions may arise about each layer or
coating, further complicating the overriding need to remove the offending
substance while not damaging the historic
masonry. For example, if there is more
than one layer of paint, is it consistent
over all of the building surface? Or is
there an "invisible" water-repellent
coating or a wax coating, or perhaps even
worse (from the standpoint of removal),
an asphalt or bituminous waterproof
coating on some areas? If so, will it come
off successfully, or might it be better to
camouflage it by repainting?
Efflorescence
Efflorescence, the result of capillary action
pulling soluble salts up from the ground
into the masonry, usually appears as a
whitish haze on the exterior surface of
masonry. Sulfate deposits may result from
carbonates in lime mortar and airborne or
water-deposited pollutants in the
atmosphere. Another common source of
efflorescence in brick is the firing process
itself.
Efflorescence may also appear on a
masonry surface after chemical cleaning.
Some efflorescence is temporary, and will
be removed by rain. Other types may
disappear for awhile, but return
periodically, and some require considerable and repeated efforts to eliminate .
It is therefore always necessary to ascertain the source or sources of efflorescence,
and it may even be useful to identify the
salts that comprise the efflorescence.
Further complicating the identification
process, white paint from a painted surface above that has "bled" onto a
5

 masonry surface below (particularly common under window sills) might be
mistaken for efflorescence (figure 6) . In
short, it is very easy to misinterpret what
is on the surface.
Combination Problems

Often, a cleaning project will involve
removal of more than one substance.
What first appears to be a straightforward
task of paint removal may be complicated
by the discovery of multiple layers of different types of paints and coatings on
another elevation of the same building, or
perhaps on only the first floor of the
building. Moreover, what may initially
appear to be one substance may, upon
closer examination, turn out to be
another, or often a combination of
substances.

Project Personnel
Once the masonry and the substance to be
removed have been identified, the next
step is to match potentially appropriate
cleaning methods with the particular project at hand.
Role of the Preservation Consultant

To ensure the best possible job, a professional preservation consultant should be
retained, preferably someone with a
technical or scientific background (an architectural conservator, a restoration architect, or a chemist or geologist). The advice of cleaning contractors or product
representatives may be prejudiced by
familiarity with only one or two cleaning
techniques, or a desire to sell a particular
product. Generally, their recommendations
should not be substituted for the experience and impartiality of a technical
preservation specialist or scientific
consultant.
Basically, the consultant should supervise
all aspects of the cleaning projectplanning, identifying the masonry, identifying what is to be removed, selecting the
cleaning methods and materials, selecting
the contractor, and supervising the actual
cleaning to ensure consistent quality and
to minimize any possible damage to the
surface.

6

Role of the Preservation
Consultant
• Identify the building's materials.
• Evaluate condition of the masonry
materials.
• Identify what is to be removed.
• Supervise the testing of the cleaning methods.
• Analyze the test patches.
• Based on the test patches, select
the cleaning methods that most
effectively clean the masonry
without causing damage.
• Prepare specifications based on
these test results (if they have not
been prepared already prior to
testing).
• Select cleaning contractor (if not
already chosen).
• If possible, have cleaning test
repeated by cleaning personnel
who will do cleaning.
• Supervise actual cleaning process
to ensure consistent quality.
Selecting a Cleaning Contractor

A carefully executed cleaning job requires
the experience of a reputable cleaning contractor who specializes in cleaning and
restoring historic masonry buildings.
Negotiating a fair price with one qualified
contractor may be preferable to asking
several contractors to bid on the cleaning
job. The bids and fmal contract should be
based on specifications prepared by the
independent preservation consultant. A
good contractor should be willing to provide information on the cleaning process,
and on the product ingredients, and also
provide references in the form of completed cleaning projects.
It is important that a consultant, who is
experienced in such evaluations, visit at
least one or two projects in order to inspect the quality of the work. A wellexecuted cleaning project should not show
any signs of mechanical or chemical abrasion, nor should it exhibit areas or patches
of efflorescence, which might indicate the
use of too strong a chemical or improper
or inadequate rinsing. (Sometimes efflorescence on a very recently cleaned
building is only temporary, and will
gradually wash away. It may be the result
of salt-laden moisture within the masonry

 suddenly being released when surface dirt
or a coating is cleaned off.)
A responsibly and sensitively cleaned
historic masonry building should retain
some of its before-cleaning patina, perhaps
appearing slightly "dirty," as if it had not
been overcleaned . Clearly, however, there
may be some aspects of a recently cleaned
surface that are not so easy to explain.
Sometimes an abraded or eroded surface
is the result of natural weathering or a
"flaw" in the original materials, or
damage from an earlier, harsh cleaning
treatment. Or what appears to be a stain
may, in fact, be the result of an unexpected reaction of a natural impurity in
the stone to a chemical cleaner. In short,
as will be repeated again and again, it is
not always possible to predict the exact
outcome of a cleaning project because of
the many variables associated with historic
masonry. But despite some unavoidable
uncertainty, a cautious, conscientious approach by the consultant, building owner
or manager, and the contractor will
always result in a better cleaning
project-one that does not damage the
historic masonry.
Although cost is often a factor in a cleaning project, the contractor should not be
selected solely on the basis of a low bid,
but rather on the quality of previous
work, as well as on the basis of test patch
results . Local historic district commissions
and review boards, State Historic Preservation Offices, regional offices of the National Trust for Historic Preservation,
local chapters of the American Institute of
Architects (AlA) and the Association for
Preservation Technology (APT), may be
able to suggest reliable consultants and
cleaning contractors experienced in cleaning historic buildings.

What to Require in a Contract
and Specifications
Because cleaning a historic masonry
building involves so many unexpected and
unknown factors , each project is unique.
It would be impractical to try to provide a
standard set of specifications to cover all of
the potential situations that might be encountered. But, while the actual specifications will vary from project to project,
there are certain principles that should
govern any cleaning project to ensure the
best possible outcome .

1. The specifications should be very
precise. The more specific they are, the
less chance there is for mistakes .
2. Qualifications of project personnel
should be included in the specifications.
3. If specifications are prepared before
testing, they should clearly state that
mock-up test areas will serve as qualitycontrol for the project.
4. If testing has already been carried out,
the specifications should state the exact
cleaning method (technique and materials)
to be used based on the testing.
5. If a specific product is to be used, it
should be clearly stated so that the contractor is aware that no other product may
be substituted, unless it is with the prior
approval of the preservation consultant or
supervising architect-and of course, only
after it has been tested on the building. A
building may often require more than one
cleaning method or cleaning product. If
so, each method to be applied to a different material and in a different location
on the building should be identified.
6. The cleaning process should take place
only under the careful supervision of a
qualified professional preservation consultant or preservation architect. The cleaning
method outlined in the specifications will
have been prescribed only after careful
testing on the building with time allowed
for weathering. Any unforeseen problems
that might arise during the course of the
cleaning should be brought to the attention of the consultant (and the owner),
and the cleaning halted until the problem
is solved.
7. Finally, even a well-written specification is of no use if it is not read and
followed .

Testing
Because of the wide variety of unforeseeable factors, the cleaning method or
methods should always be tested on an inconspicuous area of the building and
preferably in more than one location
(figure 7). Such tests must be carried out
before attempting any large-scale masonry
cleaning project. Failure to do so may
have disastrous consequences for the outcome of the cleaning as well as the longterm preservation of the historic building
material . Testing should be carried out by
the consultant or conservation specialist,
or by the contractor, under the consul-

7

 Figure 7. A contractor prepares equipment before testing a low-pressure water
wash on a Roman brick and terra cotta building. Photograph: Sharon C. Park, AlA

Figure 8. A test cleaning patch (unfortunately in a
rather prominent location) on limestone discolored by
urban grime and pollution reveals a marked color difference between the cleaned and the uncleaned stone as
well as an unexpected discoloration (probably caused
by a substance splashed on the wall at an earlier
time). Removal of this spot may require a special
cleaning treatment. Photograph: Sharon C. Park, AlA

tant's careful supervision. Carefully controlled testing is probably the only reliable
way to determine the best or most appropriate cleaning techniques and
pressures to be used in a particular project
(figures 8-9).

Selecting an "Appropriate" Water
Pressure
The process of selecting the most appropriate water pressure should always
begin with the lowest pressure, or the
"gentlest means possible," proceeding
gradually to a higher pressure, as needed.
Although that philosophy is certainly
sound, its application in a practical sense
is very much more difficult. The difficulty
lies in the fact that, although the 'terms
"low," "medium" and "high" pressure
have traditionally been used in cleaning
specifications, they are general terms and
subject to wide interpretation. Because of
incalculable or unpredictable factors
associated with pressure equipment-combined with different types of
historic masonry itself-it is virtually
impossible to define the categories of low,
medium and high in a manner that would
apply equally to all cleaning projects .
Precise defmition of these pressures is
further complicated by the fact that
pressure measurement, or psi (pounds per
square inch) varies according to the
following: pressure as measured by a

8

Figure 9. A test patch on brick to remove a century of
dirt reveals only a slight difference in appearance between the cleaned and the uncleaned brick. The hardbaked outer skin of the brick provides a surface that is
not only impervious to dirt penetration, but resists dirt
accumulation. Photograph: Christina Henry

gauge at the pump; the volume of water
(or other liquid cleaning agents) delivered
per minute; the size of the nozzle or spray
head opening; and the distance between
the spray head and the masonry surface.
But since most psi measurements are
taken at only one location, these seemingly
precise measurements may bear little or
no relationship to the actual pressure
reaching the building. As the variables
multiply, it becomes more and more obvious that psi numbers do not really mean
very much, or at least do not mean the
same thing to all who employ them in
cleaning. Thus, although exact pressures
may sound precise, the fact that they are
not must be kept in mind.

 For this reason, until a system can be
perfected that will allow greater certainty
or precision, selecting a cleaning method
and pressure should be done only after
careful testing has produced a satisfactorily
cleaned test patch to serve as a standard
by which the rest of the project can be
measured. Thus, references here to specific
pressures are provided only jor comparative purposes, and should be considered only as general
guidance.

Choosing Representative Types of
Masonry
Finding the appropriate cleaning method
can be further complicated when dealing
with especially fragile, damaged or
deteriorated masonry. These are factors
that must be taken into consideration
when planning to clean historic masonry.
Areas of the building chosen as test spots
should accurately represent the types of
masonry material to be cleaned. As noted
earlier, another masonry material may
have been used to simulate stone. Also, a
harder, higher quality brick or "face
brick" was often used on the facade, while
the less visible side and rear elevations
were often covered with a cheaper, usually
softer "common brick" as an economy
measure . Results from a cleaning test performed on common brick, or a heavily
textured brick, would probably not be applicable to smooth, face brick. Likewise,
tests on upper parts of a building may not
accurately reflect conditions on other
areas, such as the foundation or horizontal
surfaces that may have been treated with a
waterproof or water-repellent coating.

Choosing Representative Soiling
The area or areas selected for testing
should represent both the amount and
type of the dirt deposits, surface pollutant
crusts, stains, efflorescence, or paint on
the majority of the building surface. For
example, a prominent area of the facade
may be stained, disfigured with a heavy
coating of soot, or covered by heavy paint
buildup. Another area of the building may
be only lightly soiled or have only one
coat of paint. These might require very
different cleaning procedures. A project
that proceeds after testing a limited area
only might produce very unsatisfactory
results.

To ensure the most accurate test results,
as much as possible of the dirt, bird droppings, or problem substances should be
removed from the surface by handscraping or brushing with non-metallic
brushes before test cleaning. (This same
practice should, of course, be followed
when the actual cleaning is undertaken.)

Evaluating the Test Patches
Althought a somewhat larger area is
preferable, an area approximately one
square meter or approximately one square
yard will generally serve as an adequate
test patch. If there are different types of
masonry, or widely dissimilar substances
to be removed, several test patches may
be necessary. Representative, but inconspicuous areas should be chosen in
case any of the tests are not successful, or
in case the project does not progress
beyond the testing stage.
One building, regardless of size, may require a variety or combinations of cleaning methods. If the type of scaffolding
allows, it is advisable to clean the entire
building using the gentlest technique to
remove the prevailing substance. Then,
localized stains on decorative features can
be addressed individually. Too strong a
cleaner for overall cleaning may harm the
masonry. Instead, a milder cleaning solution should be used and augmented, if
necessary, by additional applications on
hard-to-clean areas or difficult stains.
Always underclean, rather than overclean.
Test patches can be evaluated accurately
only after they are dry. If chemical cleaning is being tested, non-staining pH
papers should be held on the surface of
the test patch area before and after cleaning to determine if any acidic or alkaline
residues remain on the surface. If residues
are detected, additional water rinsing or
application of a neutralizing solution
should be carried out until pH tests indicate that all residues have been
removed.
A test patch should be allowed to weather
as long as possible before the cleaning project is begun to give ample opportunity for
an accurate evaluation of the results. One
year is the preferred amount of time; this
allows the patch to be exposed to a complete weathering cycle (figures lOa-lOb). If
this is not feasible, it is a good idea to
9

 Figures 1 Oa-l Ob. This test cleaning patch on brick and sandstone was allowed to weather over a full year, while
other aspects of the rehabilitation were carried out. Finally the entire building was cleaned with a proprietary paint
remover sprayed- on under low-pressure and then rinsed by workmen from a truck-mounted hydraulic platform lift.

wait as long as possible, and at least one
month at a minimum. Once a cleaning
project is begun, the work should proceed
in clearly defined areas (preferably
delineated by structural or architectural
features), since it is difficult to match
cleaned areas, especially if the project is
halted for several days or more.
Reasonable Expectations

Tests are usually carried out under optimum conditions, and may therefore show
better results than the actual cleaning
project. For example, a cleaning contractor bidding on the job will naturally try to
achieve the best possible result in a sample
cleaning area in order to obtain the contract. It is also easier to clean a small area
at ground level within a specified amount
of time than to achieve the same results
several stories above ground by workers
who are tired after a long day's work.
Overly optimistic estimates of time and
costs supplied by a contractor based on
the results of a test patch can be
misleading.
But an experienced and reputable contractor will be aware of these inherent problems and should be able to provide a
reasonable estimate based on the testing.

10

The test patches serve as a "standard of
clean" and will provide guidance regarding the best cleaning method for the job;
for example, how many applications of the
cleaning material will be necessary if a
chemical product is used, the dwell time
(the length of time an application should
remain on the surface), and what
pressures should be used for the cleaning
and the final rinse.

Scheduling the Cleaning Project
One of the most important considerations
in a cleaning project is scheduling. Since
the cleaning method cannot be selected
until several techniques have been tested,
it follows that the test patches should be
done at the start of a rehabilitation or
restoration project. And, because of the
need for adequate time for the cleaning
tests to weather before selecting one, the
actual cleaning itself should be the last, or
one of the last things to be done in the
project.

Never begin cleaning when there is any
likelihood of frost or freezing, as most
cleaning operations involve the use of
water. When the water penetrates the
masonry pores during cleaning, the interior of the masonry retains moisture for

 some time before it evaporates , even
though the exterior surface may appear
dry. If a frost occurs, the moisture inside
the masonry units will freeze, which could
eventually cause the masonry surface to
spall. The presence of salts within the
masonry wall may exacerbate the process .
The best times to clean a historic masonry
building (other than in tropical or arid
climates) are late spring, early summer
and early fall when there is no danger of
freezing. While warmer temperatures contribute to a faster chemical reaction, too
much sun and too high temperatures do
not result in a good cleaning project
either. If cleaning is done in very hot
weather, the masonry should be shielded
from excessive heat by hanging protective
netting or tarpulins around it.
Repointing, if necessary, should generally
be carried out before cleaning to prevent
damage to interior surfaces caused by
liquid cleaning materials penetrating
through open joints in the masonry.

Minimizing Hazards of Cleaning
Although most large-scale cleaning projects
should be carried out by qualified cleaning
professionals accustomed to working with
historic buildings, it is still important to
keep in mind all of the precautionary
guidelines associated with masonry cleaning. Potential harm to the historic
masonry and other building materials
often used in conjunction with stone and
brick, as well as potential harm to the environment and cleaning personnel must be
carefully evaluated before initiating a
cleaning project.

be dislodged by rinsing at too high a
pressure, permitting deep penetration of
water within the building.
The acidity or alkalinity of cleaning
chemicals must be controlled to suit the
chemistry of the individual masonry
materials. Because chemical cleaning with
acidic products is always potentially
dangerous to acid-sensitive masonry and
lime mortars, acidic cleaners must
therefore be diluted carefully, in keeping
with the sensitivity of the masonry. To
accomplish this successfully, accurate identification of the masonry is essential . This
may not be easy. Limestone and some
cast stone , or other types of artificial
stone, can look very similar.
Many other historic building materials can
be damaged by chemical cleaning agents .
Glass, glazed brick, and architectural terra
cotta will be etched by strong solutions of
hydrofluoric acid if not covered
adequately . Metal, wood and paint can all
be damaged by chemical cleaners, and
must be shielded. Such materials can be
temporarily protected by plastic sheeting
or peelable coatings specifically made for
this purpose (figure 11).

Protecting the Historic Building
Mortars, especially those of the traditional
lime-based formulations, are among the
most vulnerable substances to be considered when preparing to clean a historic
masonry building. Deteriorated mortar
joints can lead to major problems with
water washing and other aqueous techniques. The entry of large amounts of
water through spraying or prolonged
misting may result in damage to interior
plaster and other finishes, and in exterior
staining as well. Water pressures for
cleaning and rinsing operations should be
monitored carefully to minimize physical
damage to the masonry. Loose mortar can

Figure 11. Removal of 100 years of grime from the
brick and terra cotta facade of the Pension Building
(now the National Building Museum), Washington,
D. C. , was accomplished by workmen on a swing
stage using a chemical cleaning product. Note the
polyethylene covering the windows to prevent damage.
Also note the protective clothing for the workmen
. which hangs on the plaiform while not in use.
Photograph: Christina Henry
11

 12

Protecting the Environment

Protecting Cleaning Personnel

Damage to property, shrubs, trees and
ground vegetation in the immediate vicinity can be avoided by using proper controls to avoid overspraying and by covering or shielding plants and property . Site
drainage must always be considered when
using an acqueous cleaning method, and
disposal of toxic chemical runoff and
dissolved paint may pose an even greater
problen. Lead paint sludge should be
placed in suitable containers and disposed
of in accordance with enviromental regulations. In the case of organic solvents, a
well-designed storage location is necessary
to prevent explosion and fire. Use of
many of these cleaning materials may require special permits or approval from
local authorities, especially if run-off is to
be channeled into city storm sewers.

Cleaning compounds pose many safety
and health hazards, and working personnel must be equipped with protective
clothing, gloves and toxic vapor masks.
Strong cleaning agents can cause skin
burns and irritation, and adequate eye
protection is essential at all times.
Hydrofluoric acid can cause severe burns
and can also penetrate the skin, resulting
in bone damage. Organic chemicals are
equally health-threatening, because they
are absorbed systemically through the skin
and are carcinogenic. When using spray
equipment containing acid cleaners, extreme caution must be taken to release the
pressure slowly so that the contents do not
spray or splash the operator.

 Part II

Choosing the "Gentlest Means Possible"
Most cleaning techniques suitable for use
on historic masonry buildings rely on
aqueous or water-based systems, and
chemicals. Water-based solutions (which
can include detergents) and chemical solutions can be successfully applied separately
or in combination, aided by a variety of
hand-scraping methods . Properly used,
these techniques can safely remove dirt,
stains, graffiti, paint or other surface
coatings, efflorescences (salts), and plant
and fungal growth and stains from historic
masonry buildings.

Water Cleaning to Remove Dirt
all types of masonry
Water-based cleaning can be the gentlest
and simplest operation, causing the least
amount of damage, if certain precautions
are followed. It may also be the least expensive cleaning procedure. It is probably
the most versatile technique available for
sensitive cleaning and removal of dirt and
pollutant crusts from all types of historic
masonry materials, and it is generally the
simplest method for cleaning limestone and
marble. While there are several cleaning
methods in which water is the sole ingredient, water is also the principle cleaning
agent in other methods which utilize
detergents and chemicals.
There are four principal types of water
washing: soaking (misting and spraying);
low-pressure and medium-pressure water
washing; low-pressure and mediumpressure water washing supplemented with
non-ionic detergents; and steam cleaning,
by itself, or supplemented with non-ionic
detergents .
Soaking (Misting or Spraying)
Prolonged spraying with a fine mist is a
relatively simple washing method. This
tech~i9ue provides maxium wetting using
a mInImal amount of water. A mist is
produced by inserting fine mesh filters
over hose nozzles. Continuous soaking of
the surface is then accomplished by running lengths of punctured hose (or a

moveable pipe, or one supported on scaffolding) hung under the eaves or along the
cornice line of the building. Water
pumped up through a compressor at
ground level slowly trickles down or sprays
the building facade.
Low-pressure, low-volume misting devices
with a wide angle of coverage may be the
most efficient of the soaking techniques.
They can also be set up to handle selected
areas of heavy dirt or soot encrustation
such as black sulphate or gypsum crusts
that form in protected areas (especially
under moldings and eaves not washed by
rainwater) on limestone, marble and other
calcareous stones. The effectiveness of this
method relies on the fact that the sulfate
crust, in which the dirt is incorporated, is
several times more water soluble than the
stone. Thus, water loosens the gypsum
crust by partial dissolution, along with the
material trapped within the network. As
the description implies, this is a slow process and may take from four to six hours
up to a week or more to soften heavy
crusts or dirt deposits. After the dirt has
softened, its removal can be facilitated by
hand-scrubbing with non-metallic brushes
or by using a moderate-pressure water
wash; a wooden scraper may help in
removing heavy sulfate crusts. A variation
of this method is ~ timed schedule or
pulsed spray, which alternates periods of
soaking (misting or spraying) with dry
cycles, using a timer to regulate the intervals so the masonry does not dry out.
~his approach is also good for loosening
dIrt and pollutant crusts, although its use
has been fairly limited in the United
States. Before deciding to use any aqueous
system, stone should be tested for free
iron (iron not completely bound) to avoid
the possibility of iron staining.
Low-Pressure and Medium-Pressure
Water Washing
Another water-based cleaning method is
low and medium-pressure' 'power"
washing. It is always best to start with the
lowest pressure possible, and to increase

13

 the pressure only as much as necessary to
loosen the dirt and adequately clean the
building. Low-pressure water washing can
be carried out with a common garden
hose in a small-scale cleaning project, that
is, one limited to a two-story structure
that can be reached conveniently with a
ladder. Again, removal of heavy grime
can be facilitated by hand-brushing and
scraping prior to washing. This is a very
effective, gentle, and easily controlled
method, unlikely to cause any harm to the
building.
Low-pressure washing may also be
successfully used for some large-scale
cleaning projects, requiring scaffolding, or
perhaps a "man lift" to provide access.
Deteriorated areas will need specialized
treatment, possibly by hand. After cleaning a building with heavy dirt encrustation, a final rinsing or a second cleaning
using chemicals may be necessary in order
to remove dirt already loosened by the initial washing.

Low-Pressure and Medium-Pressure
Water Washing with Detergent
Supplement
The best combination of prolonged spraying or dripping, low-to-medium-pressure
washing, and brushing and hand-scraping,
must be determined experimentally and on
a case-by-case basis. While polished surfaces such as polished granite or glazed
architectural terra cotta may sometimes be
cleaned effectively of dirt simply with a
low-to-medium-pressure wash, adding a
non-ionic detergent that does not deposit a
solid, visible residue, may often hasten
cleaning. (Examples of non-ionic
detergents include Tergitol by Union C~r­
bide, Triton by Rohm & Haas and Igepal
by GAF). Non-ionic detergents will also
be needed to clean most texturea .nasonry
such as rusticated stonework, roughsurfaced brick, and intricately carved ornamental details; textured surfaces that
hold dirt will require additional cleaning
effort by hand-brushing with non-metallic
brushes. Mter cleaning, it is important
that the surface be carefully rinsed
because, while not visible, a "gummy"
detergent fIlm tends to attract dirt .
With the exception of steam cleaning,
which utilizes heated water, most waterbased cleaning methods discussed here can
be carried out successfully with cold water.

14

Under certain circumstances however,
warm or hot water may facilitate the
cleaning process when removing greasy or
oily dirt or stains, and sometimes in paint
removal.

Steam
Steam cleaning is another water-based
cleaning method. Although once used extensively, it is no longer as popular,
possibly due to the increased sophistication
of chemical methods. In this procedure,
steam is generated in a flash boiler and
directed against the masonry surface with
the use of a very low-pressure (10-30 psi)
nozzle, generally with a Y2 inch diameter
aperture. The heat of the steam swells and
softens dirt deposits enough so that the
low pressure of the steam is generally sufficient to remove the loosened dirt from
the masonry surface. However, the density
of the steam makes it difficult for the
operator to see or monitor the cleaning
process, and because the steam is heated
to such a high temperature, it is not only
a potential hazard to the operator, but
may damage the stone as well.
Steam cleaning is most useful today as a
method of removing vine disks and other
vegetation clinging to masonry surfaces,
and for cleaning small, hard-to-reach or
highly carved or ornamented areas without
causing mechanical damage. In such instances, it may be necessary to precede
the steam cleaning with manual scrubbing
using a non-ionic detergent or a low concentrate chemical-based cleaner, or to
follow steam cleaning with a low-pressure
water rinse. Steam cleaning may also be a
suitably gentle method for cleaning
damaged or friable stone. Steam cleaning
is a technique that, under careful supervision, may occasionally be used for
specialized interior cleaning because it
does not produce large quantities of water,
and therefore reduces the possibility of
damaging fine finishes.

Cautions and Precautions. Despite the fact
that water washing methods may be the
gentlest of all cleaning methods they are
not without hazards. Even these methods
can be abrasive. Water pressure should
always be kept at the lowest level that will
clean the masonry without damage. Too
highly pressurized water can etch or otherwise scar masonry, and may penetrate
through the masonry walls (figure 12).

 '"

.

Figure 12. Water at too high a pressure from a pinpoint nozzle has etched this white Vermont granite.
Photograph: David A . Look, AlA

With any aqueous cleaning system it is
generally recommended that a masonry
building be repointed, if necessary, before
cleaning (allowing ample time for the
pointing to cure adequately before cleaning, as the water may dislodge green mortar) . Another possibility is to use caulking
compound to fIll in some of the larger
gaps in the mortar joints temporarily to
prevent water infIltration during cleaning.
Before embarking on an aqueous cleaning
project, it is important to make sure that
the flashing around chimneys is tight, and
that there are no open joints around doors
and windows where water may enter.
Long periods of soaking or spraying may
result in excessive moisture penetration of
masonry walls , possibly leading to corrosion of metal anchors, and consequent exterior staining, or damage to interior
plaster and paint finishes . To avoid these
problems, cleaning personnel should inspect the interior periodically to check for
moisture penetration. Prolonged soaking
or spraying may also irreversibly weaken
the masonry itself, since masonry, like
other porous materials, tends to decrease
significantly in mechanical strength when
saturated.
Water cleaning of a moderate size
building can require several million
gallons of water. When such large
amounts of water are involved, it is important to have a good drainage system
available for the run off. Additionally,
many city water systems may be heavily
chlorinated or have a high mineral content. If this is the case, the water used for
cleaning should be purified or distilled to
avoid introducing chloride salts into the

masonry or mineral deposits onto the
masonry surface. In addition, water
should be pumped through plastic, rather
than copper, pipes to avoid possible staining of the masonry. Water cleaning may
be rather time-consuming and expensive,
particularly if the removal of heavy crusts
requires much hand-scrubbing.
It is important to realize that although
some types of masonry may benefit from
frequent water washing, others do not.
While useful as a method of revealing
sources of potential deterioration covered
by dirt, frequent washing of some of the
harder siliceous stones including granite
and some sandstones, as well as brick,
probably does not aid in their preservation. But the opposite is generally true of
calcareous stones such as limestone and
marble, whose long-term preservation may
be enhanced by regularly scheduled water
washing. Regular cleaning of calcareous
stones (perhaps every seven to ten years in
heavily polluted urban areas) can remove
potentially harmful absorbed salts. On the
other hand, calcareoU:s stones also tend to
be highly soluble and too frequent washing
may result in accelerated dissolution and
loss of surface caused by the slightly acidic
water of some city water systems. In
general, washing procedures for these
stones should not be overly long to avoid
excessive exposure of the stone to the
dissolving nature of the water. The use of
distilled water may further minimize
dissolution.
To prevent possible staining of lightcolored limestone or marble in areas
where the local water supply has a high
iron content, it may be useful to add a
chelating or complexing agent such as
EDTA (ethylene diamine tetra-acetic
acid), to the wash water; this will combine
with any metal ions present in the water
and keep them in solution to avoid metal
stains on light-colored stone.

Chemical Cleaning to Remove
Dirt
If water-based cleaning is the gentlest and
least damaging method of removing dirt
from historic masonry, chemical cleaners
represent the next level of intervention.
Chemical cleaners may be required to
remove heavy dirt buildup or layers of
paint. Chemical-based cleaners for

15

 masonry are generally one of three types:
acidic cleaners, alkaline cleaners, or
organic solvents. Acidic or alkaline
cleaners are used for regular cleaning or
dirt removal; alkaline cleaners or organic
solvents are used for paint removal. All of
these cleaners rely on water and most
contain surfactants ("surface active"
agents)-organic compounds that concentrate at oil-water interfaces, and exert
emulsifying actions, and thus aid in
removing soiling. (Sometimes the term
"surfactant" is used interchangeably with
"detergent. ")
Pre-wetting masonry surfaces is generally
recommended for both acidic and alkaline
products. In addition to loosening the dirt,
this reduces the amount of the cleaning
agent and the dirt-laden rinse water that
can soak into the masonry and the
contiguous mortar joints. Chemicals are
then brushed or sprayed on under low
pressure-brushing the chemicals on may
actually help loosen surface dirt. When
surfactant products are used, spraying or
brushing generates suds that boost cleaning efficiency by lengthening contact time
of the active chemicals with the masonry.
Manual scrubbing with a non-metallic
brush can have the same effect, and also
assists in loosening dirt. After a few
minutes (as indicated in the product
literature or determined by testing), the
cleaner is washed off by flooding the surface with a moderate-to-high (400-600 psi)
water spray at a rate of three to four
gallons per minute, rinsing from top to
bottom. Extremely heavy dirt accumulations or many layers of paint may require
repeated applications of the chemical
cleaner. A hot water rinse may also
facilitate paint removal.

Acidic Cleaners
most granites, most sandstones, slate, unglazed
brick, unglazed architectural terra cotta, concrete

16

Acidic products can be used on unglazed
brick and terra cotta, and most granites,
sandstones, slate and other non-calcareous
or siliceous stones. But acid-based cleaners
generally should never be used on acidsensitive materials that might be etched or
abraded by acid. This includes masonry
with a glazed or polished surface (glazed
architectural terra cotta, glazed brick,
polished stone or glass) as well as acidsensitive stone such as limestone, marble,
or calcareous sandstone.

Acidic cleaning is a two-part process: first,
the acid cleansing solution is applied to
the pre-wet masonry surface. After completing its action, the acid solution is then
removed from the masonry by a thorough
water rinse. Hydrofluoric acid is the most
commonly used acid cleaner for historic
masonry, usually with some phosphoric
acid added to prevent development of
rust-like stains that may appear after
cleaning. Hydrofluoric acid specifically
dissolves carbonaceous pollutant products,
or dirt, and in most cases does not leave
water-soluble salts in the masonry if the
cleaning is properly carried out. It should
preferably be used at a concentration 0.5
percent, but may be used at concentrations as high as 5 percent.
Hydrofluoric acid works on granite, slate,
sandstone and brick by dissolving a
minute amount of their surface, thus
releasing the dirt. In this way, the introduction of potentially harmful residual
salts into the masonry is kept to a
minimum. The masonry should be kept
moist throughout the cleaning operation to
avoid silica deposition (efflorescence or the
formation of a whitish powder). As most
chemical cleaners (both acidic and
alkaline) must remain on the surface for
several minutes, keeping the masonry
moist will also maximize cleaning efficiency. A second or third application of the
cleaning agent may be necessary to
remove particularly heavy dirt deposits.
Most commercially available products contain thickening agents to form gels or
pastes that improve the cleaning agent's
ability to cling to vertical surfaces. They
also contain secondary solvents of a lower
evaporation rate than water, such as
glycerine to enable the cleaner to remain
moist longer on the masonry surface.
However, care must be taken to avoid exposing the masonry to cleaners containing
hydrofluoric or other acids for more than
five to seven minutes.
A variety of commercially prepared acidbased cleaners for masonry is available:
products for granite, brick and sandstone,
afterwash products, concrete cleaners and
mortar removal products. The principal
ingredient in granite products (restoration
cleaners) is hydrofluoric acid. The afterwash products contain weak organic acids
such as acetic acid. The mortar removers
and concrete cleaners are based on

 hydrochloric acid. Many of these commercial products are very effective on historic
masonry buildings if used according to the
manufacturer's directions and under the
supervision of a preservation consultant.
It may be difficult to obtain a list of all
the ingredients or their exact proportions
for most of these products, since they are
usually of a proprietary nature, and not
patented. However, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA), requires that Material Safety
Data Sheets be supplied by manufacturers
to distributors upon request; the provide
information about all hazardous contents
in commercially available cleaning
products .

Cautions and Precautions. Hydrofluoric
acid-based cleaners can sometimes leave
whitish deposits of silica, or calcium
fluoride salts (efflorescence). These
deposits are generally not harmful to the
masonry but may be disfiguring, especially
on darker masonry. Since this efflorescence is soluble in hydrofluoric acid, it can
usually be removed by a second chemical
treatment, followed immediately by a
thorough cold water rinse. It should be
noted that hydrofluoric-based cleaners left
too long on the masonry may result in a
colloidal silica deposit that may be almost
impossible to remove (figure 13).

Although cleaning non acid-sensitive
masonry with hydrofluoric acid-based
products is generally a relative safe undertaking-using proper precautions-hydrofluoric acid may lighten the color of some
sandstones containing iron. This is
another reason why it is always important
to test the product on the masonry before
beginning a full-scale cleaning project.
Hydrofluoric acid can also severely etch
aluminum and glass; therefore, these
materials must be covered with acidresistant coatings for protection during
cleaning.
Hydrochloric (muriatic) acid is a very
strong acid and thus should generally not
be used as a cleaning agent on historic
masonry (even when diluted). Rather than
cleaning or dissolving dirt, it dissolves
lime-based mortars and even some stones,
and leaves chloride deposits on the
masonry surface. The fact that it dissolves
lime-based mortar as well as lime contained in
some stones clearly illustrates that its use on
historic masonry is generally inappropriate, since
marry historic mortars have a high lime content.
When used as a cleaning agent,
hydrochloric acid also tends to result in
the formation of water soluble salts in the
masonry itself, which even thorough surface rinsing is unable to remove. Some of
these salts deposited within the masonry
will probably appear on the exterior surface of the masonry as efflorescence, which
may be washed off or brushed off by
hand. However, not all of these chloride
sales will migrate to the exterior surface.
Salts remaining within the masonry may
eventually cause spalling of the masonry
units themselves. Furthermore, the use of
hydrochloric acid may also result in the
formation of yellow ferrous chloride stains
on some types of masonry.
Commercially available acid-based cleaners
usually contain varying combinations of
hydrofluoric, phosphoric, hydrochloric
(muriatic), sufuric, acetic, and oxalic acid.
As a final caution, it should be noted that
despite the manufacturer's recommendations, commercially available "all
purpose" cleaners that contain
hydrochloric acid should not be used on
limestone.

Figure 13. While hydrofluoric acid-based cleaners are often appropriate jor cleaning unglazed brick, they may jorm hard-to-remove whitish silica deposits if left too
long on the surface.

Generally, the only appropriate application
of diluted hydrochloric acid to historic
masonry is to remove excess mortar that
17

 may have been splashed over the stone or
brick while repointing, to remove whitewash or other lime or cement-based
coating, or sometimes to clean concrete.
Alkaline Cleaners
limestone, marble, calcareous sandstone, glazed
brick, glazed architectural terra cotta, polished
marble, polished granite

Alkaline cleaners should be used on acidsensitive masonry materials that would be
damaged by acidic cleaners: limestone and
marble, calcareous sandstone, glazed brick
and glazed architectural terra cotta, and
polished marble and polished granite .
Alkaline cleaners consist of two major ingredients: 1) a detergent (or surfactant),
and 2) some type of alkali, usually
potassium hydroxide. Following their application to the pre-wet masonry, alkaline
cleaners are rinsed off with water; then
the masonry is given a slightly acidic wash
(for example, acetic acid) to neutral"ize the
alkaline solution. The final step is to rinse
the masonry with water a second time.
Both potassium hydroxide and ammonium
hydroxide (ammonia) are suitable alkaline
cleaners for historic masonry. (Ammonia
cleaners are especially effective in removing soil of a slightly greasy nature.) For
lighter-colored calcareous masonry, a more
uniform fmal appearance may require the
addition of complexing agents (such as
EDTA) and organic bleaches, but only
under careful professional supervision.
The effectiveness of alkaline cleaners, particularly for removing paint, wax coatings,
grease and oil stains, may be increased by
a hot water rinse (not over 160 0 F).
Alkaline paint removers as well as alkaline
cleaners for dirt removal from calcareous
stones are used undiluted.

Cautions and Precautions. Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda or lye) generally should
not be used on older or historic masonry.
It is extremely harsh and can cause
efflorescence and subflorescence, and may
also cause physical abrasion and loss of
small amounts of a brick surface (figure
14). Ammonium bifluoride is another
alkaline cleaner that is commonly recommended as an "all-purpose" cleaner, but
in general, ammonium bifluoride solutions
are also not suitable for use on limestones,
marbles, calcareous sandstones, or unglazed brick because of the likelihood of
18

Figure 14. Although the sodium hydroxide-based test
cleaning patch on the right side of this wall of common brick appears to have been successfully cleaned,
closer inspection reveals that a minute portion of the
brick surface has been dissolved and removed by the
cleaner. As a result, considerable brick dust can be
seen in the cracks of the pavement beneath the wall.

leaving ammonium salts on the .surface or
within the masonry.
Surfactants and Detergents
polished granite, glazed brick,
architectural terra cotta

Surfactants (without acids or alkalies) can
be used on polished granite, glazed brick,
and architectural terra cotta without risk
of etching. Scrubbing with non-metallic
brushes (or sometimes even handsponging) with a detergent is another effective method of cleaning these smooth
surfaces. (However, it may not be possible
to remove discoloration caused by dirt that
has penetrated a crazed terra cotta glaze.)
Non-ionic surfactants can be especially effective in removing oily or greasy dirt.

Chemical Cleaning to Remove
Paint and Other Coatings
Large-scale paint removal from historic
masonry buildings can best be accomplished with chemical pamt removers, based
either on organic solvents or alkaline solutions. Commercial paint removers are

 phosphate. This alkaline-based paint
remover is best used on calcareous and
other acid-sensitive masonry, and is
particularly useful for removing oil, latex
and acrylic paint. (Many paint removers
are composed primarily of sodium
hydroxide-caustic soda or lye-which, as
explained earlier, should not be used on
historic masonry because of the likelihood
of depositing harmful salts.)
Organic Solvent Paint Removers

A second type of paint remover is composed of a combination of organic
solvents, which almost always includes
methylene chloride, and others such as
methanol (wood alcohol), acetone, xylene,
and toluene. Organic solvent-based
cleaners are particularly effective in
removing more recently developed
coatings, including epoxy and urethanetype coatings. However, methylene
chloride-based cleaners may also tend to
spread some stains deeper into the
masonry, so they must be applied with
caution, and of course, only after testing.
Both types of paint removers are applied
either with a brush or sprayed on the
masonry surface. The addition of gels,
thickeners and waxes prevents paint
removers, which evaporate rapidly, from
drying out so that they may remain active
on the surface for several hours.

Figures 15a-15b. If a highly articulated facade is being cleaned it may be
necessary to scaffold the building, one elevation at a time. When the monumental
task of chemically removing all the paint from the White House was begun, each
side was scaffolded in preparation for repainting. Removal of the many layers of
paint that had obscured the stone tooling marks for almost a century, without
damaging the historic sandstone, required much painstaking hand work.
Photograph: National Park Service

generally formulated to remove most types
of paint (except cementitious or lime-based
paints such as whitewash) from all types of
masonry. But it is always preferable to use
an alkaline paint remover on acid-sensitive
masonry (figures 15a-15 b ).
Alkaline Paint Removers
limestone, marble, calcareous sandstone, glazed
brick, glazed architectural terra cotta, polished
marble, polished granite

One type of paint remover is based on
ammonium hydroxide (ammonia),
potassium hydroxide, or trisodium

The softened paint is then washed off
using a water rinse that may range from
as low as 200 psi to possibly as high as
800 psi. Efficiency of the paint removal
differs from project to project. Multiple
layers of paint may require two or more
applications of paint remover, or the use
of several types. An intricately carved,
rough or damaged masonry surface will
also take more time and may not result in
a surface completely free of paint. If the
paint has penetrated into the masonry,
total paint removal may be impossible to
achieve without damaging the surface.
Removing Other Coatings

Traditional lime-based whitewash or color
washes that have deteriorated and no
longer bond to the substrate, may be
removed with hydrochloric (muriatic)
acid-which will dissolve the lime (and also
the masonry substrate if it is not applied with
caution)-or sometimes with acetic acid,

and hand-scrubbing with non-metallic

19

 brushes. Sometimes prolonged wet poulticing may also be necessary. Twentiethcentury cement-based, or textured
coatings, may be very difficult to remove
without damaging the masonry. They are
not likely to be soluble in paint remover,
although occasionally hydrochloric acid
may be effective, and sometimes they can
be removed by hand-scraping. Removal of
acrylic water-repellent coatings may
usually be accomplished with an alkaline,
possibly potasium hydroxide, solution.
Cautions and Precautions. In particular,
those paint removers based on organic
solvents should be handled with extra
caution. Most organic solvents are flammable. Their vapors, easily absorbed
through the skin and the lungs, are
carcinogenic, and some are irritating to
the skin.
It should be noted that the use of heat
(applied with a propane torch or similar
device) is never an acceptable method of
paint removal from historic masonry. Not
only is heat ineffective, it may actually
damage the masonry, and cause softened
paint to permeate porous masonry. Furthermore, use of a propane torch also introduces the hazard of fire to historic
materials. Finally, the use of high-pressure
water in itself is also not an effective or
acceptable method of paint removal from
historic masonry.

with a calcareous or otherwise acidsensitive masonry type. There are many
premixed poultices commercially available
that are based on much the same composition as those described here.
Frequently stains will be removed during
a general cleaning of the masonry. But the
removal of disfiguring stains, graffiti, and
efflorescent salt deposits from masonry is
often a complex and challenging undertaking. It is complicated by the fact that,
unlike particulate dirt which tends to sit
on the surface, stains generally penetrate
into and permeate the masonry.
For this reason, poulticing is generally the
most effective means of removing stains
from historic masonry. Efficient stain
removal requires that a cleaning solution
(selected according to the type of stain) be
kept in contact with the stained area for as
long as possible, and that the cleaning
solution pull out the staining material
without redepositing or spreading it on the
masonry itself (figure 16). Poulticing
methods meet all these requirements.

Poulticing to Remove Stains

20

The first step in stain removal is to identify the stain; the next step is to try to
prevent recurrence of the problem by getting at its source. This source may be integral to the configuration of building
materials in a historic structure, and as
such, may not be feasible to eliminate.
For example, copper flashing will often
stain light-colored stone or brick. And the
more porous the masonry, the greater the
tendency for the masonry to become
stained. Thus, while glazed brick and
architectural terra cotta are generally
resistant to penetrating stains, limestone
and marble are considerably more likely to
stain because of their porous nature. The
fact that acids should not be used on acidsensitive materials frequently means that,
while an acid might indeed be capable of
removing a certain stain from brick or a
siliceous stone, an alternative, non-acidic
cleaner must be substituted when dealing

Figure 16. Four different poultice mixtures were tested
to remove metal stains from this marble wall. From
top to bottom, they included a commercial poultice, as
well as formulations of peroxide and hydrated lime,
ammonia and hydrated lime, and sodium citrate and
glycerine with hydrated lime. Photograph: The
Ehrenkrantz Group

 Simply stated, a poultice is composed of
an absorbent material or powder, mixed
with a liquid to form a paste or slurry.
The absorbent powders or chemically inert
fillers used to make up the poultice not
only slow the rate of evaporation or reaction, allowing adequate time for the solvent to dissolve the stain, but also provide
a vehicle to accept the staining material
after it has been pulled from the masonry.
Among the powders commonly used for
poulticing are clays (such as attapulgite,
kaolin and fuller's earth), talc, chalk
(whiting), sepiolite (hydrous magnesium
silicate), diatomaceous earth (kieselguhr)
and methyl cellulose. While absorbent
clays and diatomaceous earth are the most
efficient, whiting and kaolin are the
cheapest. It should be noted that the absorbent material for a poultice does not
always have to be powdered, but can consist of shredded acid-free paper or absorbent cotton or cotton pads. (Generally,
whiting, or iron-containing clay such as
fuller's earth, should not be used as the
absorbent ingredient if an acid is used as
the solvent; they will react with, and thus,
negate the effectiveness of the acid.)
Next, the type of solvent (liquid) is chosen
to match the requirements of the stain to
be removed. It will either be water for a
chemical poultice or an organic solvent for
stains that are soluble only in solvents. A
heavy or thick poultice may require additional support on vertical surfaces in the
form of a non-ferrous, or plastic mesh
which can be held against the wall with
non-staining fasteners. The poultice will
clean more effectively if kept wet
throughout the dwell period. It can be
covered with plastic to prevent it from
drying out too rapidly, and can also be rewetted if it dries too quickly without having removed the stain. If a single poulticing operation is not effective, a second application can be made. After removing
and discarding the poultice material, the
area should be thoroughly rinsed with
clean water to cleanse the masonry of any
chemical residue (figure 17 a - 17 d).
The poultice is applied as follows: a V4 - %
inch layer of the paste is applied to the
masonry surface, and the liquid is
absorbed into the masonry to act upon the
stain. As the poultice dries out, the liquid
is re-absorbed back into it, drawing out
the stain. The poultice is allowed to dry
completely, and is removed gently by

Figure i7(a). This graffiti was applied with a wide
felt-tipped marker to a polished granite wall. To
facilitate removal and to prevent the image from
penetrating further into the stone, the masonry surface
was first wetted with denatured alcohol.

Figure (b) Most of the image was removed using a
rag saturated with a mixture oj so/vents, including
acetone, lacquer thinner and N-methy-2-pyrrolidone.

Figure (c-d) The slight ghost outline remaining was
easily removed with the solvent mixture in a poultice
composed of attapulgite and Kaolin clays and
whiting, and followed by a thorough detergent and
21
water wash. Photographs: Nicholas F. Veloz

 hand with a wooden scraper or nonmetallic brush.

Metallic Stains
In general, metallic stains on siliceous or
acid-resistant surfaces can be removed effectively with a weak acid solution.
Metallic stains on acid-sensitive masonry
should be removed using an alkaline salt
of the appropriate acid (for example, ammonium oxalate to remove rust stains).
Metal compounds are responsible for a
great number of stains on historic
masonry structures. Of these, rust stains
from iron are probably the most common.
The orange color is caused by small particles of hydrous iron oxide. Most rust
stains are directly related to the corrosion
of exterior ironwork such as porch railings
and grillwork, or concealed interior support mechanisms such as iron anchors and
tie rods. Corrosion is usually initiated by
water penetration into the building,
primarily via cracks and open mortar
joints, and the stains will continue to
reappear if these leaks are not repaired.
However, some rust stains are due to certain iron-containing minerals, such as
pyrite, that may occur naturally in the
stone and, as such, cannot be removed .

Green stains are usually associated with
the presence of a number of copper compounds. Copper roofing, brass ornaments
and bronze hardware and sculpture are
among the obvious scources of green staining. Copper and bronze stains are usually
not difficult to eliminate successfully.
Generally, they are soluble in an ammonia
solution (aqueous .ammonium hydroxide).

Industrial Stains
Industrial stains result from contact with
such materials as juel oil, asphalt and tar.
Some superficial (or surface) industrial
stains, like smoke and soot and oil, may
be removed by gently scrubbing with a
scouring powder containing bleach (but
not household bleaches which are sodiumbased) or water-based household
detergents that are acid and alkali-free.
However, scouring powders sometimes
contain abrasives which may damage
delicate masonry surfaces . Ammonia also
dissolves some superficial oily stains; thus,
a solution of ammonia and water applied
in a poultice is useful for removing oil and
grease stains from marble. But most procedures for the removal of these oily stains
require the use of organic solvents.
Because flooding the surface with solvents
is both inefficient and costly, brushing
with an emulsion of organic solvents such
as mineral spirits may be more effective.
A water rinse afterward is necessary.
Industrial stains that have penetrated
more deeply into the masonry should not
be rubbed in, but should always be
removed with a poultice (figure 18). An
appropriate solvent (or solvent mixture)
must be selected. This will probably involve some testing to find a solvent best
suited to the type of stain. Among the
common organic solvents that may be effective in removing industrial stains are
the following: naptha, mineral spirits,
chlorinated hydrocarbons (such as
methylene chloride and perchloroethylene),
ethyl alcohol, acetone, ethyl acetate, amyl
acetate, toluene, xylene, and trichlorethylene . (A slight variation of the poultice
method consists of thoroughly soaking the
stained area with the solvent, and immediately covering it with absorbent
powder.)

Figure 18. Removal oj this oil stain which has penetrated deep into the granite
will necessitate poulticing with an organic solvent.

22

It may not always be possible to remove
all traces of asphaltic stains, but their
visual impact will be substantially reduced

 by using these methods . Additional
washing and scrubbing with detergent or
scouring powder following application of
the poultice may further reduce staining.
Removal of larger chunks of asphalt or tar
accumulations may be facilitated by applying dry ice or spraying with carbon
dioxide. The asphalt or tar will be embrittled by the dry ice or carbon dioxide,
and after tapping with a small hammer,
can usually be removed from the masonry
surface by prying it up with a putty knife,
(figure 19). This same technique can be
use for removing gum, adhesives or other
sticky substances, Such techniques,
however, should not be used on wet
masonry, as they may freeze the moisture
in the masonry, and cause cracking or
spalling. Organic solvents or bleaches are
also effective, sometimes in a poultice, on
sticky substances .

Biological Stains
Heavy growths of lichens, algae, moss and
fungi should be removed from masonry
surfaces. Lichens in particular, and
mosses, tend to encourage stone or
masonry deterioration, because they produce oxalic acid, and, because like other
plant growth, they attract-or are attracted to-moisture, one of the major
enemies of masonry. Thus, in most cases,
it is best to eliminate all plant, lichen and
algae growth on historic masonry.
Lichens and algae can usually be removed
with water and a stiff natural bristle
brush, after soaking, if necessary (figure
20). Stains caused by plant growth such as
mildew (which is a fungus) can sometimes
be removed with organic solvents, but are
generally best treated with diluted ammonia or bleaches. Hydrogen peroxide
can also be effective . Calcium hypochlorite
solutions and pastes (the basic of swimming pool chlorine) and Chloramine-T
may also be useful in many cases.
Chemical removal of the growth itself may
sometimes be accomplished with zinc or
magnesium fluorosilicate, copper
naphthenate, or with a variety of
quartenary ammonium salts. Low-tomedium-pressure (100-400 psi) water rinsing can be used to eliminate much of the
plant material prior to treatment and stain
removal. However, these compounds
should be used with caution, as some
copper compounds may stain light-colored

Figure 19. Efficient removal of tar splatters from
limestone and sandstone may be facilitated initially by
applying dry ice or carbon dioxide, but complete
removal will probably require poulticing with an inorganic solvent.

Figure 20. Plant growth such as lichens growing on
a protected side of this limestone and granite parapet
wall, can be damaging even to a relatively hard stone
like granite because lichens secrete oxalic acid. Lichens
can usually be removed, after soaking with water by
scrubbing with a stiff natural bristle brush.

masonry, and the use of zinc or
magnesium flu oro silicate may result in formation of a surface crust on some
masonry.
Other growing vines such as ivy and
Virginia Creeper should be cut at the
roots, and allowed to dry before removal
to prevent the disk-tipped tendrils

23

 characteristic of these plants from dislodging parts of the masonry. Once the
plants have dried up they can be carefully
pulled off; the roots should be killed (ammonium sulfamate may be applied to the
roots if necessary, taking care not to get it
on the masonry). Any remaining dried
plant material on the walls can be removed by scrubbing with a non-metallic
brush, and then washed off (figure 21).
Except in extreme cases, herbicides should
not be used to remove algae, moss or
lichens because of the danger of introducing addtional salts or acids into the
masonry, as well as the potential for
creating environmental problems.
Most of these forms of plant growth on
masonry buildings-algae, moss, lichens
and fungi-are a direct result of moisture
in the masonry and lack of sunshine.
Thus, unless the specific conditions
change, i.e., the moisture problem is
eliminated, or the masonry is given more
exposure to the sun, they will recur continually (figure 22). A leaking downspout
or gutter can be repaired, a tree or bush
too close to the building can be trimmed
or pruned to introduce more sunlight, and
even lawn sprinklers can be redirected so
they do not repeatedly deposit excessive
amounts of water on the same area of a
building surface (figure 23).

Figure 23. The moss growing around the downspout and along the base of this
stucco building clearly indicates the presence of excess moisture-here due to rising
damp as well as a leaky downspout. Photograph: Lee H. Nelson, FAIA

24

Figure 21. After the ivy was cut at the roots, it has
been allowed to wither and die bifore being pulled off
the wall. Most of the ivy has been removed, but a
few tendrils still cling higher on the wall. After these
have completely dried and have been pulled off, the remaining dried plant material can then be removed
from the brick by scrubbing with water and a bristle
brush.

Figure 22. The discoloration on this white marble is
a green-colored algae growth on a shady side of the
building and caused by water dripping from the airconditioner above it.

 Graffiti
As with other types of cleaning problems,
it is always preferable to identify the
substance used to create the graffiti before
selecting what is likely to be the best
remover. If there is any possibility of
discovering how the graffiti was applied
(such as discarded spray paint cans in the
immediate area) , it is worthwhile to investigate, since the manufacturer of a particular product may be able to provide
specific information concerning the ingredients of the paint, and thereby simplify
the task of removal. It is also important to
be aware that it may be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to completely
remove all traces of some types of graffiti.
Successful and total removal of graffiti
may depend on the type and surface texture of the masonry, as well as the particular substance applied. After its
removal , which is essentially a spot cleaning operation, the masonry surface may
appear spotty. If too unsightly, cleaning
the entire surface or wall may be
necessary. Sometimes it may be easier to
"redirty" slightly the cleaned area to
blend in with the uncleaned wall.
Like most other cleaning projects, successful graffiti removal will probably involve a "trial and error" approach, unless
the material used to apply it can be
readily identified before cleaning is begun.
And, as with any type of cleaning of
historic masonry, the gentlest method

possible should always be tried first; otherwise, one may run the risk of permanently
etching the graffiti into the masonry
surface.
Painted graffiti applied from a spray can
or by a felt-tipped marker or lipstick may
generally be removed from masonry by a
commercial paint remover-either a solvent type of remover such as lacquer
thinner or acetone, or a methylene
chloride-based remover (figure 24). In
some instances, poulticing may not be
necessary. If the graffiti has not permeated
deeply into the masonry, it may be
removed by the paint remover or a solution of trisodium phosphate brushed on
with a non-metallic brush. After the paint
has softened, as much as possible should
be scraped off with a wooden scraper.
Then the area should be washed again
using a detergent and soapy water, and
rinsed thoroughly with water.
A variety of commercial solvents are
available on the market, which may contain aromatic non-chlorinated solvents
such as xylol, toluene with methanol or
ketone, or chlorinated hydrocarbon
solvents such as methylene chloride. But
before trying these solvents which, as
noted, are effective but are also very toxic
and dangerous to handle, it is always best
to try something milder, such as a
detergent solution and water combined
with hand-scrubbing with a non-metallic
brush.
Although many cleaning contractors may
advise application of a coating to protect
masonry surfaces that are particularly
vulnerable to defacement by graffiti, a
coating is generally not recommended.
Historic masonry may be discolored or
damaged more by such coatings, which
may inhibit moisture evaporation, than by
the graffiti. Furthermore, the coating itself
is likely to be removed by subsequent
graffiti removals.

Salt/Efflorescence

Figure 24. Spray-painted graffiti on this brick wall can be removed with paint
remover, and in this case, probably will not require poulticing.

Efflorescence is a whitish powder made up
of excess salts that have crystalized on the
masonry surface. Because efflorescence
may have many causes, it is important to
identify the source of the problem. For example, although efflorescence is usually a
sign of excessive amounts of moisture in
the masonry, it may also result from

25

 chemical cleaning or repointing if the
masonry is not thoroughly rinsed. It may
also come from heavy use of de-icing salts,
or rain penetrating masonry through
deteriorated mortar joints may result in efflorescent patches on an entire facade .
Finally, air pollution often results in the
formation of thick sulfate (salt) crusts on
the underside of moldings and eavesareas not regularly washed by rainfall
(figure 25).
Efflorescence can usually be brushed or
washed off with water since it is formed of

Figure 25. Excess moisture leaching out through the walls has resulted in the formation of white efflorescent salts on the brick and blackish sulfate salts on the
limestone water table.

I

water soluble salts. Some efflorescence that
results from cleaning may eventually
disappear through normal rain washing;
however, some chemical residue left from
the cleaning process can form damaging
insoluble salts. Efflorescence resulting from
water penetration into the masonry structure will continue to reappear unless the
source of the water entry is removed;
thus, the first task is to identify the point
of entry and stop the water penetration
(figure 26).
Sulfate encrustations often may be
removed with a heavy wooden scraper.
But removal of particularly heavy salt
buildup may also require a poultice of one
of the following : diatomaceous earth, cotton, crushed dolomite, crushed limestone,
or shredded polyester fiber soaked in
distilled water. The area of the masonry
that displays efflorescence should also be
soaked in distilled water before applying
the poultice to avoid redistributing the
salts back into the masonry.

Cautions and Precautions. Several points
need to be made regarding the use of
chemicals in poultices. First, copper stains
should never be removed from limestone
with potassium cyanide or sodium cyanide
as is sometimes recommended. Both of
these cyanide compounds can be lethal to
cleaning personnel. Second, most organic
solvents are flammable. Their vapors,
easily absorbed through the skin and the
lungs, are carcinogenic, and some are irritating to the skin. Third, bleach should
never be used in conjunction with ammonia in a poultice; this simple-sounding
household combination produces toxic
chlorine gas that may cause lung tissue
damage or death. Finally, spraying liquid
nitrogen or asphalt or tar will make it
brittle and thus removable, but it is highly
flammable and so dangerous to work with
that a user must be specially licensed.

Other Methods of Stain Removal

Figure 26. Efflorescent salts appearing on marry of the brick piers of this tum-ofthe-century building may indicate the existence of clogged interior gutters that,
because they no longer function have been supplemented by an exterior rain removal
system. Photograph: National Park Service

26

While it is usually necessary to employ a
poultice to remove most stains on
masonry, other, sometimes simpler, procedures may also be effective. If a stain is
superficial, it may often be eliminated by
applying a chemical remover or solvent
with brushes, or by "washing" the solvent
over ;the surface using a low pressure
(under 100 psi) spraying apparatus. It
may also help to coat the surface with talc

 or similar material to help absorb the stain
in a sort of simplified poultice. To prevent
outward migration of the staining agent,
which would increase the size of the
stained area, the masonry immediately
adjacent to the stain on all sides should be
thoroughly prewetted. Following application of the cleaning solution, the masonry
must be rinsed off, and the entire procedure repeated, as necessary. Rinsing
need not be done with pressure; in fact, it
is normally sufficient to gently flood the
treated surface for several minutes.
Cautions and Precautions. Mechanical or
abrasive procedures such as sandblasting,
grinding or chiseling to remove dirt,
paint, stains or graffiti are not acceptable
methods of cleaning historic masonry.
Such abrasive methods may-with varying
degrees of success-remove the offending
substance from the masonry, but may also
damage the masonry by removing or
abrading the outer surface layer (figure
27). Very loose or flaking paint or a
similar coating on smooth surfaces, such
as brick, may sometimes be successsfully
removed by careful hand-scraping in
preparation for repainting, but the
physical irregularities of most rough-cut or
carved surfaces make this impractical.
Furthermore, abrasive cleaning techniques
may also be harmful to the applicator,
passersby and public property.

Figure 27. Heavily pitted by sandblasting, this window recess provides a vivid contrast to adjacent undamaged brick protected from abrasion by a metal
signboard.

Cleaning to Remove Bird
Droppings
Removal of small amounts of bird droppings may be accomplished as part of a
regular cleaning project with cold water
washing, possibly supplemented with
detergents and chelating agents such as
EDTA (ethylene diamine tetra-acetic
acid), or on non-acid sensitive masonry
with acidic cleaners, where appropriate.
Removal may also be facilitated by brushing with a non-metallic brush and scraping with a wood scraper (figure 28).
In some instances where particularly
porous types of stone may have been
stained by heavy accumulations of droppings that have permeated into the stone
over the years, they can be removed by
using a combination of the above
materials .
Cautions and Precautions. Histoplasmosis
and cryptococcosis, both potentially fatal

Figure 28. If water, or water and detergent wash,
does not remove the pigeon droppings from this sandstone sill and stringcourse below, it may be necessary
to use a dilute acidic cleaner containing hydrofluoric
acid, providing the sandstone is not calcareous and
thus, acid-sensitive.

27

 diseases of the lungs and central nervous
system, can result from exposure to accumulations of pigeon excrement. Because
of this disease potential, it may be better
to apply water pressure from a safe
distance to remove excessive amounts of
droppings and better not to attempt total
removal, particularly if droppings are not
highly visible or do not appear to be

28

damaging the masonry. Bleach should not
be used as a component of any removal
process; bird droppings contain ammonia,
which forms toxic gases when mixed with
some bleaches. When removing bird droppings, cleaning personnel should guard
against exposure to the attendant health
hazards by wearing protective masks and
clothing.

 Part III

Summary of Guidance
The "Gentlest Means Possible"
Although masonry may be one of the most
durable of historic building materials, it is
nonetheless susceptible to damage by improper maintenance or repair techniques
and by harsh and abrasive cleaning
~ethods. Thus, cleaning historic masonry
IS recom~end~d only when necessary to
~alt deteriOratIon or to remove heavy soil~ng, an~ ,onb' after careful testing. Observmg the gentlest means possible" rule

always means beginning with a lowpressure water wash, supplemented, if
necessary, with non-ionic detergents and
scrubbing with non-metallic brushes. If
this very gentle method does not clean the
masonry, or if paint or stains must be
removed, the next step is to use a
chemical cleaning process. Abrasive cleaning methods are damaging and are not
suitable cleaning techniques for historic
masonry buildings.

29

 Summary of Cleaning Techniques*
Substance
to be
Removed

Add-Sensitive Masonry

Non-Add-Sensitive Masonry

Limestone, Marble, Calcareous Sandstone,
Glazed Brick, Architectural Terra Cotta,
Polished Granite

Sandstone, Slate, Granite, Unglazed Brick,
and Unglazed Terra Cotta, Concrete

Water wash
Water + non-ionic detergent
Alkaline cleaner
(ammonia or potassium hydroxide)

Water wash
Water + non-ionic detergent
Acidic cleaner
(hydrofluoric acid)

Alkaline paint remover
(ammonia or potassium hydroxide
or trisodium phosphate)

Alkaline paint remover
(ammonia or potassium hydroxide
or trisodium phosphate)

Organic solvent paint remover
(methylene chloride)

Organic solvent paint remover
(methylene chloride)

Whitewash
and Cementitious Paints

Acetic acid or very weak solution of hydrochloric
acid

Acetic acid
Hydrochloric acid

Stains - Iron (Rust)

Poultice with:
Sodium citrate in water + glycerine or
Ammonium oxalate

Poultice with:
Oxalic acid or orthophosphoric acid
+ sodium salt of EDTA in water or
Dilute hydrofluoric acid

Stains - Copper

Poultice with:
Ammonium chloride or
Aluminum hydroxide + ammoma

Poultice with:
Ammonia (+ EDTA) or
Dilute hydrofluoric acid

Stains - Industrial

Scouring powder with bleach
Water-based household detergent
Ammonia
Mineral spirits
Alkaline cleaner

Scouring powder with bleach
Water-based household detergent
Ammonia
Mineral spirits
Alkaline cleaner

Poultice with one oj the following:
Sodium bicarbonate
Acetone
(baking soda)
Ethyl acetate
Naptha
Amyl acetate
Mineral spirits
Toluene
Methylene chloride
Xylene
Perchloroethylene
Trichloroethylene
Ethyl alcohol
Dry ice/carbon dioxide (Tar, Asphalt, Gum)

Poultice with one of the following:
Sodium bicarbonate
Acetone
(baking soda)
Ethyl acetate
Naptha
Amyl acetate
Mineral spirits
Toluene
Methylene chloride
Xylene
Perchloroethylene
Trichloroethylene
Ethyl alcohol
Dry ice/carbon dioxide (Tar, Asphalt, Gum)

Stains - Plant and Fungal
(lichens, algae, moss, fungi)

Dilute ammonia
Bleaches
Hydrogen peroxide
Sodium hypochlorite
Chloramine-T

Dilute ammonia
Bleaches
Hydrogen peroxide
Sodium hypochlorite
Chloramine-T

Stains - Graffiti
(paint, spray-paint, felttipped marker)

Organic solvent or alkaline paint remover
Lacquer thinner or acetone
Organic solvent (methylene chloride)
See also Paint, above

Organic solvent paint remover
Lacquer thinner or acetone
Organic solvent (methylene chloride)
See also Paint, above

Salt/Efflorescence

Water wash
Water (poultice)

Water wash
Water (poultice)

Water wash
Water + detergent
+ chelating agent such as EDTA

Water wash
Water + detergent
+ chelating agent such as EDTA
Acidic cleaners (hydrofluoric acid)

Dirt and/or Pollutant Crusts

Paint
(oil, latex, acrylic coating,
vinyl, epoxy, urethanetype coatings)

(smoke, soot, grease, oil,
tar, asphalt, waxes)

Bird Droppings

·Cleaning techniques are listed in order starting with the "gentlest means possible. "

31

 Selected Bibliography

Amoroso, Giovanni G., and Vasco
Fassina. Stone Decay and Conservation:
Atmospheric Pollution, Cleaning, Consolidation and Protection. Materials Science
Monographs, 11. Amsterdam: Elsevier
Science Publishers B.V., 1983.
Ashurst, John. "Cleaning and Surface
Repair-Past Mistakes and Future Prospects." Association for Preservation
Technology Bulletin, v. XVII, n. 2 (1985),
pp. 39-41.
Ashurst, John, and Francis G. Dimes.
Stone in Building: Its Use and Potential
Today. London: The Architectural Press
Ltd ., 1977.
Boyer, David W., and James W. Dunlap.
Masonry Cleaning: The State of the Art.
(Reprinted for the 1985 Association for
Preservation Technology Annual Conference). ProSoCo, Inc.
Brick Institute of America. "Cleaning
Brick Masonry." Technical Notes on Brick
Construction, 20 (revised), September/
October 1977.
Clayton, Ian. "Special Feature: Stone
Cleaning. Why Buildings Should Be
Washed. " Building Conservation, v. 3,
n. 3 (March 1981), p. 20.
Clifton, James R. (editor). Cleaning Stone
and Masonry. Philadelphia: American
Society for Testing and Materials
(ASTM), 1986.
"Danger: Restoration May Be Dangerous
to Your Health." The Old-House Journal
Compendium, Clem Labine and Carolyn
Flaherty (editors). Woodstock, N.Y.:
The Overlook Press, 1980, pp. 171-173.
Feilden, Bernard M. Conservation of Historic
Buildings. London: Butterworth & Company, Ltd., 1982.
Fidler, John. "The Conservation of ArchitectUl'al Terra Cotta and Faience."
Excerpted from Association for Studies in
the Conservation of Historic Buildings Transactions, v.6 (1981), and reprinted in
Friends of Terra Cotta Newsletter, v. 3, n. 2
(Summer 1981), pp. 8-10.

Grimmer, Anne E. A Glossary of Historic
Masonry Deterioration Problems and Preservation Treatments. Washington, D.C.: National Park Service, U.S. Department of
the Interior, 1984.

___ . Preservation Briefs 6: Dangers of
Abrasive Cleaning to Historic Buildings.
Washington, D.C.: National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior,
1979.
London, Mark. Masonry: How to Care for
Old and Historic Brick and Stone. Respectful Rehabilitation Series. Washington,
D. C.: The Preservation Press, 1988.
Lucas, James J., Susan M. Tindall and
Bernard J. Rowe. Exterior-Masonry
Restorative Cleaning. CSI Monograph
Series (04M521). Alexandria, VA.: The
Construction Specifications Institute,
May 1987.
Mack, Robert C., AlA. Preservation Briefs
1: The Cleaning and Waterproof Coating of
Masonry Buildings. Washington, D.C.:
National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1975.
"Masonry Conservation & Cleaning."
Materials compiled for the Association
for Preservation Technology PreConference Training Course, September
16-19, 1984.
Matero, Frank G., and Jo Ellen Freese.
"Notes on the Treatment of Oil and
Grease Staining on a Masonry Surface. " Association for Preservation
Technology Bulletin, v. X, n. 2 (1978),
pp. 133-141.
Poore, Patricia. "Stripping Exterior
Masonry. " The Old-House Journal,
v. XIII, n. 1 Oanuary-February 1985),
pp. 1, 26-28 .
Prudon, Theodore. "Removing Stains
from Masonry." The Old-House Journal,
v. V, n. 5 (May 1977), pp. 58-59.
Sedovic, Walter, AlA. "Undoing a
Miracle Cure-All: Removing an Acrylic
Coating from Federal Hall National
33

 Memorial." ICOMOS International Symposium: Old Cultures in New Worlds. Symposium Papers Volume 1. October
10-15, 1987. Washington, D.C.: U .S.
Committee, International Council on
Monuments and Sites, pp . 475-480.
Spry, Alan H. (compiler). Principles of
Cleaning Masonry Buildings: A Guide to
Assist in the Cleaning of Masonry Buildings.
Technical Bulletin 3. 1 National Trust of
Australia (Victoria), 1982 .
Tiller, de Teel Patterson. Preservation Briefs
7: The Preservation of Historic Glazed Architectural Terra-Cotta . Washington, D. C. :
National Park Service, U .S . Department of the Interior, 1979.

34

Weaver, Martin. "Nuts and Bolts: Cleaning Masonry, A Look at Water and
Chemical Treatments." Canadian
Heritage (December 1980), pp. 39-42 .
Weiss, Norman R. Exterior Cleaning of
Historic Masonry Buildings. Draft Report.
Washington, D.C .: National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior,
1977.
Veloz, Nicholas F. "Graffiti: An Introduction with Examples ." Association for
Preservation Technology Communique,
Technical Note 6, v . XIC (5).

  

 

 

 

 

