STAFF REPORT 08-14-2019 REGULAR MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6370
ADDRESS: 19331 CANTERBURY ROAD
HISTORIC DISTRICT: SHERWOOD FOREST
APPLICANT: ANDREW STEIN
STAFF SITE VISIT: 08-01-2019

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

PROPOSAL
The building located at 19331 Canterbury Road is a 2-story single-family residence constructed in 1955. The structure
is clad in stucco and features dark-stained wood details and a prominent stone chimney at the front façade. The
massing of the house includes a single-story portion directly to the east of the main massing which includes a car-port.
The rear yard is fenced and heavily screened with landscaping.

With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to demolish the existing rear porch
and install a new concrete patio at grade per the attached drawings. Included in the proposal are the following
scope items:
• Remove existing rear porch in its entirety
• Install new, exposed aggregate patio with south edge of patio to align with south façade of existing house
• Install new, exposed aggregate concrete steps to match patio
• Existing privacy fence and person gate to remain
STAFF OBSERVATIONS
• The rear yard/existing porch is not visible from the right-of-way
ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(1) Height. The height of the majority of residential structures full stories to two and-one-half (2½) stories tall, and have
at least eighteen (18) feet of studding. These standards shall be met by new single-family residences and by twofamily residences which are permitted only on Seven Mile Road. A few houses of one (1) and one and one-half (1½)
stories exist. Additions to existing buildings shall be related to the existing structure. Garages range from one (1) to
two (2) stories.
(2) Proportion of buildings front facades. The typical front facades of residential buildings in the Sherwood Forest
Historic District are predominantly wider than tall to their eaves.
(3) Proportion of openings within the facades. Proportion of openings varies greatly according to the style of the
building. Typical openings are taller than wide, but individual windows are often grouped together to fill a single
opening which is wider than tall. Windows are usually subdivided; buildings designed in English Revival Styles
frequently display leaded glass in casement windows and transoms. In buildings derived from classical precedents,
double-hunt sash windows are further subdivided by muntins. A variety of arched openings and bay windows exist

 relationships, sometimes extending around the corners. In general, openings amount to between twenty (20) percent
and thirty-five (35) percent of the front facades.
(4) Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. In buildings derived from classical precedents, voids are usually arranged
in a symmetrical and evenly-spaced manner within the facades. In examples of other styles, particularly those of
English Revival Sub-Styles, voids are arranged with more freedom, but usually result in balanced compositions.
Windows are arranged by floor in asymmetrical arrangements in modernistic style houses.
(5) Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally determined by the lot sizes and
setbacks from side lot lines. There is a general regularity in the widths of subdivision lots from one block to another,
with the exception of those in the Sherwood Forest Manor Subdivision where some lot sizes are larger and single
houses sometimes occupy more than one lot. Generally, all residences or part thereof, including cornices, balconies,
pergolas or porches, are not permitted nearer than five (5) feet to the side lot line.
(6) Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Entrance and porch types relate to the style of the building. Entrances
and porches on the English Revival buildings exhibit freedom of placement and orientation, while on buildings of
classical inspiration they are centered on the front facade. Some houses have entrances that recede while others have
porches, steps and/or entrances that project. A common entry arrangement on vernacular English Revival houses is
that of a slightly projecting, steeply gabled vestibule or gabled wall punctured with an arched opening. Side and rear
secondary entrances and porches and enclosed sunrooms are common. A rhythm of entrances and porches is not
discerned due to the variety of house designs and the winding street plan.
(7) Relationship of materials. The majority of houses are faced with pressed, wire cut or glazed brick, often combined
with wood, stone and/or stucco. Stone trim is common, and wood is almost universally used for window frames, halftimbering and other functional trim. Windows are commonly either of the metal casement or wooden sash variety.
Glass block exists as an original material in some window openings of modern buildings. Original metal balconets,
balustrades and light fixtures exist on some properties. Roofs on the majority of the buildings in the Sherwood Forest
Historic District are either slate or slate-like asphalt shingles.
(8) Relationship of textures. The major textural relationship is that of brick laid in mortar, often juxtaposed with wood or
smooth or rough-faced stucco and/or stone elements and trim. Textured brick and brick laid in patterns creates
considerable interest, as does half-timbering, leaded and subdivided windows, and wood shingled or horizontal sided
elements. Slate roofs have particular textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles generally have little textural
interest, even in those types which purport to imitate natural materials. Garages correspond in materials to the main
residential dwelling.
(9) Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors—such as red, yellow, brown, or buff—predominate in wall surfaces.
When brick is painted, it is in white or shades of cream. Natural stone colors also predominate; where stucco or
concrete exists, it usually remains in its natural state, or is painted in a shade of cream. Roofs are in natural slate
colors, and asphalt shingles are predominantly within this same dark color range. Paint colors often relate to style. The
buildings derived from classical precedents, particularly those of classical styles, generally have woodwork painted
the white or cream range. English Revival style buildings generally have painted wood trim and window frames of
dark brown, gray, buff or shades of cream, depending on the main body color. Half timbering is most frequently
stained or painted dark brown. Stained glass, where it exists as decoration visible on the front facade, contributes to
the artistic interest of the building. The original colors of any building, as determined by professional analysis, are
always acceptable for a house, and may provide guidance for similar houses. Colors used on garages should relate to
the colors of the main dwelling.
(10) Relationship of architectural details. The architectural elements and details of each structure generally relate to its
style. Residential buildings derived from characteristic elements and details displayed on vernacular English Revivalinfluenced buildings include arched windows and door openings, steeply pitched gables, towers, and sometimes halftimbering. Tall, clustered chimney stacks and decorative chimney pots are features of the district. Classical styles
display modest detail, mostly in wood. Porches, shutters, window frames, cornices, and dormer windows are
commonly, although not always, treated. Modern style buildings are generally characterized by smooth, unadorned
wall surfaces, horizontal bands of windows, and curved corners. A few Cape Cod style buildings and ranches are
located in the northeastern section of the Sherwood Forest Manor Subdivision. In general, the district is rich in early
to mid-twentieth century architectural styles. Garages correspond in architecture to the main residential dwelling.
(11) Relationship of roof shapes. A variety of roof shapes exists, relating to the style of the buildings. Common on English
Revival buildings are steeply sloped pitched or hipped roofs with complex arrangements of secondary roof shapes,
including steeply sloped gables, clipped gables, and shed roofs. These roofs are commonly interrupted by gabled, shed
and multi-sided dormers and substantial chimneys which are sometimes clustered. Classically-inspired buildings
display pitched or hipped roofs with less slope, with or without dormers. Roofs of houses built later in the period of
development of the district, such as those of modern inspiration, tend to have significantly lower slopes, with the

 exception of Cape Cod style houses in the northeastern section of the district which display steeply pitched roofs with
dormers. Flat roofs are not typical except on porches, sunrooms, and other small extensions of a primary building with
a pitched roof; flat roofs as the main roof of a primary building shall not be permitted.
(12) Walls of continuity. Where common setbacks of houses on relatively straight stretches of residential streets exist,
strong walls of continuity are created. This is augmented by tall, fluted light standards and mature trees on the tree
lawns. Where streets curve and the procession of houses is less visible, landscape features in the public right-of-way
create a sense of continuity.
(13) Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The typical treatment of individual properties
is that of a dwelling erected on a grade of approximately fifteen (15) to twenty (20) inches above the inner grade line
of the public sidewalk. The front lawn area is generally covered with grass turf, subdivided by a straight or curving
concrete, stone or brick walk leading to the front entrance and a single width side driveway leading to a garage, which
is most often located at the rear of the lot but sometimes attached to the rear, side or, less frequently, the front of the
main dwelling. On corner lots, garages are located on the side streets and the width of the driveway corresponds to the
width of the garage. A single storage building, including garden and tool sheds, shall be permitted provided that it is
placed at the rear of the property, is harmonious in color and design to the contiguous property, does not exceed six
(6) feet by ten (10) feet in length and width, and six (6) feet in height, foundation plantings, often of a deciduous
nature and characteristic of the period between 1920 and 1960, are present virtually without exception. Large trees of
many varieties shield some houses from view. There is variety in the landscape treatment of individual properties.
Generally, boundary lines between lots forward of the building line are not marked with fences of any kind, but may
have hedges no greater than two (2) feet in height. Hedges and fences of up to four (4) feet in height generally extend
along boundary lines beyond the building line. On lots abutting the alley behind Warrington Drive and Livernois
Avenue, a tight board fence or masonry wall of a uniform height of five (5) feet must be constructed on rear lot lines.
The placement of trees on the tree lawn between the concrete public sidewalk and masonry curb varies from block to
block or street to street. Replacement trees should be characteristic of the area and period. If American Elm is planted,
it should be disease resistant. Original street lighting throughout the district is of the tall fluted standard with crane
neck pendant variety.
(14) Relationship of open space to structures. The Sherwood Forest Historic District has, as its main open space, the
triangularly shaped Sherwood Forest Park, bounded by Warrington Drive, Saint Martins Road and Canterbury Roads.
That park, as well as other triangular lots created between the intersection of winding streets, are planted with grass
and trees. All houses have ample rear yards as well as front yards. Where vacant lots exist between residences, their
landscaping tends to be continuous with the adjacent lots or forested with mature trees.
(15) Scale of facades and facade elements. The Sherwood Forest Historical District comprises a residential neighborhood
of moderate to large scaled dwellings. Elements and details within are appropriately scaled, having been determined
by the style, size and complexity of the individual buildings, window sash are usually subdivided by muntins and
casement windows are leaded, affecting the apparent scale of the windows within the facades.
(16) Directional expression of front elevations. The houses in the Sherwood Forest Historic District are horizontal in
directional expression. Large architectural elements within facades are frequently vertical in directional expression,
such as multi-storied projecting gabled sections.
(17) Rhythm of building setbacks. Front yard setbacks are generally consistent on each residential street in the Sherwood
Forest Historic District, although porch, entrance and window projections and irregular massing result in the
appearance of variety. Where lots are combined or irregularly shaped at corners, the rhythm is sometimes irregular.
(18) Relationship of lot coverages. The lot coverage for the single- and two-family residences ranges generally from
twenty-five (25) percent to thirty-five (35) percent, including either the freestanding or attached garage. Where lots
are combined, the percentage of lot coverage may be less.
(19) Degree of complexity within the facades. The degree of complexity has been determined by what is typical and
appropriate for a given style. Overall, there is a higher degree of complexity in the English Revival style buildings,
where their facades are frequently complicated by gables, bays, irregularly placed openings and entrances, and
irregular massing, than those of other styles. The facades of classically inspired buildings and modernistic buildings
are straightforward in their arrangement of elements and details.
(20) Orientation, vistas, overviews. The orientation of buildings is largely determined by the winding streets created by the
subdivision plans. All but a few buildings in the district are oriented towards the street; buildings situated on corner
lots sometime face the side street or, when the corner lot is curved, the intersection of the streets. The primary vistas
are created by the winding streets. Sherwood Forest Manor Subdivision has a different character because of its later
development and the elliptical shape of its plan. While the streets through Sherwood Forest extend into the Green
Acres Subdivision on the north, they do not extend into the Palmer Woods Subdivision on the east.
(21) Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Front facades of buildings range from completely symmetrical to

 asymmetrical but balanced compositions. English Revival style buildings are irregular in layout and asymmetrical in
appearance. The classically inspired buildings are generally symmetrical; the modernistic buildings are not
symmetrical but result in highly ordered compositions.
(22) General environmental character. The Sherwood Forest Historic District is a fully-developed residential area of
well-maintained, substantial single-family residences of the second quarter of the twentieth century complemented
with fine examples of compatible houses from the 1950s and 1960s. On Seven Mile Road, its southern boundary, are
several duplexes; the east side of Livernois Avenue, outside the district's boundaries to the west, is an intact
commercial thoroughfare of 1940's vintage. With the residential subdivisions of Palmer Woods to the east and Green
Acres to north, Sherwood Forest is a part of a solid, well-maintained and handsome urban residential community.

RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion that the work, as proposed, does not destroy historic materials that characterize the historic
building, its site, and setting. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission find the demolition of the existing rear
porch and the installation of a new concrete patio at grade to be appropriate as the scope of work meets the Secretary
of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation
• 9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its
environment.

 7 Al t-mi .
t. ?15. I ?diam
5' .


m?

"t

- ajen {Jami.-: I199 If3er Idlng-.- 
Imagery' @201 9 Bungle, Map data

 

 Hng?d
1?4"
1 
It??y'flif .11: {a I 3'3 i - 
Imageqr 32019 Emugh, ?up data 9241119 lhited?tal? Term: Send fea?madt 

 

 m?m? Emun?me? mami?u?a?..-. .. . A 

I . . . I







1IJ L.5. . rmunr.

 

I?l?l'l! .. . n.1I

lk .

 

 

Imagel capture: Jul 2013

E1 Bungle

United States

Terms

 

 0 .41n1- ?In-Lui- -



- 
"1 I

ul'l '4 - 

.r




-

r" turf-w .54.

..
1-5-33 -. a. 
hart-z.

.1



STAFF SITE VISIT 08/02/0219

 

STAFF SITE VISIT 08/02/0219

 

 

.7 - 7 STAFF SITE VISIT 08/02/0219

"135?: ..



?33.







-

th'fn 1 

{am}



 

 



- El:

mgi"

l-

. :l I. 

 

I --.-. .r ugh?IL 



354;." 

STAFF SITE VISIT 08/02/0219

 

 

. Ii.-

-- Ir 

I' 

Rims. mar 

PPLIC

 

APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 REPORT

 REPORT

EXPOSED AGGREGATE SAMPLE

 REPORT

EXPOSED AGGREGATE SAMPLE

 REPORT

EXPOSED AGGREGATE SAMPLE

 REPORT

June 14, 2019

Andrew Stein
19331 Canterbury Rd.
Detroit, MI 48221

Dear Mr. Stein,
The Sherwood Forest Board of Directors has approved your application to build an
exposed concrete aggregate patio in the same location of your existing patio.
Please contact the Historic District Commission staff at (313) 224-1762 and/or
hdc@detroitmi.gov to discuss next steps regarding securing a certificate of
appropriateness, if applicable, and any necessary permits.
Also, keep in mind that any future renovations and/or exterior improvements, such
as gutter/roof replacement and window replacement require Sherwood Forest
Association approval. Please do not hesitate to contact us should you have
questions/concerns.
Kind regards,

Phillip Caldwell, II, PhD.
President, Board of Directors
Sherwood Forest Association

 