STAFF REPORT 08-14-2019 REGULAR MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6369
VIOLATION NUMBER: 19-308
ADDRESS: 220 W CONGRESS STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT: DETROIT FINANCIAL DISTRICT
APPLICANT: DORIAN MOORE
STAFF SITE VISIT: 08-02-2019

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

PROPOSAL
The building located at 220 W Congress Street is a 5-story commercial structure originally constructed as a glove
factory in the early 1900s. According to the Sanborn Maps, the building is constructed with steel columns and
enclosed with brick and block. There have been multiple interior and exterior renovations to the building. As it exists
today, the south façade (front) of the building is clad in metal panels with dark-tinted fixed ribbon windows. At the
east and west edges of the façade exists a painted panelized cladding system with a stucco-like finish. This finish
wraps the corner of the building and extends on a little less than half of the west façade (alley side). The remaining
portion of the west façade, the north façade (rear), and the rear portion of the east facade is comprised of painted
brick. The front portion of the east façade abuts the adjacent building and is not visible. As it currently exists, the
first floor store front is pushed beneath the façade of the upper floors. The structural columns continuing from the
upper floors down to grade creating a covered entrance at the street level. The existing alley located directly to the
west of the building is sloped to mitigate the grade change between Congress Street and the rear alley.

 With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to perform a general
rehabilitation of the building per the attached drawings. Included in the proposal are the following exterior
scope items:
• South Façade (Congress Street)
o

o
o
o
o
o
o

Replace all existing windows with new fixed aluminum windows, storefront, and doors with frames in the
color of “Champagne Gold”
Modify existing first floor storefront footprint
Repair existing metal panel cladding as needed above first floor storefront
Replace existing metal panel cladding at first floor exterior columns
Paint existing metal panel cladding (Color: Sherwin Williams SW 9171 “Felton Wool”)
Paint existing stucco-like material at east and west ends of façade (Color: Sherwin Williams SW 7020 “Black
Fox”)
Install new coping at top of parapet (Color to match storefront/windows)

•

West Façade (Side Alley)

•

North Façade (Rear Alley)

•

East Façade (Adjacent to existing building – Rear portion of façade is visible)

•

Roof

•

Site Work

o

Replace all existing windows with new fixed aluminum windows with frames in the color of “Dark Bronze”
Add (3) new masonry openings at first floor for storefront (Size varies)
Add (2) new masonry openings at first floor for person doors (Size: 3’- 4” W x ~12’ H)
Add (1) new masonry opening (Size: 6” x 6”) at second floor for air intake
Remove existing exhaust hood at the second floor
Repoint existing masonry in multiple locations
Repair existing stucco-like material at front half of elevation
Paint existing stucco-like material at front half of elevation (Color: Sherwin Williams SW 7020 “Black Fox”)
Power wash existing painted brick at the rear half of elevation and leave unpainted
Add (1) new exterior pre-fabricated metal stair at rear of elevation, allowing access to higher elevation of rear
alley
Add (7) new exterior lights (specification unknown) along elevation at ~16’ above grade

o
o
o
o

Replace all existing windows with new fixed aluminum windows with frames in the color of “Dark Bronze”
Add (1) new masonry opening (Size: 6” x 6”) at third floor for air intake
Repoint existing masonry in multiple locations
Paint existing brick (Color: Sherwin Williams SW 6334 “Flower Pot”)

o
o
o

Replace all existing windows with new fixed aluminum windows with frames in the color of “Dark Bronze”
Repoint existing masonry in multiple locations
Paint existing brick (Color: Sherwin Williams SW 6334 “Flower Pot”)

o
o
o
o

Replace existing roofing material with new EPDM roof on tapered insulation
Install (6) new condenser units (Size: 4’- 4”L x 3’ – 4”W x 3’- 8” H) at a center bay of roof
Modify existing shaft penetrations
Add new mechanical shaft penetration at east edge of roof directly adjacent and to the rear of existing
mechanical shaft

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

o
o

o

South
 Replace existing sidewalk in front of building
 Install stamped concrete (color not specified) at building entrance
West
 Remove existing sloped concrete driveway/alley to create a level surface aligned with the grade at
Congress Street
 Pour new scored concrete pad at alley
 Install areas of stamped concrete within the concrete alley pad (color not specified) to match that at
building entrance
 Erect new concrete retaining wall at rear of building to mitigate grade change between front of building
at Congress Street and the rear alley
 Install new concrete stair with metal rail at west edge of alley to mitigate elevation change between alley
and grade at the adjacent parcel
North/West Corner
 Erect new trash compactor enclosure

 STAFF OBSERVATIONS
• When completing the routine site visit in preparation for the staff report, staff observed active exterior work
including the removal and replacement of the existing windows at the south and west facades. Staff informed
the applicant of the observation and requested a written statement as to why the work was started without a
COA (see letter attached). The letter states that the applicant was issued a building permit last year which
included this work. The Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) confirmed
that a building permit was issued for exterior alterations in the fall of 2018 without the project being
forwarded to the HDC staff. The observed window replacement was included in the scope of work covered
by the permit.
• In staff’s opinion, the existing recessed storefronts at the first floor are indicative of the mid-century design
element known as a “piloti,” or the replacement of exterior supporting walls with a grid of columns, opening
the floor plan up and creating a sense that the building is hovering above the ground—a new aesthetic for the
era. The proposed extension of the storefronts to the front façade of the building mass would remove this
design element. The modularity and material of the cladding of the south façade (Congress Street) and west
façade (alley side) are also considered to be examples of the mid-century design aesthetic. If the existing
metal panels at the south façade (Congress Street) are porcelain enameled, painting them as proposed will
potentially alter both the color and level of “sheen” at that façade.
• It is unknown as to whether or not the west façade (side alley) of the building was originally painted. Staff is
concerned about the proposal to leave the brick at the west façade unpainted following the proposed power
washing of the existing paint. If the building was originally painted, it should remain painted. If the building
was originally unpainted, it may be able to return to its unpainted finish depending on the condition of the
original brick surface. If the face surface of the brick is damaged and the interior material of the brick
exposed, the brick is vulnerable to moisture penetration and deterioration. If the face surface of the brick is
intact and solid and the applicant is choosing to remove the existing paint, the paint should be removed using
the gentlest means possible to prevent the compromise of the weather-proof surface of the brick. (See
attached National Park Services Preservation Briefs and excerpts from the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards Illustrated Recommendations for Rehabilitation)
ELEMENTS OF DESIGN

(1) Height. The thirty-six (36) buildings in the district range in height from two (2) to forty-seven (47) stories tall; the average
being twelve (12) stories tall. The row of four (4) to five (5) story Victorian buildings on the east side of Woodward Avenue
is sandwiched between single, taller buildings on each of its two (2) corners. The prominent skyline-defining buildings on
Griswold Street range in height from eighteen (18) to forty-seven (47) stories tall; buildings in the blocks between Shelby
Street and Washington Boulevard are ten (10) or fewer stories, with the exception of the Detroit Bank and Trust Tower at
211 West Fort Street, which is twenty-eight (28) stories. In general, there is little uniformity of building heights within the
district.
(2) Proportion of building's front façade. The proportions of individual front façades vary greatly within the district. Buildings
over ten (10) stories tall are significantly taller than wide, and are usually located on corners of blocks or occupy their entire
block. Most other buildings in the district are also taller than wide, with notable exceptions of several buildings facing Fort
Street, the Detroit Fire Department Headquarters at 250 East Larned Avenue, and a few smaller buildings on Shelby Street,
which are wider than tall or proportionally neutral. The non-contributing building at 501 Woodward Avenue and the
building at 611 Woodward Avenue are significantly wider than tall. Buildings with front-facing light courts, such as the
Dime Building at 719 Griswold Street, appear to have two tall tower projecting upward from a single, multi-story base. The
façades of the neoclassical style First National Building at 660 Woodward Avenue follow the irregular footprint of its site,
and because of its substantial height, provide a backdrop to the small-scaled buildings adjacent to it on Woodward Avenue.
Skyscraper buildings of the Art Deco style have multiple setbacks in their wall surfaces as the buildings rise, with faceted
and decorative results. The Detroit Free Press Building at 321 West Lafayette Boulevard is composed of a center tower with
two lower wings, neutralizing its proportions. Tall buildings of the International style tend to rise as a single slab. Where
buildings that are individually taller than wide either share a party wall or abut each other, they may collectively form a row
that is wider than tall, particularly on the east side of Woodward Avenue.
(3) Proportion of openings within the façades. The buildings within the Historic Detroit Financial District are each composed
of approximately thirty-five (35) percent o sixty (60) percent openings in their front façades. Shapes and sizes of openings
generally depend on the style and age of the buildings. Entrances are often centered prominently on the front façades, with
revolving doors set back in an arched, covered area of portico. Large openings above the entrance openings, ground floors,

 and mezzanine levels in the base of the buildings frequently contain subdivided windows rising up through multiple stories.
Plate glass storefront and display windows on the ground floors of commercial buildings are commonplace. Above the
ornate bases of Neoclassical and Art Deco buildings and simpler Victorian buildings are rows of doublehung sash windows
that are twice as tall as wide and are often arranged in pairs or triples, sometimes divided vertically by spandrels. Subdivided
glazing is often situated within large, ornate arched, square or rectangular openings in the attic stories. Replacement
windows that are fitted to existing openings are common in the district. Some International style buildings with curtain wall
construction feature undivided faces of fixed pane glass, or individualized treatments, such as hexagonal shaped window
glass in precast concrete frames of One Woodward Avenue.
(4) Rhythm of solids to voids in the front façades. Most buildings in the district are of steel-frame construction, which creates a
structure for which windows are inserted in a regular arrangement of columns and rows between the base floor and the attic.
The regular rhythm of windows arranged one over the other in a grid pattern prevails throughout the district. The base and
attic stories of buildings are varied in architectural treatment, but may feature regular rhythms of arched, square or
rectangular openings on first and attic stories. The Detroit Fire Department Headquarters at 250 West Larned Street features
double firehouse doors within arcaded openings on its Washington Boulevard and West Larned Street Façades. The
International style building at 611 Woodward Avenue features a checkerboard pattern of window placement, while the
Federal Reserve Bank Annex at 160 West Fort Street features alternating horizontal bands of glass and marble panels
supported by a stainless steel grid above its all-glass tall first story. In general, the district displays a variety of regularly
arranged fenestration patterns.
(5) Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. Rhythm of spacing on streets is generally determined by setbacks from the side
lot lines. Buildings consistently abut each other throughout the district; public rights-of-ways separates stretches of adjacent
buildings when they occupy partial or entire blocks. Where there are parking lots as a result of building demolition, the
original rhythm is broken.
(6) Rhythm of entrances and/or porch projections. Most primary entrances are prominently centered on their front façades,
especially on the classically derived buildings, and are commonly recessed within single or multiple ornamental openings.
Some buildings have colonnades or monumental porticos, with their entrances set behind. international style buildings often
have entire base stories recessed behind a colonnade of piers. The Guardian Building at 500 Griswold Street has its main
entrance at its northwest corner, and Victorian commercial buildings along Woodward tend to have entrances to the sides of
storefronts. Some corner buildings have corner entrances. Most entrances are at grade, with the exceptions of the buildings
at 611 Woodward Avenue and the west elevation of 211 West Fort Street, which each feature a set of steps that rise with the
slope of their sites, and United States District Count at 231 West Lafayette Boulevard, which sits on a high basement and
has steps leading to its main entrance.
(7) Relationship of materials. A great variety of building materials exist throughout the district, with concentrations of finished,
pressed or glazed brick, limestone, Mankato stone, terra cotta, marble; cast and porcelain enamel and glass facing primary
façades. Base stories are commonly faced or partially faced in granite,. Materials utilized for window surrounds and frames
are cast concrete, steel, aluminum, bronze and wood. Architectural embellishments tend to be in cast and carved stone,
glazed terra cotta, Pewabic tile, and red sandstone. Common brick appears on side elevations that were not intended to be
visible. Bronze grills, metal fire escapes, and aluminum and steel framing elements are also visible. In general, the district is
rich in its varieties and relationships of materials.
(8) Relationship of textures. The smooth surfaces of glazed or painted brick, glazed terra cotta, polished marble, polished
granite, and large expanses of glass contrast with the matte finishes of limestone and unpainted brick with mortar joints.
Where the basis of buildings are rusticated, they contrast with the smoother wall surfaces above. Repetitive pilasters and
ornamental detail in masonry, terra cotta or metal, primarily on belt courses and cornices, and the fluting of columns,
contribute significantly to textural interest. Subdivided window sashes and treatments also contribute to textural interest, as
do receding windows and wall planes, resulting in textural effects created by light and shade. Where those International style
buildings have glass basis, a smooth, transparent textural effect results. In general, the district is extremely rich in textural
relationships.
(9) Relationship of colors. Major materials or light colors, such as beige, white, and cream, dominate the district. The natural
brick colors of red, orange, and buff are also contrasted with beige or light gray trim elements and details. Painted brick,
where it exists on the east side of Woodward Avenue, is in dark red and cream. Granite bases, where they exist, are black,
red or gray. Window surrounds and sashes are shades of green, black, cream or white. Window and curtain wall glass is
either colorless or tinted in shades of light green, black or gray. Stainless steel and aluminum are silver in tone; grills and
grates are green or black. The Guardian Building at 501 Griswold Street is a historic landmark featuring orange brick and
colored tile light poles tend to be deep green, black or gray. Fire escapes, where they exist, are generally painted black. The
original colors of any building;, as determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for that building and may
provide guidance for similar buildings.
(10) Relationship of architectural details. The styles of the buildings compromising the Historic Detroit Financial District range
from Victorian commercial to International style; their architectural elements and details relate to their styles. Entrance bays,
architraves, base stories, window frames, spandrels and cornices or attics are areas of the façades where architectural detail

 is concentrated. The small scale Victorian commercial buildings, concentrated on the east side of Woodward, have modified
storefronts on their first floors and have lost their cornices and window hoods, greatly simplifying their original appearance.
Approximately half of the buildings in the district are derived from classical styles, with an abundance of Neoclassical style
buildings, a style well suited to judicial and financial institutions. Those classically inspired buildings are articulated as a
base (bottom), shaft (midsection) and attic (top). The base, often multi-storied, is heavily ornamented around the main
entrance with columns, arches, and architectural sculpture. Several buildings have rusticated stone bases, and some display
colossal porticos. The shafts contain regular fenestration with ornamented spandrels, and their attics, including their
cornices, are heavily ornamented. Art Deco commercial buildings are concentrated on Griswold Street, and in addition to
their embellished entrances, feature setbacks at upper floor levels that are embellished, resulting in dramatic silhouettes that
are part of their design. These Art Deco buildings also exhibit decorative tile work, mosaics, and large-scale architectural
sculpture. International style buildings of the 1950s and early 1960s are concentrated on the east side of Woodward Avenue
through to Griswold Street, and intermingled with classically inspired buildings on West Fort Street. They feature
transparent first stories of glass that are visible to the interior, and are set in back of piers supporting the upper stories.
Flagpole basis, lighting, and street names integrated with the larger buildings are treated decoratively. In general, the
architectural detail on buildings in the district is very rich.
(11) Relationship of roof shapes. All of the buildings have flat roofs that cannot be seen from the ground. Utility penthouses
and/or equipment enclosures are sometimes visible above the roofline, and are sometimes ornamentally treated.
(12) Walls of continuity. Walls of continuity within the district are primarily created by the adjacent buildings with uniform
elements, such as setbacks, materials, and styles. Except where broken by vacant lots, the district has a very high degree of
continuity. Secondary wall of continuity are created by evenly spaced lighting fixtures, sidewalks and rows of trees along the
sidewalks.
(13) Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. Throughout the district, sidewalks are concrete and
roadbeds are asphalt, with the primary exception of brick-paved areas around Campus Martius at the northeast corner of the
district. Street furniture is abundant throughout the district; planter boxes for trees are positioned along the public sidewalk
on the west side of Woodward Avenue and the north side of West Fort Street, and in-ground trees line the east side of
Griswold Street within stylized metal grates reflecting the geometric designs of the Guardian Building at 500 Griswold
Street. Wall-mounted lighting fixtures are often integrated with the designs of the buildings and are situated at the tops of
first story pilasters to illuminate the pedestrian way. Also sometimes integrated with the taller buildings is lighting at the
upper extremities that identify the buildings from afar, such as the flashing red globe of the Penobscot Building at 645
Griswold Street, the reproduction street lighting along Woodward Avenue consists of a tall steel ornamental, fluted pole
carrying a double pendent and lanterns. On Griswold Street, the lighting consists of old metal fluted poles with more recent
lanterns. Old ornamental poles exist along Washington Boulevard south of Michigan Avenue; the modern steel pole
mounted variety is seen elsewhere. Some buildings have modern spotlights attached to light posts directed at their façade.
Slender black, metal kiosks with directional information and a map are strategically placed at some prominent corners.
Surface parking lots are few and provide intrusions to the otherwise dense concentration of buildings where they exist.
Concrete columns supporting the Detroit People Mover are situated in the public rights-of-way on West Larned Street as
well as Cass Avenue. A bronze sculpture is positioned at the plaza in front of 1 Woodward Avenue; another is positioned at
the extreme southeast boundary of the district at Woodward Avenue and Jefferson Avenue; another is positioned in the
space between 211 and 201 West Fort Street. A plaza with raised planting beds exists in front of the Annex of the Federal
Reserve Bank at 160 West Fort Street. The curbed, landscaped median on Woodward Avenue identifies the roadway as
Detroit's major thoroughfare.
(14) Relationship of open space to structures. In general, the financial district is densely built-up; open space results from
interruptions by public streets and alleys, and by a few intrusive surface parking lots. Awnings and canopies commonly
extend into the public rights of way throughout the district. Signage bearing the name of the businesses of the Victorian
buildings on the east side of Woodward Avenue is situated in a frieze above the first story. Elsewhere in the district the
historic name of the building is commonly integrated with its original design while the names of current occupants are
displayed on vertically oriented signs hanging at the corners of the buildings above the first story. The building at 611
Woodward Avenue bears its name of the roof penthouse screen. Skywalks connect buildings when their ownership is or was
related, connecting One Woodward Avenue with 500 Woodward Avenue, commonly known as the Guardian Building; 151
West Fort Street, commonly known as the State Savings Bank Building, with 607 West Shelby Street; and 201 West Fort
Street with 211 West Fort Street. Wheelchair ramps provide access to an entrance on the Larned Street elevation of the
Detroit Fire Department Headquarters at 250 West Larned Street and to an entrance on the Lafayette Boulevard elevation of
the Federal Courthouse at 231 West Lafayette Boulevard.
(15) Scale of façades and façade elements. The façades range from small in scale to monumental. Small-and-medium scaled
buildings that contribute to the continuous streetscapes contrast with the large scale of skyscrapers that define Detroit's
skyline. Elements and details are often monumental, such as porticos, colonnades, architectural sculpture, and large
openings, and are meant to provide a grand presence when seen from upfront and afar.
(16) Directional expression of front elevation. The directional expression of individual front façades varies throughout the

 district, but generally, the expression of buildings on Woodward Avenue tends to be horizontal, with the exception of One
Woodward Avenue and the First National Bank Building at 660 Woodward Avenue, which are vertical. On Griswold Street,
where several prominent Art Deco skyscrapers exist, the overall directional expression is vertical. However, where buildings
share party walls or one another, or are separated by narrow alleyways, the horizontal, or pedestrian, nature of the
streetscapes is emphasized.
(17) Rhythm of Building Setbacks. Most buildings occupy their entire building parcels, resulting in uniformity of building
setbacks. On the west side of Woodward Avenue, the building are set back, allowing for a generous public sidewalk with
amenities. The Detroit Fire Department Headquarters at 250 West Larned Street is set back slightly on its two visible
elevation to allow the fire trucks space to exit. Wherever a newer building is connected to an older building, particularly on
West Fort Street, the newer International style buildings are set back and landscaped plazas are created.
(18) Relationship of lot coverages. Lot coverage by the buildings in the district is generally one hundred (100) percent), as the
vast majority of buildings occupy their entire lots. In the cases where a public outdoor amenity exists, its features are
integrated with the design of the building.
(19) Degree of complexity within the facades. The district contains façades with various degrees of complexity, depending on
style. The Victorian commercial and Neoclassical buildings are straightforward in their massing, fenestration, and
architectural detail. The Art Deco skyscrapers appear more complex in their details and ornamentation, but especially in
their massing as the setbacks of the upper stories display different massing and heightened detail. Modern buildings may
appear straightforward in their design but are complex in their geometric forms, use of materials, and subtle detail.
(20) Orientation, vistas, overviews. The Historic Detroit Financial District is a densely built up district of commercial and
governmental buildings in Detroit's Central Business District on lower Woodward Avenue and west of Woodward Avenue.
Its proximity to Detroit's Civic Center, the Detroit River, the Washington Boulevard and Capitol Park Historic Districts,
Cadillac Square, and Campus Martius provide dramatic views and vistas. Detroit's skyline is composed of the silhouettes of
the tallest buildings in the district, while West Congress Street provides a cavernous quality to a relatively narrow street.
(21) Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. While individual buildings display a high degree of symmetry in their major
façades, the district on the whole is diverse in its array of quality building designs.
(22) General environmental character. The Historic Detroit Financial District consists of a dense cluster of major, architectdesigned commercial buildings in an eight-block, grid-plan section of downtown Detroit just north of Hart Plaza and the
Detroit River. Its historical importance is emphasized by its number of iconic buildings that make up Detroit's skyline, and
its smaller buildings that result in a walkable downtown. The Detroit Department of Transportation-operated bus system and
the People Mover provide transportation in and around the district providing ease of access to major sporting events,
conventions, and restaurants, in addition to the historic buildings that are destination in and of themselves.

RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion that all work – other than the proposed power-washing of the brick and leaving the brick exposed
at the west façade – as proposed, does not destroy historic materials that characterize the historic building, its site, and
setting. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission find the general rehabilitation of the building as proposed to
be appropriate as the scope of work meets the following Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation:
• 9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its
environment.
Given the uncertainty as to whether the brick at the west façade was painted or unpainted originally, staff is
withholding a recommendation for the treatment of the wall.

  
1.33. 1 . 

ub??SEUIldIn
,3 a

Brick Elln D??tr H:



{if t. bleTreeSuL?a

Hotel Dg-trmt? - 

?Pne rui Pagspm ?can. \33,

I . - jg l?H! L. ?agar-l

r? .riawne Plaza gar. g,
1?fth: Hi?ife. 3,1

-- . a Landingo ?i?lm
- . -. Hi?torical Magi;
UMW?Fnrd'hlatinnf .. Ell-? ?5

Imagery @2019- Gangle. Map data @2019 Gangla- United State-a Terma- Send feedback 

 

   
   
   
    
 

 

I Buhl Building

Caucus Club Detrgit 



 

Lundun El?n Huuse

 

 

 

 

  

.- :?Iu
- Maxim] Mana?ug?ngnt .3. 

Send feeduaufc 50 

   

Imagery @2919 Bangle. Map data @2019 Gangla- Lln'rted Stat-ea Terms

STAFF SITE VISIT 08/02/2019

 STAFF SITE VISIT 08/02/2019

 STAFF SITE VISIT 08/02/2019

 STAFF SITE VISIT 08/02/2019

 STAFF SITE VISIT 08/02/2019

 Archive DS 615 Griswold St., suite 1710, Detroit, MI. 48226

Ann Phillips, AIA, NCARB, SEED
Architect
Historic Preservation
Planning & Development Department
City of Detroit
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808
Detroit, MI 48226
phillipsann@detroitmi.gov
313-628-0094

Anne,
Regarding your question in the current work being done on the 220 Congress building;
the project was granted a building permit last year and that is the permit that it is being
developed under. There were changes made to the mechanical systems and alley
layout, mostly, that prompted us to submit the revisions to the building department.
I hope this clarifies things.
Feel free to contact me with any questions.
Thanks,

Dorian
Dorian A. Moore
Vice President
Archive DS

 220 Congress Remodeling Project Narrative
Owner: Basco
607 Shelby St., suite 400
Detroit, MI 48226
Architect: Archive DS
615 Griswold St., suite 1710
Detroit, MI 48226
Project Description:
The adaptive reuse of one (1) five (5) story existing building, located at 220 Congress St., detroit, Michigan, into first floor "white box" commercial space, "white box" office space on second through fifth
floors. First floor commercial spaces to have access to a side alley redevelopment.
Exterior work will include, generally: Painting of existing south-facing metal panel facade, replacement
of damaged metal panels at ground floor level, Tuckpointing and repair of masonry on the west, north,
and east facades. The existing paint on the brick portion of the west facade will be power washed to
achieve a weathered appearance. The work also includes replacement of existing windows on all elevations. The windows are being replaced to install more current, energy efficient windows with a similar
profile to the existing windows.
The redevelopment of the existing alley into a public space is included as part of the work. Because the
alley will be redeveloped as a public space, the owner has proposed new window and door openings along
the west facade at the first floor level.
Detailed Scope of Work:
• Paint existing south (main) facade
• New windows and storefront at existing south facade
• Expansion of storefront space to enclose existing setback area on south facade
• Paint existing synthetic stucco portion of west facade
• Powerwash off paint from brick at west facade to achieve a weathered appearance
• New windows and storefront at existing west facade for access to alley
• New windows at existing north and east facades
• New paint color at existing north and east facades

 REPORT

Existing brick- painted

Existing Metal Panel

SOUTH ELEVATION

BASCO

PARTIAL EAST ELEVATION

220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI

NORTH ELEVATION

220 W.Congress Remodeling

Existing brick- painted

© 2019 ARCHIVE D.S.
EXISTING EXTERIOR
Issued For:

Existing brick- painted

HDC REQUEST

07.17.19

HDC ADD'L INFO

07.31.19

Existing synthetic
stucco- painted

Checked: DM
Approved: DM

Location of new window
and door

Location of new window
and door

DETAIL @ SUBWAY ENTRANCE

615 GRISWOLD St., ste. 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

Location of new window

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

WEST ELEVATION-WEST ELEVATIONNORTH
SOUTH
PORTION
PORTION

SHEET NUMBER:

H-100

 REPORT

EXISTSTING BUILDING ELEVATIONS

 REPORT

EXISTUING STOREFRONT ELEVATION

 2

1

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

F

E

Tuckpoint Existing
Masonry- Typ.

D

C

B

A

Break metal copingMatch color to storefront color

Parapet

Parapet

13'-11"

PNT-01
New window
System

PNT-02

PNT-02

PNT-02

11'-9"

Fifth Floor

Fifth Floor

Repair and Paint
Exterior PlasterField measure for
quantity.

11'-9"

Fourth Floor

Fourth Floor

New windows Typ.- Kawneer
601 system or equal. (Note:
Repair existing exterior
synthetic stucco after
removal of existg window
exterior metal flanges)
Third Floor

Third Floor
Paint existing
exterior metal panels

12'-7 1/2"

FIXED, NON-OPERABLE
WINDOWS
6 X6
AIR INTAKE

Second Floor

Provide sprinkler head

25'-0"

Repair holes in metal
panel- Alt: replace
existg panels

Exterior lighting (Typ)
-see electrical

New metal panel

Storefront system

2'-5"

Poured conc.
retaining wall

Issued For:

Second Floor
Paint existing
exterior plaster

Line of 1st fl
ceiling

13'-3"

Pre-fab
Metal stair

Door w/
transom above

Provide sprinkler head

8'-0"

Storefront op'g8'-0" wide
Window

Exterior Elevations

1
A-403

PROVIDE FIRE/SMOKE
DAMPER AT ALL FLOOR LEVEL
PENETRATION OF AIR INTAKE

Provide sprinkler head

© 2018 ARCHIVE D.S.

15'-3"

Trash
enclosure
post

220 W. Congress Remodeling
220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI
BASCO

REPORT

Ground Floor
Remove existing
exhaust hood

1
A-811

Ground Floor

Storefront systemMatch profile/
height of
south elevation
storefront. Align
edge with window
above.

Grade

Interim Des. Dev. 091417
Des. Dev.

101917

Review

050818

BIDS

062518

PERMITS

08.17.18

REVISION

10.05.18

REVISION

12.07.18

COORDINATION

01.30.19

BULLETIN #2
CL of entry doors and
windows above

West Elevation

South Elevation

1/8" = 1'-0"

1/8" = 1'-0"

COORDINATION

03.01.19
03.15.19

REVISION #1

05.02.19

REVISION #2

06.12.19

Permit revision

07.11.19

HDC Request

07.17.19

Drawn: KC
Checked: DM

CURRENT SCOPE

Approved:DM
Project
Number:

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

A-301

 220 W. Congress Remodeling
220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI
BASCO

REPORT

Open
Parapet

Parapet

New Window
-fixed

Fifth Floor

Fifth Floor
PNT-05

Fourth Floor

Fourth Floor

PNT-05

Third Floor

Third Floor

6X6
AIR
INTAKE

FIXED WINDOWSNONOPERABLE

© 2018 ARCHIVE D.S.

25'-0"

PROVIDE FIRE/SMOKE
DAMPER AT ALL FLOOR LEVEL
PENETRATION OF AIR INTAKE

Exterior Elevations
Issued For:

Second Floor

Second Floor

Interim Des. Dev. 091417
Des. Dev.

101917

Review

05.08.18

PERMIT COMMENTS 10.05.18
BULLETIN 1 12.28.18
COORDINATION 01.30.19
COORDINATION 03.07.19

Ground Floor

Ground Floor

REVISION 2 06.12.19
HDC Request

East Elevation

0

4'

8'

16'

1/8" = 1'-0"

North Elevation

0

4'

8'

07.17.19

16'

1/8" = 1'-0"

Checked:

Approved:
Project
Number:

CURRENT SCOPE

Date:

8 May 2017

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

A-302

 REPORT
PAINT SCHEDULE

BASCO

PNT-05: PAINT-EXTERIOR BRICK WALLS
NORTH AND EAST ELEVATION
SHERWIN WILLIAMS
SW 6334 "FLOWER POT"

220 W. congress, Detroit, MI.

PNT-02: PAINT-EXTERIOR STUCCO
SOUTH AND WEST ELEVATION
SHERWIN WILLIAMS
SW 7020 "BLACK FOX"

220 W.Congress Remodeling

PNT-01: PAINT-EXTERIOR MET. WALLS
SOUTH ELEVATION
SHERWIN WILLIAMS
SW 9171 "FELTON WOOL"

© 2019 ARCHIVE D.S.

BLDG SECTION
Issued For:

Products

07.17.19

SOUTH ELEVATION WINDOW AND STOREFRONT FRAMES

Checked:

WEST, EAST, AND NORTH ELEVATION WINDOW
AND STOREFRONT FRAMES

Approved:
Project
Number:

STOREFRONT AND WINDOW SYSTEM DETAIL VIEW

Date:

SCALE: NTS

615 GRISWOLD . STE. 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

H-101

 REPORT

The Series 3000 Thermal Multiplane extends the versatility
of standard storefront systems by offering improved thermal
performance and multiple glass plane options. The Series
3000 Thermal Multiplane provides more options for head and
sill anchorage, structural silicone glazing and a front set
installation option utilizing continuous head and sill members.
Designed for 1" infill, the Series 3000 Thermal Multiplane
has available glazing adapters and gasket options for infills
ranging from 1/4" to 1-1/8".

Features
n

n

 
n

 
n

n

 
n

 

Front Set, Center Set, Back Set or Multi Set
glazing configurations
Optional sill receptor requires no additional
anchoring of sill member
Optional thermally broken head anchor clip
SSG glazing with patented funnel bridge
option for Front Set
Continuous head and sill assembly option for
Front Set

n

Screw spline and shear block assembly

n

Outside and inside glazing options Complete

n

90° and 135° corners

n

High sidelite base

n

 
n

n

 
First Community Credit Union, St. Louis, MO
Architect: TR,i Architects

Overall system dimensions: 2" x 4-1/2"

n

Thermally broken members with polyurethane
thermal breaks
Accommodates projected and casement vents
Factory painted Kynar 500®/Hylar 5000®
finishes, meeting all provisions of AAMA 2605
Factory anodized finishing

SERIES 3000 THERMAL MULTIPLANE

Series 3000 Thermal Multiplane—
  the versatility of standard storefront systems
with improved thermal performance

 REPORT
SERIES 3000 THERMAL MULTIPLANE

Product Details

Front Set

Front Set SSG

Center Set

Back Set

Multi Set

Performance
n 

Air Infiltration: <.06 CFM/SQ FT @ 6.24 PSF per ASTM E283

n 

Static Water: 10 PSF per ASTM E331

n 

Deflection Load: 40 PSF per ASTM E330

n 

Structural Load: 60 PSF per ASTM E330

n 

STC per ASTM E90:
32 with clear glass (Center and Front Set)
37 with laminated glass (Center Set)
38 with laminated glass (Front Set)

n 

OITC per ASTM E90:
26 with clear glass (Center and Front Set)
30 with laminated glass (Center and Front Set)

n 

Thermal Performance per AAMA 1503
for Low-E 1" insulating glass:
U-factor = 0.33, CRF = 68 Captured (Front Set)
U-factor = 0.31, CRF = 72 Captured (Front Set SSG)
U-factor = 0.32, CRF = 63 Captured (Center Set)

n 

NFRC Certified and Thermal Performance
Characteristics per AAMA 507

5005 LBJ Freeway, Suite 1050 Dallas, TX 75244
1-866-OLDCASTLE (653-2278) obe.com
n

n

 REPORT

Oldcastle BuildingEnvelope™ offers standard, narrow, medium
and wide stile entrances to meet a broad range of traffic
requirements. All standard Oldcastle BuildingEnvelope™ entrances
(3' wide) are ADA compliant and have built-in features.

Specifications

Oldcastle BuildingEnvelope™ entrances are durable and virtually maintenance free. We also offer a complete line
of custom, specialty and all-glass entrances.

Mechanically
Fastened
Shear Block

Series 212 – Narrow Stile

Series 375 – Medium Stile

Heavy Duty
Backup Plate

Welded
Corner Connection
Series 500 – Wide Stile

Features

AT&T Park, San Francisco, CA
Architect: Populous (formerly HOK Sport)

■

Maximum security hook bolt locks

■

1" diameter push/pulls

■

Adjustable astragal with dual weathering on
pairs of doors

■

Mechanically fastened shear blocks and welded
corner construction

■

Adaptable to virtually all hardware

■

4" to 10" one piece bottom rail options

■

Glass stops with bulb gaskets

■

1/4", 3/8", 5/8" and 1" glazing options

■

Adaptable to meet local building codes

■

Limited lifetime warranty

standard entrances

Oldcastle BuildingEnvelope™—
a market leader in Standard Entrances

 REPORT

standard entrances

Hardware

Oldcastle BuildingEnvelope™ employs only the finest entrance door hardware available. For more information,
call 866-OLDCASTLE (653-2278) or visit oldcastlebe.com.

PB-21 Push Bar

Concealed Rod Panic Device
Rim Panic Device

LCN 2030 Overhead Concealed
Closer with Offset Arm Assembly
Norton 1604
Overhead
Surface
Closer

Standard Overhead
Concealed Closer
PH-21
Offset
Panic Pull

CY-3
Thumb
Turn and
CY-1 Cylinder
Adams-Rite 1850
MS Hookbolt Lock
and FP-1 Face Plate
BH-1 Butt
Hinge

OP-11
Intermediate
Pivot

OP-9
& 10
Offset
Pivots

PH-20
Standard Pull
Handle

OP-6
&7
Offset
Pivots

2425 Olympic Boulevard, Suite 525-East Santa Monica, CA 90404
1-866-OLDCASTLE (653-2278) oldcastlebe.com
■

■

 REPORT
New Products

New Projects

Home (/) / Products (/products) / Architectural Windows (/products/architectural-windows) / Hung Fixed (/products/architectural-windows/hung-fixed)

1200 Fixed
CAD Details

Specifications

Literature

The 1200-F Fixed window utilizes 9/16” crimped in place rigid PVC thermal break technology allowing for high
thermal requirements and dual color and finish combinations.

Product Features
Frame: 4” depth (available in 5-1/8”, 6” and Arctic system only, 7" ).
Interior-glazed vision area for economical installation. Side-stacking system installs easily, even if pre-glazed.

Click for larger image

Spandrel areas can be exterior-glazed to accommodate back spandrel pans and rain-screen.
(https://obe.com/sites/default/files/products/images/hi-

Design can incorporate shadow box and louver conditions.

res/signature_series-

Accepts 1” (25.4 mm) thick IGU.
Rain screen design using exterior Polyshim butyl tape, with a silicone healbead, interior aluminum stops and top-

3.25%402x.png)

load EPDM gasket.
This product is supported for the Canadian market only.

Product Performance
Deflection Load: +/-65 PSF per ASTM E330
Structural Load +/- 97.5 PSF per ASTM E33
CSA Rating = B7, C5, I151

CAD Details

Click to expand [+] / collapse [–]. Click link on right to download file.

(PDF) (ZIP)
1200_fixed_cad.pdf
1200_fixed_dwg.zip
(https://obe.com/sites/default/files/resources/1200_fixed_cad.pdf)
(https://obe.com/sites/default/files/resources/1200_fixed_dwg.zip)

1200 Fixed

Specifications
(DOC)
1200_fixed_spec.doc
(https://obe.com/sites/default/files/resources/1200_fixed_spec.doc)

1200 Fixed Specifications

Literature
1200 Fixed Product Data

(PDF)

(https://obe.com/sites/default/files/resources/1200_fixed_pd.pdf)

Project Gallery

(/project/13/524)

> Contact Us (/contact-obe)

(/project/13/592)

(/project/13/534)

> Locations (/content/contact-us)

(/project/13/593)

(/project/13/1844)

> Privacy Policy (/privacy-policy)

> CRH Compliance & Ethics (/crh_compliance_and_ethics)

> Site

Map (/sitemap)

Search

Follow
us on: (https://twitter.com/oldcastlebe)

(https://www.linkedin.com/company/oldcastlebuildingenvelope)

(https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNMoFKt6MDo6ZmVy6HkDseQ) (https://www.instagram.com/oldcastle.be/) (https://www

Resources

Oldcastle BuildingEnvelope®

Products

Only one company can provide fully integrated

New Products (/products/new-

Storefronts

Testimonial Case Studies

building envelopes. If a building envelope is

products)

(/products/storefronts)

(/testimonials)

supposed to end up as one unified system—why

Thermal (/products/thermal)

Entrances

Project Gallery (/project-

Blast Mitigation

(/products/entrances)

galleries)

(/products/blast-mitigation)

Skylights (/products/skylights)

Media Center (/media-center)

the same company. Why? It makes buildings better.

Hurricane Resistant

Sun Control (/products/sun-

Product Literature (/product-

It saves you time. It reduces your risk. It just makes

(/products/hurricane-resistant)

controls)

literature)

sense. So why doesn’t every manufacturer do it?

Curtain Wall (/products/curtain-

Architectural Glass

Advertising (/advertising)

They can’t. There’s only one Building Envelope

wall)

(/products/architectural-glass)

Price Book (/resources/price-

Architectural Windows

Structural Glass

book-binder)

(/products/architectural-

(/products/structural-glass)

Architectural Binder

cobble it together with disparate parts? Our curtain
wall, windows, storefronts, skylights and glass are
designed, engineered, tested and manufactured by

Company.™

windows)

About Us

Tools

(/resources/architectural-

Window Wall

binder)

(/products/window-wall)

Samples (/literature-request)

Support

Corporate Websites

Locations

 REPORT

SAMPLE OF STAMPED CONCRETE PATTERN AND COLOR
220 W. CONGRESS

 REPORT
STAMPED CONCRETE COLORS
BRICKFORM STANDARD COLORS
Color Cards

The Brickform 40 Standard Colors are available in Color Hardener, Antique Release, Antique-It, Cem-Coat, FreestylePro, Overlay Liquid
Colorant, and Tinta' Seal. Disclaimer: This digital color card should be used as a general guide, not a definitive indicator of final color. Shades
and hues can vary depending on screen settings. When planning a project, consult a physical color card for a better indication of potential
color. Create a representative mockup before any project to better account for the effects of conditions, material, and techniques that may alter
the final appearance or color.

320 Golden Sandstone

1080 Adobe Buff

1070 Sandy Buff

325 Sandstone

350 Desert Tan

1030 Ash White

250 Oyster White

1090 Sun Buff

1010 Smokey Beige

300 Nutmeg

625 Dover Blue

615 Stone Gray

200 Medium Gray

100 Dark Gray

815 French Gray

1040 Weathered Sage

1045 Shadow Slate

825 Slate Green

650 Smokey Blue

330 Coconut

735 Cappuccino

310 Cream Beige

1035 Summer Beige

1055 Pecos Sand

1020 Antique Rose

1050 Antique Cork

515 Sunbaked Clay

700 Terra Cotta

425 Autumn Brown

1015 Blush Beige

SELECTED COLOR

CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS 4050 Color Plant Road, Springfield, IL 62702   P: 217.522.3112   Toll-free: 800.624.0261   Fax: 800.624.3147
WEST COAST FACILITY 360 S. Lilac Ave, Rialto, CA 92376   P: 909.873.9444   Toll-free: 866.747.2656   Fax: 909.874.9444

Copyright © 2019 Solomon Colors, Inc. All rights reserved. Last Updated 12/22/2015

   
www.brickform.com

Page 1 of 2

 REPORT

375 Buff Tan

525 Dusty Rose

400 Chestnut

810 Walnut

1065 Quarry Red

500 Tile Red

575 Victorian Red

550 Brick Red

CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS 4050 Color Plant Road, Springfield, IL 62702   P: 217.522.3112   Toll-free: 800.624.0261   Fax: 800.624.3147
WEST COAST FACILITY 360 S. Lilac Ave, Rialto, CA 92376   P: 909.873.9444   Toll-free: 866.747.2656   Fax: 909.874.9444

Copyright © 2019 Solomon Colors, Inc. All rights reserved. Last Updated 12/22/2015

115 Venetian Pink

   
www.brickform.com

Page 2 of 2

 REPORT

Enviro Klean

®

NEXT GENERATION CLEANERS

EK Restoration Cleaner
Enviro Klean® EK Restoration Cleaner is a
concentrated compound for dissolving tough
carbon deposits and other atmospheric staining. A
practical alternative to conventional acidic cleaners,
near-neutral pH EK Restoration Cleaner cleans
brick, granite, sandstone, terra cotta, and other
masonry.
Safer and less expensive than sandblasting or steam
cleaning, it also loosens and dissolves dirt, paint
oxidation, and other stains associated with aged
and dirty buildings. It is perfect for projects where
harsh acid cleaners are not allowed.

ADVANTAGES

• Proven effective for cleaning dirty and heavily
carbon stained buildings.
• Safer than sandblasting. Will not pit or damage
the masonry when properly applied.
• Does not contain hydrofluoric acid.

Limitations

• Not suitable for cleaning most concrete or marble
surfaces. See Sure Klean® Limestone Restorer or
Sure Klean® 766 Limestone & Masonry Prewash/
Afterwash for these applications.
• Not recommended for interior use. Contact
PROSOCO’s Customer Care (800-255-4255) for
recommendations for the most appropriate
interior cleaning system.
• May not be suitable for some polished stone and
glazed surfaces.
• Product may bleach certain types of light- or buffcolored masonry materials. Always test.
• May damage glass and architectural aluminum.

REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
VOC Compliance

Enviro Klean® EK Restoration Cleaner is
compliant with all national, state and district VOC
regulations.

TYPICAL TECHNICAL DATA
FORM Clear, amber liquid
SPECIFIC GRAVITY
pH
WT/GAL
ACTIVE CONTENT
TOTAL SOLIDS
VOC CONTENT
FLASH POINT
FREEZE POINT

1.06
5.5 in concentrate
8.82 lbs
not applicable
not applicable
not applicable
not applicable
no data
years in tightly sealed,
SHELF LIFE 2
unopened container

SAFETY INFORMATION

Always read full label and SDS for precautionary
instructions before use. Use appropriate safety
equipment and job site controls during application
and handling.
24-Hour Emergency Information:
INFOTRAC at 800-535-5053

Product Data Sheet • Page 1 of 4 • Item #41006 – 102015 • ©2015 PROSOCO, Inc. • www.prosoco.com

 REPORT
Product Data Sheet
Enviro Klean® EK Restoration Cleaner

PREPARATION

Protect people, vehicles, property, glass, metal,
painted and non masonry surfaces from product,
splash, residue, rinse fumes and wind drift. Divert
or protect pedestrian and auto traffic. When
working over traffic, clean only when traffic is at a
minimum and protect carefully.
Complete masonry cleaning before replacing
windows, doors, hardware, light fixtures, roofing
materials, wood and any other non masonry items
which may be damaged by the cleaning product. If
such fixtures have been installed or are to remain
in place, protect before overall application using
Sure Klean® Strippable Masking (where appropriate
according to product literature) or polyethylene. Be
sure that all caulking and sealant materials are in
place and thoroughly cured before cleaning begins.

Recommended for these substrates. Always test.
Coverage is in sq.ft./m. per gallon of concentrate.

Substrate

Type

Use?

Coverage

no
no
no
no

N/A

Concrete

Brick
Tile
Precast Panels
Pavers
Cast-in-place

no
no
no
no
no

N/A

Fired Clay

Brick
Tile
Terra Cotta
Pavers

yes
yes
yes
yes

Polished

no

N/A

Unpolished

no

N/A

Polished

no

N/A

Unpolished

yes

Sandstone

Unpolished

yes

Slate

Unpolished

yes

Burnished
Architectural Smooth
Concrete
Split-faced
Block
Ribbed

Marble,
Travertine,
Limestone

Granite

125–200 sq.ft.
12–19 sq.m.

175–250 sq.ft.
16–25 sq.m.

125–175 sq.ft.

Inspect glazed terra cotta and tile carefully. Where
glaze has partially weathered away or previously
etched, cleaning may take off more glaze.

Surface and Air Temperatures

Best air and masonry surface temperatures
for cleaning are 40°F (4°C) or above. Cleaning
when temperatures are below freezing or may
be overnight may harm masonry. If freezing
conditions existed before application, let masonry
thaw.

Equipment

Apply using brush or roller. Applying with high
pressure spray drives the chemical deep into the
surface, making it difficult to rinse completely.
Surface discoloration may result.
Rinse with enough water and pressure to flush
spent cleaner and dissolved soiling from the
masonry surface and surface pores without
damage. Inadequate rinsing leaves residues which
may stain the cleaned surface.
Masonry-washing equipment generating 400–1000
psi with a water flow rate of 6–8 gpm is the best
water/pressure combination for rinsing porous
masonry. Use a 15–45° fan spray tip. Heated water
(150–180°F; 65–82°C) may improve cleaning
efficiency. Use adjustable equipment for reducing
water flow rates and rinsing pressure as needed for
sensitive surfaces.
Rinsing pressures greater than 1000 psi and fan
spray tips smaller than 15° may permanently
damage sensitive masonry. Water flow rates less
than 6 gpm may reduce cleaning productivity and
contribute to uneven cleaning results.

Storage and Handling

Keep from freezing. Store in a cool, dry place
with adequate ventilation. Always seal container
after dispensing. Do not alter or mix with other
chemicals. Published shelf life assumes upright
storage of factory-sealed containers in a dry place.
Maintain temperature of 45–100°F (7–38°C). Do not
double stack pallets. Dispose of unused product and
container in accordance with local, state and federal
regulations.

12–16 sq.m.

125–200 sq.ft.
12–19 sq.m.

May have limited effectiveness on highly porous surfaces.
Always test to ensure desired results.
Coverage estimates depend on surface texture and porosity.

Product Data Sheet • Page 2 of 4 • Item #41006 – 102015 • ©2015 PROSOCO, Inc. • www.prosoco.com

 REPORT
Product Data Sheet
Enviro Klean® EK Restoration Cleaner

APPLICATION

Read “Preparation” and the Safety Data Sheet before
use.
ALWAYS TEST a small area of each surface to
confirm suitability, coverage rate and desired
results before beginning overall application. Test
with the same equipment, recommended surface
preparation and application procedures planned
for general application. Let surface dry thoroughly
before inspection.

Dilution & Mixing

Apply as packaged. Do not alter or dilute.
Stir or mix well before use.

Pretreatment

Pretreating severely stained areas such as
horizontal surfaces, and under window sills and
eaves with Sure Klean® 766 Limestone & Masonry
Prewash may improve results. Read and follow
product procedures and recommendations. Pressure
rinse, then “afterwash” with EK Restoration
Cleaner followed by water rinse. Consult a
PROSOCO Customer Care representative or sales
manager on pretreatment of severely stained areas.

Application Instructions

1. Working from the bottom to the top, prewet
surface with fresh water.
2. Apply cleaner using a brush or roller. Gentle
scrubbing application will improve results.
Applying with high pressure spray will drive
the chemicals deep into the surface, making it
difficult to rinse completely. Surface discoloration
may result.
3. Leave the cleaning solution on the surface for
10–20 minutes. Heavy soiling or mineral deposits
may require longer dwell times. Gently scrub
heavily soiled areas. Do not let cleaning solution
“dry in” to the masonry. If drying occurs, lightly
wet treated surfaces with fresh water, and
reapply the cleaner, gently scrubbing.
4. Working from the bottom to the top, rinse
thoroughly with fresh water.
5. Repeat steps 1–4 if necessary.

Cleanup

Clean tools and equipment using fresh water.

Maintenance

“Breathable” water repellents reduce absorption of
stain-producing elements, keeping surfaces cleaner
longer and making future cleaning faster and
easier. For more information about water repellents
for masonry, contact PROSOCO Customer Care
at 800-255-4255 about Sure Klean® Weather Seal
products.

WARRANTY

The information and recommendations made are
based on our own research and the research of
others, and are believed to be accurate. However,
no guarantee of their accuracy is made because
we cannot cover every possible application of
our products, nor anticipate every variation
encountered in masonry surfaces, job conditions
and methods used. The purchasers shall make
their own tests to determine the suitability of such
products for a particular purpose.

BEST PRACTICES
Inspect glazed terra cotta and tile carefully. Where
glaze has partially weathered away or previously
etched, cleaning may take off more glaze.
Always test a minimum 4-ft x 4-ft area for
compatibility before overall cleaning. Test each
type of surface and each type of stain. Also test
pressure-rinsing on older masonry. Let test panels
dry three to seven days before inspection.
Pretreating severely stained areas such as
horizontal surfaces, and under window sills and
eaves with Sure Klean® 766 Limestone & Masonry
Prewash may improve results.
Do not let cleaning solution “dry in” to the
masonry. If drying occurs, lightly wet treated
surfaces with fresh water, and reapply the
cleaner, gently scrubbing.
Masonry-washing equipment generating
400–1000 psi with a water flow rate of 6–8 gpm is
the best water/pressure combination for rinsing
porous masonry. Use a 15–45° fan spray tip.
Heated water (150–180°F; 65–82°C) may improve
cleaning efficiency. Use adjustable equipment for
reducing water flow rates and rinsing pressure as
needed for sensitive surfaces.
Never go it alone. If you have problems or
questions, contact your local PROSOCO
distributor or field representative. Or call
PROSOCO technical Customer Care, toll-free, at
800-255-4255.

Product Data Sheet • Page 3 of 4 • Item #41006 – 102015 • ©2015 PROSOCO, Inc. • www.prosoco.com

 REPORT

Product Data Sheet
Enviro Klean® EK Restoration Cleaner
PROSOCO, Inc. warrants this product to be free
from defects. Where permitted by law, PROSOCO
makes no other warranties with respect to
this product, express or implied, including
without limitation the implied warranties of
merchantability or fitness for particular purpose.
The purchaser shall be responsible to make his own
tests to determine the suitability of this product for
his particular purpose. PROSOCO’s liability shall be
limited in all events to supplying sufficient product
to re-treat the specific areas to which defective
product has been applied. Acceptance and use of
this product absolves PROSOCO from any other
liability, from whatever source, including liability
for incidental, consequential or resultant damages
whether due to breach of warranty, negligence or
strict liability. This warranty may not be modified
or extended by representatives of PROSOCO, its
distributors or dealers.

CUSTOMER CARE

Factory personnel are available for product,
environment and job-safety assistance with no
obligation. Call 800-255-4255 and ask for Customer
Care – technical support.
Factory-trained representatives are established in
principal cities throughout the continental United
States. Call Customer Care at 800-255-4255, or visit
our web site at www.prosoco.com, for the name of
the PROSOCO representative in your area.

Product Data Sheet • Page 4 of 4 • Item #41006 – 102015 • ©2015 PROSOCO, Inc. • www.prosoco.com

 220 W Congress Remodeling
REPORT

January 15, 2019

Unit Dimensions - Split System Air Conditioning Units (Large)
Item: A2 Qty: 2 Tag(s): CU-2&3

NOTES:
1. ACCESS OPENING IS FOR FIELD INSTALLED BAYLOAM ACCESSORY.
2. MINIMUM CLEARANCE FOR PROPER OPERATION IS 36" FROM
WALLS, SHRUBBERY, PRIVACY FENCES ETC. MINIMUM CLEARANCE
BETWEEN ADJACENT UNITS IS 72". RECOMMENDED SERVICE
CLEARANCE 48"
3. TOP DISCHARGE AREA SHOULD BE UNRESTRICTED FOR 100"
MINIMUM. UNIT SHOULD BE PLACED SO ROOF RUN-OFF WATER DOES
NOT POUR DIRECTLY ON UNIT
4. OUTDOOR AIR TEMPERATURE SENSOR OPENING (DO NOT BLOCK OPENING).

SEE NOTE 3

SERVICE PANEL

SEE NOTE 4

HAIL GUARD
(OPTIONAL)

SERVICE CLEARANCE
48" (SEE NOTE 2
FOR CLEARANCE

1 1/4"
HAIL GUARD
(OPTIONAL)

40"
WITH HAIL GUARD

4 1/4"
LINE VOLTAGE

SEE NOTE 1

37 15/16"

REFRIGERANT ACESS

CONTROL WIRING

35 3/4"

SERVICE PANEL

44 3/4"

42 5/16"

32 7/8"
14 5/16"

11 3/8"
7 7/8" 9 5/16"

6 3/8"

8"

LIQUID LINE
6"

25 11/16"

1 13/16"

6"

37 11/16"

SUCTION LINE

2 7/8"

5 1/16"
50 15/16"
3 3/16"
SERVICE PANEL SIDE

52"
WITH HAIL GUARD

3"

7/16" DIA. ISOLATOR MOUNTING
HOLES (OUTSIDE HOLES - 4 PLACES)

50 3/4"

BOTTOM
OF UNIT

44 3/4"

3 13/16"
2 3/16"

31 11/16"

12 1/2 TON COOLING CONDENSER

1 11/16"

(DUAL COMPRESSOR)

DIMENSIONAL DRAWING

FLD = Furnished by Trane U.S. Inc. / Installed by
Others

Equipment Submittal

Page 7 of 16

 REPORT
SHEET #

BASCO
607 Shelby St.
Suite 400
Detroit, MI. 48226

SHEET NAME

SHEET CATAGORY

C-001
C-010
C-110
C-200
C-300
C-400
C-500
C-600

PROJECT COVER
CIVIL COVER
EXISTING CONDITIONS
DEMOLITION PLAN
SESC PLAN
GEOMETRIV PAVING PLAN
GRADING PLAN
UTILITY PLAN
DETAILS

CIVIL
CIVIL
CIVIL
CIVIL
CIVIL
CIVIL
CIVIL
CIVIL

S1-0
S1-1
S2-1
S2-2
S2-3
S2-4
S3-1

GENERAL NOTES
DETAILS
GROUND FLOOR FRAMING PLAN
2ND-5TH FLOOR FRAMING PLAN
ROOF FRAMING PLAN
HIGH ROOF FRAMING PLAN
DETAILS

STRUCTURAL
STRUCTURAL
STRUCTURAL
STRUCTURAL
STRUCTURAL
STRUCTURAL
STRUCTURAL

A-000
A-001
A-002
A-101
A-102
D-101
D-102
D-103
A-201
A-202
A-203
A-204
A-205
A-206
A-207-208
A-209
A-210
A-301
A-302
A-401
A-403
A-405
A-501
A-502-799
A-800
A-801
A-802
A-803-807
A-808
A-809
A-810
A-811

LIFE SAFETY PLAN
GENERAL NOTES
SCHEDULES
SITE PLAN
ENLARGED ALLEY PLAN
GROUND, 2ND FL. DEMOLITION PLANS
3RD, 24TH FL. DEMOLITION PLANS
5TH FL. DEMOLITION PLAN
GROUND FLOOR PLAN/ REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
2ND FLOOR PLAN/ REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
3RD FLOOR PLAN/ REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
4TH FLOOR PLAN/ REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
5TH FLOOR PLAN/ REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
ROOF PLAN
NOT USED
ENLARGED TOILET ROOM PLANS
ENLARGED LOBBY
SOUTH AND WEST ELEVATIONS
NORTH AND EAST ELEVATIONS
SECTIONS
ENLARGED ELEVATIONS
ENLARGED ALLEY SECTION
SHAFT DETAILS
NOT USED
TYP. WALL TYPES
NOT USED
DOOR DETAILS
NOT USED
STOREFRONT DETAILS
WINDOW DETAILS
MISCELLANEOUS DETAILS
EXTERIOR OPENING DETAILS

ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ACRHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL
ARCHITECTURAL

P-101
P-102
P-103
P-104
P-105
P-106
P-107
P-108
P-201

1ST FLOOR UNDERGROUND PLUMBING
1ST FLOOR PLUMBING PLAN
2ND FLOOR PLUMBING PLAN
3RD FLOOR PLUMBING PLAN
4TH FLOOR PLUMBING PLAN
5TH FLOOR PLUMBING PLAN
ROOF PLUMBING PLAN
TOILET ROOM CORE PLUMBING PLAN
SCHEDULES AND SPECIFICATIONS

PLUMBING
PLUMBING
PLUMBING
PLUMBING
PLUMBING
PLUMBING
PLUMBING
PLUMBING
PLUMBING

M-101
M-102
M-103
M-104
M-105
M-106
M-201
M-202
M-203

1ST FLOOR HVAC PLAN
2ND FLOOR HVAC PLAN
3RD FLOOR HVAC PLAN
4TH FLOOR HVAC PLAN
5TH FLOOR HVAC PLAN
ROOF HVAC PLAN
HVAC DETAILS
HVAC SCHEDULES
HVAC SPECIFICATIONS

MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL
MECHANICAL

E-1
E-2
E-3
E-4
E-5
E-6
E-7
E-8
E-9
E-9A
E-10

GROUND FLOOR ELECTRICAL
2ND FLOOR ELECTRICAL
3RD FLOOR ELECTRICAL
4TH FLOOR ELECTRICAL
5TH FLOOR ELECTRICAL
ROOF ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATIONS
ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATIONS
ELECTRICAL SCHEDULES
ELECTRICAL SCHEDULES
ENLARGED ALLEY ELECTRICAL

ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRICAL

ARCHITECT:

220 W. Congress Remodeling
Issued for REVISION 2
JUNE 12, 2019
615 Griswold St.
Suite 1710
Detroit, MI. 48226
313.963.6687
MEP ENGINEERS:
Summit Engineering
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS:
SDI Structures
CIVIL ENGINEERS
Giffels Webster Engineers

070119

 REPORT

EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE

HIGHEST OCCUPIED FLOOR: 49'-0" (DOES NOT MEET HI-RISE
CLASIFICATION)

refuge areas connected by a horizontal exit shall be provided by a fire wall

1. Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following
buildings and structures:
2. 6. Existing buildings having occupied floor levels not more than 75 feet (22
860 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access where the
local unit of government complies with both of the following:
1. 6.1. The local unit of government has a municipal fire department with an
ISO rating of 3 or lower, employing a full-time career firefighting staff.
2. 6.2. The governing body of the local unit of government has passed a
resolution affirming the use of this exception and filed that resolution with the
department of energy, labor, and economic growth, bureau of construction
codes.
1.
1. CHAPTER 5 - GENERAL BUILDING HEIGHTS AND AREAS
1.
1. Chapter 6 Construction Type:
1.
2. 602.3 Type IIIB
1. Steel (Iron) columns
2. Steel (Iron) beams
3. Timber girders
4. Wood floor deck[b]

complying with Section 707 or a horizontal assembly complying with Section

Primary Structural Frame: 0 HR
Bearing Walls Exterior: 2 HR
Bearing Walls Interior: 0 HR
Non-Bearing Walls Exterior: 1 HR
Non-Bearing Walls Interior: 0 HR
Floor Construction: 0 HR
Roof Construction: 0 HR
TABLE 508.4 OCCUPANCY SEPARATION
1st Floor Assembly Occupancy. Upper floors Business occupancy: 1HR
1st floor Type 3B construction: 1 Story
2nd-5th floor Type 3B construction: 4 stories (1 story allowable sprinkler
increase)
BUILDING IS EQUIPPED WITH AN AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.

Third Floor Plan
1/16" = 1'-0"

69'-8"
EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OF
RS

40'-0"
EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE

RS

C:\Users\Crutcherk-Lenovo\Dropbox\Projects\K2017\K2017-09 220 Congress\K1709 DWG\k1709A0-1.dwg, 7/10/2019 11:31:22 AM

OF

Roof Plan

Second Floor Plan

1/16" = 1'-0"

1/16" = 1'-0"

TYPICAL EGRESS TRAVEL
DISTANCE PLAN

1. (d). An approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
Section 903.3.1.1 shall be allowed to be substituted for 1-hour
fire-resistance-rated construction, provided such system is not otherwise
required by other provisions of the code or used for an allowable area increase in
accordance with Section 506.3 or an allowable height increase in accordance
with Section 504.2. The 1-hour substitution for the fire resistance of exterior
walls shall not be permitted.
1. Chapter 10 Means of Egress
1. TABLE 1004.1.2 - MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER
OCCUPANT
1. Assembly without fixed seats
1. Concentrated (chairs only-not fixed) 7 net
2. Standing space 5 net
3. Unconcentrated (tables and chairs) 15 net
1. Business areas 100 gross
2. Mercantile
1. Basement and grade floor areas 30 gross
1. Occupancy per floor
1. Office 7,355sf /100sf per occupant = 74 person occupancy per floor for
office use.
1. SECTION 1016 - EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
1.
c. Buildings equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
1. SECTION 1018-CORRIDORS
1.
1. SECTION 1025 HORIZONTAL EXITS
1. 1025.1 Horizontal exits. Horizontal exits serving as an exit in a
means of egress system shall comply with the requirements of this section. A
horizontal exit shall not serve as the only exit from a portion of a building, and
where two or more exits are required, not more than one-half of the total number
of exits or total exit width shall be horizontal exits.[c]
2. 1025.2 Separation. The separation between buildings or refuge
areas connected by a horizontal exit shall be provided by a fire wall complying
with Section 706; or it shall be provided by a fire barrier complying with Section
707 or a horizontal assembly complying with Section 711, or both. The minimum
fire-resistance rating of the separation shall be 2 hours.
1. SECTION 1027 EXIT DISCHARGE
1. 1027.1 General. Exits shall discharge directly to the exterior of the
building. The exit discharge shall be at grade or shall provide direct access to
grade. The exit discharge shall not reenter a building. The combined use of
Exceptions 1 and 2 shall not exceed 50 percent of the number and capacity of
the required exits.
1. Exceptions:
2. 1. A maximum of 50 percent of the number and capacity of interior
exit stairways and ramps is permitted to egress through areas on the level of exit
discharge provided all of the following are met:
1. 1.1. Such enclosures egress to a free and unobstructed path of
travel to an exterior exit door and such exit is readily visible and identifiable from
the point of termination of the enclosure.
1. 3. Horizontal exits complying with Section 1025 shall not be
required to discharge directly to the exterior of the building
1. Chapter 11 Accessibility
1. 1103.2.2 Existing buildings. Existing buildings shall comply with
Section 3411
2. 1105.1 Public entrances. In addition to accessible entrances
required by Sections 1105.1.1 through 1105.1.6, at least 60percent of all public
entrances shall be accessible
1. CHAPTER 34 - EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
1. SECTION 3411 - ACCESSIBILITY FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS
1. 3411.8.1 Entrances. Accessible entrances shall be provided in
accordance with Section 1105
2. 3411.8.2 Elevators. Altered elements of existing elevators shall
comply with the Michigan elevator code, R 408.7001to R 408.8695 and
ICC/ANSI A 117.1 as listed in chapter 35. Such elements shall also be altered in
elevators programmed to respond to the same hall call control as the altered
elev
[c]See SECTION 1027 EXIT DISCHARGE

SECTION 1025 HORIZONTAL EXITS
1. 1025.1 Horizontal exits. Horizontal exits serving as an exit in a
means of egress system shall comply with the requirements of this section.
A horizontal exit shall not serve as the only exit from a portion of a building,
and where two or more exits are required, not more than one-half of the total
number of exits or total exit width shall be horizontal exits.[a]
2. 1025.2 Separation. The separation between buildings or
complying with Section 706; or it shall be provided by a fire barrier
711, or both. The minimum fire-resistance rating of the separation shall be 2
hours.
1. SECTION 1027 EXIT DISCHARGE
1. 1027.1 General. Exits shall discharge directly to the exterior of
the building. The exit discharge shall be at grade or shall provide direct
access to grade. The exit discharge shall not reenter a building. The
combined use of Exceptions 1 and 2 shall not exceed 50 percent of the
number and capacity of the required exits.
1. Exceptions:
2. 1. A maximum of 50 percent of the number and capacity of
interior exit stairways and ramps is permitted to egress through areas on the
level of exit discharge provided all of the following are met:
1. 1.1. Such enclosures egress to a free and unobstructed path
of travel to an exterior exit door and such exit is readily visible and
identifiable from the point of termination of the enclosure.
1. 3. Horizontal exits complying with Section 1025 shall not be
required to discharge directly to the exterior of the building
1. Chapter 11 Accessibility
1. 1103.2.2 Existing buildings. Existing buildings shall comply
with Section 3411
2. 1105.1 Public entrances. In addition to accessible entrances
required by Sections 1105.1.1 through 1105.1.6, at least 60percent of all
public entrances shall be accessible
1. CHAPTER 34 - EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
1. SECTION 3411 - ACCESSIBILITY FOR EXISTING
BUILDINGS
1. 3411.8.1 Entrances. Accessible entrances shall be provided in
accordance with Section 1105
2. 3411.8.2 Elevators. Altered elements of existing elevators
shall comply with the Michigan elevator code, R 408.7001to R 408.8695 and

BASCO

40'-0"

EGRESS TRAVEL DISTANCE

61'-8"

1/16" = 1'-0"

3. 3411.8.11 Toilet rooms. Where it is technically infeasible to alter
existing toilet and bathing rooms to be accessible, an accessible family or
assisted-use toilet or bathing room constructed in accordance with
Section 1109.2.1 is permitted. The family or assisted-use toilet or bathing
room shall be located on the same floor and in the same area as the
existing toilet or bathing rooms.
4.
1. Plumbing Code
1. Table 403.1 - #2
1. Water closets 1per 25 for the first 50, 1 per 50 for
remainder
1. 2 toilets required per floor for office
1. Lav - 1 per 40 for the first 80 , 1 per 80 for remainder
1. 2 lavs required per floor for office
1. Drinking fountain 1per 100
1. 1 drinking fountain require per floor
1. 1 services sink
SECTION 1027 EXIT DISCHARGE

220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI

Fourth Floor Plan

K2017-09 220 W Congress Project Summary

1. Summary
1. Architect: Archive DS
2. Address: 220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI
3. Legal description:
N W CONGRESS E 3 FT OF S 65 FT OF 10 11 W 4 FT OF S 65 FT OF 12
MILITARY RESERVE L5 P218 CITY RECORDS, W C R 2/58 57 IRREG
4. Parcel id: 02000162
5. Total Parcel Acreage: 0.169 (7,362sf)
6. Commercial Floor Area: 36,775 sf
1. 7,355sf per floor gross
1. Stories: 5[a]
2. Scope of work:
Interior alteration to existing office building.
Addition to roof of existing building.
1. Zoning
1. Zoning District: Major Business District
2. Parking- NA (Central Business District)
1. Building Code
Michigan Rehabilitation Code for Existing Buildings 2015
(References MBC 2015)
Michigan Mechanical Code 2015
Michigan Plumbing Code 2015
Michigan Electrical Code 2015
1. CHAPTER 8 - ALTERATIONS-LEVEL 2
1. Chapter 3 Use and Occupancy
1. 304.1 Business Group B1. Chapter 4
1. SECTION 403 HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS
1. 403.1 Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to buildings
having the occupied floors located more than 55 feet (16 764 mm) above the
lowest level of fire department vehicle access

220 W. Congress Remodeling

PROJECT CONSISTS OF
"WHITE BOX" OFFICE SPACE ABOVE
1 STORY OF "WHITE BOX" RETAIL
SPACE ON THE FIRST FLOOR. PROJECT
INCLUDES PREP FOR FUTURE TENANTS
AND OPTIONAL ROOF DECK FOR THE
FIFTH FLOOR SPACE ONLY. UPGRADES
TO RESTROOM FACILITIES ARE INCLUDED
IN THE "WHITE BOX" BUILDOUT. UPDATED
ELEVATOR CONTROLS AND NEW ROOFTOP
HVAC UNITS ARE ALSO INCLUDED.

ICC/ANSI A 117.1 as listed in chapter 35. Such elements shall also be
altered in elevators programmed to respond to the same hall call control as
the altered elevator.
3. 3411.8.11 Toilet rooms. Where it is technically infeasible to
alter existing toilet and bathing rooms to be accessible, an accessible family
or assisted-use toilet or bathing room constructed in accordance with
Section 1109.2.1 is permitted. The family or assisted-use toilet or bathing
room shall be located on the same floor and in the same area as the
existing toilet or bathing rooms.
4.

© 2017 ARCHIVE D.S.

-- Safety Plan
Life
-Issued For:

1. Plumbing Code

1. Table 403.1 - #2
1. Water closets 1per 25 for the first 50, 1 per 50 for remainder
1. 2 toilets required per floor for office
1. Lav - 1 per 40 for the first 80 , 1 per 80 for remainder
1. 2 lavs required per floor for office
1. Drinking fountain 1per 100
1. 1 drinking fountain require per floor
1. 1 services sink

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com

A0-1
A0.0

A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

Fifth Floor Plan

Ground Floor Plan

1/16" = 1'-0"

1/16" = 1'-0"

SHEET NUMBER:

 REPORT
EXISTING
FIRE
HYDRANT

SHELBY ST.

EXISTING
ALLEY
20'-0" WIDE
607 SHELBY

18'-1"

3

16'-0 1/2"

4

16'-11"

5

16'-3"

6

138'-0"
5'-11 1/2"

7

11'-2"

8

16'-11"

10

9

17'-4"

16'-6"

1'-5"

5'-5"

A

10'-0"

14'-8 1/2"

B

2,581sf
C

REPLACE EXISTING
SIDEWALK IN THIS AREA

D

Issued For:

REVIEW

DES. DEVELOPMENT 11.20.17
CD REVIEW 03.281.8

632 sf

16'-1"

© 2018ARCHIVE D.S.
SITE PLAN

EXISTING BLDG.
7262 SF PER FL.
5 STORIES

16'-4 1/2"

57'-0"

220 CONGRESS

6X6
AIR INTAKE

35'-0" WIDE

1'-5"

2

CONGRESS ST.

1

BASCO

EXISTING
FIRE
HYDRANT

220 W. Congress, Detroit, MI

EXISTING
FIRE
HYDRANT

220 W. Congress Remodeling

35'-0" WIDE

1,668 sf

REVIEW
BIDS

05.24.18
06.25.18

4'-5"

E
F

6X6
AIR INTAKE

EXISTING
ALLEY
16'-0" WIDE

PERMITS

08.17.18

BULLETIN 1

12.28.18

CLARIFICATION

3.07.19

REVISION #1

05.02.19

REVISION #2

06.12.19

FOR SCOPE OF WORK IN EXISTING ALLEY
SEE SHT A-102-

Drawn: KC
Checked: DM
Approved:DM

SITE PLAN
SCALE: 1/16"=1'-0"

615 GRISWOLD STE. 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

A-101

 REPORT
2

1

3

4

5

7

6

8

10

9

9'-9 1/4"

ALIGN STOREFRONT OP'G WIDTH
WITH EDGE OF WINDOWS ABOVESEE SHT A-301
PREFAB MET.
STAIR-BY
CONTRACTOR

POURED CONC.
WALL
5'-0"

8' HIGH METAL
TRASH COMPACTOR
ENCLOSURESEE SHT A-810

8'-4 3/8"

2'-10 7/8"

3'-4 1/16"

22'-1"

3'-4 7/8" 2'-6 11/16"

8'-4 1/16"

31'-3 3/4"

DN
5'-0 7/8"
1

CATCH BASIN
SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS

A- 405

1

FD

20'-10 3/4"

6" METAL POST
(TYP.)

© 2018 ARCHIVE D.S.

A-811

Enlarged Ground Fl.
Exterior Plan

STAMPED CONC.COLOR/ PATTERN
SELECTED
BY OWNER

Issued For:

BOLLARD
(TYP.)
3 TOTAL

STAMPED CONC.COLOR/ PATTERN
SELECTED
BY OWNER

1'-0"

1'-0"

1
405

POURED CONC.
STAIR WITH
MET. RAIL.
5R @ 7" = 2'-11"

REVISION 120818
BULLETIN 1 122818

4T @ 11"=
3'-8"

3'-8"

18'-10 3/16"

8'-0 1/2"

BASCO

NEW STOREFRONT

220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI

220 W.Congress Remodeling

STAMPED CONC. (TYP.)
AT BUILDING ENTRY
TO MATCH ALLEY

CLARTIFICATION 01.08.19
BULLETIN #2

SLOPE BEGINS

+-20'-0"

03.01.19

REVISION#1

05.02.19

REVISION#2

06.12.19

3'-0" SCORED
CONCRETE
BORDER

Checked: DM
Approved: DM

1
ENLARGED ALLEY PLAN
A-102 SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"

NOTE: FOR SITE ELEVATIONS AND TRANSITIONS SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS

615 GRISWOLD St., ste. 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

A-102

 REPORT

18'-1"

16'-11"

16'-3"

5'-11 1/2"

16'-11"

11'-2"

16'-6"

17'-4"

4'-0"

16'-0 1/2"

220 W. Congress Remodeling

73'-0"

65'-0"
138'-0"

Ground Floor Reflected Ceiling Plan

0

8'

16'

32'

1/8" = 1'-0"

18'-1"

16'-0 1/2"

BB

AA

A-401

A-401

16'-11"

16'-3"

5'-11 1/2"

16'-11"

11'-2"

17'-4"

1

16'-6"

A-502

BASCO

220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI

16'-4 1/2"

3'-0"

17'-6"

57'-0"
50'-0"

16'-1 1/2"

See A-210 for lobby
plan and details

© 2017 ARCHIVE D.S.

Ground Floor Plan

4'-0"

Issued For:

5'-0"

Storage

16'-1 1/2"

9

Lobby
9
9

9

Electrical Room

3'-4"

5'-0"

16'-4 1/2"

9

57'-0"
50'-0"

Fire Panel Rm

Tenant Space

For wall type
designations
see A-800

Tenant Space

9

9

A-401
9

17'-6"

Storefront system
See sht# A-102
New storefront system
8'-4 1/2"

2'-11" 3'-4"

3'-7"

22'-1"

2'-6 1/2"

8'-4"

31'-3 1/2"

8'-0 1/2"

3'-0"

C:\Users\Crutcherk-Lenovo\Dropbox\Projects\K2017\K2017-09 220 Congress\K1709 DWG\k1709A2-1.dwg, 7/10/2019 11:32:13 AM

CC

73'-0"

Stair

65'-0"
138'-0"

Ground Floor Plan
1/8" = 1'-0"

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

0

8'

16'

32'

New window - See Sht# A-102

313.963.6687
archiveds.com

A-201
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

 REPORT

Floor Plan General Notes:
1. Existing electrical receptacles to remain unless noted otherwise.
2. Patch and repair holes and damage to gypsum board partitions.
3. Remove existing floor finish in area of renovation prepare floor for new floor
finish.
4. Replace all missing door hardware
Ceiling Notes:
1. Patch and repair damaged areas of existing gyp bd ceiling
2.

BASCO

1/8" = 1'-0"

220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI

Second Floor Reflected Ceiling Plan

220 W. Congress Remodeling

Keynotes:
1. New shaft mechanical duct work.
2. Patch and repair damaged subfloor
3. Gyp bd column enclosure
4. Patch damaged plaster. Mathe existing adjacent finish.
5. New aluminium window and frame
6. New handrail on existing stair.
7. New light fixture see lighting plan for type.
8. New stair enclosure
9. New stair

© 2017 ARCHIVE D.S.

Second Floor Plan

C:\Users\Crutcherk-Lenovo\Dropbox\Projects\K2017\K2017-09 220 Congress\K1709 DWG\k1709A2-2.dwg, 7/1/2019 6:33:56 PM

Issued For:

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com

A-202
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

Second Floor Plan
1/8" = 1'-0"

SHEET NUMBER:

 REPORT
Floor Plan General Notes:
1. Existing electrical receptacles to remain unless noted otherwise.
2. Patch and repair holes and damage to gypsum board partitions.
3. Remove existing floor finish in area of renovation prepare floor for new floor
finish.
4. Replace all missing door hardware
Ceiling Notes:
1. Patch and repair damaged areas of existing gyp bd ceiling
2.

BASCO

1/8" = 1'-0"

220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI

T h i r d Floor R e f l e c t e d C e i l i n g P l a n

220 W. Congress Remodeling

Keynotes:
1. New shaft mechanical duct work.
2. Patch and repair damaged subfloor
3. Gyp bd column enclosure
4. Patch damaged plaster. Mathe existing adjacent finish.
5. New aluminium window and frame
6. New handrail on existing stair.
7. New light fixture see lighting plan for type.
8. New stair enclosure
9. New stair

© 2017 ARCHIVE D.S.

Third Floor Plan

C:\Users\Crutcherk-Lenovo\Dropbox\Projects\K2017\K2017-09 220 Congress\K1709 DWG\k1709A2-3.dwg, 7/1/2019 6:34:08 PM

Issued For:

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com

A-203
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

Third Floor Plan
1/8" = 1'-0"

SHEET NUMBER:

 REPORT

Floor Plan General Notes:
1. Existing electrical receptacles to remain unless noted otherwise.
2. Patch and repair holes and damage to gypsum board partitions.
3. Remove existing floor finish in area of renovation prepare floor for new floor
finish.
4. Replace all missing door hardware
Ceiling Notes:
1. Patch and repair damaged areas of existing gyp bd ceiling
2.

BASCO

1/8" = 1'-0"

220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI

F o u r t h Floor R e f l e c t e d C e i l i n g P l a n

220 W. Congress Remodeling

Keynotes:
1. New shaft mechanical duct work.
2. Patch and repair damaged subfloor
3. Gyp bd column enclosure
4. Patch damaged plaster. Mathe existing adjacent finish.
5. New aluminium window and frame
6. New handrail on existing stair.
7. New light fixture see lighting plan for type.
8. New stair enclosure
9. New stair

© 2017 ARCHIVE D.S.

Fourth Floor Plan

C:\Users\Crutcherk-Lenovo\Dropbox\Projects\K2017\K2017-09 220 Congress\K1709 DWG\k1709A2-4.dwg, 7/1/2019 6:34:21 PM

Issued For:

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com

A-204
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

Fourth Floor Plan
1/8" = 1'-0"

SHEET NUMBER:

 REPORT
Floor Plan General Notes:
1. Existing electrical receptacles to remain unless noted otherwise.
2. Patch and repair holes and damage to gypsum board partitions.
3. Remove existing floor finish in area of renovation prepare floor for new floor
finish.
4. Replace all missing door hardware
Ceiling Notes:
1. Patch and repair damaged areas of existing gyp bd ceiling
2.

BASCO

1/8" = 1'-0"

220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI

F i f t h Floor R e f l e c t e d C e i l i n g P l a n

220 W. Congress Remodeling

Keynotes:
1. New shaft mechanical duct work.
2. Patch and repair damaged subfloor
3. Gyp bd column enclosure
4. Patch damaged plaster. Mathe existing adjacent finish.
5. New aluminium window and frame
6. New handrail on existing stair.
7. New light fixture see lighting plan for type.
8. New stair enclosure
9. New stair

© 2017 ARCHIVE D.S.

Fifth Floor Plan

C:\Users\Crutcherk-Lenovo\Dropbox\Projects\K2017\K2017-09 220 Congress\K1709 DWG\k1709A2-5.dwg, 7/1/2019 6:34:34 PM

Issued For:

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com

A-205
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

Fifth Floor Plan
1/8" = 1'-0"

SHEET NUMBER:

 REPORT

COL. ENCLOSUREBEYOND
METAL COPING

EXISTG SYNTHETIC STUCCO
@ WEST WALL/ MET. PANEL AT
SOUTH WALL

1

Parapet Detail @ West Wall (Note south wall sim.)

A-206

NTS

BB

AA

A-401

A-401

220 W. Congress Remodeling
220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI
BASCO

EXISTG EXT. WALL-

Mech Shaft

1

3

2

18'-1"

4

16'-1"

5

16'-11"

16'-3"

6'-0"

6

7

11'-2"

Existing
Mech ShaftNIC
16'-11"

8

10

9

17'-4"

© 2018 ARCHIVE D.S.

16'-6"

4'-0"

1'-0"

Roof Plan

18'-1"

Slope to Drain

Provide 12 x 36 elevator shaft
relief grille at roof below level
of penthouse floor.

Slope to Drain

2'-0"

OF

Revise duct shaft openining
at roof to extent of existing
shaft below

Mechanical Shaft

CC

Existing elevator Machive and
controls

RS
OF

06.25.18

Metal clad Columns

Extent of clerestory below

08.17.18

REVISION

10.05.18

REVISION

12.11.18

BULLETIN 1

12.28.18

COORDINATION

01.30.19

BULLETIN 2

02.28.19
06.12.19

2'-0"

Disconnect and reverse existing
stair to elevator penthouse. Modify
railing for reverse direction. Provide
new HM door to penthouse

A-401

BIDS

55'-7"

New Condenser unitssee mechanical

Future
mechanical unit

17'-10"

Existing 607
Shelby
mechanical unit

101917

REVISION #2

14'-5"

RS

Des. Dev.

PERMITS

13'-0"

Mechanical
equipment for
607

New Ship's Ladder Stair
and Rail (Note: Field
measure existing fl. to fl.
height and stair width.
Provide mfr. standard
products)- see specs for
metal fabrication reqmnts

16'-5"

50'-0"

16'-1"

Interim Des. Dev. 091417

Drawn: KC/ DM

Slope to Drain

Approved: DM

2'-0"

Slope to Drain

16'-1"

17'-6"

EPDM Roof on tapered insulation
on Roof Deck

16'-3"

Checked: DM

3'-0"

57'-0"

Issued For:

63'-5"
65'-0"

73'-0"
138'-0"

Roof Plan
1/8" = 1'-0"

0

8'

16'

32'

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

A-206

 2

1

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

F

E

Tuckpoint Existing
Masonry- Typ.

D

C

B

A

Break metal copingMatch color to storefront color

Parapet

Parapet

13'-11"

PNT-01
New window
System

PNT-02

PNT-02

PNT-02

11'-9"

Fifth Floor

Fifth Floor

Repair and Paint
Exterior PlasterField measure for
quantity.

11'-9"

Fourth Floor

Fourth Floor

New windows Typ.- Kawneer
601 system or equal. (Note:
Repair existing exterior
synthetic stucco after
removal of existg window
exterior metal flanges)
Third Floor

Third Floor

FIXED, NON-OPERABLE
WINDOWS
12'-7 1/2"

Paint existing
exterior metal panels

6 X6
AIR INTAKE

Poured conc.
retaining wall

25'-0"

Issued For:

Second Floor
Paint existing
exterior plaster

Line of 1st fl
ceiling

13'-3"

Exterior lighting (Typ)
-see electrical

15'-3"

Repair holes in metal
panel- Alt: replace
existg panels

8'-0"

Pre-fab
Metal stair

Door w/
transom above

Exterior Elevations

1
Second Floor

New metal panel
Storefront system

2'-5"

Storefront op'g8'-0" wide
Window

© 2018 ARCHIVE D.S.

A-403

PROVIDE FIRE/SMOKE
DAMPER AT ALL FLOOR LEVEL
PENETRATION OF AIR INTAKE

Trash
enclosure
post

Remove existing
exhaust hood

1
A-811

220 W. Congress Remodeling
220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI
BASCO

REPORT

Storefront systemMatch profile/
height of
south elevation
storefront. Align
edge with window
above.

Ground Floor

Ground Floor

Grade

Interim Des. Dev. 091417
Des. Dev.

101917

Review

050818

BIDS

062518

PERMITS

08.17.18

REVISION

10.05.18

REVISION

12.07.18

COORDINATION

01.30.19

BULLETIN #2
CL of entry doors and
windows above

West Elevation

South Elevation

1/8" = 1'-0"

1/8" = 1'-0"

COORDINATION

03.01.19
03.15.19

REVISION #1

05.02.19

REVISION #2

06.12.19

Drawn: KC
Checked: DM
Approved:DM
Project
Number:

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

A-301

 Open
Parapet

Parapet

New Window
-fixed

Fifth Floor

Fifth Floor
PNT-05

Fourth Floor

Fourth Floor

PNT-05

Third Floor

Third Floor

6X6
AIR
INTAKE

FIXED WINDOWSNONOPERABLE

© 2018 ARCHIVE D.S.

PROVIDE FIRE/SMOKE
DAMPER AT ALL FLOOR LEVEL
PENETRATION OF AIR INTAKE

25'-0"

220 W. Congress Remodeling
220 W. Congress St., Detroit, MI
BASCO

REPORT

Exterior Elevations
Issued For:

Second Floor

Second Floor

Interim Des. Dev. 091417
Des. Dev.
Review

101917
05.08.18

PERMIT COMMENTS 10.05.18
BULLETIN 1 12.28.18
COORDINATION 01.30.19
COORDINATION 03.07.19

Ground Floor

East Elevation

0

4'

8'

16'

Ground Floor

North Elevation

1/8" = 1'-0"

0

4'

8'

REVISION 2 06.12.19

16'

1/8" = 1'-0"

Checked:

NOTE: POWER WASH/ SANDBLAST EXISTING
BRICK SURFACE OF ELEVATIONS TO
ACHIEVE "WEATHERED" APPEARANCE

Approved:
Project
Number:
Date:

8 May 2017

615 GRISWOLD . SUITE 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

A-302

 REPORT

EDGE OF COL.
ENCLOSURE
BEYOND

GYP. BD. RETURN

SEALANT
1" GLAZING

1 X WD. STOOL

FLASHING
1" AIR SPACE

2"

MET. PANELS ON
HAT CHANNELS

8" CMU

1/2" DIA BARS @
EVERY OTHER CORE EPOXY GROUT INTO EXISTING FDTN.
10" EMBED.

1 " RIGID INSUL

8"

NEW SIDEWALKELEVATION VARIES.
SEE CIVIL.

5 7/8"

MIN. 6" CONC. SLAB
ON V.B.- MATCH
EXISTG SLAB
THICKNS. DOWELL
INTO EXISTG SLAB@
1'-0" O.C.

PROVIDE WP SEALER
AT LOCATIONS
BELOW GRADE
1" MIN. CONC. LEVELING
BASE- ADJUST TO DEPTH OF SLAB

3'-6"

1 1/2" RIGID INSUL

EXISTG BRICK FDTN/ FTG

1-0"

5
A-403

KAWNEER-TYPE
STOREFRONT SYSTEMSEE SPECS
PAINT EXISTING MET.
PANEL SYSTEM (TYP.)
-COLOR SELECTED
BY ARCHITECT

STOREFRONT BASE DETAIL
SCALE: 1 1/2"=1'-0"

2
A-404

ENLARGED EXTERIOR ELEV AT 5TH FL.
SCALE: 1/4"=1'-0"

220 W. Congress, Detroit, MI

4"

2'-0" MIN.

BREAK METAL
COPINGENTIRE LENGTH
OF FACADE

220 W. Congress Remodeling

1/2 " GYP. BD. ON
3 5/8" BATT INSUL.

COORDINATE LEDGE
DEPTH WITH GRADING
PLAN- SEE CIVIL.

INT. TRIM-WD.

© 2017ARCHIVE D.S.
Enlarged Exterior Elevations
Issued For:

REVIEW

09.28.17

REVIEW

10.20.17

DESIGN DEVELOPMENT 11.20.17
INTERIM CONSTR. DOC. 12.12.17
CD REVIEW 03.28.18

NEW CLADDING ON
EXISTING EXT. COLS.

KAWNEER-TYPE
STOREFRONT SYSTEM
- OR EQUAL

REVIEW

05.08.18

REVIEW

06.08.18

BIDS

06.25.18

PERMIT COMMENTS

09.26.18

BULLETIN 2

03.01.19

REVISION # 1

05.02.19

REVISION # 2

06.12.19

5

A-403

METAL PANEL BASE

Drawn: KC/ DM

ALUMINUM ENTRY DOORS
- 8'-0" X 3'-0"

1
A-404

1

Checked: DM

A-808

Approved: DM

ENLARGED EXTERIOR ELEV AT GROUND LEVEL ENTRY
SCALE: 1/4"=1'-0"
615 GRISWOLD STE. 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

A-403

 W16 X 57 w/
BOTH SIDES
1" DIA THRU-BOLTS
@ 16" O.C.
STAGGERED
EXISTING BRICKGROUT FILL CAVITY
PRIOR TO APPLICATION
TEMPORARY LINTEL

5'-0"

1/2" STL PL- WELDED
TO BOTTOM OF
LINTELS

STOREFRONT
HEAD

PARTIAL PLAN AT WEST STOREFRONT

2

1/2" STL PL- JAMB
CLOSURE

1"

A-811

1"

SCALE: 1/2"=1'-0"
LINTEL- SEE STRUCT

3
A-811

1/2" STL PL- JAMB
CLOSURE

THRESHOLD

BASCO

8'-0"

220 W. Congress St.Detroit

ALIGN STOREFRONT OP'G WIDTH
WITH EDGE OF WINDOWS ABOVESEE SHT A-301

220 W. Congress Renovation

REPORT

SEALANT
3'-7 3/4"

DOOR
SILL

© 2019 ARCHIVE D.S.

WEST OPENING DET.
Issued For:

REVIEW 01.14.19
RFI

3
A-811

8'-0"

1' INSULATED GLASS
IN STOREFRONT FRAME

STOREFRONT OP'G WITH STRUCT REINFORCEMENT

012719

Bulletin 2

030119

Revision #1

05.02.19

UPDATE

05.16.19

REVISION REVIEW

05.31.19

REVISION 2

06.12.19

SCALE: 1 1/2"=1'-0"

Checked:
Approved:
Project
Number:

1
A-811

PARTIAL ELEV AT WEST STOREFRONT

Date:

SCALE: 1/2"=1'-0"

615 GRISWOLD . STE. 1710
DETROIT . MI . 48226

313.963.6687
archiveds.com
A DIVISION OF NEW URBAN DESIGN GROUP

SHEET NUMBER:

A-811

 REHABILITATION
REHABILITATION

STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION & GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC BUILDINGS

Rehabilitation

Rehabilitation is defined as the act or process of making possible a
compatible use for a property through repair, alterations, and additions
while preserving those portions or features which convey its historical,
cultural, or architectural values.

75

 REHABILITATION

Standards for Rehabilitation
1.  A property will be used as it was historically or be given a new use that requires minimal
change to its distinctive materials, features, spaces and spatial relationships.
2.  The historic character of a property will be retained and preserved. The removal of dis­
tinctive materials or alteration of features, spaces and spatial relationships that character­
ize a property will be avoided.
3.  Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its time, place and use. Changes
that create a false sense of historical development, such as adding conjectural features or
elements from other historic properties, will not be undertaken.
4.  Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in their own right will be
retained and preserved.
5.  Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of
craftsmanship that characterize a property will be preserved.
6.  Deteriorated historic features will be repaired rather than replaced. Where the severity
of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature will match
the old in design, color, texture and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing
features will be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence.
7.  Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be undertaken using the gentlest
means possible. Treatments that cause damage to historic materials will not be used.
8.  Archeological resources will be protected and preserved in place. If such resources must
be disturbed, mitigation measures will be undertaken.
9.  New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction will not destroy historic
materials, features, and spatial relationships that characterize the property. The new work
will be differentiated from the old and will be compatible with the historic materials, fea­
tures, size, scale and proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of the property and
its environment.
10. New additions and adjacent or related new construction will be undertaken in such a
manner that, if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic
property and its environment would be unimpaired.

76

 REHABILITATION

GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC BUILDINGS


INTRODUCTION
In Rehabilitation, historic building materials and character-defining
features are protected and maintained as they are in the treatment
Preservation. However, greater latitude is given in the Standards
for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic
Buildings to replace extensively deteriorated, damaged, or miss­
ing features using either the same material or compatible substi­
tute materials. Of the four treatments, only Rehabilitation allows
alterations and the construction of a new addition, if necessary for a
continuing or new use for the historic building.

during rehabilitation work. A historic building undergoing rehabilita­
tion will often require more extensive work. Thus, an overall evalua­
tion of its physical condition should always begin at this level.

Repair Historic Materials and Features

The guidance for the treatment Rehabilitation begins with recom­
mendations to identify the form and detailing of those architectural
materials and features that are important in defining the building’s
historic character and which must be retained to preserve that char­
acter. Therefore, guidance on identifying, retaining, and preserving
character-defining features is always given first.

Next, when the physical condition of character-defining materials
and features warrants additional work, repairing is recommended.
Rehabilitation guidance for the repair of historic materials, such as
masonry, again begins with the least degree of intervention possible.
In rehabilitation, repairing also includes the limited replacement in
kind or with a compatible substitute material of extensively dete­
riorated or missing components of features when there are surviv­
ing prototypes features that can be substantiated by documentary
and physical evidence. Although using the same kind of material is
always the preferred option, a substitute material may be an accept­
able alternative if the form, design, and scale, as well as the substi­
tute material itself, can effectively replicate the appearance of the
remaining features.

Protect and Maintain Historic Materials and
Features

Replace Deteriorated Historic Materials and
Features

After identifying those materials and features that are important
and must be retained in the process of Rehabilitation work, then
protecting and maintaining them are addressed. Protection generally
involves the least degree of intervention and is preparatory to other
work. Protection includes the maintenance of historic materials and
features as well as ensuring that the property is protected before and

Following repair in the hierarchy, Rehabilitation guidance is pro­
vided for replacing an entire character-defining feature with new
material because the level of deterioration or damage of materials
precludes repair. If the missing feature is character defining or if it
is critical to the survival of the building (e.g., a roof), it should be
replaced to match the historic feature based on physical or his-

Identify, Retain, and Preserve Historic
Materials and Features

INTRODUCTION

77

 REHABILITATION

toric documentation of its form and detailing. As with repair, the
preferred option is always replacement of the entire feature in kind
(i.e., with the same material, such as wood for wood). However,
when this is not feasible, a compatible substitute material that can
reproduce the overall appearance of the historic material may be
considered.

significance, reestablishing missing historic features generally
should not be undertaken if the missing features did not coexist
with the features currently on the building. Juxtaposing historic
features that did not exist concurrently will result in a false sense of
the building’s history.

It should be noted that, while the National Park Service guidelines
recommend the replacement of an entire character-defining feature
that is extensively deteriorated, the guidelines never recommend
removal and replacement with new material of a feature that could
reasonably be repaired and, thus, preserved.

Some exterior and interior alterations to a historic building are
generally needed as part of a Rehabilitation project to ensure its
continued use, but it is most important that such alterations do
not radically change, obscure, or destroy character-defining spaces,
materials, features, or finishes. Alterations may include changes
to the site or setting, such as the selective removal of buildings or
other features of the building site or setting that are intrusive, not
character defining, or outside the building’s period of significance.

Design for the Replacement of Missing
Historic Features
When an entire interior or exterior feature is missing, such as a
porch, it no longer plays a role in physically defining the historic
character of the building unless it can be accurately recovered in
form and detailing through the process of carefully documenting
the historic appearance. If the feature is not critical to the survival
of the building, allowing the building to remain without the feature
is one option. But if the missing feature is important to the historic
character of the building, its replacement is always recommended
in the Rehabilitation guidelines as the first, or preferred, course
of action. If adequate documentary and physical evidence exists,
the feature may be accurately reproduced. A second option in a
rehabilitation treatment for replacing a missing feature, particularly
when the available information about the feature is inadequate to
permit an accurate reconstruction, is to design a new feature that
is compatible with the overall historic character of the building.
The new design should always take into account the size, scale, and
material of the building itself and should be clearly differentiated
from the authentic historic features. For properties that have
changed over time, and where those changes have acquired

78

INTRODUCTION

Alterations

Code-Required Work:
Accessibility and Life Safety
Sensitive solutions to meeting code requirements in a
Rehabilitation project are an important part of protecting the
historic character of the building. Work that must be done to meet
accessibility and life-safety requirements must also be assessed for
its potential impact on the historic building, its site, and setting.

Resilience to Natural Hazards
Resilience to natural hazards should be addressed as part of a
Rehabilitation project. A historic building may have existing
characteristics or features that help to address or minimize the
impacts of natural hazards. These should always be used to best
advantage when considering new adaptive treatments so as to have
the least impact on the historic character of the building, its site,
and setting.

 REHABILITATION

Sustainability
Sustainability should be addressed as part of a Rehabilitation proj­
ect. Good preservation practice is often synonymous with sustain­
ability. Existing energy-efficient features should be retained and
repaired. Only sustainability treatments should be considered that
will have the least impact on the historic character of the building.
The topic of sustainability is addressed in detail in The Secretary
of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation & Illustrated Guidelines
on Sustainability for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings.

New Exterior Additions and Related New
Construction
Rehabilitation is the only treatment that allows expanding a historic
building by enlarging it with an addition. However, the Rehabilita­
tion guidelines emphasize that new additions should be considered
only after it is determined that meeting specific new needs cannot
be achieved by altering non-character-defining interior spaces. If the
use cannot be accommodated in this way, then an attached exterior
addition may be considered. New additions should be designed and
constructed so that the character-defining features of the historic
building, its site, and setting are not negatively impacted. Generally,
a new addition should be subordinate to the historic building. A new
addition should be compatible, but differentiated enough so that
it is not confused as historic or original to the building. The same
guidance applies to new construction so that it does not negatively
impact the historic character of the building or its site.

Rehabilitation as a Treatment. When repair and replacement of
deteriorated features are necessary; when alterations or additions to the
property are planned for a new or continued use; and when its depiction
at a particular time is not appropriate, Rehabilitation may be considered
as a treatment. Prior to undertaking work, a documentation plan for
Rehabilitation should be developed.

INTRODUCTION

79

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED
Identifying, retaining and preserving masonry features that are
important in defining the overall historic character of the build­
ing (such as walls, brackets, railings, cornices, window and door
surrounds, steps, and columns) and decorative ornament and
other details, such as tooling and bonding patterns, coatings, and
color.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing or substantially changing masonry features which are
important in defining the overall historic character of the building
so that, as a result, the character is diminished.
Replacing or rebuilding a major portion of exterior masonry walls
that could be repaired, thereby destroying the historic integrity of
the building.
Applying paint or other coatings (such as stucco) to masonry that
has been historically unpainted or uncoated to create a new appear­
ance.
Removing paint from historically-painted masonry.

[1] An alkaline-based
product is appropriate
to use to clean historic
marble because it will
not damage the marble,
which is acid sensitive.

80

MASONRY

Protecting and maintaining masonry by ensuring that historic
drainage features and systems that divert rainwater from masonry
surfaces (such as roof overhangs, gutters, and downspouts) are
intact and functioning properly.

Failing to identify and treat the causes of masonry deterioration,
such as leaking roofs and gutters or rising damp.

Cleaning masonry only when necessary to halt deterioration or
remove heavy soiling.

Cleaning masonry surfaces when they are not heavily soiled to
create a “like-new” appearance, thereby needlessly introducing
chemicals or moisture into historic materials.

Carrying out masonry cleaning tests when it has been determined
that cleaning is appropriate. Test areas should be examined
to ensure that no damage has resulted and, ideally, monitored
over a sufficient period of time to allow long-range effects to be
predicted.

Cleaning masonry surfaces without testing or without sufficient time
for the testing results to be evaluated.

 REHABILITATION

[2] Mid-century modern
building technology
made possible the
form of this parabolashaped structure and
its thin concrete shell
construction. Built in
1961 as the lobby of
the La Concha Motel
in Las Vegas, it was
designed by Paul
Revere Williams, one
of the first prominent
African-American
architects. It was moved
to a new location and
rehabilitated to serve
as the Neon Museum,
and is often cited as
an example of Googie
architecture. Credit:
Photographed with
permission at The Neon
Museum, Las Vegas,
Nevada.

MASONRY

81

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Cleaning soiled masonry surfaces with the gentlest method pos­
sible, such as using low-pressure water and detergent and natural
bristle or other soft-bristle brushes.

Cleaning or removing paint from masonry surfaces using most
abrasive methods (including sandblasting, other media blasting, or
high-pressure water) which can damage the surface of the masonry
and mortar joints.
Using a cleaning or paint-removal method that involves water or
liquid chemical solutions when there is any possibility of freezing
temperatures.
Cleaning with chemical products that will damage some types of
masonry (such as using acid on limestone or marble), or failing to
neutralize or rinse off chemical cleaners from masonry surfaces.

[3] Not Recommended:
The white film on the upper corner
of this historic brick row house is
the result of using a scrub or slurry
coating, rather than traditional
repointing by hand, which is the
recommended method.
[4] Not Recommended:
The quoins on the left side of the
photo show that high-pressure
abrasive blasting used to remove
paint can damage even early 20th­
century, hard-baked, textured brick
and erode the mortar, whereas
the same brick on the right, which
was not abrasively cleaned, is
undamaged.

82

MASONRY

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

Using biodegradable or environmentally-safe cleaning or paintremoval products.
Using paint-removal methods that employ a poultice to which
paint adheres, when possible, to neatly and safely remove old
lead paint.
Using coatings that encapsulate lead paint, when possible, where
the paint is not required to be removed to meet environmental
regulations.
Allowing only trained conservators to use abrasive or laser-clean­
ing methods, when necessary, to clean hard-to-reach, highlycarved, or detailed decorative stone features.
Removing damaged or deteriorated paint only to the next sound
layer using the gentlest method possible (e.g., hand scraping)
prior to repainting.

Removing paint that is firmly adhered to masonry surfaces, unless
the building was unpainted historically and the paint can be
removed without damaging the surface.

Applying compatible paint coating systems to historically-painted
masonry following proper surface preparation.

Failing to follow manufacturers’ product and application instruc­
tions when repainting masonry features.

Repainting historically-painted masonry features with colors
that are appropriate to the historic character of the building and
district.

Using paint colors on historically-painted masonry features that are
not appropriate to the historic character of the building and district.

Protecting adjacent materials when cleaning or removing paint
from masonry features.

Failing to protect adjacent materials when cleaning or removing
paint from masonry features.

Evaluating the overall condition of the masonry to determine
whether more than protection and maintenance, such as repairs
to masonry features, will be necessary.

Failing to undertake adequate measures to ensure the protection of
masonry features.

Repairing masonry by patching, splicing, consolidating, or other­
wise reinforcing the masonry using recognized preservation meth­
ods. Repair may include the limited replacement in kind or with
a compatible substitute material of those extensively deteriorated
or missing parts of masonry features when there are surviving
prototypes, such as terra-cotta brackets or stone balusters.

Removing masonry that could be stabilized, repaired, and con­
served, or using untested consolidants and unskilled personnel,
potentially causing further damage to historic materials.
Replacing an entire masonry feature, such as a cornice or bal­
ustrade, when repair of the masonry and limited replacement of
deteriorated or missing components are feasible.
MASONRY

83

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED
Repairing masonry walls and other masonry features by repointing the mortar joints where there is evidence of deterioration,
such as disintegrating mortar, cracks in mortar joints, loose
bricks, or damaged plaster on the interior.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Removing non-deteriorated mortar from sound joints and then
repointing the entire building to achieve a more uniform appearance.

Removing deteriorated lime mortar carefully by hand raking the
joints to avoid damaging the masonry.
Allowing unskilled workers to use masonry saws or mechanical tools
Using power tools only on horizontal joints on brick masonry in
to remove deteriorated mortar from joints prior to repointing.
conjunction with hand chiseling to remove hard mortar that is
deteriorated or that is a non-historic material which is causing
damage to the masonry units. Mechanical tools should be used
only by skilled masons in limited circumstances and generally not
on short, vertical joints in brick masonry.
Duplicating historic mortar joints in strength, composition, color,
and texture when repointing is necessary. In some cases, a limebased mortar may also be considered when repointing Portland
cement mortar because it is more flexible.

Repointing masonry units with mortar of high Portland cement
content (unless it is the content of the historic mortar).
Using “surface grouting” or a “scrub” coating technique, such as
a “sack rub” or “mortar washing,” to repoint exterior masonry units
instead of traditional repointing methods.
Repointing masonry units (other than concrete) with a synthetic
caulking compound instead of mortar.

Duplicating historic mortar joints in width and joint profile when
repointing is necessary.

Changing the width or joint profile when repointing.

Repairing stucco by removing the damaged material and patching Removing sound stucco or repairing with new stucco that is differ­
with new stucco that duplicates the old in strength, composition, ent in composition from the historic stucco.
color, and texture.
Patching stucco or concrete without removing the source of deterio­
ration.
Replacing deteriorated stucco with synthetic stucco, an exterior
finish and insulation system (EFIS), or other non-traditional materi­
als.

84

MASONRY

 REHABILITATION

MASONRY: STONE, BRICK, TERRA COTTA, CONCRETE, ADOBE, STUCCO, AND MORTAR
RECOMMENDED
Using mud plaster or a compatible lime-plaster adobe render,
when appropriate, to repair adobe.

NOT RECOMMENDED
Applying cement stucco, unless it already exists, to adobe.

Sealing joints in concrete with appropriate flexible sealants and
backer rods, when necessary.
Cutting damaged concrete back to remove the source of deterio­
ration, such as corrosion on metal reinforcement bars. The new
patch must be applied carefully so that it will bond satisfactorily
with and match the historic concrete.

Patching damaged concrete without removing the source of deterio­
ration.

[5] Rebars in the reinforced concrete ceiling have rusted, causing the concrete
to spall. The rebars must be cleaned of rust before the concrete can be patched.
[6] Some areas of the concrete brise soleil screen on this building constructed in
1967 are badly deteriorated. If the screen cannot be repaired, it may be replaced
in kind or with a composite substitute material with the same appearance as the
concrete.

MASONRY

85

 REHABILITATION

[7] (a) J.W. Knapp’s Department Store, built 1937-38, in Lansing, MI, was
constructed with a proprietary material named “Maul Macotta” made of
enameled steel and cast-in-place concrete panels. Prior to its rehabilitation,
a building inspection revealed that, due to a flaw in the original design and
construction, the material was deteriorated beyond repair. The architects for the
rehabilitation project devised a replacement system (b) consisting of enameled
aluminum panels that matched the original colors (c). Photos and drawing (a-b):
Quinn Evans Architects; Photo (c): James Haefner Photography.

86

MASONRY

  1

PRESERVATION
BRIEFS

Assessing Cleaning and Water-Repellent
Treatments for Historic Masonry Buildings
Robert C. Mack, AlA
Anne Grimmer
u.s. Department of the Interior
National Park Service
Cultural Resources
Heritage Preservation Services

Inappropriate cleaning and coating treatments are a major
cause of damage to historic masonry buildings. While
either or both treatments may be appropriate in some cases,
they can be very destructive to historic masonry if they are
not selected carefully. Historic masonry, as considered
here, includes stone, brick, architectural terra cotta, cast
stone, concrete and concrete block. It is frequently cleaned
because cleaning is equated with improvement. Cleaning
may sometimes be followed by the application of a waterrepellent coating. However, unless these procedures are
carried out under the guidance and supervision of an
architectural conservator, they may result in irrevocable
damage to the historic resource.
The purpose of this Brief is to provide information on the
variety of cleaning methods and materials that are available
for use on the exterior of historic masonry buildings, and
to provide guidance in selecting the most appropriate
method or combination of methods. The difference between

water-repellent coatings and waterproof coatings
is explained, and the purpose of each, the suitability of
their application to historic masonry buildings, and the
possible consequences of their inappropriate use are
discussed.
The Brief is intended to help develop sensitivity to the
qualities of historic masonry that makes it so special, and
to assist historic building owners and property managers
in working cooperatively with architects, architectural
conservators and contractors (Fig. 1). Although specifically
intended for historic buildings, the information is applicable
to all masonry buildings. This publication updates and
expands Preservation BriefI: The Cleaning and Waterproof
Coating of Masonry Buildings. The Brief is not meant to be
a cleaning manual or a guide for preparing specifications.
Rather, it provides general information to raise awareness
of the many factors involved in selecting cleaning and
water-repellent treatments for historic masonry buildings.

Figure 1. Low-to medium- pressure steam (hot-pressurized water was/ling), is being used to clean the exterior of th e U.S. Tariff Commission Building, the
first marble building constructed in Wa shington, D.C., in 183 9. This method was selected by an architecural co nservator as the "gentlest means possible"
to clean the marble. Steam ca n soft en heavy soiling deposits such as th ose on the cornice and column capitals, and facilit ate easy removal. Note how
these depos its have been removed from the right side oJ the cornice which has already been cleaned.

 Figure 2. Biological growth as shown on this marble f oundation
can us ually be removed using a low-press ure water wash, possibly witiz
a non-ionic detergent added to it, and scrubbing with a natura l or
syllthetic bristle bru sh.

Figu re 3. Th is small test area has revealed a red brick patch that does 110t
match the original beige brick. Th is may explain why the building was
painted, and may sugges t to the owner that it may be preferable to keep
it pa inted.

Preparing for a Cleaning Project

treatment in a particular historic period? Many buildings
were painted at the time of construction or shortly thereafter;
retention of the paint, therefore, may be more appropriate
historically than removing it. And, if the building appears
to have been painted for a long time, it is also important
to think about whether the paint is part of the character of
the historic building and if it has acquired significance over
time.

Reasons for cleaning. First, it is important to determine
whether it is appropriate to clean the masonry. The objective
of cleaning a historic masonry building must be considered
carefully before arriving at a decision to clean. There are
several major reasons for cleaning a historic masonry
building: improve the appearance of the building by
removing unattractive dirt or soiling materials, or nonhistoric paint from the masonry; retard deterioration by
removing soiling materials that may be damaging the
masonry; or provide a clean surface to accurately match
rep ointing mortars or patching compounds, or to conduct
a condition survey of the masonry.
Identify what is to be removed. The general nature and
source of dirt or soiling material on a building must be
identified to remove it in the gentlest means possible that is, in the most effective, yet least harmful, manner.
Soot and smoke, for example, require a different cleaning
agent to remove than oil stains or metallic stains. Other
common cleaning problems include biological growth such
as mold or mildew, and organic matter such as the tendrils
left on masonry after removal of ivy (Fig. 2).
Consider the historic appearance of the building. If the
proposed cleaning is to remove paint, it is important in
each case to learn whether or not unpainted masonry is
historically appropriate. And, it is necessary to consider
why the building was painted (Fig. 3). Was it to cover bad
rep ointing or unmatched repairs? Was the building
painted to protect soft brick or to conceal deteriorating
stone? Or, was painted masonry simply a fashionable

2

Consider the practicalities of cleaning or paint removal.
Some gypsum or sulfate crusts may have become integral
with the stone and, if cleaning could result in removing
some of the stone surface, it may be preferable not to clean.
Even where unpainted masonry is appropriate, the retention
of the paint may be more practical than removal in terms
of long range preservation of the masonry. In some cases,
however, removal of the paint may be desirable. For
example, the old paint layers may have built up to such
an extent that removal is necessary to ensure a sound
surface to which the new paint will adhere.
Study the masonry. Although not always necessary, in
some instances it can be beneficial to have the coating or
paint type, color, and layering on the masonry researched
before attempting its removal. Analysis of the nature of
the soiling or of the paint to be removed from the masonry,
as well as guidance on the appropriate cleaning method,
may be provided by professional consultants, including
architectural conservators, conservation scientists and
preservation architects. The State Historic Preservation
Office (SHPO), local historic district commissions,
architectural review boards and preservation-oriented
websites may also be able to supply useful information on
masonry cleaning techniques.

 Understanding the Building Materials
The construction of the building must be considered when
developing a cleaning program because inappropriate
cleaning can have a deleterious effect on the masonry as
well as on other building materials. The masonry material
or materials must be correctly identified. It is sometimes
difficult to distinguish one type of stone from another; for
example, certain sandstones can be easily confused with
limestones. Or, what appears to be natural stone may not
be stone at all, but cast stone or concrete. Historically, cast
stone and architectural terra cotta were frequently used in
combination with natural stone, especially for trim elements
or on upper stories of a building where, from a distance,
these substitute materials looked like real stone (Fig. 4).
Other features on historic buildings that appear to be stone,
such as decorative cornices, entablatures and window
hoods, may not even be masonry, but metal.
Identify prior treatments. Previous treatments of the
building and its surroundings should be researched and
building maintenance records should be obtained, if
available. Sometimes if streaked or spotty areas do not
seem to get cleaner following an initial cleaning, closer
inspection and analysis may be warranted. The
discoloration may turn out not to be dirt but the remnant
of a water-repellent coating applied long ago which has
darkened the surface of the masonry over time (Fig. 5).
Successful removal may require testing several cleaning
agents to find something that will dissolve and remove the
coating. Complete removal may not always be possible.
Repairs may have been stained to match a dirty building,
and cleaning may make these differences apparent. Deicing salts used near the building that have dissolved can

Figure 4. The foundation of this brick building is limestone, but th e
decorative trim above is architectural terra cotta intended to simuillte
stone.

Figure 5. Repeated wllter washing did rIOt remove the staining inside
this limestone porte cochere. Upon closer examination, it was
determined to be a water-repellent coating that had been applied many
years earlier. An alkaline cleaner may be effective in removing it.

migrate into the masonry. Cleaning may draw the salts to
the surface, where they will appear as efflorescence (a
powdery, white substance), which may require a second
treatment to be removed. Allowances for dealing with
such unknown factors, any of which can be a potential
problem, should be included when investigating cleaning
methods and materials. Just as more than one kind of
masonry on a historic building may necessitate multiple
cleaning approaches, unknown conditions that are
encountered may also require additional cleaning
treatments.
Choose the appropriate cleaner. The importance of testing
cleaning methods and materials cannot be over emphasized.
Applying the wrong cleaning agents to historic masonry
can have disastrous results. Acidic cleaners can be extremely
damaging to acid-sensitive stones, such as marble and
limestone, resulting in etching and dissolution of these
stones. Other kinds of masonry can also be damaged by
incompatible cleaning agents, or even by cleaning agents
that are usually compatible. There are also numerous kinds
of sandstone, each with a considerably different geological
composition. While an acid-based cleaner may be safely
used on some sandstones, others are acid-sensitive and
can be severely etched or dissolved by an acid cleaner.
Some sandstones contain water-soluble minerals and can
be eroded by water cleaning. And, even if the stone type
is correctly identified, stones, as well as some bricks, may
contain unexpected impurities, such as iron particles, that
may react negatively with a particular cleaning agent and
result in staining. Thorough understanding of the physical
and chemical properties of the masonry will help avoid
the inadvertent selection of damaging cleaning agents.

3

 bottom and proceeding to the top of the building always
keeping all surfaces wet below the area being cleaned.
The rationale for this approach is based on the principle
that dirty water or cleaning effluent dripping from cleaning
in progress above will leave streaks on a dirty surface but
will not streak a clean surface as long as it is kept wet and
rinsed frequently.
Water Cleaning

Figure 6. Timed water soaking can be very effective for cleaning
limestone and marble as shown here at the Marble Collegiate Church
in New York City. In this case, a twelve-hour water soak using a
multi-nozzle manifold was followed by a final water rinse. Photo: Diane
S. Kaese, Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, lnc., N. Y. , N. Y.

Other building materials also may be affected by the
cleaning process. Some chemicals, for example, may have
a corrosive effect on paint or glass. The portions of building
elements most vulnerable to deterioration may not be
visible, such as embedded ends of iron window bars.
Other totally unseen items, such as iron cramps or ties
which hold the masonry to the structural frame, also may
be subject to corrosion from the use of chemicals or even
from plain water. The only way to prevent problems in
these cases is to study the building construction in detail
and evaluate proposed cleaning methods with this
information in mind. However, due to the very likely
possibility of encountering unknown factors, any cleaning
project involving historic masonry should be viewed as
unique to that particular building.

Cleaning Methods and Materials
Masonry cleaning methods generally are divided into
three major groups: water, chemical, and abrasive. Water
methods soften the dirt or soiling material and rinse the
deposits from the masonry surface. Chemical cleaners
react with dirt, soiling material or paint to effect their
removal, after which the cleaning effluent is rinsed off the
masonry surface with water. Abrasive methods include
blasting with grit, and the use of grinders and sanding
discs, all of which mechanically remove the dirt, soiling
material or paint (and, usually, some of the masonry
surface). Abrasive cleaning is also often followed with a
water rinse. Laser cleaning, although not discussed here
in detail, is another technique that is used sometimes by
conservators to clean small areas of historic masonry. It
can be quite effective for cleaning limited areas, but it is
expensive and generally not practical for most historic
masonry cleaning projects.
Although it may seem contrary to common sense, masonry
cleaning projects should be carried out starting at the
4

Water cleaning methods are generally the gentlest means
possible, and they can be used safely to remove dirt from
all types of historic masonry.* There are essentially four
kinds of water-based methods: soaking; pressure water
washing; water washing supplemented with non-ionic
detergent; and steam, or hot-pressurized water cleaning.
Once water cleaning has been completed, it is often
necessary to follow up with a water rinse to wash off the
loosened soiling material from the masonry.
Soaking. Prolonged spraying or misting with water is
particularly effective for cleaning limestone and marble.
It is also a good method for removing heavy accumulations
of soot, sulfate crusts or gypsum crusts that tend to form
in protected areas of a building not regularly washed by
rain. Water is distributed to lengths of punctured hose or
pipe with non-ferrous fittings hung from moveable
scaffolding or a swing stage that continuously mists the
surface of the masonry with a very fine spray (Fig. 6). A
timed on-off spray is another approach to using this
cleaning technique. After one area has been cleaned, the
apparatus is moved on to another. Soaking is often used
in combination with water washing and is also followed
by a final water rinse. Soaking is a very slow methodit may take several days or a week-but it is a very gentle
method to use on historic masonry.
Water Washing. Washing with low-pressure or mediumpressure water is probably one of the most commonly
used methods for removing dirt or other pollutant soiling
from historic masonry buildings (Fig. 7). Starting with a
very low pressure (100 psi or below), even using a garden
hose, and progressing as needed to slightly higher pressure
-generally no higher than 300-400 psi-is always the
recommended way to begin. Scrubbing with natural bristle
or synthetic bristle brushes-never metal which can abrade
the surface and leave metal particles that can stain the
masonry-can help in cleaning areas of the masonry that
are especially dirty.
Water Washing with Detergents. Non-ionic detergents
-which are not the same as soaps -are synthetic organic
compounds that are especially effective in removing oily
soil. (Examples of some of the numerous proprietary nonionic detergents include Igepal by GAF, Tergitol by Union
Carbide and Triton by Rohm & Haas.) Thus, the addition
of a non-ionic detergent, or surfactant, to a low- or mediumpressure water wash can be a useful aid in the cleaning
'Water cleaning methods may not be appropriate to use on some badly
deteriorated masonry because water may exacerbate the deterioration,
or on gypsum or alabaster which are very soluble in water.

 process. (A non-ionic detergent, unlike most household
detergents, does not leave a solid, visible residue on the
masonry.) Adding a non-ionic detergent and scrubbing
with a natural bristle or synthetic bristle brush can facilitate
cleaning textured or intricately carved masonry. This
should be followed with a final water rinse.
Steam/Hot-Pressurized Water Cleaning. Steam cleaning
is actually low-pressure hot water washing because the
steam condenses almost immediately upon leaving the
hose. This is a gentle and effective method for cleaning
stone and particularly for acid-sensitive stones. Steam can
be especially useful in removing built-up soiling deposits
and dried-up plant materials, such as ivy disks and tendrils.
It can also be an efficient means of cleaning carved stone
details and, because it does not generate a lot of liquid
water, it can sometimes be appropriate to use for cleaning
interior masonry (Figs. 8-9).
Potential hazards of water cleaning. Despite the fact that
water-based methods are generally the most gentle, even
they can be damaging to historic masonry. Before beginning
a water cleaning project, it is important to make sure that
all mortar joints are sound and that the building is
watertight. Otherwise water can seep through the walls
to the interior, resulting in rusting metal anchors and
stained and ruined plaster.
Some water supplies may contain traces of iron and copper
which may cause masonry to discolor. Adding a chelating
or complexing agent to the water, such as EDTA (ethylene
diamine tetra-acetic acid), which inactivates other metallic
ions, as well as softens minerals and water hardness, will
help prevent staining on light-colored masonry.
Any cleaning method involving water should never be
done in cold weather or if there is any likelihood of frost
or freezing because water within the masonry can freeze,
causing spalling and cracking. Since a masonry wall may
take over a week to dry after cleaning, no water cleaning
should be permitted for several days prior to the first
average frost date, or even earlier if local forecasts predict
cold weather.
Most essential of all, it is important to be aware that using
water at too high a pressure, a practice common to "power
washing" and "water blasting", is very abrasive and can
easily etch marble and other soft stones, as well as some
types of brick (Figs. 10-11). In addition, the distance of the
nozzle from the masonry surface and the type of nozzle,
as well as gallons per minute (gpm), are also important
variables in a water cleaning process that can have a
significant impact on the outcome of the project. This is
why it is imperative that the cleaning be closely monitored
to ensure that the cleaning operators do not raise the
pressure or bring the nozzle too close to the masonry in
an effort to "speed up" the process. The appearance of
grains of stone or sand in the cleaning effluent on the
ground is an indication that the water pressure may be too
high.

Figure 7. Glazed architectural terra cotta often may be cleaned
successfully with a low-pressu re water wash and hand scrubbing
su pplemented, if necessary, with a non-ionic detergent. Pho to: Na tional
Park Service Files.

Chemical Cleaning
Chemical cleaners, generally in the form of proprietary
products, are another material frequently used to clean
historic masonry. They can remove dirt, as well as paint
and other coatings, metallic and plant stains, and graffiti.
Chemical cleaners used to remove dirt and soiling include
acids, alkalies and organic compounds. Acidic cleaners,
of course, should not be used on masonry that is acid
sensitive. Paint removers are alkaline, based on organic
solvents or other chemicals.
Chemical Cleaners to Remove Dirt
Both alkaline and acidic cleaning treatments include the
use of water. Both cleaners are also likely to contain
surfactants (wetting agents), that facilitate the chemical
reaction that removes the dirt. Generally, the masonry is
wet first for both types of cleaners, then the chemical
cleaner is sprayed on at very low pressure or brushed onto
the surface. The cleaner is left to dwell on the masonry
for an amount of time recommended by the product
manufacturer or, preferably, determined by testing, and
rinsed off with a low- or moderate-pressure cold, or
sometimes hot, water wash. More than one application
of the cleaner may be necessary, and it is always a
good practice to test the product manufacturer's
recommendations concerning dilution rates and dwell
times. Because each cleaning situation is unique, dilution
rates and dwell times can vary considerably. The masonry
surface may be scrubbed lightly with natural or synthetic
bristle brushes prior to rinsing. After rinsing, pH strips
should be applied to the surface to ensure that the masonry
has been neutralized completely.

5

 - but they may not be as effective as they are on acidsensitive masonry.) Alkaline cleaning products consist
primarily of two ingredients: a non-ionic detergent or
surfactant; and an alkali, such as potassium hydroxide or
ammonium hydroxide. Like acidic cleaners, alkaline
products are usually applied to pre-wet masonry, allowed
to dwell, and then rinsed off with water. (Longer dwell
times may be necessary with alkaline cleaners than with
acidic cleaners.) Two additional steps are required to
remove alkaline cleaners after the initial rinse. First the
masonry is given a slightly acidic wash-often with acetic
acid-to neutralize it, and then it is rinsed again with water.
Chemical Cleaners to Remove Paint and Other Coatings,
Stains and Graffiti

Figure 8. (Left) Low-press ure (und er 100 psi) steam cleaning
(hot-press urized water washing), is part of the regular maintenance
program at the Jefferson Memorial, Wa shington , D.C. The white marble
interior of this open structure is subject to constant soiling by birds,
in sects and visitors. (Right) Th is portable steam cleaner enables prompt
clea nup when necessary. Photos: Na tional Park Service Files.

Acidic Cleaners. Acid-based cleaning products may be
used on non-acid sensitive masonry, which generally
includes: granite, most sandstones, slate, unglazed brick
and unglazed architectural terra cotta, cast stone and
concrete (Fig. 12). Most commercial acidic cleaners are
composed primarily of hydrofluoric acid, and often include
some phosphoric acid to prevent rust-like stains from
developing on the masonry after the cleaning. Acid cleaners
are applied to the pre-wet masonry which should be kept
wet while the acid is allowed to "work", and then removed
with a water wash.
Alkaline Cleaners. Alkaline cleaners should be used on
acid-sensitive masonry, including: limestone, polished
and unpolished marble, calcareous sandstone, glazed brick
and glazed architectural terra cotta, and polished granite.
(Alkaline cleaners may also be used sometimes on masonry
materials that are not acid sensitive-after testing, of course

Removing paint and some other coatings, stains and graffiti
can best be accomplished with alkaline paint removers,
organic solvent paint removers, or other cleaning
compounds. The removal of layers of paint from a masonry
surface usually involves applying the remover either by
brush, roller or spraying, followed by a thorough water
wash. As with any chemical cleaning, the manufacturer's
recommendations regarding application procedures should
always be tested before beginning work.
Alkaline Paint Removers. These are usually of much the
same composition as other alkaline cleaners, containing
potassium or ammonium hydroxide, or trisodium
phosphate. They are used to remove oil, latex and acrylic
paints, and are effective for removing multiple layers of
paint. Alkaline cleaners may also remove some acrylic,
water-repellent coatings. As with other alkaline cleaners,
both an acidic neutralizing wash and a final water rinse
are generally required following the use of alkaline paint
removers.
Organic Solvent Paint Removers. The formulation of
organic solvent paint removers varies and may include a
combination of solvents, including methylene chloride,
methanol, acetone, xylene and toluene.

Figure 9. (Left) This small steam cleaner- the size of a vacuum cleaner- offers a very controlled and gentle means of cleaning limited, or hard-to-reach
areas or carved stone details. (Right) It is particularly useful for interiors where it is important to keep moisture to a minumum, such as inside
the Washington Monument, Washington, D.C., where it was used to clean the commemorative stones. Photos: Audrey T. Tepper.

6

 Figure 11 . Rinsing with high-pressure water following chemical
cleaning has left a horizontal line of abrasion across the bricks on this
late-19th century row house.

If not carefully chosen, chemical cleaners can react adversely

Figure 10. High-pressure water washing too close to the surface has
abraded and, co nsequently, marred the limestone on this early-20th
century building.

Other Paint Removers and Cleaners. Other cleaning
compounds that can be used to remove paint and some
painted graffiti from historic masonry include paint
removers based on N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP), or on
petroleum-based compounds. Removing stains, whether
they are industrial (smoke, soot, grease or tar), metallic
(iron or copper), or biological (plant and fungal) in origin,
depends on carefully matching the type of remover to the
type of stain (Fig. 13). Successful removal of stains from
historic masonry often requires the application of a number
of different removers before the right one is found. The
removal of layers of paint from a masonry surface is usually
accomplished by applying the remover either by brush,
roller or spraying, followed by a thorough water wash
(Fig. 14).
Potential hazards of chemical cleaning. Since most
chemical cleaning methods involve water, they have many
of the potential problems of plain water cleaning. Like
water methods, they should not be used in cold weather
because of the possibility of freezing. Chemical cleaning
should never be undertaken in temperatures below 40
degrees F (4 degrees C), and generally not below 50 degrees
F. In addition, many chemical cleaners simply do not work
in cold temperatures. Both acidic and alkaline cleaners
can be dangerous to cleaning operators and, clearly, there
are environmental concerns associated with the use of
chemical cleaners.

with many types of masonry. Obviously, acidic cleaners
should not be used on acid-sensitive materials; however,
it is not always clear exactly what the composition is of
any stone or other masonry material. For, this reason,
testing the cleaner on an inconspicuous spot on the building
is always necessary. While certain acid-based cleaners
may be appropriate if used as directed on a particular type
of masonry, if left too long or if not adequately rinsed from
the masonry they can have a negative effect. For example,
hydrofluoric acid can etch masonry leaving a hazy residue
(whitish deposits of silica or calcium fluoride salts) on the
surface. While this efflorescence may usually be removed
by a second cleaning-although it is likely to be expensive
and time-consuming- hydrofluoric acid can also leave
calcium fluoride salts or a colloidal silica deposit on
masonry which may be impossible to remove (Fig. 15).
Other acids, particularly hydrochloric (muriatic) acid,
which is very powerful, should not be used on historic
masonry, because it can dissolve lime-based mortar,
damage brick and some stones, and leave chloride deposits
on the masonry.

Figure 12. A mild acidic clean ing agent is being used to clean this
heavily soiled brick and granite building. Additional application s of the
cleaner and hand-scrubbing, and even poulticing, may be necessary to
remove the dark stains on th e gran ite arches below. Photo: Sharon C.
Pa rk, FAlA.

7

 Alkaline cleaners can stain sandstones that contain a ferrous
compound. Before using an alkaline cleaner on sandstone
it is always important to test it, since it may be difficult to
know whether a particular sandstone may contain a ferrous
compound. Some alkaline cleaners, such as sodium
hydroxide (caustic soda or lye) and ammonium bifluoride,
can also damage or leave disfiguring brownish-yellow
stains and, in most cases, should not be used on historic
masonry. Although alkaline cleaners will not etch a
masonry surface as acids can, they are caustic and can burn
the surface. In addition, alkaline cleaners can deposit
potentially damaging salts in the masonry which can be
difficult to rinse thoroughly.
Abrasive and Mechanical Cleaning
Generally, abrasive cleaning methods are not appropriate
for use on historic masonry buildings. Abrasive cleaning
methods are just that-abrasive. Grit blasters, grinders,
and sanding discs all operate by abrading the dirt or paint
off the surface of the masonry, rather than reacting with
the dirt and the masonry which is how water and chemical
methods work. Since the abrasives do not differentiate
between the dirt and the masonry, they can also remove
the outer surface of the masonry at the same time, and
result in permanently damaging the masonry. Brick,
architectural terra cotta, soft stone, detailed carvings, and
polished surfaces are especially susceptible to physical and
aesthetic damage by abrasive methods. Brick and
architectural terra cotta are fired products which have a
smooth, glazed surface which can be removed by abrasive
blasting or grinding (Figs. 18-19). Abrasively-cleaned
masonry is damaged aesthetically as well as physically,
and it has a rough surface which tends to hold dirt and
the roughness will make future cleaning more difficult.
Abrasive cleaning processes can also increase the likelihood
of subsurface cracking of the masonry. Abrasion of carved
details causes a rounding of sharp corners and other loss
of delicate features, while abrasion of polished surfaces
removes the polished finish of stone.

Figure 13. Sometimes it may be preferable to paint over a thick asphaltic
coating rather than try to remove it, because it can be difficult to remove
completely. However, in this case, many layers of asphaltic coating
were removed through multiple applications of a heavy duty chemical
cleaner. Each application of the cleaner was left to dwell following the
manufacturer's reccommendations, and then rinsed thoroughly.
(As much as possible of the asphalt was first removed with wooden
scrapers.) Although not all the asphalt was removed, this was
determined to be an acceptable level of cleanliness for the project.

8

Figure 14. Chemical removal of paint from this brick building has
revealed that the cornice and window hoods are metal rather than
masonry.

Mortar joints, especially those with lime mortar, also can
be eroded by abrasive or mechanical cleaning. In some
cases, the damage may be visual, such as loss of joint detail
or increased joint shadows. As mortar joints constitute a
significant portion of the masonry surface (up to 20 per
cent in a brick wall), this can result in the loss of a
considerable amount of the historic fabric. Erosion of the
mortar joints may also permit increased water penetration,
which will likely necessitate repainting.

Figure 15. The whitish deposits left on the brick by a chemical paint
remover may have resulted from inadequate rinsing or from the
chemical being left on the surface too long and may be impossible to
remove.

 Poulticing to Remove Stains and Graffiti

a
b

c

Graffiti and stains, which have penetrated into the masonry,
often are best removed by using a poultice. A poultice
consists of an absorbent material or clay powder (such as
kaolin or fuller 's earth, or even shredded paper or paper
towels), mixed with a liquid (solvent or other remover) to
form a paste which is applied to the stain (Figs. 16-17).
As it dries, the paste absorbs the staining material so that
it is not redeposited on the masonry surface. Some
commercial cleaning products and paint removers are
specially formulated as a paste or gel that will cling to a
vertical surface and remain moist for a longer period of
time in order to prolong the action of the chemical on the
stain. Pre-mixed poultices are also available as a paste or
in powder form needing only the addition of the
appropriate liquid. The masonry must be pre-wet before
applying an alkaline cleaning agent, but not when using
a solvent. Once the stain has been removed, the masonry
must be rinsed thoroughly.

d
Figure 16. (a) The limestone base was heavily stained by runoff
from the bronze statue above. (b) A poultice consisting of copper
stain remover and ammonia mixed with fuller's earth was applied
to the stone base and covered with plastic sheeting to keep it from
drying out too quickly. (c) As the poultice dried, it pulled the stain
out of the stone. (d) The poultice residue was removed carefully
from the stone surface with wooden scrapers and the stone was
rinsed with wa ter. Photos: John Dugger.

Figure 17. A poultice is being used to remove salts from the brownstone
statuary on the facade of this late-19 th century stone chu rch. Pho to:
Nationa l Park Serv ice Files .

9

 Figure 18. The glazed bricks in the center of the pier were covered by a
signboard that protected them being damaged by the sandblasting
which removed the glaze from the surrounding bricks .

Figure 19. A comparison of undamaged bricks surroundng the electrical
conduit with the rest of the brick facade emphasizes the severity of the
erosion caused by sandblasting.

Abrasive Blasting. Blasting with abrasive grit or another
abrasive m aterial is the most frequently used abrasive
method. Sandblasting is most commonly associated with
abrasive cleaning. Finely ground silica or glass powder,
glass beads, ground garnet, powdered walnut and other
ground nut shells, grain hulls, aluminum oxide, plastic
particles and even tiny pieces of sponge, are just a few of
the other materials that have also been used for abrasive
cleaning. Although abrasive blasting is not an appropriate
method of cleaning historic masonry, it can be safely used
to clean some materials. Finely-powdered walnut shells
are commonly used for cleaning monumental bronze
sculpture, and skilled conservators clean delicate museum
objects and finely detailed, carved stone features with very
small, micro-abrasive units using aluminum oxide.

A number of current approaches to abrasive blasting rely
on materials that are not usually thought of as abrasive,
and not as commonly associated with traditional
abrasive grit cleaning. Some patented abrasive cleaning
processes - one dry, one wet -use finely-ground glass
powder intended to "erase" or remove dirt and surface
soiling only, but not paint or stains (Fig. 20). Cleaning with
baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) is another patented
process. Bakmg soda blasting is being used in some
communities as a means of quick graffiti removal.
However, it should not be used on historic masonry which
it can easily abrade and can permanently "etch" the graffiti
into the stone; it can also leave potentially damaging salts
in the stone which cannot be removed. Most of these
abrasive grits may be used either dry or wet, although dry
grit tends to be used more frequently.

Figure 20. (Left) A comparison of the limestone surface of a 1920s office building before and after "cleaning" with a proprietary abrasive process using
fine glass powder clearly shows the effectiveness of this method. But this is an abrasive technique and it has "cleaned" by removing part of the masonry
surface with the dirt. Because it is abrasive, it is generally not recommended for large-scale cleaning of historic masonry, although it may be suitable to
use in certain, very limited cases under controlled circumstances. (Right) A vacum chamber where the used glass powder is collected for environmentally
safe disposal is a unique feature of this particular process. The specially-trained operators in the chamber wear protective clothing, masks and breathing
equipment. Photos: Tom Keohan.

10

 Testing cleaning methods. In order to determine the

gentlest means possible, several cleaning methods or
materials may have to be tested prior to selecting the best
one to use on the building. Testing should always begin
with the gentlest and least invasive method proceeding
gradually, if necessary, to more complicated methods, or
a combination of methods. All too often simple methods,
such as low-pressure water wash, are not even considered,
yet they frequently are effective, safe, and not expensive.
Water of slightly higher pressure or with a non-ionic
detergent additive also may be effective. It is worth
repeating that these methods should always be tested prior
to considering harsher methods; they are safer for the
building and the environment, often safer for the applicator,
and relatively inexpensive.

Figure 21. Low-pressure blasting with ice pellets or ice crystals (l eft) is
an abrasive cleaning method that is sometimes recommended for use
on interior masonry because it does not involve large amounts of water.
However, like other abrasive materials, ice crystals "clean" by removing
a portion of th e masonry surface with the dirt, and may not remove
sOllie sta ins that have penetrated into the l1lasollry withou t causing
furt her abrasion (right) . Photos: Audrey T. Tepper.

Ice particles, or pelletized dry ice (carbon dioxide or C02),
are another medium used as an abrasive cleaner (Fig. 21).
TItis is also too abrasive to be used on most historic masonry,
but it may have practical application for removing mastics
or asphaltic coatings from some substrates.
Some of these processes are promoted as being more
environmentally safe and not damaging to historic masonry
buildings. However, it must be remembered that they are
abrasive and that they "clean" by removing a small portion
of the masonry surface, even though it may be only a
minuscule portion. The fact that they are essentially
abrasive treatments must always be taken into consideration
when planning a masonry cleaning project. In general,

abrasive methods should not be used to clean historic
masonry buildings. In some, very limited instances, highlycontrolled, gentle abrasive cleaning may be appropriate
on selected, hard-to-clean areas of a historic masonry
building if carried out under the watchful supervision of
a professional conservator. But, abrasive cleaning should
never be used on an entire building.
Grinders and Sanding Disks. Grinding the masonry
surface with mechanical grinders and sanding disks is
another means of abrasive cleaning that should not be used
on historic masonry. Like abrasive blasting, grinders and
disks do not really clean masonry but instead grind away
and abrasively remove and, thus, damage the masonry
surface itself rather than remove just the soiling material.

Planning A Cleaning Project
Once the masonry and soiling material or paint have been
identified, and the condition of the masonry has been
evaluated, planning for the cleaning project can begin.

The level of cleanliness desired also should be determined
prior to selection of a cleaning method. Obviously, the
intent of cleaning is to remove most of the dirt, soiling
material, stains, paint or other coating. A "brand new"
appearance, however, may be inappropriate for an older
building, and may require an overly harsh cleaning method
to be achieved. When undertaking a cleaning project, it is
important to be aware that some stains simply may not be
removable. It may be wise, therefore, to agree upon a
slightly lower level of cleanliness that will serve as the
standard for the cleaning project. The precise amount of
residual dirt considered acceptable may depend on the
type of masonry, the type of soiling and difficulty of total
removal, and local environmental conditions.
Cleaning tests should be carried out in an area of sufficient
size to give a true indication of their effectiveness. It is
preferable to conduct the test in an inconspicuous location
on the building so that it will not be obvious if the test is
not successful. A test area may be quite small to begin,
sometimes as small as six square inches, and gradually
may be increased in size as the most appropriate methods
and cleaning agents are determined. Eventually the test
area may be expanded to a square yard or more, and it
should include several masonry units and mortar joints
(Fig. 22). It should be remembered that a single building
may have several types of masonry and that even similar
materials may have different surface finishes. Each material
and different finish should be tested separately. Cleaning
tests should be evaluated only after the masonry has dried
completely. The results of the tests may indicate that

several methods of cleaning should be used on a single
building.
When feasible, test areas should be allowed to weather for
an extended period of time prior to final evaluation. A
waiting period of a full year would be ideal in order to
expose the test patch to a full range of seasons. If this is
not possible, the test patch should weather for at least a
month or two. For any building which is considered
historically important, the delay is insignificant compared
to the potential damage and disfigurement which may
result from using an incompletely tested method. The

successfully cleaned test patch should be protected as it
will serve as a standard against which the entire cleaning
project will be measured.
11

 Environmental considerations. The potential effect of any
method proposed for cleaning historic masonry should be
evaluated carefully. Chemical cleaners and paint removers
may damage trees, shrubs, grass, and plants. A plan must
be provided for environmentally safe removal and disposal
of the cleaning materials and the rinsing effluent before
beginning the cleaning project. Authorities from the local
regulatory agency - usually under the jurisdiction of the
federal or state Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
should be consulted prior to beginning a cleaning project,
especially if it involves anything more than plain water
washing. This advance planning will ensure that the
cleaning effluent or run-off, which is the combination of
the cleaning agent and the substance removed from the
masonry, is handled and disposed of in an environmentally
sound and legal manner. Some alkaline and acidic cleaners
can be neutralized so that they can be safely discharged
into storm sewers. However, most solvent-based cleaners
cannot be neutralized and are categorized as pollutants,
and must be disposed of by a licensed transport, storage
and disposal facility. Thus, it is always advisable to consult
with the appropriate agencies before starting to clean to
ensure that the project progresses smoothly and is not
intermpted by a stop-work order because a required permit
was not obtained in advance.
Vinyl guttering or polyethylene-lined troughs placed around
the perimeter of the base of the building can serve to catch
chemical cleaning waste as it is rinsed off the building.
This will reduce the amount of chemicals entering and
polluting the soil, and also will keep the cleaning waste
contained until it can be removed safely. Some patented
cleaning systems have developed special equipment to
facilitate the containment and later disposal of cleaning
waste.
Concern over the release of volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) into the air has resulted in the manufacture of new,
more environmentally responsible cleaners and paint
removers, while some materials traditionally used in
cleaning may no longer be available for these same reasons.
Other health and safety concerns have created additional
cleaning challenges, such as lead paint removal, which is
likely to require special removal and disposal techniques.
Cleaning can also cause damage to non-masonry materials
on a building, including glass, metal and wood. Thus, it
is usually necessary to cover windows and doors, and
other features that may be vulnerable to chemical cleaners.
They should be covered with plastic or polyethylene, or a
masking agent that is applied as a liquid which dries to
form a thin protective film on glass, and is easily peeled
off after the cleaning is finished. Wind drift, for example,
can also damage other property by carrying cleaning
chemicals onto nearby automobiles, resulting in etching
of the glass or spotting of the paint finish. Similarly,
airborne dust can enter surrounding buildings, and excess
water can collect in nearby yards and basements.
Safety considerations. Possible health dangers of each
method selected for the cleaning project must be considered
before selecting a cleaning method to avoid harm to the

12

Figure 22. Cleaning test areas may be quite small at first and gradually
increase in size as testing determines the "gentlest mean s possible".
Photo: Frances Gale.

cleaning applicators, and the necessary precautions must
be taken. The precautions listed in Material Safety Data
Sheets (MSDS) that are provided with chemical products
should always be followed. Protective clothing, respirators,
hearing and face shields, and gloves must be provided to
workers to be worn at all times. Acidic and alkaline
chemical cleaners in both liquid and vapor forms can also
cause serious injury to passers-by (Fig. 23). It may be
necessary to schedule cleaning at night or weekends if the
building is located in a busy urban area to reduce the
potential danger of chemical overspray to pedestrians.
Cleaning during non-business hours will allow HVAC
systems to be turned off and vents to be covered to prevent
dangerous chemical fumes from entering the building
which will also ensure the safety of the building's occupants.
Abrasive and mechanical methods produce dust which
can pose a serious health hazard, particularly if the abrasive
or the masonry contains silica.

Water-Repellent Coatings and Waterproof
Coatings
To begin with, it is important to understand that waterproof
coatings and water-repellent coatings are not the same.
Although these terms are frequently interchanged and
commonly confused with one another, they are completely
different materials. Water-repellent coatings --Dften
referred to incorrectly as "sealers", but which do not or
should not seal- are intended to keep liquid water from
penetrating the surface but to allow water vapor to enter
and leave, or pass through, the surface of the masonry (Fig.
24). Water-repellent coatings are generally transparent, or
clear, although once applied some may darken or discolor
certain types of masonry while others may give it a glossy
or shiny appearance. Waterproof coatings seal the surface
from liquid water and from water vapor. They are usually
opaque, or pigmented, and include bituminous coatings
and some elastomeric paints and coatings.

 Water-Repellent Coatings
Water-repellent coatings are formulated to be vapor
permeable, or "breathable". They do not seal the surface
completely to water vapor so it can enter the masonry
wall as well as leave the wall. While the first waterrepellent coatings to be developed were primarily acrylic
or silicone resins in organic solvents, now most waterrepellent coatings are water-based and formulated from
modified siloxanes, silanes and other alkoxysilanes, or
metallic stearates. While some of these products are
shipped from the factory ready to use, other waterborne
water repellents must be diluted at the job site. Unlike
earlier water-repellent coatings which tended to form a
"film" on the masonry surface, modem water-repellent
coatings actually penetrate into the masonry substrate
slightly and, generally, are almost invisible if properly
applied to the masonry. They are also more vapor
permeable than the old coatings, yet they still reduce the
vapor permeability of the masonry. Once inside the wall,
water vapor can condense at cold spots producing liquid
water which, unlike water vapor, cannot escape through
a water-repellent coating. The liquid water within the
wall, whether from condensation, leaking gutters, or other
sources, can cause considerable damage.
Water-repellent coatings are not consolidants. Although
modem water repellents may penetrate slightly beneath
the masonry surface, instead of just "sitting" on top of it,
they do not perform the same function as a consolidant
which is to "consolidate" and replace lost binder to
strengthen deteriorating masonry. Even after many years
of laboratory study and testing few consolidants have
proven very effective. The composition of fired products
such as brick and architectural terra cotta, as well as many
types of building stone, does not lend itself to consolidation.
Some modem water-repellent coatings which contain a
binder intended to replace the natural binders in stone
that have been lost through weathering and natural erosion
are described in product literature as both a water repellent
and a consolidant. The fact that newer water-repellent
coatings penetrate beneath the masonry surface instead
of just forming a layer on top of the surface may indeed
convey at least some consolidating properties to certain
stones. However, a water-repellent coating cannot be
considered a consolidant. In some instances, a waterrepellent or "preservative" coating, if applied to already
damaged or spalling stone, may form a surface crust which,
if it fails, may exacerbate the deterioration by pulling off
even more of the stone (Fig. 25).
Is a Water-Repellent Treatment Necessary?
Water-repellent coatings are frequently applied to historic
masonry buildings for the wrong reason. They also are
often applied without an understanding of what they are
and what they are intended to do. And these coatings can
be very difficult, if not impossible, to remove from
the masonry if they fail or become discolored. Most
importantly, the application of water-repellent coatings to
historic masonry is usually unnecessary.

Figure 23. A tarpaulin protects and shields pedestrians from potentially
harmful spray while chemical cleaning is underway on the gra nite
exterior of the U.S. Treasury Building, Washington, D.C.

Most historic masonry buildings, unless they are painted,
have survived for decades without a water-repellent
coating and, thus, probably do not need one now. Water
penetration to the interior of a masonry building is seldom
due to porous masonry, but results from poor or deferred
maintenance. Leaking roofs, clogged or deteriorated
gutters and downspouts, missing mortar, or cracks and
open joints around door and window openings are almost
always the cause of moisture-related problems in a historic
masonry building. If historic masonry buildings are kept
watertight and in good repair, water-repellent coatings
should not be necessary.
Rising damp (capillary moisture pulled up from the
ground), or condensation can also be a source of excess
moisture in masonry buildings. A water-repellent coating
will not solve this problem either and, in fact, may be
likely to exacerbate it. Furthermore, a water-repellent
coating should never be applied to a damp wall. Moisture
in the wall would reduce the ability of a coating to adhere
to the masonry and to penetrate below the surface. But,
if it did adhere, it would hold the moisture inside the
masonry because, although a water-repellent coating is
permeable to water vapor, liquid water cannot pass through
it. In the case of rising damp, a coating may force the
moisture to go even higher in the wall because it can slow
down evaporation, and thereby retain the moisture in the
wall.
Excessive moisture in masonry walls may carry waterborne
soluble salts from the masonry units themselves or from
the mortar through the walls. If the water is permitted to
come to the surface, the salts may appear on the masonry
surface as efflorescence (a whitish powder) upon
evaporation. However, the salts can be potentially
dangerous if they remain in the masonry and crystallize

13

 Figure 24. Although the application of a water-repellent coating W Il S
probably not needed on either of these buildings, the coating on th e
brick building (above), is not visible and ha s not changed tile character
of the brick. But the coating on the brick colllmn (below), has a high
gloss that is inco mpatible with the historic character of the masonry.

beneath the surface as subflorescence. Subflorescence
eventually may cause the surface of the masonry to spall,
particularly if a water-repellent coating has been applied
which tends to reduce the flow of moisture out from the
subsurface of the masonry. Although many of the newer
water-repellent products are more breathable than their
predecessors, they can be especially damaging if applied
to masonry that contains salts, because they limit the flow
of moisture through masonry.

14

When a Water-Repellent Coating May be Appropriate
There are some instances when a water-repellent coating
may be considered appropriate to use on a historic masonry
building. Soft, incompletely fired brick from the 18th- and
early-19th centuries may have become so porous that paint
or some type of coating is needed to protect it from further
deterioration or dissolution. When a masonry building
has been neglected for a long period of time, necessary
repairs may be required in order to make it watertight.
If, following a reasonable period of time after the building
has been made watertight and has dried out completely,
moisture appears actually to be penetrating through the
repointed and repaired masonry wails, then the application
of a water-repellent coating may be considered in selected
areas only. This decision should be made in consultation
with an architectural conservator. And, if such a treatment
is undertaken, it should not be applied to the entire exterior
of the building.
Anti-graffiti or barrier coatings are another type of clear
coating-although barrier coatings can also be pigmentedthat may be applied to exterior masonry, but they are not
formulated primarily as water repellents. The purpose of
these coatings is to make it harder for graffiti to stick to
a masonry surface and, thus, easier to clean. But, like
water-repellent coatings, in most cases the application
of anti-graffiti coatings is generally not recommended for
historic masonry buildings. These coatings are often quite
shiny which can greatly alter the appearance of a historic
masonry surface, and they are not always effective (Fig.
26) . Generally, other ways of discouraging graffiti, such
as improved lighting, can be more effective than a coating.
However, the application of anti-graffiti coatings may be
appropriate in some instances on vulnerable areas of
historic masonry buildings which are frequent targets of
graffiti that are located in out-of-the-way places where
constant surveillance is not possible.
Some water-repellent coatings are recommended by
product manufacturers as a means of keeping dirt and
pollutants or biological growth from collecting on the
surface of masonry buildings and, thus, reducing the need
for frequent cleaning. While this at times may be true, in
some cases a coating may actually retain dirt more than
uncoated masonry. Generally, the application of a waterrepellent coating is not recommended on a historic masonry
building as a means of preventing biological growth.
Some water-repellent coatings may actually encourage
biological growth on a masonry wall. Biological growth
on masonry buildings has traditionally been kept at bay
through regularly-scheduled cleaning as part of a
maintenance plan. Simple cleaning of the masonry with
low-pressure water using a natural- or synthetic-bristled
scrub brush can be very effective if done on a regular basis.
Commercial products are also available which can
be sprayed on masonry to remove biological growth.
In most instances, a water-repellent coating is not
necessary if a building is watertight. The application of
a water-repellent coating is not a recommended treatment
for historic masonry buildings unless there is a specific

 periodically although, if they are truly invisible, it can be
difficult to know when they are no longer providing the
intended protection.
Testing a water-repellent coating by applying it in one
small area may not be helpful in determining its suitability
for the building because a limited test area does not allow
an adequate evaluation of such a treatment. Since water
may enter and leave through the surrounding untreated
areas, there is no way to tell if the coated test area is
"breathable." But trying a coating in a small area may help
to determine whether the coating is visible on the surface
or if it will otherwise change the appearance of the masonry.
Waterproof Coatings
Figure 25. The clear coating applied to this limestone molding has
fa iled and is taking off some of th e stone surface as it peels. Photo:
Frances Ga le.

problem which it may help solve. If the problem
occurs on only part of the building, it is best to treat only
that area rather than an entire building. Extreme exposures
such as parapets, for example, or portions of the building
subject to driving rain can be treated more effectively and
less expensively than the entire building. Water-repellent
coatings are not permanent and must be reapplied

In theory, waterproof coatings usually do not cause
problems as long as they exclude all water from the
masomy. If water does enter the wall from the ground or
from the inside of a building, the coating can intensify the
damage because the water will not be able to escape.
During cold weather this water in the wall can freeze
causing serious mechanical disruption, such as spalling.
In addition, the water eventually will get out by the path
of least resistance. If this path is toward the interior,
damage to interior finishes can result; if it is toward the
exterior, it can lead to damage to the masomy caused by
built-up water pressure (Fig. 27).
In most instances, waterproof coatings should not be
applied to historic masonry. The possible exception to
this might be the application of a waterproof coating to
below-grade exterior foundation walls as a last resort to
stop water infiltration on interior basement walls.
Generally, however, waterproof coatings, which include
elastomeric paints, should almost never be applied above
grade to historic masonry buildings.

Figure 26. The anti-graffiti or barrier coating on this column is very
shiny and wou ld not be appropriate to use on a historic masonry
building. The coating has discolored as it has aged and whitish streaks
reveal areas of bare concrete where the coating was incompletely
applied .

Figure 27. Instead of correcting the roof drainage problems, an
elastomeric coating was applied to the already saturated limeston e
cornice. An elastomeric coating holds moisture in the masonry because
it does not "breathe" and does not allow liquid moisture to escape. If
the water pressure builds up sufficiently it can cause the coating to
break and pop off as shown in this example, often pulling pieces of the
masonry with it. Photo: National Park Service Files .

15

 Summary
A well-planned cleaning project is an essential step in
preserving, rehabilitating or restoring a historic masonry
building. Proper cleaning methods and coating treatments,
when determined necessary for the preservation of the
masonry, can enhance the aesthetic character as well as the
structural stability of a historic building. Removing years
of accumulated dirt, pollutant crusts, stains, graffiti or
paint, if done with appropriate caution, can extend the life
and longevity of the historic resource. Cleaning that is
carelessly or insensitively prescribed or carried out by
inexperienced workers can have the opposite of the intended
effect. It may scar the masonry permanently, and may
actually result in hastening deterioration by introducing
harmful residual chemicals and salts into the masonry or
causing surface loss. Using the wrong cleaning method or
using the right method incorrectly, applying the wrong
kind of coating or applying a coating that is not needed
can result in serious damage, both physically and
aesthetically, to a historic masonry building. Cleaning a
historic masonry building should always be done using
the gentlest means possible that will clean, but not damage
the building. It should always be taken into consideration
before applying a water-repellent coating or a waterproof
coating to a historic masonry building whether it is really
necessary and whether it is in the best interest of preserving
the building.

Selected Reading
Architectural Ceramics: Their History, Manufacture and
Conservation. A Joint Symposium of English Heritage and the
United Kingdom Institute for Conservation, September 22-25,
1994. London: English Heritage, 1996.
Ashurst, Nicola. Cleaning Historic Buildings. Volume One:
Substrates, Soiling & Investigation. Volume Two: Cleaning
Materials & Processes. London: Donhead Publishing Ltd., 1994.
Association for Preservation Technology. Special Issue:
Preservation of Historic Masonry. Papers from the Symposium
on Preservation Treatments for Historic Masonry: Consolidants,
Coatings, and Water Repellents, New York, New York, November
11-12,1994. APT Bulletin. Vol. XXVI, No.4 (1995).
Grimmer, Anne E. Preservation Brief 6: Dangers of Abrasive
Cleaning to Historic Buildings. Washington, D.C: Preservation
Assistance Division, National Park Service, U.s. Department
of the Interior, 1979.
Grimmer, Anne E. Ke~ping it Clean: Removing Exterior Dirt,
Paint, Stains and Graffiti ]rom Historic Masonry Buildings.
Washington, D.C.: Preservation Assistance Division, National
Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1988.
Park, Sharon c., AlA. Preservation Brief39: Holding the Line:
Controlling Unwanted Moisture in Historic Buildings.
Washington, D.C: Heritage Preservation Services, National Park
Service, U.s. Department of the Interior, 1996.
Powers, Robert M. Preservation Tech Note, Masonry No.3,
"Water Soak Cleaning of Limestone". Washington, D.C :
Preservation Assistance Division, National Park Service, U.s.
Department of the Interior, 1992.

16

Sinvinski, Valerie. "Gentle Blasting." Old-House Journal. Vol.
XXIV, No.4 Ouly-August 1996), pp. 46-49.
Weaver, Martin E. Conserving Buildings: A Guide to
Techniques and Materials . New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
1993.
Weaver, Martin E. Preservation Brief 38: Removing Graffiti from
Historic Masonry. Washington, D.C : Preservation Assistance
Division, National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior,
1995.
Winkler, E.M. Stone in Architecture: Properties, Durability.
Third, completely revised and extended edition. Berlin,
Germany: Springer-Verlag, 1997.

Acknowledgments
Robert C. Mack, FAIA, is a principal in the firm of MacDonald
& Mack Architects, Ltd., an architectural firm that specializes in
historic buildings in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Anne Grimmer is a Senior Architectural Historian in the Technical
Preservation Services Branch, Heritage Preservation Services
Program, National Park Service, Washington, D.C
The original version of Preservation Brief 1: The Cleaning and
Waterproof Coating of Masonry Buildings was written by Robert C
Mack, AlA. It inaugurated the Preservation Briefs series when
it was published in 1975.
The following historic preservation specialists provided technical
review of this publication: Frances Gale, Training Director,
National Center for Preservation Technology and Training,
National Park Service, Natchitoches, LA; Judith M. Jacob,
Architectural Conservator, Building Conservation Branch,
Northeast Cultural Resources Center, National Park Service, N.Y.,
NY; Robert M. Powers, Architectural Conservator, Powers and
Company, Inc., Philadelphia, PA; Antonio Aguilar, Kaaren Dodge,
JoEllen Hensley, Gary Sachau, John Sandor and Audrey T. Tepper,
Technical Preservation Services Branch, Heritage Preservation
Services Program, National Park Service, Washington, D.C; and
Kay D. Weeks, Heritage Preservation Services Program, National
Park Service, Washington, D.C.
This publication has been prepared pursuant to the National
Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, which directs the
Secretary of the Interior to develop and make available information
concerning historic properties. Comments on the usefulness of
this publication may be directed to: Sharon C. Park, FAIA, Chief,
Technical Preservation Services Branch, Heritage Preservation
Services Program, National Park Service, 1849 C Street, N.W.,
Suite NC200, Washington, D.C 20240 (www2.cr.nps.gov/tps).
This publication is not copyrighted and can be reproduced without
penalty. Normal procedures for credit to the authors and the
National Park Service are appreciated.
Front Cover: Chemical cleaning of the brick and architectural terra
cotta frieze on the 1880s Pellsioll Buildillg, Washington, D.C. (now the
National Building Mu seulll), is showll here in progress. Photo:
Christina Henry.
Photographs llsed to illustrate this Brief were taken by Anne Grimmer unless
otherwise credited.

ISSN:0885-7016

November 2000

 Removing Exterior Dirt, Paint,
Stains and Graffiti from
Historic Masonry Buildings
Anne E. Grimmer

u.s. Department of the Interior
National Park Service
Cultural Resources
Heritage Preservation Services

 Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Grimmer, Anne E.
Keeping it Clean : Removing Exterior Dirt, Paint,
Stains and Graffiti from Historic Masonry Buildings

Bibliography: p.
1. Historic buildings--':"Conservation and restoration.
2. Masonry-Cleaning. I. United States. National Park
Service. Preservation Assistance Division. II. Title.
TH3411.G725 1988
691 '.3
87-600489
Rev.

 Preface

Despite the inherent hazards, cleaning
historic masonry ,which includes stone,
brick, architectural terra cotta, and cast
stone, stucco and concrete, is one of the
most common-and most visible-undertakings when rehabilitating or restoring
historic masonry structures. Yet basic information and good technical advice may
be hard to find. As a result, those responsible for the care of historic buildings
frequently must rely upon the recommendations of a cleaning contractor or a cleaning product manufacturer who may not be
completely objective, or familiar with all
the cleaning options currently available.
The cleaning of historic masonry should
thus always be carried out under the
supervision and guidance of a preservation
or conservation specialist.
The purpose of this technical report is to
provide information on removing dirt,
stains, paint and related coatings, graffiti,
and other disfiguring or potentially harmful substances from exterior masonry.
First, however, there is a general discussion on all aspects of planning and
carrying out a cleaning project, including
anticipating potential problems; correctly
identifying what is to be removed; identifying all building materials to be cleaned

as well as other materials that might be
affected by cleaning; and testing cleaning
procedures to ensure the most successful
project. The report also includes warnings
about using certain techniques on specific
building materials, as well as possible
dangers to project personnel and the
building's environment.
Unless otherwise credited, photographs
were taken by the author. .
The author wishes to thank Norman R.
Weiss, whose two draft reports prepared
for the National Park Service, Exterior
Cleaning of Historic Masonry Buildings and
Removal of Stains and Paint from Masonry,
were invaluable in developing this publication. In addition, the author also wishes to
acknowledge the contribution of the
following individuals who provided
technical comments on the manuscript:
Frances Gale; Robert C. Mack, AlA;
Frank G. Matero; Hugh C. Miller, FAIA;
Judith Selwyn; National Park Service
Regional Cultural Programs; and the staff
of the Technical Preservation Services
Branch, with special thanks to Kay D.
Weeks, technical editor, Michael Auer and
Theresa Robin.son.

 Contents

Part I What to Consider Before Cleaning
Reasons for Cleaning
Cosmetic Improvement
Slowing the Processes of Deterioration
Identifying the Masonry Substrate
Avoiding Damage
~b~~~

Identifying the Substance to be Removed
Dirt and Pollutant Crusts
Stains
c;raffiti
Paint and Other Coatings
Efflorescence
Combination Problems
Project Personnel
Role of the Preservation Consultant
Selecting a Cleaning Contractor
What to Require in a Contract and Specifications
Testing
Selecting an "Appropriate" Water Pressure
Choosing Representative Types of Masonry
Choosing Representative Soiling
Evaluating the Test Patches
Reasonable Expectations
Scheduling the Cleaning Project
Minimizing Hazards of Cleaning
Protecting the Historic Building
Protecting the Environment
Protecting the Cleaning Personnel

1
1
2
2
2

3
3
4
5
5
5
5
6
6
6
6
7
7
8
9
9
9
10
10
11
11
12
12

 Part II Choosing the "Gentlest Means Possible"
Water Cleaning to Remove Dirt
Soaking (Misting or Spraying)
Low-Pressure and Medium-Pressure Water Washing
Low-Pressure and Medium-Pressure Water Washing
with Detergent Supplement
Steam
Cautions and Precautions
Chemical Cleaning to Remove Dirt
Acidic Cleaners
Cautions and Precautions
Alkaline Cleaners
Cautions and Precautions
Surfactants and Detergents
Chemical Cleaning to Remove Paint and Other Coatings
Alkaline Paint Removers
Organic Solvent Paint Removers
Cautions and Precautions
Poulticing to Remove Stains
Metallic Stains
Industrial Stains
Biological Stains
Graffiti
Salt/Efflorescence
Cautions and Precautions
Other Methods of Stain Removal
Cautions and Precautions
Cleaning to Remove Bird Droppings
Cautions and Precautions

13
13
13
14
14
14
15
16
17
18
18
18
18
19
19

20
20
22
22
23

25
25
26
26

27
27
27

Part III Summary of Guidance

29

Summary of Cleaning Techniques - Chart

31

Selected Bibliography

33

 Part I

What to Consider Before Cleaning
Reasons for Cleaning
There are two primary reasons for cleaning a historic masonry building: 1) to improve the appearance of the structure; and
2) to remove dirt, stains , coatings,
efflorescence (salts) and pollutants that
may be causing deterioration of the
masonry. Generally, the two are intertwined, but the most common motivation
for cleaning masonry is the desire for
cosmetic improvement. It is easy to
understand this rationale, especially considering the positive visual impact of a
clean building.
Cosmetic Improvement
A most important factor to consider before
cleaning a historic masonry building is its
patina-the color and surface texture, or

the appearance which only time can
impart. Patina usually includes a combination of surface stains, deposits, discoloration, and changes to the surface texture
that may result from atmospheric dissolution and erosion. Naturally, patina
includes a certain amount of dirt. As long
as it does not contribute to, or conceal
deterioration, patina is indeed part of the
character of a historic building, and
careful consideration should be given to its
preservation. Determining when patina
may be harmful or disfiguring must be
done on a building-by-building basis, and
will depend on the type oj masonry, the type
and degree. oj soiling, and how much it might be
obscuring damage to the masonry units themselves
or to the mortar Joints. Careful removal of
dirt and pollutant crusts can restore many
aspects of the original appearance of the
masonry-the color, texture and carved
detailing that might have been hidden for
years.
The unwelcome presence of graffiti usually
triggers an urgent need for cosmetic
improvement. An owner or building
manager would likely want to remove
graffiti as quickly as possible after it
appears. Prompt removal is, in itself, a
logical approach to the problem because it
tends to discourage the incidence of more
graffiti. On the other hand, if cleaning is
undertaken too hastily, the results may be
less than satisfactory (figure 1).

Figure 1. Men an inappropn'ate chemical cleaner was used to remove graffiti, it
resulted in permanently bleaching the limestone foundation, and left a mark as
unsightly as the graffiti.

Removing paint from masonry, particularly from brick, is another common
"cleaning" treatment, although it may not
always be an appropriate or successful
treatment for the building. Often, it may
be preferable to retain the paint. Painted
brick buildings were very popular
throughout several historic periods. Many,
in fact, were painted immediately after
construction. Decorative treatments, such
as the penciling of mortar joints, should
be carefully examined; they may be
original or may have acquired significance
over the years. Paint may also have been
applied as a protective coating, usually on
1

 some of the more porous types of brick
and sandstone; or applied to camouflage
alterations or incompatible masonry
repairs. All of these factors should be
taken into consideration before paint
removal is begun. If all nondamaging
methods of paint removal have been tried
and proven ineffective, it may be best to
leave the masonry painted. Or, if the
paint is in poor condition, the best approach may be to remove only the loose
and peeling paint to a sound surface , and
then repaint.

Slowing the Processes of Deterioration
The strongest practical argument in support of masonry cleaning is that it may
slow the processes of deterioration and
decay. Heavy layers of dirt not only interfere with natural weathering and washing
patterns, but also obscure deterioration
(figure 2). Cleaning is often necessary to
help the architect or building conservator
detect problems, and correctly interpret
them, in order to take corrective
measures, and to prepare a regular
maintenance schedule for the building.
The cleaning process itself, as well as the
close-range view of historic masonry
afforded by the scaffolding or other access
equipment, also provides an important
opportunity to evaluate the condition of
the building. Once rid of dirt and
pollutant crusts, the conditon of the
masonry will be more clearly revealed.
One of the best reasons for a regular
cleaning program is that it may remove
efflorescent salts from the masonry,
thereby reducing potentially harmful salt
buildup within the masonry, which can
cause spalling or delamination. Regular
cleaning or washing can help control plant
or other biological growth on a building;
it is a safer and gentler approach than applying herbicides that are potentially
harmful to the masonry.

2

Generally, regular cleaning or washing is
good preservation and maintenance practice for calcareous stones such as limestone
and marble. But it is not as necessary for
the less soluble siliceous stones, such as
granite and some sandstones, nor for some
brick and some glazed architectural terra
cotta, all of which have a harder, more
impervious outer layer, and are thus better protected from dirt penetration than
calcareous stones.

Figure 2. The building on the left is an obvious candidate for cleaning, as the heavy black crust may be
concealing or contributing to deterioration of the stone.
Despite its more recent cleaning, the stone facade of
the house on the right exhibits the same distinctive,
and hard-to-eliminate rainwater wash patterns under
the eaves and window sills, as its unwashed
neighbor.

Identifying the Masonry Substrate
Avoiding Damage
The first and most important step to be
taken before beginning any masonry
cleaning project is to identify the masonry.
When dealing with stone, it is important
to select a cleaning method or chemical
solution best suited for the kind of
stone-that is, one that will not dissolve or
etch it. It is also useful to have information about the chemical and geological
characteristics of the stone. (For example,
although most sandstones may be safely
cleaned using acidic cleaners, some sandstones are calcareous, and thus may be
damaged by acid.) Gathering detailed
geological data is not always possible if the
factors of time and cost are prohibitive .
However, it is essential that the generic
stone be identified (i.e., whether it is
limestone, marble, sandstone, or granite)
because of the differing properties of
porosity, solubility and hardness, and
mineralogical composition . It is these
properties that determine which cleaning
methods can be used without adversely affecting the stone.

 Tricks of the Eye
Another potential problem is that what
might appear to be one type of masonry
may actually be another. For example,
architectural terra cotta, artificial cast
stone, or pre-cast concrete were often
manufactured to imitate natural stone .
Pre-cast concrete or "cast stone " was being used imitatively as early as the late
eighteenth century and still is to this day.
Architectural terra cotta was used with
this intent in the mid-to-Iate nineteenth
century, and through the early twentieth
century. Both materials were popular for
decorative features such as window and
door moldings. Terra cotta, in particular,
was applied on upper floors of tall
buildings where distance enhanced the illusion of stone .
Clearly, it is important to identify the
material, since the best cleaning method
for one type of masonry may not be as
effective on another type, and may even
cause damage . Many buildings feature a
combination of materials. It is not unusual
for a building or even a single facade to
be composed of more than one type of
masonry (brick with stone trim is particularly common), which may mean that
more than one cleaning method will be
necessary. If, after careful examination,
there is any doubt about the type of
masonry, a 3 percent solution of
hydrochloric (muriatic) acid dropped from
an eyedropper on an inconspicuous spot
will quickly clarify the situation. This
solution will bubble on calcareous stone,
and on other acid-sensitive masonry, but
will have no reaction on siliceous stone
and acid-resistant masonry.
Indeed, some parts of a building, particularly decorative features , may not be
masonry at all (figure 3) . Frequently, such
features as window hoods, cornices and
balustrades may be metal, such as cast
iron, galvanized sheet iron or zinc. When
painted, they give an intentional
appearance of masonry. Some features
may have been fabricated of wood, then
coated with a sanded paint to give the illusion of sandstone. Thus, the need to correctly identify the type of masonry, or
other non-masonry materials on a building
cannot be over-emphasized when planning
a cleaning project.

Figure 3. Krww what you are cleaning. If the
painted surfaces of the projecting bay window on this
once elegant Second Empire brick mansion were still
intact, it would not be easy to identify the beltcourse
as sandstone, the windows and window frames as
wood, and the cornice and all of the window hoods
as pressed metal. Cleaning so many different building
materials may require a variety of techniques and
treatments.

Identifying the Substance to be
Removed
After the masonry substrate has been
identified, the next step is to identify the
substance or substances to be removed.
The more information available about the
substance to be removed, the more successful the cleaning effort will be. For example, the cleaning project can be greatly
facilitated by knowing the composition of
each paint layer, the cause or source of
the stains, the primary components of the
dirt, or the probable source of the efflorescence . And it is not uncommon to
discover that all or part of a building has
been treated with water-repellent coating.
Unless the coating has caused discoloration or streaking, the fact that such a
coating exists at all may be known only if
cleaning test patches fail to react as they
would on uncoated masonry.

3

 Dirt and Pollutant Crusts

Dirt or "soiling" on masonry buildings
may consist of particles of dust, sand or
grit, or tarry soot (resulting from incomplete combustion of fuels) . The exact
composition of the dirt will vary according
to the geographic location of the building,
as well as its use. A building in an urban,
or heavily industrial area, is likely to exhibit a completely different type of soiling
from a building in a rural or agricultural
area-or a building near the seacoast or in
the desert. While dirt and dust on one
building may result from heavy vehicular
traffic in the area, soiling on another
building may result from human traffic.

Figures 4a-4b. Decorative architectural features that project from a wall surface,
such as this granite belt course above an intricately-tooled limestone lintel, and this
sandstone pinnacle topping a limestone buttress, may shield or protect masonry surfaces beneath them. But they are also responsible for creating unusual "wash"
patterns and black crusts that form underneath them, further complicating cleaning
projects.

4

Dirt or soiling may include disfiguring
pollutant or sulfate crusts, which usually
build up in sheltered or protected areas
not regularly washed by the natural action
of rain. It is particularly common under
cornices, window sills, or other projecting
decorative features (figures 4a - 4b). Some
pollutant crusts resulting from a chemical
reaction of stone to airborne particulate
matter, or particules in which cementing
material of the stone has actually incorporated itself, indicate the beginning of
dissolution of the stone and incipient
decay. Removing these crusts will
necessarily involve a loss of a small
amount of stone (figure 5). While removal
is generally recommended because pollutant crusts hasten stone dissolution, extreme care must nonetheless be exercised
to ensure that loss of the stone is
minimized.

Figure 5. It is unlikely that this blackened crust can
be removed without some loss of the tooled sandstone
surface, because the sulfate crust has become integral
with the stone.

 Stains

Paint and Other Coatings

Unlike particulate dirt, which tends to lie
on the surface , stains in masonry are
discolorations produced by foreign matter
that has penetrated into-or permeatedthe masonry. Stains can also result from a
chemical reaction between the masonry
and the foreign matter, or from impurities
in the masonry itself. Common masonry
stains include metallic stains caused by
iron (rust) or copper, industrial stains of
grease , oil, and tar, and biological and
plant stains caused by lichens, mosses,
algae, and fungal growth such as mildew.
Even after removal of the vines themselves, ivy and Virginia Creeper can leave
their " marks " on the masonry, which
may also have to be removed by cleaning.
Discloration can also occur when mineral
inclusions or impurities which occur
naturally in some stones, or in the clay of
some bricks, react to water or chemical
cleaners.

Removal of paint or other coatings will, of
course, be facilitated by knowledge about
the kind or kinds of paint, and the
number of layers to be removed. For example, it is useful, if at all possible, to
know whether the paint is oil-based,
water-based, or, as is often the case,
whether it consists of a variety of paints
and coatings, which might include layers
of cementitious masonry paint, whitewash
or limewash. In some cases, the pigment
might be incorporated into the substrate,
as is often typical of stucco and traditional
limewashes .

Graffiti
Graffiti created with paint or another
medium may also be considered a stain. If
graffiti is sprayed-on, it is generally likely
to permeate the masonry (unless glazed or
polished) in the same manner as most
other stains . Thus, its removal must
usually be carried out in the same manner
as other stain removal.

Figure 6. Chalking white paint from decorative metal and stone stringcourses has
"bled" and run down tM unpainted brick walls. Unlike efflorescence, for which
it might be mistaken, chalking generally cannot be washed off, and paint remover
will be required.

Questions may arise about each layer or
coating, further complicating the overriding need to remove the offending
substance while not damaging the historic
masonry. For example, if there is more
than one layer of paint, is it consistent
over all of the building surface? Or is
there an "invisible" water-repellent
coating or a wax coating, or perhaps even
worse (from the standpoint of removal),
an asphalt or bituminous waterproof
coating on some areas? If so, will it come
off successfully, or might it be better to
camouflage it by repainting?
Efflorescence
Efflorescence, the result of capillary action
pulling soluble salts up from the ground
into the masonry, usually appears as a
whitish haze on the exterior surface of
masonry. Sulfate deposits may result from
carbonates in lime mortar and airborne or
water-deposited pollutants in the
atmosphere. Another common source of
efflorescence in brick is the firing process
itself.
Efflorescence may also appear on a
masonry surface after chemical cleaning.
Some efflorescence is temporary, and will
be removed by rain. Other types may
disappear for awhile, but return
periodically, and some require considerable and repeated efforts to eliminate .
It is therefore always necessary to ascertain the source or sources of efflorescence,
and it may even be useful to identify the
salts that comprise the efflorescence.
Further complicating the identification
process, white paint from a painted surface above that has "bled" onto a
5

 masonry surface below (particularly common under window sills) might be
mistaken for efflorescence (figure 6) . In
short, it is very easy to misinterpret what
is on the surface.
Combination Problems

Often, a cleaning project will involve
removal of more than one substance.
What first appears to be a straightforward
task of paint removal may be complicated
by the discovery of multiple layers of different types of paints and coatings on
another elevation of the same building, or
perhaps on only the first floor of the
building. Moreover, what may initially
appear to be one substance may, upon
closer examination, turn out to be
another, or often a combination of
substances.

Project Personnel
Once the masonry and the substance to be
removed have been identified, the next
step is to match potentially appropriate
cleaning methods with the particular project at hand.
Role of the Preservation Consultant

To ensure the best possible job, a professional preservation consultant should be
retained, preferably someone with a
technical or scientific background (an architectural conservator, a restoration architect, or a chemist or geologist). The advice of cleaning contractors or product
representatives may be prejudiced by
familiarity with only one or two cleaning
techniques, or a desire to sell a particular
product. Generally, their recommendations
should not be substituted for the experience and impartiality of a technical
preservation specialist or scientific
consultant.
Basically, the consultant should supervise
all aspects of the cleaning projectplanning, identifying the masonry, identifying what is to be removed, selecting the
cleaning methods and materials, selecting
the contractor, and supervising the actual
cleaning to ensure consistent quality and
to minimize any possible damage to the
surface.

6

Role of the Preservation
Consultant
• Identify the building's materials.
• Evaluate condition of the masonry
materials.
• Identify what is to be removed.
• Supervise the testing of the cleaning methods.
• Analyze the test patches.
• Based on the test patches, select
the cleaning methods that most
effectively clean the masonry
without causing damage.
• Prepare specifications based on
these test results (if they have not
been prepared already prior to
testing).
• Select cleaning contractor (if not
already chosen).
• If possible, have cleaning test
repeated by cleaning personnel
who will do cleaning.
• Supervise actual cleaning process
to ensure consistent quality.
Selecting a Cleaning Contractor

A carefully executed cleaning job requires
the experience of a reputable cleaning contractor who specializes in cleaning and
restoring historic masonry buildings.
Negotiating a fair price with one qualified
contractor may be preferable to asking
several contractors to bid on the cleaning
job. The bids and fmal contract should be
based on specifications prepared by the
independent preservation consultant. A
good contractor should be willing to provide information on the cleaning process,
and on the product ingredients, and also
provide references in the form of completed cleaning projects.
It is important that a consultant, who is
experienced in such evaluations, visit at
least one or two projects in order to inspect the quality of the work. A wellexecuted cleaning project should not show
any signs of mechanical or chemical abrasion, nor should it exhibit areas or patches
of efflorescence, which might indicate the
use of too strong a chemical or improper
or inadequate rinsing. (Sometimes efflorescence on a very recently cleaned
building is only temporary, and will
gradually wash away. It may be the result
of salt-laden moisture within the masonry

 suddenly being released when surface dirt
or a coating is cleaned off.)
A responsibly and sensitively cleaned
historic masonry building should retain
some of its before-cleaning patina, perhaps
appearing slightly "dirty," as if it had not
been overcleaned . Clearly, however, there
may be some aspects of a recently cleaned
surface that are not so easy to explain.
Sometimes an abraded or eroded surface
is the result of natural weathering or a
"flaw" in the original materials, or
damage from an earlier, harsh cleaning
treatment. Or what appears to be a stain
may, in fact, be the result of an unexpected reaction of a natural impurity in
the stone to a chemical cleaner. In short,
as will be repeated again and again, it is
not always possible to predict the exact
outcome of a cleaning project because of
the many variables associated with historic
masonry. But despite some unavoidable
uncertainty, a cautious, conscientious approach by the consultant, building owner
or manager, and the contractor will
always result in a better cleaning
project-one that does not damage the
historic masonry.
Although cost is often a factor in a cleaning project, the contractor should not be
selected solely on the basis of a low bid,
but rather on the quality of previous
work, as well as on the basis of test patch
results . Local historic district commissions
and review boards, State Historic Preservation Offices, regional offices of the National Trust for Historic Preservation,
local chapters of the American Institute of
Architects (AlA) and the Association for
Preservation Technology (APT), may be
able to suggest reliable consultants and
cleaning contractors experienced in cleaning historic buildings.

What to Require in a Contract
and Specifications
Because cleaning a historic masonry
building involves so many unexpected and
unknown factors , each project is unique.
It would be impractical to try to provide a
standard set of specifications to cover all of
the potential situations that might be encountered. But, while the actual specifications will vary from project to project,
there are certain principles that should
govern any cleaning project to ensure the
best possible outcome .

1. The specifications should be very
precise. The more specific they are, the
less chance there is for mistakes .
2. Qualifications of project personnel
should be included in the specifications.
3. If specifications are prepared before
testing, they should clearly state that
mock-up test areas will serve as qualitycontrol for the project.
4. If testing has already been carried out,
the specifications should state the exact
cleaning method (technique and materials)
to be used based on the testing.
5. If a specific product is to be used, it
should be clearly stated so that the contractor is aware that no other product may
be substituted, unless it is with the prior
approval of the preservation consultant or
supervising architect-and of course, only
after it has been tested on the building. A
building may often require more than one
cleaning method or cleaning product. If
so, each method to be applied to a different material and in a different location
on the building should be identified.
6. The cleaning process should take place
only under the careful supervision of a
qualified professional preservation consultant or preservation architect. The cleaning
method outlined in the specifications will
have been prescribed only after careful
testing on the building with time allowed
for weathering. Any unforeseen problems
that might arise during the course of the
cleaning should be brought to the attention of the consultant (and the owner),
and the cleaning halted until the problem
is solved.
7. Finally, even a well-written specification is of no use if it is not read and
followed .

Testing
Because of the wide variety of unforeseeable factors, the cleaning method or
methods should always be tested on an inconspicuous area of the building and
preferably in more than one location
(figure 7). Such tests must be carried out
before attempting any large-scale masonry
cleaning project. Failure to do so may
have disastrous consequences for the outcome of the cleaning as well as the longterm preservation of the historic building
material . Testing should be carried out by
the consultant or conservation specialist,
or by the contractor, under the consul-

7

 Figure 7. A contractor prepares equipment before testing a low-pressure water
wash on a Roman brick and terra cotta building. Photograph: Sharon C. Park, AlA

Figure 8. A test cleaning patch (unfortunately in a
rather prominent location) on limestone discolored by
urban grime and pollution reveals a marked color difference between the cleaned and the uncleaned stone as
well as an unexpected discoloration (probably caused
by a substance splashed on the wall at an earlier
time). Removal of this spot may require a special
cleaning treatment. Photograph: Sharon C. Park, AlA

tant's careful supervision. Carefully controlled testing is probably the only reliable
way to determine the best or most appropriate cleaning techniques and
pressures to be used in a particular project
(figures 8-9).

Selecting an "Appropriate" Water
Pressure
The process of selecting the most appropriate water pressure should always
begin with the lowest pressure, or the
"gentlest means possible," proceeding
gradually to a higher pressure, as needed.
Although that philosophy is certainly
sound, its application in a practical sense
is very much more difficult. The difficulty
lies in the fact that, although the 'terms
"low," "medium" and "high" pressure
have traditionally been used in cleaning
specifications, they are general terms and
subject to wide interpretation. Because of
incalculable or unpredictable factors
associated with pressure equipment-combined with different types of
historic masonry itself-it is virtually
impossible to define the categories of low,
medium and high in a manner that would
apply equally to all cleaning projects .
Precise defmition of these pressures is
further complicated by the fact that
pressure measurement, or psi (pounds per
square inch) varies according to the
following: pressure as measured by a

8

Figure 9. A test patch on brick to remove a century of
dirt reveals only a slight difference in appearance between the cleaned and the uncleaned brick. The hardbaked outer skin of the brick provides a surface that is
not only impervious to dirt penetration, but resists dirt
accumulation. Photograph: Christina Henry

gauge at the pump; the volume of water
(or other liquid cleaning agents) delivered
per minute; the size of the nozzle or spray
head opening; and the distance between
the spray head and the masonry surface.
But since most psi measurements are
taken at only one location, these seemingly
precise measurements may bear little or
no relationship to the actual pressure
reaching the building. As the variables
multiply, it becomes more and more obvious that psi numbers do not really mean
very much, or at least do not mean the
same thing to all who employ them in
cleaning. Thus, although exact pressures
may sound precise, the fact that they are
not must be kept in mind.

 For this reason, until a system can be
perfected that will allow greater certainty
or precision, selecting a cleaning method
and pressure should be done only after
careful testing has produced a satisfactorily
cleaned test patch to serve as a standard
by which the rest of the project can be
measured. Thus, references here to specific
pressures are provided only jor comparative purposes, and should be considered only as general
guidance.

Choosing Representative Types of
Masonry
Finding the appropriate cleaning method
can be further complicated when dealing
with especially fragile, damaged or
deteriorated masonry. These are factors
that must be taken into consideration
when planning to clean historic masonry.
Areas of the building chosen as test spots
should accurately represent the types of
masonry material to be cleaned. As noted
earlier, another masonry material may
have been used to simulate stone. Also, a
harder, higher quality brick or "face
brick" was often used on the facade, while
the less visible side and rear elevations
were often covered with a cheaper, usually
softer "common brick" as an economy
measure . Results from a cleaning test performed on common brick, or a heavily
textured brick, would probably not be applicable to smooth, face brick. Likewise,
tests on upper parts of a building may not
accurately reflect conditions on other
areas, such as the foundation or horizontal
surfaces that may have been treated with a
waterproof or water-repellent coating.

Choosing Representative Soiling
The area or areas selected for testing
should represent both the amount and
type of the dirt deposits, surface pollutant
crusts, stains, efflorescence, or paint on
the majority of the building surface. For
example, a prominent area of the facade
may be stained, disfigured with a heavy
coating of soot, or covered by heavy paint
buildup. Another area of the building may
be only lightly soiled or have only one
coat of paint. These might require very
different cleaning procedures. A project
that proceeds after testing a limited area
only might produce very unsatisfactory
results.

To ensure the most accurate test results,
as much as possible of the dirt, bird droppings, or problem substances should be
removed from the surface by handscraping or brushing with non-metallic
brushes before test cleaning. (This same
practice should, of course, be followed
when the actual cleaning is undertaken.)

Evaluating the Test Patches
Althought a somewhat larger area is
preferable, an area approximately one
square meter or approximately one square
yard will generally serve as an adequate
test patch. If there are different types of
masonry, or widely dissimilar substances
to be removed, several test patches may
be necessary. Representative, but inconspicuous areas should be chosen in
case any of the tests are not successful, or
in case the project does not progress
beyond the testing stage.
One building, regardless of size, may require a variety or combinations of cleaning methods. If the type of scaffolding
allows, it is advisable to clean the entire
building using the gentlest technique to
remove the prevailing substance. Then,
localized stains on decorative features can
be addressed individually. Too strong a
cleaner for overall cleaning may harm the
masonry. Instead, a milder cleaning solution should be used and augmented, if
necessary, by additional applications on
hard-to-clean areas or difficult stains.
Always underclean, rather than overclean.
Test patches can be evaluated accurately
only after they are dry. If chemical cleaning is being tested, non-staining pH
papers should be held on the surface of
the test patch area before and after cleaning to determine if any acidic or alkaline
residues remain on the surface. If residues
are detected, additional water rinsing or
application of a neutralizing solution
should be carried out until pH tests indicate that all residues have been
removed.
A test patch should be allowed to weather
as long as possible before the cleaning project is begun to give ample opportunity for
an accurate evaluation of the results. One
year is the preferred amount of time; this
allows the patch to be exposed to a complete weathering cycle (figures lOa-lOb). If
this is not feasible, it is a good idea to
9

 Figures 1 Oa-l Ob. This test cleaning patch on brick and sandstone was allowed to weather over a full year, while
other aspects of the rehabilitation were carried out. Finally the entire building was cleaned with a proprietary paint
remover sprayed- on under low-pressure and then rinsed by workmen from a truck-mounted hydraulic platform lift.

wait as long as possible, and at least one
month at a minimum. Once a cleaning
project is begun, the work should proceed
in clearly defined areas (preferably
delineated by structural or architectural
features), since it is difficult to match
cleaned areas, especially if the project is
halted for several days or more.
Reasonable Expectations

Tests are usually carried out under optimum conditions, and may therefore show
better results than the actual cleaning
project. For example, a cleaning contractor bidding on the job will naturally try to
achieve the best possible result in a sample
cleaning area in order to obtain the contract. It is also easier to clean a small area
at ground level within a specified amount
of time than to achieve the same results
several stories above ground by workers
who are tired after a long day's work.
Overly optimistic estimates of time and
costs supplied by a contractor based on
the results of a test patch can be
misleading.
But an experienced and reputable contractor will be aware of these inherent problems and should be able to provide a
reasonable estimate based on the testing.

10

The test patches serve as a "standard of
clean" and will provide guidance regarding the best cleaning method for the job;
for example, how many applications of the
cleaning material will be necessary if a
chemical product is used, the dwell time
(the length of time an application should
remain on the surface), and what
pressures should be used for the cleaning
and the final rinse.

Scheduling the Cleaning Project
One of the most important considerations
in a cleaning project is scheduling. Since
the cleaning method cannot be selected
until several techniques have been tested,
it follows that the test patches should be
done at the start of a rehabilitation or
restoration project. And, because of the
need for adequate time for the cleaning
tests to weather before selecting one, the
actual cleaning itself should be the last, or
one of the last things to be done in the
project.

Never begin cleaning when there is any
likelihood of frost or freezing, as most
cleaning operations involve the use of
water. When the water penetrates the
masonry pores during cleaning, the interior of the masonry retains moisture for

 some time before it evaporates , even
though the exterior surface may appear
dry. If a frost occurs, the moisture inside
the masonry units will freeze, which could
eventually cause the masonry surface to
spall. The presence of salts within the
masonry wall may exacerbate the process .
The best times to clean a historic masonry
building (other than in tropical or arid
climates) are late spring, early summer
and early fall when there is no danger of
freezing. While warmer temperatures contribute to a faster chemical reaction, too
much sun and too high temperatures do
not result in a good cleaning project
either. If cleaning is done in very hot
weather, the masonry should be shielded
from excessive heat by hanging protective
netting or tarpulins around it.
Repointing, if necessary, should generally
be carried out before cleaning to prevent
damage to interior surfaces caused by
liquid cleaning materials penetrating
through open joints in the masonry.

Minimizing Hazards of Cleaning
Although most large-scale cleaning projects
should be carried out by qualified cleaning
professionals accustomed to working with
historic buildings, it is still important to
keep in mind all of the precautionary
guidelines associated with masonry cleaning. Potential harm to the historic
masonry and other building materials
often used in conjunction with stone and
brick, as well as potential harm to the environment and cleaning personnel must be
carefully evaluated before initiating a
cleaning project.

be dislodged by rinsing at too high a
pressure, permitting deep penetration of
water within the building.
The acidity or alkalinity of cleaning
chemicals must be controlled to suit the
chemistry of the individual masonry
materials. Because chemical cleaning with
acidic products is always potentially
dangerous to acid-sensitive masonry and
lime mortars, acidic cleaners must
therefore be diluted carefully, in keeping
with the sensitivity of the masonry. To
accomplish this successfully, accurate identification of the masonry is essential . This
may not be easy. Limestone and some
cast stone , or other types of artificial
stone, can look very similar.
Many other historic building materials can
be damaged by chemical cleaning agents .
Glass, glazed brick, and architectural terra
cotta will be etched by strong solutions of
hydrofluoric acid if not covered
adequately . Metal, wood and paint can all
be damaged by chemical cleaners, and
must be shielded. Such materials can be
temporarily protected by plastic sheeting
or peelable coatings specifically made for
this purpose (figure 11).

Protecting the Historic Building
Mortars, especially those of the traditional
lime-based formulations, are among the
most vulnerable substances to be considered when preparing to clean a historic
masonry building. Deteriorated mortar
joints can lead to major problems with
water washing and other aqueous techniques. The entry of large amounts of
water through spraying or prolonged
misting may result in damage to interior
plaster and other finishes, and in exterior
staining as well. Water pressures for
cleaning and rinsing operations should be
monitored carefully to minimize physical
damage to the masonry. Loose mortar can

Figure 11. Removal of 100 years of grime from the
brick and terra cotta facade of the Pension Building
(now the National Building Museum), Washington,
D. C. , was accomplished by workmen on a swing
stage using a chemical cleaning product. Note the
polyethylene covering the windows to prevent damage.
Also note the protective clothing for the workmen
. which hangs on the plaiform while not in use.
Photograph: Christina Henry
11

 12

Protecting the Environment

Protecting Cleaning Personnel

Damage to property, shrubs, trees and
ground vegetation in the immediate vicinity can be avoided by using proper controls to avoid overspraying and by covering or shielding plants and property . Site
drainage must always be considered when
using an acqueous cleaning method, and
disposal of toxic chemical runoff and
dissolved paint may pose an even greater
problen. Lead paint sludge should be
placed in suitable containers and disposed
of in accordance with enviromental regulations. In the case of organic solvents, a
well-designed storage location is necessary
to prevent explosion and fire. Use of
many of these cleaning materials may require special permits or approval from
local authorities, especially if run-off is to
be channeled into city storm sewers.

Cleaning compounds pose many safety
and health hazards, and working personnel must be equipped with protective
clothing, gloves and toxic vapor masks.
Strong cleaning agents can cause skin
burns and irritation, and adequate eye
protection is essential at all times.
Hydrofluoric acid can cause severe burns
and can also penetrate the skin, resulting
in bone damage. Organic chemicals are
equally health-threatening, because they
are absorbed systemically through the skin
and are carcinogenic. When using spray
equipment containing acid cleaners, extreme caution must be taken to release the
pressure slowly so that the contents do not
spray or splash the operator.

 Part II

Choosing the "Gentlest Means Possible"
Most cleaning techniques suitable for use
on historic masonry buildings rely on
aqueous or water-based systems, and
chemicals. Water-based solutions (which
can include detergents) and chemical solutions can be successfully applied separately
or in combination, aided by a variety of
hand-scraping methods . Properly used,
these techniques can safely remove dirt,
stains, graffiti, paint or other surface
coatings, efflorescences (salts), and plant
and fungal growth and stains from historic
masonry buildings.

Water Cleaning to Remove Dirt
all types of masonry
Water-based cleaning can be the gentlest
and simplest operation, causing the least
amount of damage, if certain precautions
are followed. It may also be the least expensive cleaning procedure. It is probably
the most versatile technique available for
sensitive cleaning and removal of dirt and
pollutant crusts from all types of historic
masonry materials, and it is generally the
simplest method for cleaning limestone and
marble. While there are several cleaning
methods in which water is the sole ingredient, water is also the principle cleaning
agent in other methods which utilize
detergents and chemicals.
There are four principal types of water
washing: soaking (misting and spraying);
low-pressure and medium-pressure water
washing; low-pressure and mediumpressure water washing supplemented with
non-ionic detergents; and steam cleaning,
by itself, or supplemented with non-ionic
detergents .
Soaking (Misting or Spraying)
Prolonged spraying with a fine mist is a
relatively simple washing method. This
tech~i9ue provides maxium wetting using
a mInImal amount of water. A mist is
produced by inserting fine mesh filters
over hose nozzles. Continuous soaking of
the surface is then accomplished by running lengths of punctured hose (or a

moveable pipe, or one supported on scaffolding) hung under the eaves or along the
cornice line of the building. Water
pumped up through a compressor at
ground level slowly trickles down or sprays
the building facade.
Low-pressure, low-volume misting devices
with a wide angle of coverage may be the
most efficient of the soaking techniques.
They can also be set up to handle selected
areas of heavy dirt or soot encrustation
such as black sulphate or gypsum crusts
that form in protected areas (especially
under moldings and eaves not washed by
rainwater) on limestone, marble and other
calcareous stones. The effectiveness of this
method relies on the fact that the sulfate
crust, in which the dirt is incorporated, is
several times more water soluble than the
stone. Thus, water loosens the gypsum
crust by partial dissolution, along with the
material trapped within the network. As
the description implies, this is a slow process and may take from four to six hours
up to a week or more to soften heavy
crusts or dirt deposits. After the dirt has
softened, its removal can be facilitated by
hand-scrubbing with non-metallic brushes
or by using a moderate-pressure water
wash; a wooden scraper may help in
removing heavy sulfate crusts. A variation
of this method is ~ timed schedule or
pulsed spray, which alternates periods of
soaking (misting or spraying) with dry
cycles, using a timer to regulate the intervals so the masonry does not dry out.
~his approach is also good for loosening
dIrt and pollutant crusts, although its use
has been fairly limited in the United
States. Before deciding to use any aqueous
system, stone should be tested for free
iron (iron not completely bound) to avoid
the possibility of iron staining.
Low-Pressure and Medium-Pressure
Water Washing
Another water-based cleaning method is
low and medium-pressure' 'power"
washing. It is always best to start with the
lowest pressure possible, and to increase

13

 the pressure only as much as necessary to
loosen the dirt and adequately clean the
building. Low-pressure water washing can
be carried out with a common garden
hose in a small-scale cleaning project, that
is, one limited to a two-story structure
that can be reached conveniently with a
ladder. Again, removal of heavy grime
can be facilitated by hand-brushing and
scraping prior to washing. This is a very
effective, gentle, and easily controlled
method, unlikely to cause any harm to the
building.
Low-pressure washing may also be
successfully used for some large-scale
cleaning projects, requiring scaffolding, or
perhaps a "man lift" to provide access.
Deteriorated areas will need specialized
treatment, possibly by hand. After cleaning a building with heavy dirt encrustation, a final rinsing or a second cleaning
using chemicals may be necessary in order
to remove dirt already loosened by the initial washing.

Low-Pressure and Medium-Pressure
Water Washing with Detergent
Supplement
The best combination of prolonged spraying or dripping, low-to-medium-pressure
washing, and brushing and hand-scraping,
must be determined experimentally and on
a case-by-case basis. While polished surfaces such as polished granite or glazed
architectural terra cotta may sometimes be
cleaned effectively of dirt simply with a
low-to-medium-pressure wash, adding a
non-ionic detergent that does not deposit a
solid, visible residue, may often hasten
cleaning. (Examples of non-ionic
detergents include Tergitol by Union C~r­
bide, Triton by Rohm & Haas and Igepal
by GAF). Non-ionic detergents will also
be needed to clean most texturea .nasonry
such as rusticated stonework, roughsurfaced brick, and intricately carved ornamental details; textured surfaces that
hold dirt will require additional cleaning
effort by hand-brushing with non-metallic
brushes. Mter cleaning, it is important
that the surface be carefully rinsed
because, while not visible, a "gummy"
detergent fIlm tends to attract dirt .
With the exception of steam cleaning,
which utilizes heated water, most waterbased cleaning methods discussed here can
be carried out successfully with cold water.

14

Under certain circumstances however,
warm or hot water may facilitate the
cleaning process when removing greasy or
oily dirt or stains, and sometimes in paint
removal.

Steam
Steam cleaning is another water-based
cleaning method. Although once used extensively, it is no longer as popular,
possibly due to the increased sophistication
of chemical methods. In this procedure,
steam is generated in a flash boiler and
directed against the masonry surface with
the use of a very low-pressure (10-30 psi)
nozzle, generally with a Y2 inch diameter
aperture. The heat of the steam swells and
softens dirt deposits enough so that the
low pressure of the steam is generally sufficient to remove the loosened dirt from
the masonry surface. However, the density
of the steam makes it difficult for the
operator to see or monitor the cleaning
process, and because the steam is heated
to such a high temperature, it is not only
a potential hazard to the operator, but
may damage the stone as well.
Steam cleaning is most useful today as a
method of removing vine disks and other
vegetation clinging to masonry surfaces,
and for cleaning small, hard-to-reach or
highly carved or ornamented areas without
causing mechanical damage. In such instances, it may be necessary to precede
the steam cleaning with manual scrubbing
using a non-ionic detergent or a low concentrate chemical-based cleaner, or to
follow steam cleaning with a low-pressure
water rinse. Steam cleaning may also be a
suitably gentle method for cleaning
damaged or friable stone. Steam cleaning
is a technique that, under careful supervision, may occasionally be used for
specialized interior cleaning because it
does not produce large quantities of water,
and therefore reduces the possibility of
damaging fine finishes.

Cautions and Precautions. Despite the fact
that water washing methods may be the
gentlest of all cleaning methods they are
not without hazards. Even these methods
can be abrasive. Water pressure should
always be kept at the lowest level that will
clean the masonry without damage. Too
highly pressurized water can etch or otherwise scar masonry, and may penetrate
through the masonry walls (figure 12).

 '"

.

Figure 12. Water at too high a pressure from a pinpoint nozzle has etched this white Vermont granite.
Photograph: David A . Look, AlA

With any aqueous cleaning system it is
generally recommended that a masonry
building be repointed, if necessary, before
cleaning (allowing ample time for the
pointing to cure adequately before cleaning, as the water may dislodge green mortar) . Another possibility is to use caulking
compound to fIll in some of the larger
gaps in the mortar joints temporarily to
prevent water infIltration during cleaning.
Before embarking on an aqueous cleaning
project, it is important to make sure that
the flashing around chimneys is tight, and
that there are no open joints around doors
and windows where water may enter.
Long periods of soaking or spraying may
result in excessive moisture penetration of
masonry walls , possibly leading to corrosion of metal anchors, and consequent exterior staining, or damage to interior
plaster and paint finishes . To avoid these
problems, cleaning personnel should inspect the interior periodically to check for
moisture penetration. Prolonged soaking
or spraying may also irreversibly weaken
the masonry itself, since masonry, like
other porous materials, tends to decrease
significantly in mechanical strength when
saturated.
Water cleaning of a moderate size
building can require several million
gallons of water. When such large
amounts of water are involved, it is important to have a good drainage system
available for the run off. Additionally,
many city water systems may be heavily
chlorinated or have a high mineral content. If this is the case, the water used for
cleaning should be purified or distilled to
avoid introducing chloride salts into the

masonry or mineral deposits onto the
masonry surface. In addition, water
should be pumped through plastic, rather
than copper, pipes to avoid possible staining of the masonry. Water cleaning may
be rather time-consuming and expensive,
particularly if the removal of heavy crusts
requires much hand-scrubbing.
It is important to realize that although
some types of masonry may benefit from
frequent water washing, others do not.
While useful as a method of revealing
sources of potential deterioration covered
by dirt, frequent washing of some of the
harder siliceous stones including granite
and some sandstones, as well as brick,
probably does not aid in their preservation. But the opposite is generally true of
calcareous stones such as limestone and
marble, whose long-term preservation may
be enhanced by regularly scheduled water
washing. Regular cleaning of calcareous
stones (perhaps every seven to ten years in
heavily polluted urban areas) can remove
potentially harmful absorbed salts. On the
other hand, calcareoU:s stones also tend to
be highly soluble and too frequent washing
may result in accelerated dissolution and
loss of surface caused by the slightly acidic
water of some city water systems. In
general, washing procedures for these
stones should not be overly long to avoid
excessive exposure of the stone to the
dissolving nature of the water. The use of
distilled water may further minimize
dissolution.
To prevent possible staining of lightcolored limestone or marble in areas
where the local water supply has a high
iron content, it may be useful to add a
chelating or complexing agent such as
EDTA (ethylene diamine tetra-acetic
acid), to the wash water; this will combine
with any metal ions present in the water
and keep them in solution to avoid metal
stains on light-colored stone.

Chemical Cleaning to Remove
Dirt
If water-based cleaning is the gentlest and
least damaging method of removing dirt
from historic masonry, chemical cleaners
represent the next level of intervention.
Chemical cleaners may be required to
remove heavy dirt buildup or layers of
paint. Chemical-based cleaners for

15

 masonry are generally one of three types:
acidic cleaners, alkaline cleaners, or
organic solvents. Acidic or alkaline
cleaners are used for regular cleaning or
dirt removal; alkaline cleaners or organic
solvents are used for paint removal. All of
these cleaners rely on water and most
contain surfactants ("surface active"
agents)-organic compounds that concentrate at oil-water interfaces, and exert
emulsifying actions, and thus aid in
removing soiling. (Sometimes the term
"surfactant" is used interchangeably with
"detergent. ")
Pre-wetting masonry surfaces is generally
recommended for both acidic and alkaline
products. In addition to loosening the dirt,
this reduces the amount of the cleaning
agent and the dirt-laden rinse water that
can soak into the masonry and the
contiguous mortar joints. Chemicals are
then brushed or sprayed on under low
pressure-brushing the chemicals on may
actually help loosen surface dirt. When
surfactant products are used, spraying or
brushing generates suds that boost cleaning efficiency by lengthening contact time
of the active chemicals with the masonry.
Manual scrubbing with a non-metallic
brush can have the same effect, and also
assists in loosening dirt. After a few
minutes (as indicated in the product
literature or determined by testing), the
cleaner is washed off by flooding the surface with a moderate-to-high (400-600 psi)
water spray at a rate of three to four
gallons per minute, rinsing from top to
bottom. Extremely heavy dirt accumulations or many layers of paint may require
repeated applications of the chemical
cleaner. A hot water rinse may also
facilitate paint removal.

Acidic Cleaners
most granites, most sandstones, slate, unglazed
brick, unglazed architectural terra cotta, concrete

16

Acidic products can be used on unglazed
brick and terra cotta, and most granites,
sandstones, slate and other non-calcareous
or siliceous stones. But acid-based cleaners
generally should never be used on acidsensitive materials that might be etched or
abraded by acid. This includes masonry
with a glazed or polished surface (glazed
architectural terra cotta, glazed brick,
polished stone or glass) as well as acidsensitive stone such as limestone, marble,
or calcareous sandstone.

Acidic cleaning is a two-part process: first,
the acid cleansing solution is applied to
the pre-wet masonry surface. After completing its action, the acid solution is then
removed from the masonry by a thorough
water rinse. Hydrofluoric acid is the most
commonly used acid cleaner for historic
masonry, usually with some phosphoric
acid added to prevent development of
rust-like stains that may appear after
cleaning. Hydrofluoric acid specifically
dissolves carbonaceous pollutant products,
or dirt, and in most cases does not leave
water-soluble salts in the masonry if the
cleaning is properly carried out. It should
preferably be used at a concentration 0.5
percent, but may be used at concentrations as high as 5 percent.
Hydrofluoric acid works on granite, slate,
sandstone and brick by dissolving a
minute amount of their surface, thus
releasing the dirt. In this way, the introduction of potentially harmful residual
salts into the masonry is kept to a
minimum. The masonry should be kept
moist throughout the cleaning operation to
avoid silica deposition (efflorescence or the
formation of a whitish powder). As most
chemical cleaners (both acidic and
alkaline) must remain on the surface for
several minutes, keeping the masonry
moist will also maximize cleaning efficiency. A second or third application of the
cleaning agent may be necessary to
remove particularly heavy dirt deposits.
Most commercially available products contain thickening agents to form gels or
pastes that improve the cleaning agent's
ability to cling to vertical surfaces. They
also contain secondary solvents of a lower
evaporation rate than water, such as
glycerine to enable the cleaner to remain
moist longer on the masonry surface.
However, care must be taken to avoid exposing the masonry to cleaners containing
hydrofluoric or other acids for more than
five to seven minutes.
A variety of commercially prepared acidbased cleaners for masonry is available:
products for granite, brick and sandstone,
afterwash products, concrete cleaners and
mortar removal products. The principal
ingredient in granite products (restoration
cleaners) is hydrofluoric acid. The afterwash products contain weak organic acids
such as acetic acid. The mortar removers
and concrete cleaners are based on

 hydrochloric acid. Many of these commercial products are very effective on historic
masonry buildings if used according to the
manufacturer's directions and under the
supervision of a preservation consultant.
It may be difficult to obtain a list of all
the ingredients or their exact proportions
for most of these products, since they are
usually of a proprietary nature, and not
patented. However, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA), requires that Material Safety
Data Sheets be supplied by manufacturers
to distributors upon request; the provide
information about all hazardous contents
in commercially available cleaning
products .

Cautions and Precautions. Hydrofluoric
acid-based cleaners can sometimes leave
whitish deposits of silica, or calcium
fluoride salts (efflorescence). These
deposits are generally not harmful to the
masonry but may be disfiguring, especially
on darker masonry. Since this efflorescence is soluble in hydrofluoric acid, it can
usually be removed by a second chemical
treatment, followed immediately by a
thorough cold water rinse. It should be
noted that hydrofluoric-based cleaners left
too long on the masonry may result in a
colloidal silica deposit that may be almost
impossible to remove (figure 13).

Although cleaning non acid-sensitive
masonry with hydrofluoric acid-based
products is generally a relative safe undertaking-using proper precautions-hydrofluoric acid may lighten the color of some
sandstones containing iron. This is
another reason why it is always important
to test the product on the masonry before
beginning a full-scale cleaning project.
Hydrofluoric acid can also severely etch
aluminum and glass; therefore, these
materials must be covered with acidresistant coatings for protection during
cleaning.
Hydrochloric (muriatic) acid is a very
strong acid and thus should generally not
be used as a cleaning agent on historic
masonry (even when diluted). Rather than
cleaning or dissolving dirt, it dissolves
lime-based mortars and even some stones,
and leaves chloride deposits on the
masonry surface. The fact that it dissolves
lime-based mortar as well as lime contained in
some stones clearly illustrates that its use on
historic masonry is generally inappropriate, since
marry historic mortars have a high lime content.
When used as a cleaning agent,
hydrochloric acid also tends to result in
the formation of water soluble salts in the
masonry itself, which even thorough surface rinsing is unable to remove. Some of
these salts deposited within the masonry
will probably appear on the exterior surface of the masonry as efflorescence, which
may be washed off or brushed off by
hand. However, not all of these chloride
sales will migrate to the exterior surface.
Salts remaining within the masonry may
eventually cause spalling of the masonry
units themselves. Furthermore, the use of
hydrochloric acid may also result in the
formation of yellow ferrous chloride stains
on some types of masonry.
Commercially available acid-based cleaners
usually contain varying combinations of
hydrofluoric, phosphoric, hydrochloric
(muriatic), sufuric, acetic, and oxalic acid.
As a final caution, it should be noted that
despite the manufacturer's recommendations, commercially available "all
purpose" cleaners that contain
hydrochloric acid should not be used on
limestone.

Figure 13. While hydrofluoric acid-based cleaners are often appropriate jor cleaning unglazed brick, they may jorm hard-to-remove whitish silica deposits if left too
long on the surface.

Generally, the only appropriate application
of diluted hydrochloric acid to historic
masonry is to remove excess mortar that
17

 may have been splashed over the stone or
brick while repointing, to remove whitewash or other lime or cement-based
coating, or sometimes to clean concrete.
Alkaline Cleaners
limestone, marble, calcareous sandstone, glazed
brick, glazed architectural terra cotta, polished
marble, polished granite

Alkaline cleaners should be used on acidsensitive masonry materials that would be
damaged by acidic cleaners: limestone and
marble, calcareous sandstone, glazed brick
and glazed architectural terra cotta, and
polished marble and polished granite .
Alkaline cleaners consist of two major ingredients: 1) a detergent (or surfactant),
and 2) some type of alkali, usually
potassium hydroxide. Following their application to the pre-wet masonry, alkaline
cleaners are rinsed off with water; then
the masonry is given a slightly acidic wash
(for example, acetic acid) to neutral"ize the
alkaline solution. The final step is to rinse
the masonry with water a second time.
Both potassium hydroxide and ammonium
hydroxide (ammonia) are suitable alkaline
cleaners for historic masonry. (Ammonia
cleaners are especially effective in removing soil of a slightly greasy nature.) For
lighter-colored calcareous masonry, a more
uniform fmal appearance may require the
addition of complexing agents (such as
EDTA) and organic bleaches, but only
under careful professional supervision.
The effectiveness of alkaline cleaners, particularly for removing paint, wax coatings,
grease and oil stains, may be increased by
a hot water rinse (not over 160 0 F).
Alkaline paint removers as well as alkaline
cleaners for dirt removal from calcareous
stones are used undiluted.

Cautions and Precautions. Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda or lye) generally should
not be used on older or historic masonry.
It is extremely harsh and can cause
efflorescence and subflorescence, and may
also cause physical abrasion and loss of
small amounts of a brick surface (figure
14). Ammonium bifluoride is another
alkaline cleaner that is commonly recommended as an "all-purpose" cleaner, but
in general, ammonium bifluoride solutions
are also not suitable for use on limestones,
marbles, calcareous sandstones, or unglazed brick because of the likelihood of
18

Figure 14. Although the sodium hydroxide-based test
cleaning patch on the right side of this wall of common brick appears to have been successfully cleaned,
closer inspection reveals that a minute portion of the
brick surface has been dissolved and removed by the
cleaner. As a result, considerable brick dust can be
seen in the cracks of the pavement beneath the wall.

leaving ammonium salts on the .surface or
within the masonry.
Surfactants and Detergents
polished granite, glazed brick,
architectural terra cotta

Surfactants (without acids or alkalies) can
be used on polished granite, glazed brick,
and architectural terra cotta without risk
of etching. Scrubbing with non-metallic
brushes (or sometimes even handsponging) with a detergent is another effective method of cleaning these smooth
surfaces. (However, it may not be possible
to remove discoloration caused by dirt that
has penetrated a crazed terra cotta glaze.)
Non-ionic surfactants can be especially effective in removing oily or greasy dirt.

Chemical Cleaning to Remove
Paint and Other Coatings
Large-scale paint removal from historic
masonry buildings can best be accomplished with chemical pamt removers, based
either on organic solvents or alkaline solutions. Commercial paint removers are

 phosphate. This alkaline-based paint
remover is best used on calcareous and
other acid-sensitive masonry, and is
particularly useful for removing oil, latex
and acrylic paint. (Many paint removers
are composed primarily of sodium
hydroxide-caustic soda or lye-which, as
explained earlier, should not be used on
historic masonry because of the likelihood
of depositing harmful salts.)
Organic Solvent Paint Removers

A second type of paint remover is composed of a combination of organic
solvents, which almost always includes
methylene chloride, and others such as
methanol (wood alcohol), acetone, xylene,
and toluene. Organic solvent-based
cleaners are particularly effective in
removing more recently developed
coatings, including epoxy and urethanetype coatings. However, methylene
chloride-based cleaners may also tend to
spread some stains deeper into the
masonry, so they must be applied with
caution, and of course, only after testing.
Both types of paint removers are applied
either with a brush or sprayed on the
masonry surface. The addition of gels,
thickeners and waxes prevents paint
removers, which evaporate rapidly, from
drying out so that they may remain active
on the surface for several hours.

Figures 15a-15b. If a highly articulated facade is being cleaned it may be
necessary to scaffold the building, one elevation at a time. When the monumental
task of chemically removing all the paint from the White House was begun, each
side was scaffolded in preparation for repainting. Removal of the many layers of
paint that had obscured the stone tooling marks for almost a century, without
damaging the historic sandstone, required much painstaking hand work.
Photograph: National Park Service

generally formulated to remove most types
of paint (except cementitious or lime-based
paints such as whitewash) from all types of
masonry. But it is always preferable to use
an alkaline paint remover on acid-sensitive
masonry (figures 15a-15 b ).
Alkaline Paint Removers
limestone, marble, calcareous sandstone, glazed
brick, glazed architectural terra cotta, polished
marble, polished granite

One type of paint remover is based on
ammonium hydroxide (ammonia),
potassium hydroxide, or trisodium

The softened paint is then washed off
using a water rinse that may range from
as low as 200 psi to possibly as high as
800 psi. Efficiency of the paint removal
differs from project to project. Multiple
layers of paint may require two or more
applications of paint remover, or the use
of several types. An intricately carved,
rough or damaged masonry surface will
also take more time and may not result in
a surface completely free of paint. If the
paint has penetrated into the masonry,
total paint removal may be impossible to
achieve without damaging the surface.
Removing Other Coatings

Traditional lime-based whitewash or color
washes that have deteriorated and no
longer bond to the substrate, may be
removed with hydrochloric (muriatic)
acid-which will dissolve the lime (and also
the masonry substrate if it is not applied with
caution)-or sometimes with acetic acid,

and hand-scrubbing with non-metallic

19

 brushes. Sometimes prolonged wet poulticing may also be necessary. Twentiethcentury cement-based, or textured
coatings, may be very difficult to remove
without damaging the masonry. They are
not likely to be soluble in paint remover,
although occasionally hydrochloric acid
may be effective, and sometimes they can
be removed by hand-scraping. Removal of
acrylic water-repellent coatings may
usually be accomplished with an alkaline,
possibly potasium hydroxide, solution.
Cautions and Precautions. In particular,
those paint removers based on organic
solvents should be handled with extra
caution. Most organic solvents are flammable. Their vapors, easily absorbed
through the skin and the lungs, are
carcinogenic, and some are irritating to
the skin.
It should be noted that the use of heat
(applied with a propane torch or similar
device) is never an acceptable method of
paint removal from historic masonry. Not
only is heat ineffective, it may actually
damage the masonry, and cause softened
paint to permeate porous masonry. Furthermore, use of a propane torch also introduces the hazard of fire to historic
materials. Finally, the use of high-pressure
water in itself is also not an effective or
acceptable method of paint removal from
historic masonry.

with a calcareous or otherwise acidsensitive masonry type. There are many
premixed poultices commercially available
that are based on much the same composition as those described here.
Frequently stains will be removed during
a general cleaning of the masonry. But the
removal of disfiguring stains, graffiti, and
efflorescent salt deposits from masonry is
often a complex and challenging undertaking. It is complicated by the fact that,
unlike particulate dirt which tends to sit
on the surface, stains generally penetrate
into and permeate the masonry.
For this reason, poulticing is generally the
most effective means of removing stains
from historic masonry. Efficient stain
removal requires that a cleaning solution
(selected according to the type of stain) be
kept in contact with the stained area for as
long as possible, and that the cleaning
solution pull out the staining material
without redepositing or spreading it on the
masonry itself (figure 16). Poulticing
methods meet all these requirements.

Poulticing to Remove Stains

20

The first step in stain removal is to identify the stain; the next step is to try to
prevent recurrence of the problem by getting at its source. This source may be integral to the configuration of building
materials in a historic structure, and as
such, may not be feasible to eliminate.
For example, copper flashing will often
stain light-colored stone or brick. And the
more porous the masonry, the greater the
tendency for the masonry to become
stained. Thus, while glazed brick and
architectural terra cotta are generally
resistant to penetrating stains, limestone
and marble are considerably more likely to
stain because of their porous nature. The
fact that acids should not be used on acidsensitive materials frequently means that,
while an acid might indeed be capable of
removing a certain stain from brick or a
siliceous stone, an alternative, non-acidic
cleaner must be substituted when dealing

Figure 16. Four different poultice mixtures were tested
to remove metal stains from this marble wall. From
top to bottom, they included a commercial poultice, as
well as formulations of peroxide and hydrated lime,
ammonia and hydrated lime, and sodium citrate and
glycerine with hydrated lime. Photograph: The
Ehrenkrantz Group

 Simply stated, a poultice is composed of
an absorbent material or powder, mixed
with a liquid to form a paste or slurry.
The absorbent powders or chemically inert
fillers used to make up the poultice not
only slow the rate of evaporation or reaction, allowing adequate time for the solvent to dissolve the stain, but also provide
a vehicle to accept the staining material
after it has been pulled from the masonry.
Among the powders commonly used for
poulticing are clays (such as attapulgite,
kaolin and fuller's earth), talc, chalk
(whiting), sepiolite (hydrous magnesium
silicate), diatomaceous earth (kieselguhr)
and methyl cellulose. While absorbent
clays and diatomaceous earth are the most
efficient, whiting and kaolin are the
cheapest. It should be noted that the absorbent material for a poultice does not
always have to be powdered, but can consist of shredded acid-free paper or absorbent cotton or cotton pads. (Generally,
whiting, or iron-containing clay such as
fuller's earth, should not be used as the
absorbent ingredient if an acid is used as
the solvent; they will react with, and thus,
negate the effectiveness of the acid.)
Next, the type of solvent (liquid) is chosen
to match the requirements of the stain to
be removed. It will either be water for a
chemical poultice or an organic solvent for
stains that are soluble only in solvents. A
heavy or thick poultice may require additional support on vertical surfaces in the
form of a non-ferrous, or plastic mesh
which can be held against the wall with
non-staining fasteners. The poultice will
clean more effectively if kept wet
throughout the dwell period. It can be
covered with plastic to prevent it from
drying out too rapidly, and can also be rewetted if it dries too quickly without having removed the stain. If a single poulticing operation is not effective, a second application can be made. After removing
and discarding the poultice material, the
area should be thoroughly rinsed with
clean water to cleanse the masonry of any
chemical residue (figure 17 a - 17 d).
The poultice is applied as follows: a V4 - %
inch layer of the paste is applied to the
masonry surface, and the liquid is
absorbed into the masonry to act upon the
stain. As the poultice dries out, the liquid
is re-absorbed back into it, drawing out
the stain. The poultice is allowed to dry
completely, and is removed gently by

Figure i7(a). This graffiti was applied with a wide
felt-tipped marker to a polished granite wall. To
facilitate removal and to prevent the image from
penetrating further into the stone, the masonry surface
was first wetted with denatured alcohol.

Figure (b) Most of the image was removed using a
rag saturated with a mixture oj so/vents, including
acetone, lacquer thinner and N-methy-2-pyrrolidone.

Figure (c-d) The slight ghost outline remaining was
easily removed with the solvent mixture in a poultice
composed of attapulgite and Kaolin clays and
whiting, and followed by a thorough detergent and
21
water wash. Photographs: Nicholas F. Veloz

 hand with a wooden scraper or nonmetallic brush.

Metallic Stains
In general, metallic stains on siliceous or
acid-resistant surfaces can be removed effectively with a weak acid solution.
Metallic stains on acid-sensitive masonry
should be removed using an alkaline salt
of the appropriate acid (for example, ammonium oxalate to remove rust stains).
Metal compounds are responsible for a
great number of stains on historic
masonry structures. Of these, rust stains
from iron are probably the most common.
The orange color is caused by small particles of hydrous iron oxide. Most rust
stains are directly related to the corrosion
of exterior ironwork such as porch railings
and grillwork, or concealed interior support mechanisms such as iron anchors and
tie rods. Corrosion is usually initiated by
water penetration into the building,
primarily via cracks and open mortar
joints, and the stains will continue to
reappear if these leaks are not repaired.
However, some rust stains are due to certain iron-containing minerals, such as
pyrite, that may occur naturally in the
stone and, as such, cannot be removed .

Green stains are usually associated with
the presence of a number of copper compounds. Copper roofing, brass ornaments
and bronze hardware and sculpture are
among the obvious scources of green staining. Copper and bronze stains are usually
not difficult to eliminate successfully.
Generally, they are soluble in an ammonia
solution (aqueous .ammonium hydroxide).

Industrial Stains
Industrial stains result from contact with
such materials as juel oil, asphalt and tar.
Some superficial (or surface) industrial
stains, like smoke and soot and oil, may
be removed by gently scrubbing with a
scouring powder containing bleach (but
not household bleaches which are sodiumbased) or water-based household
detergents that are acid and alkali-free.
However, scouring powders sometimes
contain abrasives which may damage
delicate masonry surfaces . Ammonia also
dissolves some superficial oily stains; thus,
a solution of ammonia and water applied
in a poultice is useful for removing oil and
grease stains from marble. But most procedures for the removal of these oily stains
require the use of organic solvents.
Because flooding the surface with solvents
is both inefficient and costly, brushing
with an emulsion of organic solvents such
as mineral spirits may be more effective.
A water rinse afterward is necessary.
Industrial stains that have penetrated
more deeply into the masonry should not
be rubbed in, but should always be
removed with a poultice (figure 18). An
appropriate solvent (or solvent mixture)
must be selected. This will probably involve some testing to find a solvent best
suited to the type of stain. Among the
common organic solvents that may be effective in removing industrial stains are
the following: naptha, mineral spirits,
chlorinated hydrocarbons (such as
methylene chloride and perchloroethylene),
ethyl alcohol, acetone, ethyl acetate, amyl
acetate, toluene, xylene, and trichlorethylene . (A slight variation of the poultice
method consists of thoroughly soaking the
stained area with the solvent, and immediately covering it with absorbent
powder.)

Figure 18. Removal oj this oil stain which has penetrated deep into the granite
will necessitate poulticing with an organic solvent.

22

It may not always be possible to remove
all traces of asphaltic stains, but their
visual impact will be substantially reduced

 by using these methods . Additional
washing and scrubbing with detergent or
scouring powder following application of
the poultice may further reduce staining.
Removal of larger chunks of asphalt or tar
accumulations may be facilitated by applying dry ice or spraying with carbon
dioxide. The asphalt or tar will be embrittled by the dry ice or carbon dioxide,
and after tapping with a small hammer,
can usually be removed from the masonry
surface by prying it up with a putty knife,
(figure 19). This same technique can be
use for removing gum, adhesives or other
sticky substances, Such techniques,
however, should not be used on wet
masonry, as they may freeze the moisture
in the masonry, and cause cracking or
spalling. Organic solvents or bleaches are
also effective, sometimes in a poultice, on
sticky substances .

Biological Stains
Heavy growths of lichens, algae, moss and
fungi should be removed from masonry
surfaces. Lichens in particular, and
mosses, tend to encourage stone or
masonry deterioration, because they produce oxalic acid, and, because like other
plant growth, they attract-or are attracted to-moisture, one of the major
enemies of masonry. Thus, in most cases,
it is best to eliminate all plant, lichen and
algae growth on historic masonry.
Lichens and algae can usually be removed
with water and a stiff natural bristle
brush, after soaking, if necessary (figure
20). Stains caused by plant growth such as
mildew (which is a fungus) can sometimes
be removed with organic solvents, but are
generally best treated with diluted ammonia or bleaches. Hydrogen peroxide
can also be effective . Calcium hypochlorite
solutions and pastes (the basic of swimming pool chlorine) and Chloramine-T
may also be useful in many cases.
Chemical removal of the growth itself may
sometimes be accomplished with zinc or
magnesium fluorosilicate, copper
naphthenate, or with a variety of
quartenary ammonium salts. Low-tomedium-pressure (100-400 psi) water rinsing can be used to eliminate much of the
plant material prior to treatment and stain
removal. However, these compounds
should be used with caution, as some
copper compounds may stain light-colored

Figure 19. Efficient removal of tar splatters from
limestone and sandstone may be facilitated initially by
applying dry ice or carbon dioxide, but complete
removal will probably require poulticing with an inorganic solvent.

Figure 20. Plant growth such as lichens growing on
a protected side of this limestone and granite parapet
wall, can be damaging even to a relatively hard stone
like granite because lichens secrete oxalic acid. Lichens
can usually be removed, after soaking with water by
scrubbing with a stiff natural bristle brush.

masonry, and the use of zinc or
magnesium flu oro silicate may result in formation of a surface crust on some
masonry.
Other growing vines such as ivy and
Virginia Creeper should be cut at the
roots, and allowed to dry before removal
to prevent the disk-tipped tendrils

23

 characteristic of these plants from dislodging parts of the masonry. Once the
plants have dried up they can be carefully
pulled off; the roots should be killed (ammonium sulfamate may be applied to the
roots if necessary, taking care not to get it
on the masonry). Any remaining dried
plant material on the walls can be removed by scrubbing with a non-metallic
brush, and then washed off (figure 21).
Except in extreme cases, herbicides should
not be used to remove algae, moss or
lichens because of the danger of introducing addtional salts or acids into the
masonry, as well as the potential for
creating environmental problems.
Most of these forms of plant growth on
masonry buildings-algae, moss, lichens
and fungi-are a direct result of moisture
in the masonry and lack of sunshine.
Thus, unless the specific conditions
change, i.e., the moisture problem is
eliminated, or the masonry is given more
exposure to the sun, they will recur continually (figure 22). A leaking downspout
or gutter can be repaired, a tree or bush
too close to the building can be trimmed
or pruned to introduce more sunlight, and
even lawn sprinklers can be redirected so
they do not repeatedly deposit excessive
amounts of water on the same area of a
building surface (figure 23).

Figure 23. The moss growing around the downspout and along the base of this
stucco building clearly indicates the presence of excess moisture-here due to rising
damp as well as a leaky downspout. Photograph: Lee H. Nelson, FAIA

24

Figure 21. After the ivy was cut at the roots, it has
been allowed to wither and die bifore being pulled off
the wall. Most of the ivy has been removed, but a
few tendrils still cling higher on the wall. After these
have completely dried and have been pulled off, the remaining dried plant material can then be removed
from the brick by scrubbing with water and a bristle
brush.

Figure 22. The discoloration on this white marble is
a green-colored algae growth on a shady side of the
building and caused by water dripping from the airconditioner above it.

 Graffiti
As with other types of cleaning problems,
it is always preferable to identify the
substance used to create the graffiti before
selecting what is likely to be the best
remover. If there is any possibility of
discovering how the graffiti was applied
(such as discarded spray paint cans in the
immediate area) , it is worthwhile to investigate, since the manufacturer of a particular product may be able to provide
specific information concerning the ingredients of the paint, and thereby simplify
the task of removal. It is also important to
be aware that it may be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to completely
remove all traces of some types of graffiti.
Successful and total removal of graffiti
may depend on the type and surface texture of the masonry, as well as the particular substance applied. After its
removal , which is essentially a spot cleaning operation, the masonry surface may
appear spotty. If too unsightly, cleaning
the entire surface or wall may be
necessary. Sometimes it may be easier to
"redirty" slightly the cleaned area to
blend in with the uncleaned wall.
Like most other cleaning projects, successful graffiti removal will probably involve a "trial and error" approach, unless
the material used to apply it can be
readily identified before cleaning is begun.
And, as with any type of cleaning of
historic masonry, the gentlest method

possible should always be tried first; otherwise, one may run the risk of permanently
etching the graffiti into the masonry
surface.
Painted graffiti applied from a spray can
or by a felt-tipped marker or lipstick may
generally be removed from masonry by a
commercial paint remover-either a solvent type of remover such as lacquer
thinner or acetone, or a methylene
chloride-based remover (figure 24). In
some instances, poulticing may not be
necessary. If the graffiti has not permeated
deeply into the masonry, it may be
removed by the paint remover or a solution of trisodium phosphate brushed on
with a non-metallic brush. After the paint
has softened, as much as possible should
be scraped off with a wooden scraper.
Then the area should be washed again
using a detergent and soapy water, and
rinsed thoroughly with water.
A variety of commercial solvents are
available on the market, which may contain aromatic non-chlorinated solvents
such as xylol, toluene with methanol or
ketone, or chlorinated hydrocarbon
solvents such as methylene chloride. But
before trying these solvents which, as
noted, are effective but are also very toxic
and dangerous to handle, it is always best
to try something milder, such as a
detergent solution and water combined
with hand-scrubbing with a non-metallic
brush.
Although many cleaning contractors may
advise application of a coating to protect
masonry surfaces that are particularly
vulnerable to defacement by graffiti, a
coating is generally not recommended.
Historic masonry may be discolored or
damaged more by such coatings, which
may inhibit moisture evaporation, than by
the graffiti. Furthermore, the coating itself
is likely to be removed by subsequent
graffiti removals.

Salt/Efflorescence

Figure 24. Spray-painted graffiti on this brick wall can be removed with paint
remover, and in this case, probably will not require poulticing.

Efflorescence is a whitish powder made up
of excess salts that have crystalized on the
masonry surface. Because efflorescence
may have many causes, it is important to
identify the source of the problem. For example, although efflorescence is usually a
sign of excessive amounts of moisture in
the masonry, it may also result from

25

 chemical cleaning or repointing if the
masonry is not thoroughly rinsed. It may
also come from heavy use of de-icing salts,
or rain penetrating masonry through
deteriorated mortar joints may result in efflorescent patches on an entire facade .
Finally, air pollution often results in the
formation of thick sulfate (salt) crusts on
the underside of moldings and eavesareas not regularly washed by rainfall
(figure 25).
Efflorescence can usually be brushed or
washed off with water since it is formed of

Figure 25. Excess moisture leaching out through the walls has resulted in the formation of white efflorescent salts on the brick and blackish sulfate salts on the
limestone water table.

I

water soluble salts. Some efflorescence that
results from cleaning may eventually
disappear through normal rain washing;
however, some chemical residue left from
the cleaning process can form damaging
insoluble salts. Efflorescence resulting from
water penetration into the masonry structure will continue to reappear unless the
source of the water entry is removed;
thus, the first task is to identify the point
of entry and stop the water penetration
(figure 26).
Sulfate encrustations often may be
removed with a heavy wooden scraper.
But removal of particularly heavy salt
buildup may also require a poultice of one
of the following : diatomaceous earth, cotton, crushed dolomite, crushed limestone,
or shredded polyester fiber soaked in
distilled water. The area of the masonry
that displays efflorescence should also be
soaked in distilled water before applying
the poultice to avoid redistributing the
salts back into the masonry.

Cautions and Precautions. Several points
need to be made regarding the use of
chemicals in poultices. First, copper stains
should never be removed from limestone
with potassium cyanide or sodium cyanide
as is sometimes recommended. Both of
these cyanide compounds can be lethal to
cleaning personnel. Second, most organic
solvents are flammable. Their vapors,
easily absorbed through the skin and the
lungs, are carcinogenic, and some are irritating to the skin. Third, bleach should
never be used in conjunction with ammonia in a poultice; this simple-sounding
household combination produces toxic
chlorine gas that may cause lung tissue
damage or death. Finally, spraying liquid
nitrogen or asphalt or tar will make it
brittle and thus removable, but it is highly
flammable and so dangerous to work with
that a user must be specially licensed.

Other Methods of Stain Removal

Figure 26. Efflorescent salts appearing on marry of the brick piers of this tum-ofthe-century building may indicate the existence of clogged interior gutters that,
because they no longer function have been supplemented by an exterior rain removal
system. Photograph: National Park Service

26

While it is usually necessary to employ a
poultice to remove most stains on
masonry, other, sometimes simpler, procedures may also be effective. If a stain is
superficial, it may often be eliminated by
applying a chemical remover or solvent
with brushes, or by "washing" the solvent
over ;the surface using a low pressure
(under 100 psi) spraying apparatus. It
may also help to coat the surface with talc

 or similar material to help absorb the stain
in a sort of simplified poultice. To prevent
outward migration of the staining agent,
which would increase the size of the
stained area, the masonry immediately
adjacent to the stain on all sides should be
thoroughly prewetted. Following application of the cleaning solution, the masonry
must be rinsed off, and the entire procedure repeated, as necessary. Rinsing
need not be done with pressure; in fact, it
is normally sufficient to gently flood the
treated surface for several minutes.
Cautions and Precautions. Mechanical or
abrasive procedures such as sandblasting,
grinding or chiseling to remove dirt,
paint, stains or graffiti are not acceptable
methods of cleaning historic masonry.
Such abrasive methods may-with varying
degrees of success-remove the offending
substance from the masonry, but may also
damage the masonry by removing or
abrading the outer surface layer (figure
27). Very loose or flaking paint or a
similar coating on smooth surfaces, such
as brick, may sometimes be successsfully
removed by careful hand-scraping in
preparation for repainting, but the
physical irregularities of most rough-cut or
carved surfaces make this impractical.
Furthermore, abrasive cleaning techniques
may also be harmful to the applicator,
passersby and public property.

Figure 27. Heavily pitted by sandblasting, this window recess provides a vivid contrast to adjacent undamaged brick protected from abrasion by a metal
signboard.

Cleaning to Remove Bird
Droppings
Removal of small amounts of bird droppings may be accomplished as part of a
regular cleaning project with cold water
washing, possibly supplemented with
detergents and chelating agents such as
EDTA (ethylene diamine tetra-acetic
acid), or on non-acid sensitive masonry
with acidic cleaners, where appropriate.
Removal may also be facilitated by brushing with a non-metallic brush and scraping with a wood scraper (figure 28).
In some instances where particularly
porous types of stone may have been
stained by heavy accumulations of droppings that have permeated into the stone
over the years, they can be removed by
using a combination of the above
materials .
Cautions and Precautions. Histoplasmosis
and cryptococcosis, both potentially fatal

Figure 28. If water, or water and detergent wash,
does not remove the pigeon droppings from this sandstone sill and stringcourse below, it may be necessary
to use a dilute acidic cleaner containing hydrofluoric
acid, providing the sandstone is not calcareous and
thus, acid-sensitive.

27

 diseases of the lungs and central nervous
system, can result from exposure to accumulations of pigeon excrement. Because
of this disease potential, it may be better
to apply water pressure from a safe
distance to remove excessive amounts of
droppings and better not to attempt total
removal, particularly if droppings are not
highly visible or do not appear to be

28

damaging the masonry. Bleach should not
be used as a component of any removal
process; bird droppings contain ammonia,
which forms toxic gases when mixed with
some bleaches. When removing bird droppings, cleaning personnel should guard
against exposure to the attendant health
hazards by wearing protective masks and
clothing.

 Part III

Summary of Guidance
The "Gentlest Means Possible"
Although masonry may be one of the most
durable of historic building materials, it is
nonetheless susceptible to damage by improper maintenance or repair techniques
and by harsh and abrasive cleaning
~ethods. Thus, cleaning historic masonry
IS recom~end~d only when necessary to
~alt deteriOratIon or to remove heavy soil~ng, an~ ,onb' after careful testing. Observmg the gentlest means possible" rule

always means beginning with a lowpressure water wash, supplemented, if
necessary, with non-ionic detergents and
scrubbing with non-metallic brushes. If
this very gentle method does not clean the
masonry, or if paint or stains must be
removed, the next step is to use a
chemical cleaning process. Abrasive cleaning methods are damaging and are not
suitable cleaning techniques for historic
masonry buildings.

29

 Summary of Cleaning Techniques*
Substance
to be
Removed

Add-Sensitive Masonry

Non-Add-Sensitive Masonry

Limestone, Marble, Calcareous Sandstone,
Glazed Brick, Architectural Terra Cotta,
Polished Granite

Sandstone, Slate, Granite, Unglazed Brick,
and Unglazed Terra Cotta, Concrete

Water wash
Water + non-ionic detergent
Alkaline cleaner
(ammonia or potassium hydroxide)

Water wash
Water + non-ionic detergent
Acidic cleaner
(hydrofluoric acid)

Alkaline paint remover
(ammonia or potassium hydroxide
or trisodium phosphate)

Alkaline paint remover
(ammonia or potassium hydroxide
or trisodium phosphate)

Organic solvent paint remover
(methylene chloride)

Organic solvent paint remover
(methylene chloride)

Whitewash
and Cementitious Paints

Acetic acid or very weak solution of hydrochloric
acid

Acetic acid
Hydrochloric acid

Stains - Iron (Rust)

Poultice with:
Sodium citrate in water + glycerine or
Ammonium oxalate

Poultice with:
Oxalic acid or orthophosphoric acid
+ sodium salt of EDTA in water or
Dilute hydrofluoric acid

Stains - Copper

Poultice with:
Ammonium chloride or
Aluminum hydroxide + ammoma

Poultice with:
Ammonia (+ EDTA) or
Dilute hydrofluoric acid

Stains - Industrial

Scouring powder with bleach
Water-based household detergent
Ammonia
Mineral spirits
Alkaline cleaner

Scouring powder with bleach
Water-based household detergent
Ammonia
Mineral spirits
Alkaline cleaner

Poultice with one oj the following:
Sodium bicarbonate
Acetone
(baking soda)
Ethyl acetate
Naptha
Amyl acetate
Mineral spirits
Toluene
Methylene chloride
Xylene
Perchloroethylene
Trichloroethylene
Ethyl alcohol
Dry ice/carbon dioxide (Tar, Asphalt, Gum)

Poultice with one of the following:
Sodium bicarbonate
Acetone
(baking soda)
Ethyl acetate
Naptha
Amyl acetate
Mineral spirits
Toluene
Methylene chloride
Xylene
Perchloroethylene
Trichloroethylene
Ethyl alcohol
Dry ice/carbon dioxide (Tar, Asphalt, Gum)

Stains - Plant and Fungal
(lichens, algae, moss, fungi)

Dilute ammonia
Bleaches
Hydrogen peroxide
Sodium hypochlorite
Chloramine-T

Dilute ammonia
Bleaches
Hydrogen peroxide
Sodium hypochlorite
Chloramine-T

Stains - Graffiti
(paint, spray-paint, felttipped marker)

Organic solvent or alkaline paint remover
Lacquer thinner or acetone
Organic solvent (methylene chloride)
See also Paint, above

Organic solvent paint remover
Lacquer thinner or acetone
Organic solvent (methylene chloride)
See also Paint, above

Salt/Efflorescence

Water wash
Water (poultice)

Water wash
Water (poultice)

Water wash
Water + detergent
+ chelating agent such as EDTA

Water wash
Water + detergent
+ chelating agent such as EDTA
Acidic cleaners (hydrofluoric acid)

Dirt and/or Pollutant Crusts

Paint
(oil, latex, acrylic coating,
vinyl, epoxy, urethanetype coatings)

(smoke, soot, grease, oil,
tar, asphalt, waxes)

Bird Droppings

·Cleaning techniques are listed in order starting with the "gentlest means possible. "

31

 Selected Bibliography

Amoroso, Giovanni G., and Vasco
Fassina. Stone Decay and Conservation:
Atmospheric Pollution, Cleaning, Consolidation and Protection. Materials Science
Monographs, 11. Amsterdam: Elsevier
Science Publishers B.V., 1983.
Ashurst, John. "Cleaning and Surface
Repair-Past Mistakes and Future Prospects." Association for Preservation
Technology Bulletin, v. XVII, n. 2 (1985),
pp. 39-41.
Ashurst, John, and Francis G. Dimes.
Stone in Building: Its Use and Potential
Today. London: The Architectural Press
Ltd ., 1977.
Boyer, David W., and James W. Dunlap.
Masonry Cleaning: The State of the Art.
(Reprinted for the 1985 Association for
Preservation Technology Annual Conference). ProSoCo, Inc.
Brick Institute of America. "Cleaning
Brick Masonry." Technical Notes on Brick
Construction, 20 (revised), September/
October 1977.
Clayton, Ian. "Special Feature: Stone
Cleaning. Why Buildings Should Be
Washed. " Building Conservation, v. 3,
n. 3 (March 1981), p. 20.
Clifton, James R. (editor). Cleaning Stone
and Masonry. Philadelphia: American
Society for Testing and Materials
(ASTM), 1986.
"Danger: Restoration May Be Dangerous
to Your Health." The Old-House Journal
Compendium, Clem Labine and Carolyn
Flaherty (editors). Woodstock, N.Y.:
The Overlook Press, 1980, pp. 171-173.
Feilden, Bernard M. Conservation of Historic
Buildings. London: Butterworth & Company, Ltd., 1982.
Fidler, John. "The Conservation of ArchitectUl'al Terra Cotta and Faience."
Excerpted from Association for Studies in
the Conservation of Historic Buildings Transactions, v.6 (1981), and reprinted in
Friends of Terra Cotta Newsletter, v. 3, n. 2
(Summer 1981), pp. 8-10.

Grimmer, Anne E. A Glossary of Historic
Masonry Deterioration Problems and Preservation Treatments. Washington, D.C.: National Park Service, U.S. Department of
the Interior, 1984.

___ . Preservation Briefs 6: Dangers of
Abrasive Cleaning to Historic Buildings.
Washington, D.C.: National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior,
1979.
London, Mark. Masonry: How to Care for
Old and Historic Brick and Stone. Respectful Rehabilitation Series. Washington,
D. C.: The Preservation Press, 1988.
Lucas, James J., Susan M. Tindall and
Bernard J. Rowe. Exterior-Masonry
Restorative Cleaning. CSI Monograph
Series (04M521). Alexandria, VA.: The
Construction Specifications Institute,
May 1987.
Mack, Robert C., AlA. Preservation Briefs
1: The Cleaning and Waterproof Coating of
Masonry Buildings. Washington, D.C.:
National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1975.
"Masonry Conservation & Cleaning."
Materials compiled for the Association
for Preservation Technology PreConference Training Course, September
16-19, 1984.
Matero, Frank G., and Jo Ellen Freese.
"Notes on the Treatment of Oil and
Grease Staining on a Masonry Surface. " Association for Preservation
Technology Bulletin, v. X, n. 2 (1978),
pp. 133-141.
Poore, Patricia. "Stripping Exterior
Masonry. " The Old-House Journal,
v. XIII, n. 1 Oanuary-February 1985),
pp. 1, 26-28 .
Prudon, Theodore. "Removing Stains
from Masonry." The Old-House Journal,
v. V, n. 5 (May 1977), pp. 58-59.
Sedovic, Walter, AlA. "Undoing a
Miracle Cure-All: Removing an Acrylic
Coating from Federal Hall National
33

 Memorial." ICOMOS International Symposium: Old Cultures in New Worlds. Symposium Papers Volume 1. October
10-15, 1987. Washington, D.C.: U .S.
Committee, International Council on
Monuments and Sites, pp . 475-480.
Spry, Alan H. (compiler). Principles of
Cleaning Masonry Buildings: A Guide to
Assist in the Cleaning of Masonry Buildings.
Technical Bulletin 3. 1 National Trust of
Australia (Victoria), 1982 .
Tiller, de Teel Patterson. Preservation Briefs
7: The Preservation of Historic Glazed Architectural Terra-Cotta . Washington, D. C. :
National Park Service, U .S . Department of the Interior, 1979.

34

Weaver, Martin. "Nuts and Bolts: Cleaning Masonry, A Look at Water and
Chemical Treatments." Canadian
Heritage (December 1980), pp. 39-42 .
Weiss, Norman R. Exterior Cleaning of
Historic Masonry Buildings. Draft Report.
Washington, D.C .: National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior,
1977.
Veloz, Nicholas F. "Graffiti: An Introduction with Examples ." Association for
Preservation Technology Communique,
Technical Note 6, v . XIC (5).

  