301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, Floor

Chicago, IL 60616

Metr0politan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
April 23, 2019 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; Don Villar, \?ce Chairman; Dr. Sonat Bimecker Hart; Roger J.
Kiley; Terrance B. McGann; Juan A. Ochoa; Sherman Wright

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Larita Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer; David Winters, Chief Operations Of?cer;
David Causton, SMGIMcCormick Place; Matthew Simmons, Acting General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of
Procurement; Steve E. Georges, Chief Security Of?cer; Samina Kapadia. Assistant General Counsel; Stephanie
Lovelace-Nieves, Controller; Jason Bonnann, Director of Treasury and Capital Management; Marilynn Rubio, Senior
Manager, Community Engagement and Special Events; Tiffany Petties, Business Diversity Program Manager; Gloria
Juarbe. Director of Human Resources; David Whitaker, Choose Chicago; Joseph T. Scheper, SMGIMcCormick Place;
Bob McClintock, Scott Winterroth. SMGIMcCormick Place; Rufus Pumell, Resident; McCafferty,
Hawthorne Strategy Group, Inc.; Manuel Ribot, Lambent Risk Management; Troy Vamey, Aon; Corey 
Aon; Conrad Randale, Aon, Dorothy Holden, Aon; Temo Garcia, Aon; Don Ortegel, Aon; Junior Pierre, Lambent Risk
Management; Shirley Evans, Lambent Risk Management; Pat Doerr, Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the April 23, 2019.

Moved by Member Villar, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey reported Mayor Lightfoot held her inauguration ceremony at Wintrust Arena. Ms.
Healey presented a PowerPoint, which included the Mayor?s inauguration and the news coverage of the opening of
Josephine's Cooking ("Mother' Wade) at McCormick Place. Ms. Healey stated Evelyn's Food Love, another soul food
establishment, had previously been added to McCormick Place?s West Building.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the ?nancial results for April 2019 and the tax collections for April 2019.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton presented a PowerPoint which included videos of the National
Restaurant Association Show and Sweets Snacks Expo. Mr. Causton stated the National Restaurant Association
celebrated their 100th anniversary and had 65,000 attendees. Mr. Causton stated the National Restaurant Association
had committed to McCormick Place until 2026 and were looking to expand their footprint on campus. Mr. Causton
stated Sweets 8: Snacks Expo had 15,000 attendees. Mr. Causton stated the American Society of Clinical Oncology
had record attendance with 42,000 attendees and had committed to McCormick Place until 2030. Mr. Causton stated
the following shows will host their events on campus: United Fresh Annual Convention; Holiday Show; RetailX;
and Salesforce Connections. Mr. Causton stated Wintrust Arena will have games by the Chicago Sky and DePaul
University's graduations.



0

301 East Cerrnak Road
Corporate Boardroom, Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss item C1,
employment matters and collective negotiating matters. Upon motion duly made by Member Kiley. seconded by
Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session. item 01 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1.

D1.

D2.

DB.

D4.

D5.

DS.

DY.

Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the April 23, 2019 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member Villar. seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item Cl.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for IT Consultant and Services.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Bimecker Hart, and the remaining members present
voted approving item 01.

Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract to Design-Build Services McCormick
Place Headquarters Hotel for Decoupling Services/Work.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Wright. and the remaining members present
voted approving item D2.

Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract to Design-Build Services McCormick
Place Headquarters Hotel for Additional Traf?c Signal Work.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D3.

Consideration of Approval of New Sole Source Contract Lot - Installation of Automated Parking
Access and Revenue Control System (PARCS).

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Bimecker Hart, and the remaining members
present voted approving item D4.

Consideration of Approval of Insurance Renewal for MPEA Insurance Program for 7/1/2019 -
6/30/2019.

Moved by Member Wright, seconded by Member Ochoa. and the remaining members present voted
approving item D5.

Consideration of Approval of 2 Year Contract Extension for Legal Services.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Bimecker Hart. and the remaining members
present voted approving item D6.

Consideration of Approval of Labor Agreement with Treasurers and Ticket Sellers, Local 750 IATSE.

2 

D8.

D9.

D10.

D11.

D12.

E2.

Adjournment

301 East Cerrnak Road
Corporate Boardroom. 5"1 Floor
Chicago, lL 60616

Moved by Member Villar, seconded by Member Bimecker Hart, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D7.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 19-05 Establishing Rules Regarding Unof?cial
Recording of Public Meetings.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Bimecker Hart. and the remaining members
present voted approving item DB.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Electronic Lock and Keys.

Moved by Member Kiley. and seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D9.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Paint, Painting Supplies, and Paint Machine.

Moved by Member Villar, and seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item 10.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Extension for Electrical Services.

Moved by Member McGann, and seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D11.

Consideration of Approval of Joint Procurement for New Vehicles.

Moved by Member McGann, and seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D12.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 19-06 Executive Compensation.

Moved by Member McGann, and seconded by Member Bimecker Hart. and the remaining members
present voted approving item E2.

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member McGann, and the meeting
was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

Approved: August 7, 2019

 

Secretary/Treasurebbr Assistant Secretary

3 

