STAFF REPORT: 8-14-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6388
ADDRESS: 874 CHICAGO
HISTORIC DISTRICT: BOSTON EDISON
APPLICANT: YVONNE SEBREE
DATE OF STAFF VISIT: 8/14/2019

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS

PROPOSAL
The dwelling at 874 Chicago is a two-story, Tudor Revival single-family dwelling that was erected ca.
1920. The building’s exterior walls are clad with brick and stucco with false half-timbering detailing.
The home is front gabled with intersecting side-gabled and flat-roofed wings. The building’s front
elevation displays a partial-width, gabled-roof entry porch. An historic-age, 1 ½-story carriage
house/garage is located to the rear of the home.

 The applicant attended the 7-10-2019 meeting with a proposal to install vinyl windows at the
rear/carriage house and to replace existing deteriorated concrete walkways at the front and side yards
with new concrete. After a review of the submitted materials, the Commission approved the vinyl
window installation, the replacement of sidewalk within the public right-way, and the replacement of an
existing 3’-0”-wide concrete walkway at the front and side yard with a new 5’-0”-wide concrete
walkway (with the condition that the applicant supply staff a dimensioned site plan of showing the
proposed conditions). The applicant did mention that she had a desire to widen the existing 3’-0”-wide
concrete walkway at the front and side yard to 8’-0”, but the Commission noted that she would need to
submit a separate application for this work item, to include a dimensioned site plan.
With the current submission, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to widen the existing
3’-0” wide front and side yard walkway and the existing 9’-0”-wide concrete slab at the west side
entrance to accommodate a new driveway and parking pad. Specifically, as per the attached site plan and
photos, the project includes the following:
•
•
•

Remove the current 3’-0”-wide walkway and install a new 8’-6”-wide concrete driveway
Install a new 8’-6”-wide concrete curbcut and driveway approach
At the west side entrance, behind the gate, replace the existing 9’-0” wide concrete slab-area and
replace with a new 11’-0” wide slab (height dimensions not included)

The applicant also proposes to replace the existing concrete walkways at the rear yard with new concrete
walkways in the same location and same dimension.
STAFF OBSERVATIONS
Of the twelve parcels on the north side of the 800 block of Chicago Ave, nine have concrete driveways
which lead from the street to the rear yard.

APPLICABLE ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(7)
Relationship of materials. The majority of houses are faced with brick, while many
are partially or totally stucco. There are some stone buildings, sometimes combined
with stucco; clapboard is rare, and is extremely rare as the sole material. Roofing
includes slate, tile and asphalt shingles. Wood shingle roofs were once common and
have generally been replaced with asphalt. Wood shake does not exist and there is no
known evidence that it was ever used in the district. Stone trim is common. Wood is
almost universally used for window frames and other functional trim and is used in
many examples for all trim.
(8)

Relationship of textures. The most common relationship of textures in the district is
that of a low-relief pattern of mortar joints in brick contrasted with the smooth surface
of wood or stone trim. There are a few houses with rough or rusticated stone
surfaces. The use of stucco or concrete, with or without half-timbering, as a contrast
to brick surfaces, is not unusual. Tile, slate, or wood shingle roofs have particular
textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles generally have little textural
interest, even in those types which purport to imitate some other variety.

(9)

Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors (such as red, yellow, brown, buff)
predominate in wall surfaces. Natural stone colors also exist. Where stucco or

 concrete exists, it usually remains in its natural state, or is painted in a shade of
cream. Roofs are in natural colors (tile and slate colors, natural and stained wood
colors), and asphalt shingles are predominantly within this same dark color range.
Paint colors often relate to style. The buildings derived from classical precedents,
particularly those of Neo-Georgian style, generally have woodwork painted white,
cream, or in the range of those colors including "putty"; doors and shutters are
frequently dark green or black. Colors known to have been in use on similar
buildings of this style in the eighteenth or early twentieth centuries may be
considered for appropriateness. Buildings of medieval inspiration (notably neoTudor) generally have painted woodwork and window frames of a dark brown or
cream color. Half timbering is almost always stained dark brown. The original
colors of any building, as determined by professional analysis, are always
acceptable for a house, and may provide guidance for similar houses.
(10)

Relationship of architectural details. Architectural details generally relate to
style. Neo-Georgian buildings display classic details, mostly in wood, and
sometimes in stone. Porches, shutters, window frames, cornices, and dormer
windows are commonly, although not always, treated.
Details on
"Mediterranean" style or vernacular buildings including arched windows, door
openings, and porches, are often done in stone, brick, tile, and sometimes in
stucco. Buildings of medieval inspiration tend to have details in the form of
carved wood or carved stone ornaments on window frames, door frames, and
eaves. In general, the various styles are rich in architectural details.

RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion that the work as proposed will not result in the removal of historic materials
or alteration of features or spaces that characterize the property. Staff therefore recommends that
the Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for the project because it meets the
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, standard number 2). The historic
character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or
alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided

             