STAFF REPORT 8/14/2019
APPLICATION NUMBER 19-6389
ADDRESS: 19555 SRATRFORD
HISTORIC DISTRICT: SHERWOOD FOREST
APPLICANT: RACHEL PONDER

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS

PROPOSAL
The building located at 19555 Stratford is a two-story, Tudor-Revival style dwelling that was erected
ca. 1929. The home features brick exterior walls with buff stone detailing and steel casement
windows. The roof is side gabled with front-gabled, projecting wings. A stucco-clad, one-car garage
is located to the rear of the back yard. A 6’-0”-tall, wood fence encloses the rear yard. Note that the
fence is in poor condition.

With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking to replace the existing wood rear yard fencing
with new masonry walls. Specifically, please see the attached site plan, which indicates that there are
currently three sections of fencing at the rear yard. Each section of fencing will be removed and
replaced with a masonry wall which will measure 6’-0” in height and 8” in width. The wall’s exterior
surface will be finished with concrete, which will be “stamped” with a “Fieldstone” pattern on both
sides. The submitted documentation indicates that the wall will be finished with a tannish-brown
color, although a true representation/swatch of the finish color has not been provided. Metal solar
light fixtures will top the wall as per the rendering.

As per the attached, the existing fencing which is proposed for replacement is in poor condition and
is not historic-age. Also, the proposed new walls are located well to the rear of the home and will be
minimally visible from the right-of-way. Finally, the Guidelines for Fences and Hedges do allow for
the erection of masonry walls. Specifically, under the heading “Brick and stone,” the guidelines
recommend that “…the material of any masonry wall should be compatible with that of the building
it abuts However, it is staff’s opinion that the wall’s “Fieldstone” finish, as depicted in the submitted
brochure, is not compatible with the masonry cladding at 19555 Stratford or the two homes which

 abut it. Please note that the Commission’s Guidelines for Fences and Hedges is a set of general
recommendations which outline the conditions under which staff can approve fence proposals. Staff
forwarded this proposal to the Commission for review it because did not conform to the guidelines.
APPLICABLE ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(1)
Height. The height of the majority of the residential structures full stories to two and one half
(2½) stories tall, and have at least eighteen (18) feet of studding. These standards shall be met
by new single-family residences and by two-family residences which are permitted only on
Seven Mile Road. A few houses of one (1) and one and one-half (12) stories exist. Additions
to existing buildings shall be related to the existing structure. Garages range from one (1) to
two (2) stories.
(2)
Proportion of buildings front facades. The typical front facades of residential buildings in
the Sherwood Forest Historic District are predominantly wider than tall to their eaves.
(3)
Proportion of openings within the facades. Proportion of openings varies greatly according
to the style of the building. Typical openings are taller than wide, but individual windows
are often grouped together to fill a single opening which is wider than tall. Windows are
usually subdivided; buildings designed in English Revival styles frequently display leaded
glass in casement windows and transoms. In buildings derived from classical precedents,
double-hung sash windows are further subdivided by muntins. A variety of arched openings
and bay windows exist throughout the district Modernistic style residential buildings have
openings with a variety of proportional relationships, sometimes extending around the
corners. In general, openings amount to between twenty percent (20%) and thirty-five percent
(35%) of the front facades.
(4)
Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. In buildings derived from classical precedents,
voids are usually arranged in a symmetrical and evenly-spaced manner within the facades. In
examples of other styles, particularly those of English Revival sub-styles, voids are arranged
with more freedom, but usually result in balanced compositions. Windows are arranged by
floor in asymmetrical arrangements in modernistic style houses.
(5)
Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally
determined by the lot sizes and setbacks from side lot lines. There is a general regularity in
the widths of subdivision lots from one block to another, with the exception of those in the
Sherwood Forest manor subdivision where some lot sizes are larger and single houses
sometimes occupy more than one lot. Generally, all residences or part thereof, including
cornices, balconies, pergolas or porches, are not permitted nearer than five (5) feet to the side
lot line.
(6)
Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Entrance and porch types relate to the style of
the building. Entrances and porches on the English revival buildings exhibit freedom of
placement and orientation, while on buildings of classical inspiration they are centered on the
front facade. Some houses have entrances that recede while others have porches, steps and/or
entrances that project. A common entry arrangement on vernacular English Revival houses
is that of a slightly projecting, steeply gabled vestibule or gabled wall punctured with an
arched opening. Side and rear secondary entrances and porches and enclosed sunrooms are
common. A rhythm of entrances and porches is not discerned due to the variety of house
designs and the winding street plan.
(7)
Relationship of materials. The majority of houses are faced with pressed, wire cut or glazed
brick, often combined with wood, stone and/or stucco. Stone trim is common, and wood is
almost universally used for window frames, half-timbering and other functional trim.
Windows are commonly either of the metal casement or wooden sash variety. Glass block
exists as an original material in some window openings of modern buildings. Original metal
balconets, balustrades and light fixtures exist on some properties. Roofs on the majority of
the buildings in the Sherwood Forest historic district are either slate or slate-like asphalt

 (8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

shingles.
Relationship of textures. The major textural relationship is that of brick laid in mortar, often
juxtaposed with wood or smooth or rough-faced stucco and/or stone elements and trim.
Textured brick and brick laid in patterns creates considerable interest, as does half-timbering,
leaded and subdivided windows, and wood shingled or horizontal sided elements. Slate roofs
have particular textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles generally have little textural
interest, even in those types which purport to imitate natural materials. Garages correspond
in materials to the main residential dwelling.
Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors -- such as red, yellow, brown, or buff -predominate in wall surfaces. When brick is painted, it is in white or shades of cream. Natural
stone colors also predominate; where stucco or concrete exists, it usually remains in its natural
state, or is painted in a shade of cream. Roofs are in natural slate colors, and asphalt shingles
are predominantly within this same dark color range. Paint colors often relate to style. The
buildings derived from classical precedents, particularly those of classical styles, generally
have woodwork painted the white or cream range. English Revival style buildings generally
have painted wood trim and window frames of dark brown, gray, buff or shades of cream,
depending on the main body color. Half timbering is most frequently stained or painted dark
brown. Stained glass, where it exists as decoration visible on the front facade, contributes to
the artistic interest of the building. The original colors of any building, as determined by
professional analysis, are always acceptable for a house, and may provide guidance for similar
houses. Colors used on garages should relate to the colors of the main dwelling.
Relationship of architectural details. The architectural elements and details of each structure
generally relate to its style. Residential buildings derived from characteristic elements and
details displayed on vernacular English revival-influenced buildings include arched windows
and door openings, steeply pitched gables, towers, and sometimes half-timbering. Tall,
clustered chimney stacks and decorative chimney pots are features of the district. Classical
styles display modest detail, mostly in wood. Porches, shutters, window frames, cornices,
and dormer windows are commonly, although not always, treated. Modern style buildings
are generally characterized by smooth, unadorned wall surfaces, horizontal bands of
windows, and curved corners. A few cape cod style buildings and ranches are located in the
northeastern section of the Sherwood Forest Manor subdivision. In general, the district is
rich in early to mid-twentieth century architectural styles. Garages correspond in architecture
to the main residential dwelling.
Relationship of roof shapes. A variety of roof shapes exist, relating to the style of the
buildings. Common on English Revival buildings are steeply sloped pitched or hipped roofs
with complex arrangements of secondary roof shapes, including steeply sloped gables,
clipped gables, and shed roofs. These roofs are commonly interrupted by gabled, shed and
multi-sided dormers and substantial chimneys which are sometimes clustered. Classically
inspired buildings display pitched or hipped roofs with less slope, with or without dormers.
Roofs of houses built later in the period of development of the district, such as those of
modern inspiration, tend to have significantly lower slopes, with the exception of cape cod
style houses in the northeastern section of the district which display steeply pitched roofs with
dormers. Flat roofs are not typical except on porches, sunrooms, and other small extensions
of a primary building with a pitched roof; flat roofs as the main roof of a primary building
shall not be permitted.
Walls of continuity. Where common setbacks of houses on relatively straight stretches of
residential streets exist, strong walls of continuity are created. This is augmented by tall,
fluted light standards and mature trees on the tree lawns. Where streets curve and the
procession of houses is less visible, landscape features in the public right-of-way create a
sense of continuity.
Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The typical treatment

 (14)

(15)

(16)

(17)

(18)

(19)

of individual properties is that of a dwelling erected on a grade of approximately fifteen (15)
to twenty (20) inches above the inner grade line of the public sidewalk. The front lawn area
is generally covered with grass turf, subdivided by a straight or curving concrete, stone or
brick walk leading to the front entrance and a single width side driveway leading to a garage,
which is most often located at the rear of the lot but sometimes attached to the rear, side or,
less frequently, the front of the main dwelling. On corner lots, garages are located on the
side streets and the width of the driveway corresponds to the width of the garage. A single
storage building, including garden and tool sheds, shall be permitted provided that it is placed
at the rear of the property, is harmonious in color and design to the contiguous property, does
not exceed six (6) feet by ten (10) feet in length and width, and six (6) feet in height.
Foundation plantings, often of a deciduous nature and characteristic of the period between
1920 and 1960, are present virtually without exception. Large trees of many varieties shield
some houses from view. There is variety in the landscape treatment of individual properties.
Generally, boundary lines between lots forward of the building line are not marked with
fences of any kind, but may have hedges no greater than two (2) feet in height. Hedges and
fences of up to four (4) feet in height generally extend along boundary lines beyond the
building line. On lots abutting the alley behind Warrington Drive and Livernois Avenue, a
tight board fence or masonry wall of a uniform height of five (5) feet must be constructed on
rear lot lines. The placement of trees on the tree lawn between the concrete public sidewalk
and masonry curb varies from block to block or street to street. Replacement trees should be
characteristic of the area and period. If American elm is planted, it should be disease
resistant. Original street lighting throughout the district is of the tall fluted standard with
crane neck pendant variety.
Relationship of open space to structures. The Sherwood Forest historic district has, as its
main open space, the triangularly shaped Sherwood Forest Park, bounded by Warrington
Drive, Saint Martins Road and Canterbury Road. That park, as well as other triangular lots
created between the intersection of winding streets, are planted with grass and trees. All
houses have ample rear yards as well as front yards. Where vacant lots exist between
residences, their landscaping tends to be continuous with the adjacent lots or forested with
mature trees.
Scale of facades and facade elements. The Sherwood Forest Historic District comprises a
residential neighborhood of moderate to large scaled dwellings. Elements and details within
are appropriately scaled, having been determined by the style, size and complexity of the
individual buildings. Window sash are usually subdivided by muntins and casement windows
are leaded, affecting the apparent scale of the windows within the facades.
Directional expression of front elevations. The houses in the Sherwood Forest Historic
District are horizontal in directional expression. Large architectural elements within facades
are frequently vertical in directional
Expression, such as multi-storied projecting gabled sections.
Rhythm of building setbacks. Front yard setbacks are generally consistent on each residential
street in the Sherwood Forest Historic District, although porch, entrance and window
projections and irregular massing result in the appearance of variety. Where lots are
combined or irregularly shaped at corners, the rhythm is sometimes irregular.
Relationship of lot coverages. The lot coverage for the single- and two-family residences
ranges generally from twenty-five percent (25%) to thirty-five percent (35%), including the
either the freestanding or attached garage. Where lots are combined, the percentage of lot
coverage may be less.
Degree of complexity within the facades. The degree of complexity has been determined by
what is typical and appropriate for a given style. Overall, there is a higher degree of
complexity in the English Revival style buildings, where their facades are frequently

 (20)

(21)

(22)

complicated by gables, bays, irregularly placed openings and entrances, and irregular
massing, than those of other styles. The facades of classically inspired buildings and
modernistic buildings are straightforward in their arrangement of elements and details.
Orientation, vistas, overviews. The orientation of buildings is largely determined by the
winding streets created by the subdivision plans. All but a few buildings in the district are
oriented towards the street; buildings situated on corner lots sometimes face the side street or,
when the corner lot is curved, the intersection of the streets. The primary vistas are created
by the winding streets. Sherwood Forest Manor subdivision has a different character because
of its later development and the elliptical shape of its plan. While the streets through
Sherwood Forest extend into the green acres subdivision on the north, they do not extend into
the palmer woods subdivision on the east.
Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Front facades of buildings range from completely
symmetrical to asymmetrical but balanced compositions. English revival style buildings are
irregular in layout and asymmetrical in appearance. The classically inspired buildings are
generally symmetrical; the modernistic buildings are not symmetrical but result in highly
ordered compositions.
General environmental character. The Sherwood Forest historic district is a fully-developed
residential area of well-maintained, substantial single-family residences of the second quarter
of the twentieth century complemented with fine examples of compatible houses from the
1950s and 1960s. On seven mile road, its southern boundary, are several duplexes; the east
side of Livernois Avenue, outside the district=s boundaries to the west, is an intact
commercial thoroughfare of 1940's vintage. With the residential subdivisions of palmer
woods to the east and green acres to north, Sherwood Forest is a part of a solid, wellmaintained and handsome urban residential community.

RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion that the erection of new, 6’-0”-high, 8”-wide masonry walls at the property’s rear
yard/as per the locations outlined in the submitted site plan will not destroy historic materials, features
and spatial relationships that characterize the property. However, the proposed “Fieldstone” finish is
not compatible with the home’s and/or district’s “…historic materials and features,” in staff’s
opinion. Staff recommends that the Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for the
erection of new, 6’-0”-high, 8”-wide masonry walls at the property’s rear yard/as per the locations
outlined in the submitted site because the work meets the Secretary of the Interior Standards, standard
# 9). New additions, exterior alterations or related new construction will not destroy historic
materials, features and spatial relationships that characterize the property. The new work will be
differentiated from the old and will be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale
and proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of the property and its environment. However,
staff recommends that the Commission issue this approval with the following conditions:
•

The masonry wall shall be constructed of finished brick or finished with a material that is
compatible in appearance with the home’s exteriors materials (buff cast stone or a stucco
finish). HDC staff shall be afforded the opportunity to review and approve the final proposal
prior to the issuance of the COA. Should staff find that the work does not meet the Standards,
staff shall forward proposal to the Commission for review at a regular meeting.

  

 

 



 

 

a. .. .. . A

. ?3,ng

        





 

  



.?Os?r

3.


 

South Side of fence; connects to neighbor brick
garage (would want to unify and match materials)





. ..

 


 

"why . -

  

?194. I IJ I 

- .-



         

HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST

 

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING 8: DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT _7 920/- 9
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, ROOM 808, DETROIT. MI 48226 DATE: UK I.

PROPERTY INFORMATION

ADDRESS: 95?<f @1754) AKA:
HISTORIC DISTRICT: Shea/0 0 {Ma Sr

APPLICANT IDENTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Property Tenant or Architect/
Owner/ Contractor Business Engineer/
Homeowner Occupant Consultant

NAME: Tier/mile 0/1 XML COMPANY NAME:
ADDRESS: 10145? Sinai?{73? CITY: Il?. Di} STATE: Mi? ZIP: ?399;

V33 7W0 MOBILE: Esmqe EMAIL: 12?,ng 2 it? (Ema-Poe:

Chi?

 

 

 

PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST CHECKLIST

Please attach the following documentation to your request:

 

 

 

 

 

I

I See for
I scope-specific requirements.



 

?Description of existing conditions
(including materials and design)

1

Photographs Of ALL Of eXIstIng or SIte I NOTE: 
I Based on the mom Of work, I

?4 Detailed photographs Of location Of proposed work I additional documentation may I
. (photographs to Show existing condition(s), design. color. material) I be required. 



I

.I

 

 

 

Description of project (if replacing any existing material(s), include an explanation as tO why
replacement--rather than repair?:Of existing and/or construction of new is required)

 

I Detailed scope of work (formatted as bulleted list)

 

 

 

 

Brochure/cut sheets for prOposed replacement material(s) and/or product(s), as applicable

 

Upon receipt Of this documentation. staff will review and inform you Of the next steps toward Obtaining your building
permit from the Buildings. Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) tO perform the work.

SUBMIT COMPLETED REQUESTS June 7, 2019

Historic District Commission
RE: Fencing Replacement

To Whom it May Concern,

My home located at 19555 Stratford is in need of external structural renovations in the rear of the
property. Currently, the tight board wooden privacy fence has rotted and needs replacing. In the
early fall of 2018, there was a section that broke and needed repairing; the Contractor noted at
the time I would probably need to replace it in the future due to the weatherization and age of the
wood being worn. About a month ago when strong winds and rain poured down, the middle
support section of the fence gave way, upon the Contractor inspecting the beams and fences?
integrity, I was advised that it was beyond repair and I needed to replace it.

After meeting with various Fencing Companies and getting 4-5 quotes, I?ve learned that
replacing the current 6 foot wooden fence with stamped concrete would be the most cost
effective, durable and advantageous for the current needs of my home. The stamped concrete
allows for both neighbors on the north side of fence to select pattern and color that resembles
each house to preserve the historic look of Sherwood Forest. The south side of the fence already
has 50% white brick and I?ve spoken to my neighbor to gain his permission to unify that side to
update the color to match a more historic look. As a single woman, the upkeep of a wooden
fence, plans for a swimming pool, privacy and security were all considered before changing the
material became the viable option.

Lastly, as a lifelong Detroiter who loves and honors the beautiful historic areas of our city; the
rear view of my home is not visible from the north, south, east or west front street view of the
property which will not diminish our historic beauty but the upgrade will raise the property value
and allow for an extended living area in the warm months. Thank you in advance for your time
and consideration, the following items will accompany the application:

oz. Contractor's interruption.

contractor's estimate.

Contractor?s package: pictures at current ieuce measurements with replacement
drawing.

Stamping patterns and color options.

owner?s pictures at current ieuce trout all directions.

0 



0.0 9?

Sincerely,

Rochelle Ponder

 ?1

WM Mg: sm?me MJ/?oqkj ??ww

 

 

 

?954] ?9555 

WW lemer 9062* ?Cat? [9510/4ng
msgipwgeg CbmWaF?e mama)
(.9) mesh [a?oocw COME

Cb) (QM 
C4) Simona ?99% ca ?kaasgg 42 SM W. 

 

 



WW g??W/f 2% (?aw/y WW @7ng

F-ieldstone

"Herringbone Brick Running Batik

 

 So Ems 

. . 3.5., i w. .. ..

 

mocmNoPQ





. .

. tall 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.. .28.36

 

8/9/2019

Veranda 5 in. x 5 in. Vinyl Solar Light Stainless Top Square Post Cap with Black Base-132304 - The Home Depot

Home / Lumber & Composites / Fencing / Post Caps & Tops
Internet #203456303

Share

Model # 132304

Save to Favorites

Print

Veranda

5 in. x 5 in. Vinyl Solar Light Stainless Top Square Post Cap with Black Base
Write the first Review

Questions & Answers (1)

Solar vinyl post cap for use with 5 in. x 5 in. post
Black post cap with stainless top includes solar LED light
Easy to install - a perfect addition to any deck or vinyl fence

$

53 42
♢

Save up to $100 on your qualifying purchase.
Apply for a Home Depot Consumer Card

Quantity

-

1

+

Not in Your Store - We'll Ship It There
Available for pickup
August 16 - August 20

We'll send it to Detroit 7 Mile/Meyers for free pickup
Add to Cart
Check Nearby Stores

or
We'll Deliver It to You
Free Delivery
Get it by August 19

Add to Cart
Delivery Options

We're unable to ship this item to:
GU, PR, VI

Or buy now with

Easy returns in store and online
Learn about our return policy

Get Everything You Need (5)
Click or Tap Image to Zoom Out
Current Product

https://www.homedepot.com/p/Veranda-5-in-x-5-in-Vinyl-Solar-Light-Stainless-Top-Square-Post-Cap-with-Black-Base-132304/203456303

1/4

  .. . I

 

kn}:

 

 

 

. 
. A . 9
{their :12!
. .. 
[11.\lng