COOK COUNTY COMPLETE COUNT CENSUS COMMISSION
July 22, 2019
2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.
Cook County Building
118 North Clark Street, 5th Floor, Board Room
Chicago, Illinois 60602
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Deer, Vice-Chairman Anaya, Vice-Chairman
Arroyo, Jr., Banerji, Everett, Ford, Gonzalez, Garcia. Garrett, Lightford,
Lumpkin, McMorris, Samuel, Valentin, and Wilbon (16)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Moore asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
George Blakemore - Concerned Citizen
COMMISSION MINUTES
I.

Welcome
• Welcome Remarks - Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
o Talked about the importance of the Census, trust in our communities and the
importance of the Census to the County’s federal funding
• Opening Remarks from Chairman Moore
o Comments about 2020 Census – why it is important to Cook County and what
does the County stand to lose if there is an undercount
o Discussed 2010 Census and where we are today
o Provided vision for the Cook County Complete Count Census Commission
• Opening remarks from Vice Chairman Deer
o Discussed the importance of the census to the 2nd District
o Spoke about the 2020 Census partnership between U.S. Congressman Danny
Davis and the Be Counted Complete Count Coalition
• Opening remarks from Vice Chairman Anaya
o Comments about Congressman Jesus Garcia and the 2020 Census Stakeholder
Committee, the citizenship question and risk of an undercount
• Opening remarks from Vice Chairman Arroyo, Jr.
o Explained the importance of a coordinated partnership between the City of
Chicago and Cook County to ensure a complete and accurate count

 •
•

II.

All Commission members introduced themselves and spoke briefly about their
organization and communities
Brief remarks offered by Marilyn Sanders, Midwest Regional Director, U.S. Census
Bureau, Chicago Regional Office and Ellisa Johnson, Midwest Assistant Regional
Director, U.S. Census Bureau, Chicago Regional Office
o Both emphasized previous comments about the importance of each person
being counted in the 2020 Census

Review of the Census Commission Handbook
• Warren Callahan, Chief of Staff to Chairman Moore presented overview of the
Census Commission Handbook
o Highlights of the Ordinance #19-0733
o Overview of Commission subcommittees, roles and responsibilities
o Timeline of Commission activities
o Messaging must be relevant
o Setting goals is important
o Call on top level persons in industry
o Identify top priority for sub-committee participation

III.

Staff presentation of the Cook County Complete Count Census Commission
• Staff from Chairman Moore, Vice Chairman Deer, and Vice Chairman Anaya about
the Cook County Complete Count Census Commission
o Jourdan Sorrell, Director of Public Policy, Chairman Moore
o Melva Brownlee, Chief of Staff, Vice Chairman Deer
o Victoria Moreno, Director of Policy, Vice Chairman Anaya
o Presentation centered on: 1) Why the census is important; 2) What is at-stake
for the 2020 Census; 3) Cook County 2020 Census Priorities and 4) Key
Milestones and Dates

IV.

Update from the Bureau of Economic Development
• Andre Ashmore, Deputy Bureau Chief, Bureau of Economic Development presented
on the Bureau’s efforts to-date with the Cook County 2020 Census efforts.
o Shared the Bureau’s role with Cook County 2020 Census efforts and
collaboration with Census Commission
o Update on key activities – RFP for Census 2020 Program Administrator,
development of local Census Committee and local Census Commission
funding
o Other key activities that the Bureau will be doing over the upcoming months

 ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Marlon Everett, seconded by Kimberly A. Lightford, to adjourn the
meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote: Ayes: Vice-Chairman Anaya, Banerji, Everett, Ford,
Gonzalez, Garcia. Garrett, Lightford, Lumpkin, McMorris, Samuel, Valentin, and Wilbon.
A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

 