ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

SUPPLEMENTAL MEMORANDUM

TO:

Budget Committee Members

FROM:

Greg Stevens, Acting Associate Director, Federal and State Grants Unit

DATE:

August 15, 2019

RE:

State Program Appropriation: Violence Prevention and Street Intervention
Programming

This memo describes proposed designations for the state Violence Prevention and Street Intervention
Program.
On June 20, the Budget Committee approved the release of a notice of funding opportunity (NOFO) for
one-time funds to support the Violence Prevention and Street Intervention Program at Metropolitan
Family Services. The NOFO was errantly released as a competitive funding opportunity. ICJIA received
two applications, one of which was from Metropolitan Family Services. Upon review of both
applications, it was determined that the other applicant did not meet minimum eligibility requirements.
Staff recommends designating $2,250,000 in SFY20 Violence Prevention and Street Intervention
Program funds to Metropolitan Family Services to support its Communities Partnering 4 Peace (CP4P)
program. CP4P provides a targeted and holistic multi-tiered approach to confronting gun violence in the
highest risk neighborhoods of Chicago, implementing multiple interventions that work directly with
both perpetrators and the victims of gun violence. This comprehensive response collaborates with local
agencies skilled in peace, trauma, victim services, and wraparound supports and have capable outreach
workers who live and work within the communities served. CP4P partner agencies are fully integrated
within the neighborhoods, allowing them to establish authentic relationships and be responsive to
incidences of gun violence and the needs of those impacted by it.
These one-time funds (September 2019 – June 2020) will ensure services will be provided to subcontractors
Alliance of Local Service Organizations (Humboldt Park), UCAN (North Lawndale), Target, Inc.
(Englewood and West Englewood), Southwest Organizing Project (Chicago Lawn), Enlace (South
Lawndale), and ONE (Rogers Park).
Further details are provided in the attached Grant Recommendation Form.

1

 VPSIP SFY20
August 15, 2019
Page 1 of 4

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Violence Prevention and Street Intervention – Metropolitan Family Services

Program Agency DUNS:

079745246

Funding Source:

SFY20 Violence Prevention and Street Intervention Program: $2,250,000

Agency Budget:

$64,729,000

Request Type:

Notice of Funding Opportunity #2179-1183

Program Description
In 2016, in response to Chicago gun violence, Metropolitan Family Services (MFS) leadership was part of a
citywide task group of high level public officials, criminal justice stakeholders, private funders, leading social
service agencies, and community-based agencies leading city efforts to conduct violence intervention work in
Chicago. This group strategized a response to increasing high levels of gun violence in Chicago. The resulting
framework, Communities Partnering 4 Peace (CP4P), focuses on a community-driven model that was built upon
research and best practices that can be adapted to individual community needs, assets, and strategic
partnerships. As the coordinating body of CP4P, MFS is responsible for managing, funding, and monitoring
sub-award grantees that are implementing intervention strategies under the CP4P model. This appropriation will
provide sub-awards for outreach services, conflict mediation and intervention, and other supports to reduce
shooting and homicide incidents in high-need communities.
CP4P provides a targeted and holistic multi-tiered approach to confronting gun violence in the highest risk
neighborhoods of Chicago, implementing multiple interventions that work directly with both perpetrators and
victims of gun violence. This comprehensive response is a collaboration of local agencies skilled in peace,
trauma, victim services, and wraparound supports, and have capable outreach workers who live and work within
the communities served. CP4P partner agencies are fully integrated within the neighborhoods, allowing them to
establish authentic relationships and be responsive to incidences of gun violence and the needs of those
impacted by it.
Program Activities
This work revolves around the efforts of professionally trained, streetwise hospital responders, violence
interrupters, case managers, and outreach workers. Hospital responders (at local trauma centers) and violence
interrupters (on the streets) interact with individuals involved in violence at critical moments to prevent
retaliations and influence behavior change. Both roles coordinate referrals to case management staff, case
managers in the hospital setting, and outreach workers in the community setting. Case managers and outreach
workers help with on-the-spot problem solving and exploring nonviolent means to address problems while
simultaneously connecting participants with resources and supports (employment, continued education, social
service, healthcare or housing resources, etc.). In addition to work focused on individuals, staff also conduct
group level events, such as focus groups and peace summits. Focus groups are small events that provide
opportunities for participants from a range of communities to have deeper conversations about issues connected

Template Revision Date: 04/16/2019 

2

 VPSIP SFY20
August 15, 2019
Page 2 of 4

with violence. Peace summits are larger events in which the planning stage is the main force for communitylevel behavior change
CP4P Components
Community Mobilization – Grantees must hire and support a program manager who will work a minimum of 50
percent on the Partnership for a Safer Chicago program to broaden and strengthen community relationships.
Public Education – Grantees must distribute public education materials within the community to provide
information and resources on the following: community resources, positive alternatives to violence,
consequences of violent behavior, and laws pertaining to violent crimes. Subcontractors are required to use
MFS-approved Partnership for a Safer Chicago messaging. All public education material must be pre-approved
prior to implementation.
Outreach – Grantees must hire and support a minimum of three outreach workers, plus a lead worker or field
supervisor, to mediate and intervene with conflicts and provide other support to individuals who, because of
their backgrounds and present situations, are involved in or likely become involved in shootings.
In addition, MFS CP4P coordinates a cross-agency effort that brings together community-based organizations to
deliver a comprehensive community outreach and engagement infrastructure in the highest risk communities.
Each partner agency is recognized as a Neighborhood Safety Team and delivers the following components:
1. Deliver ongoing street outreach services to high risk individuals and situations.
2. Deliver proactive, prevention services to individuals who are not currently at imminent risk, considered high
risk.
3. Deliver re-entry services to individuals going through re-entry – including family and community
reunification support.
4. Deliver Summer Safety Strategy in Safe Spaces for Light in the Nights.
5. Implementation of the Metro Peace Academy: The training academy:
a. Provides ongoing professional development of outreach workers to promote best practices
b. Ensures consistent standards in how outreach workers deliver services
c. Establishes a city-wide network of outreach workers to ensure the highest probability of success in
achieving the dual goal of cross city/multi-neighborhood outreach work and professionalization of
street outreach

Template Revision Date: 04/16/2019 

3

 VPSIP SFY20
August 15, 2019
Page 3 of 4

Goals

Collaborative Partners
 Enlist 6 collaborative partners by 9/1/2019.
 Hold 20 meeting with collaborative partners
 Maintain an active coalition by ensuring that 90% of coalition members attend at least
75% of the meetings.
Staff Training
 Hire and train 34 staff in trauma informed care by 4/15/2020.
 Provide additional staff training by 6/30/2020.
Public Awareness
 Engage in 60 public awareness activities.
 Reach 3,000 persons through public awareness activities
 1,000 referrals will be received by our agency (from an external source)
Direct Services - Unduplicated
 Reach 340 unduplicated persons through one or more direct service models.
 Maintain a caseload of 20 highest-risk individuals, on average per Outreach Worker, as
participants in longer-term behavior change work with an Outreach Worker.
 Maintain an average of 3 hours spent per individual on caseloads per month; and 4
monthly contacts per individual on caseload
 Reduce risk of engaging in violent behavior for highest-risk participants by
implementing a risk reduction plan (including referrals for education, employment,
anger management, substance abuse, etc.) for each client on caseload.
 Identify and act upon goals (e.g., educational, employment, housing, substance
misuse/abuse)
 Percent of clients on caseload for at least 9 months during FY2020 that will have
reduced their risk by 25% as evidenced by a decline in their risk scores on the behavior
change measure (and/or risk reduction plan) in at least one of four identified areas.
Active Community Outreach and Engagement
 Reach 15 persons, or more, through street intervention/interruption – active outreach
and engagement per month.
 Provide minimum of 1 group-level community activity per site, over the course of the
grant period.
 Provide targeted messaging regarding the program via public awareness activities.


Coordinate with community leaders and residents to coordinate a shooting response
within 72 hours of notification of a shooting.

Priorities
In 2012, ICJIA’s enabling statute was expanded to include additional responsibilities related to violence
prevention. These responsibilities include distributing grants to community and statewide organizations, other
units of local and state government, and public-school districts that address violence prevention in a
comprehensive and collaborative manner.

Template Revision Date: 04/16/2019 

4

 VPSIP SFY20
August 15, 2019
Page 4 of 4

This appropriation will provide sub-awards for outreach services, conflict mediation and intervention, and other
supports to reduce shooting and homicide incidents in high-need communities.
Program Funding Detail
This one-time designation would support 10 months of funding from September 1, 2019, through June 30, 2020.
Past Performance
Since 2017, communities served by CP4P have seen an average 25-percent decrease in the number of shootings
and 33 percent decrease in the number of homicides.
Budget Detail

Personnel Total FTE: 1.4 FTE personnel will provide program
management/oversight and monitoring of sub-recipients
Fringe
Equipment
Supplies:
Travel:
Contractual: Sub recipients to implement CP4P programs at six locations
Indirect / Other Costs: Federally negotiated indirect cost rate is pending approval.
The amount provided is the maximum amount available that will allow MFS and
ICJIA not to exceed the 10% cap on administrative costs.
Totals Federal / State and Match:

Template Revision Date: 04/16/2019 

5

Total
$88,962
$21,795
$0
$0
$0
$2,066,326
$72,917

$2,250,000

 