A3.

PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION OF CHICAGO
MINUTES OF THE RESCHEDULED MEETING OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS HELD ON JULY 16, 2019 AT 2:30 P.M.

The following Commissioners were present:
Olga Camargo
James F. Ellis, Jr.
Avis LaVelle
Jose G. Maldonado, Jr.
Toni Preckwinkle
Arnold Randall
Samuel Wm. Sax
Lucino Sotelo *
Mariyana Spyropoulos
David Todd Whittley – 10
*Oath of Office as Commissioner administered as Item No. A4 of the agenda.

Attendees present were:
Carina E. Sánchez
C.
J.
J.
P.
P.
A.
B.
L.
S.
G.

Bader
Beatty
Borkman
Cotter
Doyle
Fredd
Fuller
Giderof
Hendrich
Johnson

A.
L.
A.
L.
T.
P.
L.
K.
B.
K.

Joseph
Lypson
Marti
McGuire
Mendrek
Montenegro
Neal
Newman
Payne
Pensack

N.
A.
K.
F.
K.
E.
K.
F.
T.
M.

Perez
Provine
Purcell
Rico
Robinson
Scanlan
Smith
Sobkowiak
Foucher-Weekley
Witry

In the absence of Chairman Lightfoot, Commissioner Sax presided as Chair. The meeting
was called to order and the presence of a quorum was established.
Following the roll call, a public participation period was conducted pursuant to Section
2.06(g) of the Open Meetings Act. Kathryn Pensack and Kenneth Newman had previously
registered to provide comments under the guidelines established by Resolution No. 7611
approved by the Board of Commissioners on January 11, 2011. Kathryn Pensack provided
2

 comments regarding the use of estimators to reduce the costs of public construction projects and
the need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and enhance climate conditions through the
construction of public buildings and improvements. Kenneth Newman provided comments
regarding the need for new athletic facilities, including 400-meter track facilities and artificial
turfs, at various schools and parks in the City of Chicago, including Kennedy High School,
Juarez High School and Curie High School. He also recommended improvements to athletic
facilities at various parks including Douglas Park, Garfield Park and Washington Park.
Next, Commissioner Sax in his capacity as Chair presented to the Board of
Commissioners for consideration of approval the minutes of the meeting held on June 19, 2019.
The reading of said minutes, which had previously been distributed, was dispensed with and
upon motion duly made and seconded, the minutes of the June 19, 2019 meeting were
unanimously approved.
The next item on the agenda was the administration of the oath of office to Lucino
Sotelo, appointee of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, as a Commissioner of the
Public Building Commission for a term ending on September 30, 2023. The Oath of Office was
administered to Lucino Sotelo for a term ending September 30, 2023 by Commissioner Sax.
Upon motion duly made and seconded, the following resolution was adopted:
RESOLUTION NO. 8518
BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Commissioners of the Public
Building Commission does hereby accept the appointment of Lucino Sotelo,
appointee of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, as a Commissioner of
the Public Building Commission for a term ending on September 30, 2023.

3

 Commissioners voting in the affirmative:
Olga Camargo, James F. Ellis, Jr.,
Avis LaVelle, Jose G. Maldonado, Jr.,
Toni Preckwinkle, Arnold Randall,
Samuel Wm. Sax, Mariyana Spyropoulos
and David Todd Whittley – 9
Commissioners voting in the negative:
None
Next on the agenda was the nomination and election of Cara Bader as the Assistant
Secretary of the Board of Commissioners of the Public Building Commission of Chicago for a
term ending September 30, 2019. Commissioner Sax nominated Cara Bader as the Assistant
Secretary of the Board of Commissioners for a term ending September 30, 2019. There being no
further nominations and upon vote being taken, Cara Bader was unanimously elected as the
Assistant Secretary of the Public Building Commission for a term ending September 30, 2019.
The Executive Director then acknowledged the death of former Commissioner, Presiding
Elder Albert D. Tyson III, on June 21, 2019. Executive Director Sánchez expressed gratitude for
his dedicated service and contributions during his tenure as a Commissioner of the Public
Building Commission. Commissioners Sax and Whittley also acknowledged the esteemed
service of former Commissioner Tyson, and the following resolution was unanimously approved:
RESOLUTION NO. 8519
WHEREAS, the members of the Board of Commissioners of the Public
Building Commission of Chicago were saddened to learn of the death of their
beloved and esteemed former Commissioner, Presiding Elder Albert D. Tyson III
on June 21, 2019; and
WHEREAS, on October 28, 2015, he was appointed by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the City Council, as a statutorily-mandated
representative of the City of Chicago to the Board of Commissioners of the Public
Building Commission of Chicago; and

4

 WHEREAS, on November 10, 2015, he was sworn in as a Commissioner
of the Public Building Commission and was appointed as a member of the
Administrative Operations Committee where he provided leadership to the
Commission Staff in his role on the Committee and served with distinction until
June 2016; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Tyson served as the Presiding Elder of the North
District of the Chicago Annual Conference in the 4th Episcopal District and on the
Chicago Plan Commission. He was elected in 2018 as the President of the
Connectional Presiding Elders’ Council of the AME Church. He also represented
the AME Church in a variety of capacities, including the Pan-Methodist
Commission and the World Methodist Council; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Tyson has served the parishioners of Saint
Stephen African Methodist Episcopal Church in Chicago. He served as Assistant
Minister at the Pisgah AME Church in New Jersey, as Assistant Minister at the
Ebenezer AME Church and as Pastor of the Saint James AME Church, both in
Evanston; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Tyson’s civic and community engagement had
deep roots in Chicago. He served as a member of the Board of Trustees of the
City Colleges of Chicago; the Community Advisory Council of the Urban Health
Program of the University of Illinois at Chicago; the Chicago Branch Treasurer
for the Congress of National Black Churches; the Chairman of the Seventh
Congressional District Clergy; Chicago Branch Chairman of the Minister’s
Division of the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition; and a member of the Operation PUSH
Board of Directors. He served on the boards of the Community Task Force at
Malcolm X College, the Westside Health Authority, Henry Horner Boys and Girls
Club, Bobby E. Wright Comprehensive Community Mental Health Center, the
Women’s Treatment Center, Chicago Theological Seminary, Interfaith
Organizing Project, and the Near Westside Community Development
Corporation, and as a member of the NAACP and the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity,
Inc.; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Tyson made invaluable contributions to the
Commission in the implementation of its statutory mission of constructing public
improvements, buildings and facilities on behalf of various public agencies
including the City of Chicago, the Chicago Board of Education, City Colleges of
Chicago and the Chicago Park District, among others; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Tyson will be fondly remembered for his
dedication as a community and religious leader, devotion to his family and his
church, loyalty, commitment to helping others, warmth and integrity;

5

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Chairman and
members of the Board of Commissioners of the Public Building Commission
publicly note, with great sorrow and regret, the death of Presiding Elder Albert D.
Tyson III, and extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Robin, his children,
Albert IV and Annjeanette and his two grandchildren, and further express our
gratitude for his devoted service to the Commission; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Executive Director Carina E.
Sánchez of the Public Building Commission is hereby authorized and directed to
present this Resolution to his family.
Commissioners voting in the affirmative:
Olga Camargo, James F. Ellis, Jr.,
Avis LaVelle, Jose G. Maldonado, Jr.,
Toni Preckwinkle, Arnold Randall,
Samuel Wm. Sax, Lucino Sotelo,
Mariyana Spyropoulos and David Todd Whittley – 10
Commissioners voting in the negative:
None
Next, a report was presented regarding the meeting of the Audit Committee held on June
27, 2019. Commissioner Sax expressed gratitude to Commissioner Whittley as Chair of the
Audit Committee and commended Executive Director Sánchez and Comptroller Tanya FoucherWeekley and her staff regarding the timely preparation and submission of the Commission’s
Annual Financial Report. Commissioner Whittley provided the report of the Audit Committee
meeting held on June 27, 2019, which is summarized as follows:
The PBC’s Director of Finance reported the anticipated submission of the PBC’s
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report in conjunction with the Commission’s Basic
Financial Statements for the Years Ended December 31, 2018, and 2017. The PBC’s
assets exceeded liabilities by $73.7 million on December 31, 2018. Of this amount,
$51.4 million was included in net investment in capital assets and $22.3 million was
restricted for use by the Daley Center and for Commission Operations.

6

 The PBC’s total net position increased by $396,079 for the year ended December 31,
2018, due to increases in project revenues that directly impact the Commission’s
administrative fee.
Representatives from Deloitte provided the required auditor communications related to
the PBC’s Audited Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2018. Of note,
there were no audit adjustments, recorded or unrecorded. Deloitte further reported that
there were no material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the internal controls over
financial reporting. The Audit Committee report was accepted.
The next item on the agenda was a report by Commissioner Maldonado regarding the
Administrative Operations (AO) Committee meeting held on July 11, 2019 which is summarized
as follows:
The Chief of Staff reported on three task order awards for Specialty Consultant services
for Geotechnical and Traffic Study Services for school projects. A report was also
provided on nine task order awards for school and city projects to previously appointed
Architect of Record firms. All the AOR task orders were issued to Minority or Women
Business Enterprise firms.
The Chief Development Officer reported on field orders issued on various projects.
The AO Committee accepted the recommendations and reports from the PBC
representatives.
A copy of the Task Order Report is attached hereto as Exhibit “A.”
The next item on the agenda was a report by Executive Director Sánchez regarding
regular reports, development status and other matters. She presented a photographic display of
the Public Building Commission’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the years ended

7

 December 31, 2018 and 2017 and the Public Building Commission 2019 Mid-Year Update.
Executive Director Sánchez submitted to the Commissioners the Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report (CAFR) regarding the financial positions and operations for the Public Building
Commission for the fiscal year ended 2018 and 2017. She advised the Commissioners that the
CAFR had been prepared by the Commission’s independent auditor, Deloitte, in conjunction
with the Commission’s finance staff and was being considered by the Government Finance
Officers’ Association for its Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting
award. She commended Deloitte and the Public Building Commission’s finance team for their
work on the CAFR.
Executive Director Sánchez then presented to the Commissioners PBC’s 2019 Mid-Year
Report featuring updates on various projects undertaken by the Public Building Commission on
behalf of various agencies. She noted that the Public Building Commission will successfully
deliver two Design-Build projects during 2019, namely: the award-winning Manufacturing,
Technology & Engineering Center (MTEC) at the Richard J. Daley College and the South Side
High School (also known as Englewood STEM High School). It was noted that the MTEC
project was awarded the 2019 Merit Award in the category of “New Construction between $15M
and $55M by the Chicago Building Congress (CBC). PBC was also able to substantially
complete earlier this year a new school building at South Loop Elementary School and an annex
at Skinner West Elementary.
She further advised that 26 projects were in the Planning, Design or Construction phase
for various agencies including: Engine Company 115 Fire Station (Chicago Fire Department);
Williams Park Fieldhouse (Chicago Park District); Legler Branch Library Renovation and Merlo
Branch Library Renovation and Modernization (Chicago Public Library). Chicago Public

8

 Schools projects in various phases include Belmont Cragin Replacement ES, Brooks College
Prep Athletic Amenities, Corliss HS Reno, Decatur Classical Annex & Reno, Dirksen ES Annex
& Reno, Dore ES Pre-K Expansion, Hancock Replacement HS, Kenwood Academy HS Reno,
Lake View HS Reno, Locke ES Reno, Lovett ES Reno, McCutcheon ES Annex & Reno,
McDade Classical Annex & Reno, Palmer ES Annex & Reno, Poe Classical Annex & Reno,
Prosser Career Academy Reno, Read Dunning School, Rickover HS Education Program, Rogers
ES Annex & Reno, South Side High School, Washington High School Renovations, Waters ES
Annex & Reno. Further, PBC’s current projects include the Energy Conservation Program for
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District at multiple locations. She noted that capacitybuilding for small, minority and women business enterprises, opportunities for local businesses
and the creation of employment opportunities for Chicago residents through various outreach
sessions was utilized throughout all of PBC’s various projects.
At the conclusion of the discussion, the report by the Executive Director was accepted.
Next, the Commissioners were presented with consideration of approval of a Revised
Undertaking Request from the City of Chicago for the Merlo Branch Library Renovation and
Modernization project located at 644 West Belmont Avenue in the amount of $5,500,000.
Following approval of an initial Undertaking Request by PBC in July 2018, PBC in collaboration
with the Chicago Public Library (CPL) and the Department of Fleet and Facility Management
(2FM) further developed the program, scope, schedule and project requirements. Additional funding
was identified to support the continued development of the project and a revised undertaking budget
of $5,500,000. Upon motion duly made and seconded, the following resolution was adopted:

9

 RESOLUTION NO. 8520
BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Commissioners of the Public
Building Commission hereby approves the Revised Undertaking Request from the
CPL and 2FM of the City of Chicago for the Merlo Branch Library Renovation and
Modernization project located at 644 West Belmont Avenue in the amount of
$5,500,000.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Public Building Commission
hereby authorizes and directs the Executive Director and appropriate officials of
the Public Building Commission to undertake such actions and to execute, upon
approval by Legal Counsel as to form and legality, such documents as may be
necessary and appropriate in order to effectuate this Resolution.
Commissioners voting in the affirmative:
Olga Camargo, James F. Ellis, Jr.,
Avis LaVelle, Jose G. Maldonado, Jr.,
Toni Preckwinkle, Arnold Randall,
Samuel Wm. Sax, Lucino Sotelo,
Mariyana Spyropoulos and David Todd Whittley – 10
Commissioners voting in the negative:
None
The next item on the agenda was the consideration of approval of an Undertaking
Request from the City of Chicago for various recreational spaces. This item was deferred.

There being no further business to come before the Board, the meeting was adjourned.

___________________________________
Secretary
APPROVED:
_______________________
Chairman

10

 EXHIBIT A-1

TASK ORDERS AWARDED
9 AGAINST TERM CONTRACTS

Public Building Commission of Chicago Richard J. Daley Center 50 West Washington Street. Room 200 Chicago, Illinois 60602 (312] 744-3090 

 

 

 

 

July 2019
TASK ORDERS AWARDE I AGAINST TERM CONTRACTS
Task Order
Project Name Service Type MIWBE Firm Task Order Number Amount
Waters ES Annex and Renovation Geotechnical ECS Midwest. LLC 05305-P82062B002 32,261.63
Dirksen ES Annex and Renovation Traf?c Study DLZ Illinois, Inc. 05225-P82064B-001 19,002.00
Palmer ES Annex and Renovation Traf?c Study Knight Inc. 19,900.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3803900( A. 3, 5 1,500,000.00 - Rotation
- Renor'Demo 1,000,000.00 - De?ciency
750,000.00 - Cradle to Grave (Environ)

Testing 1.500,000.00

raf?c Study

600,000.00

3
5

5 200,000.00 - to
.
500,000.00

 

SpecialtyI Sr Under $25,000 Reports Julvr 2019

TASK ORDERS AWARDED
9 TO APPOINTED FIRMS

Public Building Commission of Chicago 1 Richard J. Daley Center 50 West Washington Street, Room 200 Chicago. Illinois 60602 (312) 744?3090 

EXHIBIT A-2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jay?2019

Project Name Firm MBEIWBE Service Provided Task Order Amount
Decatur Classical ES Annex and Architect of Record Services for

Renovation Muller Muller, Ltd. WBE Additional Services 57,160.00
Milhouse Engineering and Architect of Record Services for

Kenwood Academy HS Renovation Construction, Inc. MBE Upgrade to the Mechanical System 994,750.00
Architect of Record Services for
Design Phase Investigation and

Locke ES Renovation RADA Architects, WBE Structural Peer Review 16,525.00
Architect of Record Services for
Design Services to

Locke ES Renovation RADA Architects, WBE account for Discovered Condition 47,780.00
Architect of Record Services for

Locke ES Renovation RADA Architects, WBE bidding phase work. 37,734.00
Architect of Record for Additional

Merle Branch Library Ross Barney Architects, PC WBE Services 45,000.00
Architect of Record Services for

Read Dunning Salt Dome STL Architects, inc. MBE Additional Services 8 6,683.00
Architect of Record Services for

Read Dunning Salt Dome STL Architects, Inc. MBE Additional Services 8 6,847.50
Architect of Record Services tor

Wallianomez Architects, additional roof work, exteriorlinterior
Washington HS Renovation Ltd. MBE work and site work 726,000.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RTO Re port__20190716

 

