DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
REGULAR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JULY 24, 2019
4:00 PM
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

Pamela McClain
John George
Maggie DeSantis
Matthew Walters
Stephanie Washington
Ray Scott

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

Donele Wilkins
Juan Gonzalez
Sonya Mays

OTHERS PRESENT:

Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Rebecca Navin (DEGC)
Malinda Jensen (DEGC)
Paul Kako (DEGC)
Elizabeth Masserang (PM Environmental)
Neal Check (RainCheck Development LLC)
Julio Bateau (Nailah LLC)
Wafa Dinaro (Wayne County)
Stephanie Cayce (Wayne County)

 MINUTES OF THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY REGULAR MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JULY 24, 2019
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD SUITE 2200 DETROIT, MI – 4:00 PM
CALL TO ORDER
Chair Matthew Walters called the meeting to order at 4:07 PM.
GENERAL
Approval of Minutes:
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the minutes of July 10, 2019 as presented. The Board took the
following action:
On a motion by Ms. DeSantis, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 19-07-02-259
was unanimously approved.
PROJECTS
40 Hague Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Ms. Capler presented the 40 Hague Brownfield Redevelopment Plan to the DBRA Board.
Project Introduction
RainCheck Development, LLC is the project developer (the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails the
renovation of a two-story, 37,000 square-foot building into 38 residential apartments. Two studios, 32 onebedroom units, and four two-bedroom units will be offered. Building amenities will include an interior
courtyard and rooftop garden space. In addition, the parcel located to the west of the building will be curated
into a private park for residents and a dog park. As for parking, the 40 Hague Development will provide onsite parking south of the building, at 59 East Philadelphia Street, at an already established lot, reconfigured
to include a more efficient parking layout.
The total investment is estimated to be $8.05 million. The Developer is requesting $731,906.00 in TIF
reimbursement.
There will be 18 temporary construction jobs and 1 FTE job. The 18 temporary construction jobs are
expected to be created over an eighteen-month period once construction begins. The 1 FTE job will be
related to property management.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) will consist of three (3) parcels roughly bounded by Hague Street to
the north, residential properties to the east, Philadelphia Street to the south, and Woodward Avenue to the
west, in Detroit’s North End neighborhood.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the Property
was previously utilized for industrial and commercial purposes; (b) it is located within the City of Detroit, a

 qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property is determined to be a “facility” as
defined by Act 381 and/or adjacent and contiguous to a “facility.”
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include Pre-Approved Activities (Environmental
Assessments), Department Specific Activities, Demolition, Asbestos Activities, Infrastructure
Improvements, Site Preparation and preparation and implementation of Brownfield Plan and/or 381 Work
Plan. The eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the Property
and will be financed solely by the Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible
activities and will incur no debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence in fall 2019 and be
completed within 18 months.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue generated
by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible activities
completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement Agreement
with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Environmental Assessments
2. Department Specific Activities (EGLE)
3. Demolition
4. Asbestos Abatement
5. Infrastructure Improvements
6. Site Preparation
7. Brownfield Plan & Work Plan Preparation
8. Brownfield Plan & Work Plan Implementation
9. Contingency (15%)
Total Reimbursement to Developer
10. Authority Administrative Costs
11. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
12. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$23,693.00
$114,500.00
$298,900.00
$22,000.00
$68,000.00
$86,350.00
$20,000.00
$10,000.00
$88,463.00
$731,906.00
$189,903.00
$41,917.00
$294,549.00
$1,258,275.00

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation PA 146 Tax Abatement.
DBRA-CAC Letter of Recommendation
The DBRA-CAC recommended approval of the Plan at the July 10, 2019 CAC meeting. Attached was the
DBRA-CAC’s letter of recommendation for the DBRA Board’s consideration.
Public Comments
The DBRA public hearing for the Plan was held on Thursday, July 18, 2019 at 5:30 pm at 40 Hague St.,
Detroit, Michigan. The results of the DBRA public hearing were attached.
Attached for the Board’s review and approval was a resolution approving the 40 Hague Brownfield
Redevelopment Plan and its submittal to Detroit City Council.

 Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the 40 Hague Brownfield Redevelopment Plan and its submittal
to City Council, as presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. McClain, seconded by Ms. Washington, DBRA Resolution Code 19-07-271-02
was unanimously approved.
Petit Bateau Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Mr. Vosburg presented the Petit Bateau Brownfield Redevelopment Plan to the DBRA Board.
Project Introduction
Petit Bateau LLC is the project developer (the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails the construction of a
five-story mixed-use building, a four-story mixed-use building, and approximately twenty residential
townhomes, with 3,200 square feet of commercial space along with associated site improvements. The
project will develop one of the last development sites in Midtown and the Historic Art Center neighborhood.
The Property (defined below) was historically occupied by residential, multi-family apartments, a church
and an auto repair shop. The Property is currently vacant.
The total investment is estimated to be $23 million. The Developer is requesting $2,279,193.00 in TIF
reimbursement.
There will be 100 temporary construction jobs and 2 FTE job. The 2 FTE jobs will be related to property
management.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) will consist of seven (7) parcels bounded by Beaubien Street,
Frederick Street, St. Antoine Street and the alleyway, in Detroit’s Historic Art Center neighborhood near
Midtown.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the Property
was is currently utilized for a commercial, industrial, public, or residential purpose; (b) it is located within
the City of Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property was determined
to be a “facility” as defined by Act 381. 511 Frederick is adjacent and contiguous to parcels that are
considered “eligible property”.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include baseline environmental assessment activities,
demolition, lead and asbestos abatement, department specific activities, site preparation, infrastructure
improvements, and preparation and implementation of a brownfield plan and 381 work plan. The eligible
activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed
solely by the Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no
debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan and be
completed within 3 years.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue generated
by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible activities
completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement Agreement
with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Baseline Environmental Assessment Activities
2. Due Care Activities
3. Demolition

$10,000.00
$200,000.00
$2,620.00

 4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Lead and Asbestos Abatement
Infrastructure Improvements
Site Preparation
Brownfield Plan & Work Plan Preparation
Contingency (15%)
Total Reimbursement to Developer
9. Authority Administrative Costs
10. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
11. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$2,500.00
$1,680,700.00
$60,000.00
$30,000.00
$293,373.00
$2,279,193.00
$474,063.00
$163,677.00
$773,795.00
$3,690,728.00

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of a
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone PA 147 Tax Abatement.
Attached for the Board’s review and approval was a resolution authorizing the Petit Bateau Brownfield Plan
for submittal to the Community Advisory Committee for consideration and comment within 30 days of their
receipt of the proposed Plan. In addition, it authorizes the President of the Detroit Economic Growth
Corporation or any person designated by him, as a representative of the DBRA, to conduct a public hearing
in the area to which the Proposed Plan applies within the next 30 days. This public hearing may be held
jointly with any public hearing conducted by the Community Advisory Committee.
Mr. Scott asked if the project had received grant funds from the EPA grant originally used for the Focus
Hope project. Mr. Vosburg confirmed that the project had received grant funds from the EPA grant originally
used for Focus Hope.
Mr. Walters asked for clarification on which building façade will face Peck Park. Mr. Bateau showed Mr.
Walters which façade will face Peck Parkand stated that the building willtransition from a historic design on
the west to a more modern design to the east.
Ms. DeSantis asked where the name of the project came from. Mr. Bateau stated that the project name
came from his last name and means “small boat” in French.
Ms. DeSantis asked if the townhomes will be for rent or sale. Mr. Bateau stated that the townhomes will be
for sale and the residential units in the two larger buildings will be for rent.
Ms. DeSantis asked if there will be residential units offered as affordable housing. Mr. Bateau stated that
there will be approximately 17 units, or 20% of the total units, available at 80% of the Area Median Income
(AMI). Mr. Bateau stated he would like to target a lower AMI, 60% to 65%, for the affordable units if he is
able to secure funding from a lender for that purpose.
Ms. DeSantis asked for more information on the capital stack for the project and what percentage of that is
equity from the Developer. Mr. Bateau stated that 15% of the capital stack of equity from the Developer
which includes the land, and that the Developer has several Letters of Interest from lenders that it is
considering.
Ms. DeSantis asked if there were any other subsidies for the project besides Tax Increment Financing and
a potential Neighborhood Enterprise Zone tax abatement. Mr. Bateau stated that there are no other
subsidies for the project at this time.

 Mr. Walters asked what the total investment is for the project. Mr. Bateau stated that the total investment
for the project is approximately $23 million.
Mr. Walters asked how many buildings are planned for the project. Mr. Bateau stated that there are seven
buildings planned for the project.
Mr. Walters asked what materials will be used for the façade of the buildings. Mr. Bateau stated that the
façade will be different colors of brick.
Ms. DeSantis asked if this was the Developer’s first project in Detroit. Mr. Bateau stated that this was not
his first project in Detroit and that he has been doing development in Detroit for over 3 decades.
Mr. Scott stated that he has worked with Mr. Bateau for about 20 years through environmental assessments
and removal of underground storage tanks for other projects and he has always done a good job with his
projects.
Mr. Walters called for a motion authorizing a public hearing for the Petit Bateau Brownfield Redevelopment
Plan and its referral to the Community Advisory Committee, as presented. The Board took the following
action:
On a motion by Mr. Scott, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 19-07-272-01 was
unanimously approved.
Broadway Lofts Brownfield Redevelopment Plan: Assignment and Assumption Agreement
Mr. Vosburg presented the Broadway Lofts Brownfield Redevelopment Plan: Assignment and Assumption
Agreement to the DBRA Board.
The Brownfield Plan for Broadway Lofts Redevelopment Project (the “Plan”) was approved by the City of
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) Board of Directors on March 13, 2019 and by Detroit
City Council (the “Council”) on April 16, 2019.
In connection with the Plan, the DBRA and Broadway Detroit Properties, LLC executed that certain
Reimbursement Agreement dated June 25, 2019 (the “Reimbursement Agreement”).
Broadway Detroit Development II, LLC is the project developer under the Plan due to the ability of the
developer to obtain Opportunity Zone funding and as such, wishes to acquire any and all rights of Broadway
Detroit Properties, LLC under the Reimbursement Agreement and other underlying brownfield plan related
documents.
Attached for the Board’s review and approval as Exhibit A was an Assignment and Assumption Agreement
between Broadway Detroit Properties, LLC and Broadway Detroit Development II, LLC and a resolution
authorizing its execution.
Mr. Walters asked what an Assignment and Assumption Agreement means. Ms. Navin stated that another
entity is accepting and assuming the rights and obligations under the Reimbursement Agreement for the
Plan.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Broadway Lofts Brownfield Redevelopment Plan: Assignment
and Assumption Agreement, as presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. DeSantis, DBRA Resolution Code 19-07-266-04 was
unanimously approved.

 Marston and Morrow Brownfield Redevelopment Plan: Reimbursement Agreement
Mr. Vosburg presented the Marston and Morrow Brownfield Redevelopment Plan Reimbursement
Agreement to the DBRA Board.
On June 26, 2019, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) Board of Directors
recommended approval to City Council of the Brownfield Plan for the Marston and Morrow Redevelopment
Project (the “Plan”). The City Council public hearing for the Plan was held July 18, 2019 and City Council
approved the Plan on July 23, 2019. A requirement for Tax Increment Financing reimbursement pursuant
to the Plan is that a Reimbursement Agreement (the “Agreement”) be entered into between the DBRA and
Tiberina Detroit Inc. The Agreement has been prepared between the DBRA and Tiberina Detroit Inc. and
is presented to the DBRA for review and approval.
Project Introduction
Tiberina Detroit Inc. is the project developer (the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails the construction of
an industrial building on the property in each phase. It is anticipated that an approximately 74,350 squarefoot industrial building will be constructed on the eastern side of the Property (defined below) as part of the
first phase of the project. The second phase is anticipated to include the construction of an approximately
63,750 square-foot industrial building on the western side of the Property.
The total investment is estimated to be $18.4 million for Phase 1 and $17 million for Phase 2, for a total of
approximately $35.4 million. The Developer is requesting $7,697,003.00 in TIF reimbursement.
It is estimated that approximately 204 temporary construction jobs and new 63 FTE jobs will be created as
a result of the project.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) will consist of two (2) parcels located north of the intersection of
Marston and Morrow Streets, west of St. Aubin near Detroit’s Milwaukee Junction neighborhood.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the Property
was is currently utilized for an industrial purpose; (b) it is located within the City of Detroit, a qualified local
governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the parcels that compose the Property are facilities as defined by
Act 381.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include site assessment and baseline environmental
assessment (BEA) activities, due care activities, response activities, environmental insurance, demolition
activities, asbestos, lead, and mold abatement, infrastructure improvements, site preparation activities, land
bank title clearing, and preparation and implementation of a brownfield plan and 381 work plan. The eligible
activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed
solely by the Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no
debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan and be
completed within 3 years.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Environmental Assessments
2. Due Care and Other Response Activities

$97,000.00
$2,656,768.00

 3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Demolition
Mold, Lead and Asbestos Activities
Infrastructure Improvements
Site Preparation
Brownfield Plan & Work Plan Preparation
Brownfield Plan & Work Plan Implementation
Contingency (15%)
Interest (5% simple)
Total Reimbursement to Developer
11. Authority Administrative Costs
12. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
13. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$628,000.00
$25,000.00
$817,600.00
$1,403,189.00
$30,000.00
$65,000.00
$829,583.00
$1,417,863.00
$7,697,003.00
$1,733,739.00
$612,496.00
$3,293,213.00
$13,336,451.00

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of an Industrial
Facilities PA 198 Tax Abatement.
The Agreement and a resolution approving the Agreement and its subsequent execution were attached for
the Board’s review and approval.
Mr. Vosburg stated that the Developer has requested an additional year to finish the project.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Marston and Morrow Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Reimbursement Agreement, as presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. Washington, DBRA Resolution Code 19-07-270-03
was unanimously approved.
ADMINISTRATIVE
Election of Officers (FY 2019-2020)
Ms. Kanalos presented the Election of Officers (FY 2019-2020) to the DBRA Board.
The DBRA Bylaws state that the Officers of the Board of Directors shall be elected annually.
The current DBRA Board officer positions are as follows: Matthew Walters-Chairperson, Maggie DeSantisVice Chairperson, Donele Wilkins-Secretary and Sonya Mays-Treasurer of the Board of Directors of the
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.
DBRA staff proposes that the Board Chair open the floor to nominations, followed by a vote of the Board.
Mr. Scott made a motion that unless there is objection from the current officers, to nominate the current
slate of officers for reelection for FY 2019-2020.
Ms. Washington stated that she would like to nominate Mr. Walters as Chair and Ms. DeSantis as Vice
Chair and would like to consider other nominations for Secretary and Treasurer.
Ms. McClain asked what the duties are for the Secretary and the Treasurer. Ms. Kanalos stated that, acting
as staff to the DBRA, the Accounting department of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation traditionally
oversees the Treasurer’s Reports so the ongoing duties of the Treasurer are limited. The Secretary certifies
all DBRA resolutions for each meeting

 Mr. Scott withdrew his previous motion to nominate the current slate of officers for reelection for FY 20192020.
Ms. Washington made a motion to nominate Pamela McClain as Secretary for FY 2019-2020. Ms. DeSantis
seconded the motion.
Ms. DeSantis made a motion to nominate Stephanie Washington as Treasurer for FY 2019-2020. Ms.
McClain seconded the motion.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the officers for the DBRA Board for FY 2019-2020, as nominated.
The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Scott, seconded by Mr. George, DBRA Resolution Code 19-07-01-215, electing
Mr. Walters as Chair, Ms. DeSantis as Vice Chair, Ms. McClain as Secretary, and Ms. Washington
as Treasurer for FY 2019-2020, was unanimously approved.
OTHER
Mr. Scott asked if it would be possible for the DBRA Board meetings to be held earlier in the day. Ms.
Kanalos stated that the DBRA staff could send a survey to the Board to see if there is a day and time that
would work better for the Board.
Ms. Washington excused herself from the meeting at 4:35 pm.
Ms. McClain asked if Opportunity Zones funds are something that the DBRA handles. Mr. Walters stated
that the DBRA does not handle Opportunity Zone funds. Mr. Vosburg stated that there have been other
brownfield plans that have Opportunity Zone funds as part of their financing and that the Real Estate
Investment Services staff at the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation can provide assistance with
Opportunity Zone funds.
Ms. DeSantis asked if any other brownfield projects have obtained Opportunity Zone funding. Mr. Vosburg
stated that several projects previously before the Board did have Opportunity Zone funds as part of their
capital stack, but they were able to secure that funding before coming to the DBRA so there was no
additional action that needed to be taken by the DBRA.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Dinaro stated that she is from Wayne County and will be handling brownfield plans on behalf of the
County and may be attending future DBRA meetings.
ADJOURNMENT
Citing no further business, Mr. Walters called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. DeSantis the meeting was unanimously adjourned
at 4:38 PM.

 CODE DBRA 19-07-02-259
APPROVAL OF MINUTES JULY 10, 2019
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the regular meeting of July 10, 2019 are hereby approved
and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such minutes, are
hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority.

July 24, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-07-271-02
40 HAGUE BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Detroit (the “City Council”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed
areas in the City of Detroit; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the policies, procedures and bylaws governing the DBRA, the
DBRA has submitted a proposed Brownfield Plan for the 40 Hague Redevelopment Project (the “Plan”)
to the Community Advisory Committee for its consideration and comment and has solicited comments by
the public by publication of notice stating that the proposed Plan has been submitted to the Community
Advisory Committee and by conducting a public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan applies;
and
WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee has considered the proposed Plan and approved
a resolution recommending the approval of the proposed Plan by the DBRA and the City Council as
presented by the DBRA; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Board of Directors of the DBRA has
considered the proposed Plan and desires to approve the proposed Plan and to request that City Council
call a public hearing to consider and adopt a resolution approving the proposed Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the adoption of the Brownfield
Plan for the 40 Hague Redevelopment Project is in keeping with the purposes of Act 381 and recommends
submittal of the Plan to City Council for approval.
2.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA approves the Plan substantially in the form attached
hereto and on file with the Secretary of the DBRA.
3.
Any Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized and directed to submit a certified copy of
this Resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the City Council call a public
hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions required to approve the Plan in accordance with
Act 381.
4.
That any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA or any two
of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all
documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or appropriate to implement
the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.

 5.
That all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent of the DBRA, in the
name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts
would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution
of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
6.
All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this
resolution are rescinded.

July 24, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-07-272-01
PETIT BATEAU BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN – TRANSMITTAL OF BROWNFIELD PLAN
TO THE COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996 (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City of Detroit (the
“City”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in the City; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, under the resolution establishing the DBRA and the bylaws of the DBRA requires the
DBRA, prior to the approval of a brownfield plan, submit the proposed brownfield plan to the Community
Advisory Committee for consideration and comment and solicit comments by publication of notice that the
proposed brownfield plan has been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a
public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan applies.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1.
The City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority acknowledges receipt of the
proposed Brownfield Plan for the Petit Bateau Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the “Proposed Plan”)
and authorizes and directs the Chairperson to cause the Proposed Plan to be transmitted to the Community
Advisory Committee for consideration and comment within 30 days of their receipt of the Proposed Plan.
2.
The President of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation or any person designated by
him, as a representative of the DBRA, shall conduct a public hearing in the area to which the Proposed
Plan applies within the next 30 days. This public hearing may be held jointly with any public hearing
conducted by the Community Advisory Committee.
3.
The Chairperson is authorized and directed to cause there to be published notice that the
Proposed Plan has been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and of the public hearing to be
held pursuant to this resolution.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or Authorized Agent
of the DBRA in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolution except that such acts were
taken prior to execution of these resolution, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

July 24, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-07-266-04
BROADWAY LOFTS BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN: ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, on March 13, 2019, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the
“DBRA”) Board of Directors adopted a resolution recommending approval of that certain Brownfield Plan
for the Broadway Lofts Redevelopment Project (the ”Plan”) by the Detroit City Council; and
WHEREAS, on April 16, 2019, the Detroit City Council approved the Plan; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the Plan, the DBRA and Broadway Detroit Properties, LLC entered
into that certain Reimbursement Agreement dated June 25, 2019 (the “Reimbursement Agreement”); and
WHEREAS, Broadway Detroit Development II, LLC is the project developer under the Plan and as
such, wishes to acquire any and all rights of Broadway Detroit Properties, LLC under the Reimbursement
Agreement and other underlying brownfield plan related documents; and
WHEREAS, an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the “Assignment”) between Broadway
Detroit Properties, LLC and Broadway Detroit Development II, LLC shall be drafted in a form and substance
to the satisfaction of DBRA staff and legal counsel; and
WHEREAS, the DBRA Board of Directors desire to acknowledge and approve the actions
contemplated by the Assignment and authorize its execution and delivery on behalf of the DBRA.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the DBRA Board of Directors as follows:
1. The Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the “Assignment”), to be drafted in a form and
substance to the satisfaction of DBRA staff and legal counsel, is hereby approved.
2. Any two (2) Officers or Designated Authorized Agents or any one (1) Officer and one (1)
Designated Authorized Agent of the DBRA is hereby authorized and directed to execute and
deliver the Assignment.
3. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings in conflict herewith shall be repealed
insofar as such conflict arises.
4. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent
of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were
taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
July 24, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-07-270-03
MARSTON AND
AGREEMENT

MORROW

BROWNFIELD

REDEVELOPMENT

PLAN:

REIMBURSEMENT

WHEREAS, on June 26, 2019, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) Board
of Directors adopted a resolution recommending approval by the Detroit City Council of the Brownfield Plan
(the “Plan”) for a project captioned Harmonie Social Club Redevelopment (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, on July 23, 2019, the Detroit City Council approved the Plan; and
WHEREAS, a condition to reimbursing the developer for eligible activities under the Plan is that a
Reimbursement Agreement (the “Agreement”) be entered into between the DBRA and Tiberina Detroit Inc.
as developer of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the Agreement has been drafted, approved as to form by DBRA legal counsel; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors desires to approve the Agreement and authorize its execution
and delivery on behalf of the DBRA; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the DBRA Board of Directors as follows:
1.

The Agreement, in substantially the form attached to this Resolution as Exhibit A, is hereby
approved, with such necessary or desirable modifications additions, deletions or
completions as are approved by DBRA legal counsel and the Officers or designated
Authorized Agents of the DBRA executing the Agreement.

2.

Any two Officers or designated Authorized Agents or one Officer and one designated
Authorized Agent of the DBRA are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the
Agreement.

3.

All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings in conflict herewith
and the same hereby are repealed insofar as such conflict arises.

4.

This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

shall be

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent
of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were
taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
July 24, 2019

 CODE DBRA 19-07-01-215

ADMINISTRATION: ELECTION OF OFFICERS FOR FY 2019-2020

RESOLVED, that the following are hereby elected as Officers of the Board of Directors of the
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority:

July 24, 2019

Matthew Walters

Chairperson

Maggie DeSantis

Vice Chairperson

Pamela McClain

Secretary

Stephanie Washington ______

Treasurer

 