 

Lakeview SSA 27 
Commission Meeting Minutes 
June 13, 2019, 8:30 AM 
Sheil Park, 3505 N. Southport Ave., Chicago, IL 60657 
Present:  Jason Aragon, Darian Campise, Paul Leamon, Matt Lederer, Terese McDonald, Luis Monje, Amy 
Novotny, Erin Schwartz, TJ Walczak, Doug Zylstra 
Absent:  Chuck Stewart 
Staff:  Lee Crandell, Dillon Goodson 
Guests:  None 
Call to Order 
Terese McDonald called the meeting to order at 8:35 AM. 
Reading of Mission Statement 
Terese McDonald read the SSA 27 mission statement. 
Public Comment 
There was no public comment. 
Reading and Approval of Minutes 
Doug Zylstra motioned to approve the minutes from the SSA Commission meeting on May 9, 2019, 
seconded by TJ Walczak; motion carries. 
Committee & Task Force Reports 
●

●

●

Low-Line Committee:  Darian Campise and Dillon Goodson updated Commissioners on the 
construction of the remaining SSA portion of the Low-Line. They shared that coordination with 
project stakeholders is ongoing and mentioned the possibility that Phases 1B and 2 of the 
project might need to be phased over the course of two years. 
Streetscape Committee:  Luis Monje updated Commissioners on the Streetscape Committee’s 
latest meeting. 
○ Tree Survey & Management Plan Contract:  Luis Monje presented two proposals the SSA 
received in response to its RFP for a vendor to conduct a tree survey and create a tree 
management plan for the service area. Commissioners discussed the proposals and 
noted the experience and price savings of Bartlett Tree Experts. Luis Monje motioned to 
approve an $8,360 contract with Bartlett Tree Experts to complete the tree survey and 
management plan in 2019, seconded by Jason Aragon; motion carries. 
Lakeview Gift Card Task Force 
○ Program Recommendations:  Terese McDonald recapped the work of the Lakeview Gift 
Card Task Force, noting that the Task Force revised the program goals to focus more on 
engaging multiple businesses. Commissioners discussed a series of changes 
recommended by the Task Force, including whether technology could supplement the 
gift card to incentivize customers to spend gift card funds across multiple businesses. 
Matt Lederer motioned for the SSA to remain committed to the Lakeview Gift Card 

  

program with the following changes and additions, seconded by Luis Monje; motion 
carries: 
■ Launch a concurrent “shop local” campaign 
■ Shift the activation date of Bonus Cards, so they activate January 1 and expire 
March 31 
■ Collect email addresses from all Lakeview Gift Card purchasers and send 
targeted marketing emails, including special promotions and featured 
businesses 
■ Partner with participating businesses to offer exclusive discounts available only 
to customers who use their gift cards to make a purchase 
■ Strengthen the connection between the Lakeview Holiday Gift Guide and the 
Lakeview Gift Card, exploring the launch of a “wish book” in 2019 
President’s Report 
Terese McDonald recognized Lee Crandell for his service to the neighborhood throughout the past four 
years as Executive Director of the Lakeview Chamber. 
Treasurer’s Report 
Matt Lederer shared the SSA’s financials through April 2019. 
●

●

2020 Draft Budget & Work Plan:  Matt Lederer reported on the recommended 2020 Draft Budget 
& Work Plan. He explained increases in line items to support the creation of additional 
community programming and the launch of a new grant program to support small business 
marketing, while noting how the anticipated completion of the SSA’s portion of the Low-Line in 
2019 would create opportunities for new streetscape projects in 2020. Commissioners shared 
their feedback on the draft budget and discussed programming ideas. Paul Leamon motioned to 
accept the 2020 Draft Budget & Work Plan as-is, seconded by TJ Walczak; motion carries. Matt 
said he would work with staff to finalize the budget with the revised EAV figures once they are 
released in June. 
Approval of Budget for 2019 Public Art Projects:  Dillon Goodson updated Commissioners on 
coordination with the artists previously selected to create new murals at six sites in 2019. He 
asked Commissioners to approve a budget for the SSA-funded murals. Matt Lederer motioned to 
approve a total project budget of $45,000 for the artists selected by the SSA Commission in May, 
seconded by Amy Novotny; motion carries. 

Partner Board Reports 
●

●

Lakeview Chamber of Commerce:  Lee Crandell reported on PorchFest, commenting on how 
much the event has grown since its launch in 2018. He also shared the dates of a summer 
sidewalk showcase and business marketing series hosted by the Lakeview Chamber. 
Friends of Lakeview:  Lee Crandell reminded Commissioners that the Low-Line Market season 
had begun. He announced that the Chicago Cubs presented a $25,000 sponsorship for the 
Low-Line at the Lakeview Chamber’s Lead Off Luncheon. Commissioners discussed whether 
Friends of Lakeview could explore the creation of a new dog park on Greenview. 

  

Staff Report 
●

●

Multi-Year Administrative Blueprint:  Lee Crandell presented recommendations about 
administrative steps to help support the implementation of the joint Strategic Blueprint that was 
recently adopted by the SSA in partnership with the Lakeview Chamber and Friends of Lakeview. 
He highlighted projects focused on incubating small businesses, accomplishing the Low-Line 
vision, neighborhood rebranding, and master planning. Following discussion, Matt Lederer 
motioned to affirm the recommendations of the Multi-Year Administrative Blueprint 
as-presented, seconded by Doug Zylstra; motion carries. 
Community & Business Survey Results:  Lee Crandell shared the preliminary results of the 
Lakeview Chamber’s 2019 Community & Business Survey, noting that additional evaluation was 
needed before the final results could be presented. 

Announcements 
Dillon Goodson recapped the first Lincoln Hub Nest market and informed Commissioners that the July 
event would be rescheduled to take place during the same weekend as the August event. 
Adjourn 
Darian Campise motioned to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Erin Schwartz; meeting adjourned at 
9:46 AM. 

 