CHAIR
Alma E. Anaya

COUNTY B UILDING
118 NORTH CLARK, ROOM 567
c/o 7 th District
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(T) 312-603-5443
(F) 312-603-3759

CO NTACT
Nadia Ismail
Nadia.ismail@cookcountyil.gov
(T ) 312-603-5443

COOK COUNTY COMMISSION
ON SOCIAL INNOVATION
June 20, 2019
4:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Cook County Administrative Building
69 W. Washington, Lower Level Conference Room B
Chicago, IL 60602
MINUTES
1.

Welcome
The June 20, 2019 meeting of The Cook County Commission on Social Innovation was
convened via an in-person meeting from 4:05pm-5:30pm. The meeting was chaired by Cook
County Commissioner Alma Anaya, Chair of the Commission on Social Innovation. This
meeting was open to the public.
Commission Members Present:
• Commissioner Alma Anaya
• Marc Lane
• Marc Loveless
• John Yonan
• Xochitl Espinoza
• Christyn Freemon
• Wendy Raymer
• Howard Males
• Matthew Erickson

Commission Staff Present:
• Nadia Ismail
• Shantenae Robinson

Staff from Cook County Commissioner Donna Miller’s Office was also present
2.

Updates
a. Open Meetings Act Training
i. The OMA training is required of all commissioners. Commissioners were asked to
submit certificates of completion of the training to Chair Anaya’s staff via email by
June 30 th.
ii. The Chair requested that commissioners please report the number of members they
expect their committees to be comprised of; committees are also subject to the Open
Meetings Act.
b. Vacancies

 i. There are 6 vacancies on the Commission. All commissioners were asked to submit
recommendations for new commissioners. Recommendations are being considered
in accordance with need; in terms of expertise and geographic location of service.
ii. A map is being created by Cook County’s GIS department to understand at which
locations in the County we may not have commissioners serving. The map will be
sent to all of you via email.
iii. The committees currently impacted by vacancies are the committees on Human
Capital, Intellectual Capital and Social Capital. The committees on Social Capital and
Intellectual Capital have chair or co-chair positions vacant.
3.

Approval of the Minutes
a. The May 16, 2019 minutes were approved with amendments. Edits were recommended to
correct the spelling of a name and add an attendee of the May meeting to the roll.
b. Comm. Males moved to approve the minutes as amended. Comm. Yonan seconded the
motion. The minutes were approved unanimously by a voice vote.

4.

Commissioners Manual
a. Chair Anaya’s office put out a call for recommendations on the Commissioners Manual.
The guide has been updated, per requests made, to expand on guidelines for committees
including instructions for committee chairs.
b. A section was also added to the manual to include rules prohibiting sexual harassment.
c. The manual is reflective of the ordinance establishing the Commission.
d. The manual will be voted on in the July 18, 2019 meeting.

5.

Committees
a. Committee meetings will begin next month. Commissioners were provided with the full list
of current Commission members and committee chairmanships.
b. It was requested that any Commissioner who is interested in filling a chair position contact
the office of Chair Anaya.

6.

Presentation 1 - Vanessa Uribe, Cook County Bureau of Economic Development,
“Advancing Racial Equity Through the Racial Equity Leadership Council (RELC)”
a. The presenter was invited to help the Commission align with the goals set in the President’s
policy roadmap regarding equity. Potential pathways to advance racial equity in each
County agency were discussed; including by applying equity work that is already taking
place at the county (e.g. through public-private partnership grants).
b. Comm. Loveless recommended that the Offices Under the President partner with the Cook
County Department of Public Health (CCDPH) which hosts 3-day trainings on
deconstructing racism. Ms. Uribe reported that her office had attended those trainings at
CCDPH and is hoping to produce something similar.
c. Comm. Freemon suggested equity goals be applied to immediate infrastructure needs.
i. Ms. Uribe that the RELC will be opening up to community-based working groups
who will guide the County equity work through their recommendations. The
working groups can include a focus on immediate impact.

 7.

Presentation 2 - Chair Anaya reported on her trip to Los Angeles County
i. Chair Anaya reported that LA County hosted an Equity Summit which featured
department heads from throughout the county speaking to attendees about
initiatives they have implemented to prioritize equity.
ii. The Department of Consumer and Business Affairs in LA County played a positive
role in consumer protections and the active incorporation of equity through various
initiatives, such as a Social Enterprise Business Enterprise Office, a Fair Chance
Hiring Campaign, and a sidewalk vending initiative.

8.

Adjourn
a. Comm. Males motioned to adjourn, seconded by Comm. Raymer

 