LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
July 9, 2019
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:00 AM by Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission; Michael Peters on behalf of Andrea Telli, City of Chicago designee; Ivana
Dabizljevic for Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller; Kathy McKee, Cook County
State’s Attorney’s designee.
Members Absent: None
Staff Present: None
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Members Absent: David Joens, Director of Illinois State Archives and Secretary of State
designee.
Staff Present: Robert Boots, Chief Deputy Director of Illinois State Archives; Sandra Lucas,
Senior Records Archivist; Travis Schweitzer, Administrative Clerk, Records Management
Section.
The minutes of the June 11, 2019 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County
were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the minutes as
submitted. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
None.
NEW BUSINESS:
New Applications
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following new applications:

 19:009C–Hoffman Estates Board of Police & Fire Commissioners (Hoffman Estates). Ms.
Dabizljevic made a motion to approve 19:009C as submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion.
The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
Application Add-Ons and Amendments
The Cook County Local Records Commission reviewed the following add-ons and amendments:
07:027C–Village of Lansing (Lansing) There were six application amendments (items: #21,
#49, #60, #63, #91, #140). Ms. McKee made a motion to approve the add-ons and amendments
for 07:027C as submitted. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
None
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00AM on Tuesday August 13, 2019 at the Illinois Department of Central Management
Services Video Conferencing Center located in Room 9-035 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the
LLCC-Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURMENT:
Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to adjourn. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion
carried and was approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Travis Schweitzer, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.

 