CHAIR
Alma E. Anaya

COUNTY B UILDING
118 NORTH CLARK, ROOM 567
c/o 7 th District
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(T) 312-603-5443
(F) 312-603-3759

CO NTACT
Nadia Ismail
Nadia.ismail@cookcountyil.gov
(T ) 312-603-5443

COOK COUNTY COMMISSION
ON SOCIAL INNOVATION
July 18, 2019
4:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Cook County Administrative Building
69 W. Washington, Lower Level Conference Room C
Chicago, IL 60602
MINUTES
1.

Welcome
The July 18, 2019 meeting of The Cook County Commission on Social Innovation was convened
via an in-person meeting from 4:15pm-5:50pm. The meeting was chaired by Cook County
Commissioner Alma Anaya, Chair of the Commission on Social Innovation. This meeting was
open to the public.
Commission Members Present:
• Commissioner Alma Anaya
• Marc Loveless
• John Yonan
• Carrie Thomas
• Howard Males
• Victor Dickson
• Ana Guajardo

Commission Staff Present:
• Nadia Ismail
• Shantenae Robinson
• Victoria Moreno

Staff from Cook County Commissioner Donna Miller’s Office was also present.
2.

Approval of the Minutes
The Jun 20, 2019 meeting minutes will be approved at the August 15, 2019 meeting due to a
lack of quorum for approval of the minutes at the July 18, 2019 meeting.
There we no comments from the public.

3.

Updates and Pending Commission Items
a. Committees
i. The Committee on Social Capital and the Committee on Human Capital have been
combined, it is now the Committee on Social and Human Capital and the
Commission now has four committees.
ii. Committee meetings are expected to begin next month.

 iii. The committee membership of Commission members has been added to the
appendix of the Social Innovation Commissioner’s Guide
iv. Committees are asked to think through their committee’s plan for this year. Blank
strategic plan charts were distributed to commissioners, prompting them to think
through the research and legislative goals of their committee, their objectives for the
year and the research, actions, and timeframe needed to achieve the objectives listed.
1. Commissioners were asked to think through this in preparation for next
month’s committee meetings which should be dedicated to planning of the
year ahead.
b. GIS Map of Commissioner Service Areas

i. Commissioner Anaya presented two maps created by the County’s GIS
department. The maps depict the approximate geographic locations of the
services done by current and past members of this Commission. Commissioner
Anaya informed the Commission that the goal of these maps is to show where
gaps may be to inform decision-making as commissioners recommend new
Commission members.
ii. Comm. Thomas requested differentiating maps by service area as well, if
possible.
c. Commission Nominees
i. All Commission Member nominations are due by July 26 th.
ii. The Office of the Chair will recirculate the online form for nominations with a
reminder next week.
iii. All members will be presented for approval to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in an upcoming meeting of the Board.
4.

Presentation: Equity in Cook County by Alberto Rincon
a. This presentation was based on research conducted by Alberto Rincon during his graduate
studies as an intern of Commission members last year. His report is titled Equity in Cook
County: A Strategic Roadmap for Integrating Data-Driven Equity Initiatives into County
Policy.
b. The presentation covered the definition of equity, how to understand equity, how to
develop an equity policy and a review of precedents in the creation of an Equity Office.
c. In response to the equitable policies portion of the presentation, Comm. Males asked how
we can effectively solve big problems and get these policies passed. Alberto Rincon
recommended seeking buy-in from all agencies and departments by having a unifying
message. Comm. Anaya said one helpful pathway is being created through the Cook
County Committee on Addressing Bias, Equity and Cultural Competency.
d. Comm. Anaya and Comm. Dickson recommended taking up the report as an official
Commission on Social Innovation document.

 i. Comm. Anaya suggested we could receive and file the document as well as the
Commissioner’s Guide/Manual in a future meeting of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
5.

Adjourn
a. There were no announcements.
b. Comm. Dickson motioned to adjourn, seconded by Comm. Yonan

 