Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Tuesday, June 18, 2019 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1950 W. Polk Street, in
Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Richardson-Lowry called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Mary B. Richardson-Lowry and Directors Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH and
Sidney A. Thomas, MSW (3)

Telephonically
Present:
Director Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH (1)
Absent:

None (0)
Director Thomas, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to allow Director Driscoll to
participate in the meeting telephonically as a voting member. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Barbara Pryor –Chief Human Resources Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Wayne Wright – Director of Organizational
Development and Training

The next meeting of the Committee will be held on Tuesday, August 20, 2019 at 9:00 A.M.
II.

Public Speakers
Chair Richardson-Lowry asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of April 16, 2019
Director Thomas, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to accept the minutes of the
meeting of the Human Resources Committee of April 16, 2019. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections III and VI

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Page 2

IV.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer (Attachment #1)
Barbara Pryor, Chief Human Resources Officer, reviewed her report, which included information on the
following subjects:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Increase Quality of Candidates
Hiring Fair
Preferred Qualification Preference
Telephone Screening Process
Workforce Development
Metrics:
- HR Performance Data
- HR Activity Report through 5/31/19
- Separations by Classification through 5/31/19
- Open Vacancies
- Hiring Snapshot through 5/31/19
- Appendix – Nursing and Finance Hiring Snapshot through 5/31/19

Ms. Pryor and Wayne Wright, Director of Organizational Development and Training, provided additional
information on the subject of Workforce Development and the Connecting Adolescents to Resources /
Education / Employment (C.A.R.E.) Program. Ms. Pryor stated that this initiative, which starts this summer,
is funded through a grant from the Michael Reese Health Foundation, and its purpose is to build the future
pipeline of healthcare workers from the communities that Cook County Health serves. Mr. Wright noted that
the Chicago Public Schools system is involved in the initiative; there are ten (10) high schools within the
Chicago Public Schools that provide specific healthcare programs, and CCH is working with all ten (10) of
them. Chair Richardson-Lowry inquired whether a status report can be provided at the August 20th Human
Resources Committee Meeting. Ms. Pryor indicated that the program wraps up on August 29th, so she can
provide a mid-term report for the August meeting.

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, June 18, 2019
Page 3

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Richardson-Lowry declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry, Chair
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Requests/Follow-up:
Follow-up:

Mid-term report on the C.A.R.E. Program to be provided at the August 20th Human Resources
Committee Meeting. Page 2

 