August 6, 2019
Dr. John Jay Shannon
Chief Executive Officer
Cook County Health
1950 W. Polk Street, 9th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60612

Mr. Patrick M. Blanchard
Independent Inspector General
69 W. Washington
Suite 1160
Chicago, Illinois 60602
10TH EPO SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT

Dear Dr. Shannon and Inspector General Blanchard:
This is my 10th semi-annual report issued pursuant to Section IV.C.2 of the Cook County Health
(CCH) Employment Plan (Plan). This report covers my office’s training, monitoring, auditing, and
investigative activities from January 1, 2019, through June 30, 2019.
TRAINING
My office is still heavily involved with the training of staff about the Employment Plan and
Supplemental Policies & Procedures. We have created online courses to ensure that all new
employees receive an overview of the Plan (Employment Plan Training/Onboarding) within the first
90 days of hire; it is also issued annually to all staff each year. In addition, management is required
to complete two additional online courses yearly after they have completed a classroom session for:
(1) Employment Plan Interviewer Training and (2) Supplemental Policies & Procedures Training.
All annual Plan training requirements are administered using the online courses, except for the
annual Human Resources (HR) training. Classroom sessions are still available for new managers or
newly promoted employees, HR employees, and those wishing to take a classroom course in lieu of
an online module. Among the Plan requirements covered is the obligation to report political
discrimination and political contacts to the OIIG.
The following chart outlines the classroom trainings conducted by my office during this reporting
period:

Page 1 of 19

 Interviewer/Hiring
Supplemental
Policies

Number of
Sessions

Employees
Trained

8

68

7

68

As noted in my last report, I began transitioning the Supplemental Policies & Procedures Training
classroom session to HR’s Learning & Development team (L&D Team). This process began in May
and continues through the next reporting period. In May and June, the L&D Team trained newly
hired or promoted employees on most of the Supplemental Policies while my office continued to
train on the Discipline Policy. I or my staff is available during each Supplemental Policies &
Procedures session to provide subject matter expertise during the training. In addition, the L&D
Manager and I are working to refresh the training with updates and interactive modules during the
session as we remove the Discipline Policy from this course in the near future. We expect the changes
to the Supplemental Policies and Procedures training will begin by the end of 2019.
My office will continue to train all CCH staff on the Discipline policy, but as noted in my last report,
it will become part of a multipart training initiative centered on creating a Just Culture.1 This
initiative is meant to provide management tools and education on engaging all staff in creating a safe
environment and culture to foster patient and employee satisfaction with CCH.

My office is

coordinating with a multidisciplinary team from Quality, HR, and Nursing to create and implement
these changes which we plan to initiate during 4th quarter of 2019 to a pilot group.
MONITORING
Hiring
During this reporting period, HR posted approximately 600 requisitions (sometimes representing
multiple vacancies per requisition)2 and there were 39,498 applicants for those posted positions. Of

See Marx D. Patient Safety and the Just Culture: A Primer for Health Care Executives. New York, NY: Trustees of
Columbia University; 2001.
2 This number represents the requisitions publicly posted during our reporting period; however, it does not
represent the number of requisitions worked during that same time frame. In addition, this number does not
represent the number of positions HR worked to fill during this same time frame, as many vacancies may be
associated under one requisition number.
1

Page 2 of 19

 those approximately 600 requisitions posted, my office monitored (in various and often multiple
stages) 19% of those. The stages at which monitoring occurred is depicted in the chart, below.

MONITORING
9TH REPORTING PERIOD
Requisitions with at least One Issue

38

40

28

Requisitions without Errors

33

27

1

3

1

4

1

POSTING

VALIDATION

INTERVIEWS

SELECTION
MEETINGS

DTH

General and Actively Recruited Positions Hiring
My office monitored approximately 104 General and Actively Recruited hiring processes this
reporting period. This accounts for roughly 17% of the posted requisitions.
As the chart displays, we identified very few errors in execution of the hiring processes during this
reporting period. Although some of the processes monitored had multiple errors or mistakes that
needed to be corrected, we generally found that with a little guidance by HR or my office,
management executed the Plan as intended. What this chart does not show is the proactive
involvement of CCH leaders in ensuring compliance by seeking guidance throughout the hiring
processes and their receptiveness to direction from HR or my team. However, when errors were
identified by my team, they were corrected immediately by HR or the department, and all of them
were corrected before an offer was made to the selected candidate(s).
The next chart shows the progress made over the past two and one half years (2017, 2018, part of
2019). The continued decline in identified errors is evidence of the hard work all CCH leadership
has undertaken to make the Plan work. Most noteworthy is the dramatic decrease in errors during
the interviewing and decision to hire processes.

Page 3 of 19

 MO NI TO RI NG O F HI RI NG
2017-2018
7th Reporting Period

9th Reporting Period

10th Reporting Period

8th Reporting Period

27
17
12

10

7

POSTING

2

4

5
3

5

7

10

11

16

16

19

22

24
15
14
18

15
10
10

PERCENTAGE OF ERRORS

30

6th Reporting Period

VALIDATION

INTERVIEWS

SELECTION
MEETING

DTH

Advance Clinical Position (ACP)
My office monitored eight (8) different ACP positions during this reporting period. We identified
one requisition with missing information when the final DTH packet was sent prior to an offer going
out to selected candidates. The DTH packet did not contain the ranked list from the department, as
required. However, HR was able to provide the required information upon request.
Direct Appointments
My office reviews all completed Direct Appointment requests to hire (RTH) pursuant to Plan Section
VIII.G.3. This reporting period, the CEO, through HR, submitted 12 Direct Appointment RTHs. All
but one complied with the Plan requirements. One of the RTH packets submitted was for a candidate
that was just shy of the required years of experience for the position. Once this was brought to the
attention of the CHRO, the RTH was withdrawn. Of the 11 compliant RTH packets submitted, 10 of
the candidates have begun employment with CCH during this reporting period.
A similar process is used when the CEO and Board of Directors appoint someone to a Department,
Division or Section Chair of the Medical Departments of the Medical Staff (Plan Section VI.B). HR
submitted four (4) Medical Department appointment RTHs this reporting period. All of them
complied with the Plan requirements.

Page 4 of 19

 Executive Assistants
HR submitted five (5) RTH packets for Executive Assistant positions for the CEO, Deputy CEO, Chief
Nursing Officer (CNO), and COO of Integrated Care pursuant to Section X of the Plan. My office did
not identify any concerns with any of the selections; four of the five selected individuals began
employment during this reporting period, one of which was a promotional position to the Executive
Assistant to the CEO.
Letters of Recommendation
Plan Section V.C requires that my office reviews all letters of recommendation (LORs) for Political
Contacts; and if Political Contacts are identified, that those are forward to the OIIG with a Political
Contact Log. This reporting period, my team reviewed 10 LORs. None of the LORs were from
Political Officials or Contacts.
Summary
In sum, although there were occasions where mistakes were made and errors needed corrected
during the hiring processes, there was no observed pattern of intentional noncompliance with the
Plan. In fact, the checks and balances put in place by the Plan are working well. My team and I
monitored approximately one sixth of the requisitions posted during this reporting period and did
not identify a significant amount of noncompliance during those observations. Overall, much of our
monitoring efforts work to assist management in maintaining compliance by providing direction and
guidance as the processes unfold, preventing misuse of the procedures from becoming systemic.
Supplemental Policies
Transfers (#02.01.12)
There were two (2) transfer requests received by my office this reporting period. The first one
received in January was for a shift and division transfer for a supervisor. The business need was
adequately justified on the documentation and there was no concern with the transfer. The second
transfer request was from the HR department moving an analyst from the Stroger Campus to Cermak
Health Services. This transfer was also compliant with the policy.

Page 5 of 19

 Interim Assignment (#02.01.16)
During this reporting period, HR submitted five (5) approvals for Interim Assignment/Interim Pay
according to the policy requirements.

Four of the Interim Assignments were the result of

resignations or retirement of the predecessor. There were no concerns with any of the submissions.
Training Opportunities (02.01.13) & Overtime (02.01.14)
My office did not conduct any audits of these two policies during this reporting period. However,
the Plan requires that every June and December, I issue No Political Consideration Certificates
(NPCC) to Department Heads for each of these policies. These NPCCs were sent out to Directors
and Leadership on June 3, 2019, utilizing a research tool that allows CCH to capture physical
signatures and the policy documents (for the Training Opportunities policy). All of the NPCCs were
obtained by the end of June in compliance with the policies. A more extensive audit of one or both
of these policies will be completed in the next reporting period.
Salary Adjustments for Grade 24 Positions (#02.01.22)
During this reporting period, there were 100 salary adjustments for Grade 24 employees. One of
them was related to a Director’s increased job responsibilities as she took over the duties associated
with a vacant position which CCH does not intend to fill. A market study was prepared in accordance
with the increased duties and was provided with the approved salary adjustment forms. This
increase was compliant with the policy.
The remaining salary increases (99) were done pursuant to a budgetary decision in 2018 to provide
non-merit based increases to our non-union management positions. Several business reasons were
identified and presented as to why this was important, not the least of which were that (1) non-union
employees had not received a salary increase in several years while union employees did, and (2)
many of our leadership positions were well below the 25 percentile of market rates. Executive
leadership advised me of this process in 2018, sought out my guidance on how to comply with the
Plan when increasing the salary of so many Grade 24 employees at one time, but did not execute the
increase until early 2019. HR and executive leadership created a set formula by which each employee
would receive the salary increase; the increase ranged from 3% to 6% for all but nine (9) employees
and was based on longevity in the position. My office is working with HR to understand more about

Page 6 of 19

 the increases received by the nine (9) employees that did not follow the formula when calculating
the increase.
Although the paperwork is pending for the salary determination of one of our recent Direct
Appointments, HR and I identified that several salary determinations were delinquent. After we
complete our review to determine which Grade 24 salary determinations are still outstanding, HR
will complete the process and provide the appropriate paperwork to my team and the OIIG as
required. I will provide an update in the next Semi-Annual report.
Discipline (02.01.15)
During this reporting period my office transitioned the day to day tracking of discipline back to HR.
This allowed my team to take a more focused approach to monitoring the policy requirements. We
can observe more pre-disciplinary hearings and investigatory meetings as well as grievances. It has
also provided more time to do a comprehensive evaluation and efficient upkeep of the Ineligible For
Hire List, as described below. During the course of observing the pre-disciplinary and grievance
process, my team did not identify any significant issues or concerns with the policies or procedures.
Between January and June of this year, there were approximately 720 disciplinary action forms
(DAFs) issued to CCH staff. Of those, nearly one half (46%) were related to attendance problems
and were issued pursuant to the CCH Attendance Policy. Of the 720 disciplinary actions taken, 6.5%
were terminations. My team reviewed each of the terminations to ensure compliance with the
policies and to update our Ineligible For Hire List pursuant to the Plan Section IV.P.
We made one update to the Ineligible For Hire List during this reporting period, adding 45
individuals to the list. Of the 45 individuals added to the list, two were pursuant to recommendations
made by the OIIG. A review of the terminations occurs monthly, and a preliminary update of the list
is provided to the Chief Human Resource Officer (CHRO). Once the list is finalized, the CHRO
reaches out to those added to the list pursuant to Plan Section IV.P and then monitors for any appeals
that come through HR. She did not receive any appeals during this reporting period.

Page 7 of 19

 NON-COMPLIANCE NOTICES

When technical violations of the Employment Plan and policies occur and an extensive investigation
is unnecessary, my office issues a Notice of Non-Compliance3 to the manager and Department Head.
The Notice alerts management to the issue in real time as well as instructs them on how to correct
or avoid the situation. During this last reporting period, I issued 16 such Notices.
Of the 16 notices issued, 10 of them were related to non-compliance with the Discipline Policy. In
each instance, the manager corrected the error when it was brought to his or her attention. The
discipline related notices were the result of two types of errors: (1) failure to get all required
signatures on the DAF, and (2) failure to send the DAF to HR in the proscribed time frame (within 5
days of issuing the discipline to the employee). Eight (8) of the 10 Notices of Non-Compliance were
related to failing to capture all of the required signatures as required by the policy.
There were six (6) Notices of Non-Compliance with hiring provisions of the Plan. All six (6) stemmed
from managers failing to provide the required advance notice to HR and my office for interviews,
application review meetings, and selection meetings. In each instance, there were no further
violations of the Plan following the issuance of the notice.
INVESTIGATIONS
During this reporting period, we received 32 new complaints and issued three (3) incident reports.
Of the 32 complaints filed, 14 were closed during this reporting period, including four (4) which were
forwarded to other department(s) for handling. In all, 17 files were closed (including the 14 new
complaints); summaries provided below.
New Complaints
EPO2019-3:
Recruited list.

Complainant is an employee with concerns about positions added to the Actively
Complainant believes that one of the positions identified does not meet the

qualifications for the list, while the other position is still listed in the CCH budget despite information
provided to her that the position would be eliminated. Pending.

3

These Notices of Non-Compliance were formerly referred to as Violation Letters.
Page 8 of 19

 EPO2019-4/ 19-003: Investigation 19-003 stems from a manager concern about a current
employee’s resume; based on observed behaviors, the complainant believes the employee’s
application and resume may have been falsified. Pending.
EPO2019-5:

Complainant alleged that HR failed to appropriately screen application materials,

because the Complainant has not received interviews for positions to which Complainant is qualified.
The main concern was that Complainant was on a “blacklist” and was blocked from promotional
opportunities. After a look into Complainant’s various recent applications and a meeting with the
Complainant, it was determined that there were no Plan violations to investigate as each application
was handled exactly as the Plan required. Closed.
EPO2019-6:

An anonymously filed complaint that a Director was creating a hostile work

environment by failing to discipline certain employees when appropriate and was also receiving
kickbacks from one employee that was protected from discipline. This matter was referred to the
Office of the Independent Inspector General (OIIG). Closed.
EPO2019-7/19-002: This complaint was referred by the OIIG. A CCH Department website, not
associated with the main CCH website, was discovered and this website provided links to apply for
an unpaid fellowship position at CCH.

Upon investigation it was identified that in fact this

department was accepting applications via the link on its website for an unpaid fellowship program
in violation of Plan Section VII.C which requires that unless a National Matching database is used to
recruit residents and fellows, the General Hiring Process should be used to select individuals for such
an opportunity. I sustained the allegation of a Plan violation and recommended that the department
work with HR to either utilize the General Hiring Process to recruit and select individuals to fill these
unpaid position(s), or work with HR and General Counsel’s Office to create the appropriate contracts
with qualified educational institutions. Sustained.
HR Response: In its response report, HR agreed with my findings and recommendations. A job
description and posted requisition was created immediately, and the department is currently
utilizing the General Hiring Process to bring fill these positions.
EPO2019-8:

An anonymous complaint was received via the Compliance Hotline. It generally

alleged that CCH was hiring unqualified candidates to fill vacancies. Unfortunately, there was
insufficient information to begin an investigation so the file was closed. Closed.
Page 9 of 19

 EPO2019-9/19-003:

An HR manager reached out when she received a telephone call about

a recently hired employee. The caller alleged that the employee’s academic credentials had been
falsified by the caller; the employee did not have a G.E.D. as required for the employee’s position.
As the investigation was underway, the employee was terminated from CCH for other, unrelated
reasons and was added to the Ineligible For Hire List for a termination for cause. As the employee
no longer worked at CCH, this investigation was closed without a final determination, because the
employee’s cooperation was needed to complete the investigation. Closed.
EPO2019-10: An employee and a Director raised a concern about a CCH supervisor, alleging the
supervisor was aggressive and unprofessional during interactions with other employees which
created a hostile working environment. We referred this complaint to the CCH EEO Director for
further investigation and closed our file accordingly. Closed.
EPO2019-11: Complainant was a Director that reached out about two employees that formerly
worked in Director’s department that were promoted in the relatively recent past into much higher
grade positions in another department. Director was concerned that the two employees did not meet
the new job qualifications. After a review of all of the hiring documents related to the movement of
these two employees, it was determined there was Plan violation and the file was closed without
further investigation. Each went through a Plan required hiring process and were identified as
meeting the qualifications for the new positions. Closed.
EPO2019-12:

Complainant alleged harassment and bullying by her manager in retaliation

for trying to move into a supervisory position a few years ago and for filing a grievance related to
discipline action against Complainant. Complainant filed a similar complaint with the CCH EEO
Director and her union representative filed a grievance pursuant to the Collective Bargaining
Agreement related to the disciplinary issues. As such, my office will not investigate, but will instead
await resolution of the grievance and EEO investigation. Pending.
EPO2019-13/18-006A:

During the course of an investigation into a complaint filed in 2018

(Investigation 18-006), it was identified that there were several employees working within a
department on the Stroger Campus did not meet the minimum qualifications for their positions.
After reaching out to HR about the issue to determine what steps should be taken next, it was
determined that a full audit of the department should take place. HR and my office are currently

Page 10 of 19

 auditing all of the employee files for this department. Reports will issue once the full audit is
completed. Pending.
EPO2019-14/19-005: After review of several OIIG investigative reports relating to the same
supervisory-level position at CCH, my office began to review all of the hiring packets related to that
position since its inception. Pending.
EPO2019-15/19-004: Complainant alleges that complainant is receiving discipline in retaliation for
filing a complaint with our office in 2017 (IR 17-009). Complainant further alleges other employees
are not disciplined for the same behavior. Pending.
EPO2019-16: A Department Head reached out to advise my office that an employee contacted her
about a posted vacancy to which the employee applied. The Department Head felt the contact was
in violation of the Section V.C.2 Prohibited Contacts. After meeting with the employee, it was
determined that the employee was new to the organization (still within the probation period) and at
her prior employers it was expected that an employee advise his or her leadership when applying for
another position within the company and to find out how things were done at CCH. My office advised
the employee to reach out the HR in the future when the complainant was unsure of the hiring
processes. No intentional violation of the Plan was identified and the matter was closed without
further investigation or action. Closed.
EPO2019-17/19-004: A supervisor alleged that one of her employees was disproportionately
disciplined and treated differently than other employees similarly situated. The allegations were
almost identical to that of the employee in EPO2019-15 so the files were combined and are currently
under investigation. Pending.
EPO2019-18/19-007: Complainant was concerned that not only was he working outside of his job
classification, and that prior attempts to reclassify him into the appropriate job had failed, but now
he was teaching the newly hired directors how to perform their jobs in the department while still
performing similar-level work to those new directors.

Upon initial review of the documents

provided, my office opened an investigation into the job classification in general and this employee’s
position within the department in particular. Pending.
EPO2019-19: Complainant alleged that she was inappropriately disqualified for a position to which
she applied. Upon initial inquiry, it was determined by HR that this employee inaccurately had a
Page 11 of 19

 transfer code attached to her position making it appear that she was ineligible to move into a new
position right now.

HR has corrected the error.

The file has been closed without further

investigation or action. Closed.
EPO2019-20: Complainant alleged that the current Director in Complainant’s department is hiring
less qualified individuals for management positions based on prior employment history with the
Director. Initial inquiry underway. Pending.
EPO2019-21: Complainant alleges that the department has pre-selected other individuals to fill
positions to which complainant applied and that management “does not like me.” Inquiry underway.
Pending.
EPO2019-22: Complainant is a supervisor and alleges that complainant was disciplined for an
incident that occurred while complainant was not at work and complainant’s manager did not want
to issue the discipline but the Director insisted. Complainant alleges that others should have been
disciplined but were not, and that Complainant is singled out. Inquiry underway. Pending.
EPO2019-23/19-006: HR forwarded a concern that a manager made an offer to an candidate prior
to HR becoming aware of the selection and processing the decision, which in fact, was incomplete
and premature. After an initial inquiry, my office opened an investigation which is almost complete.
Pending.
EPO2019-24/19-007: Allegation that Director brought in managers without publicly posting the
positions and allowing department employees to compete for the positions. Investigation is now
complete and we are in the process of drafting the report. Pending.
EPO2019-25: Complaint forwarded to my office; Complainant filed an EEOC charge alleging that
her manager terminated her on the basis of race. I referred this matter to the CCH EEO Director for
handling. Closed.
EPO2019-26/19-008: Complainant alleged improper manipulation of the discipline process by
changing the level of discipline after it was signed (decreased it). After an initial inquiry, an
investigation was opened to determine if there was a pattern of this type of change. Investigation
complete; draft report pending. Pending.

Page 12 of 19

 EPO2019-27: Complainant filed EEOC charges against CCH alleging racial and national origin
motivation for discipline issued. I referred this matter to the CCH EEO Director for handling.
Closed.
EPO2019-28/19-009: A Department Head shared concerns that a candidate selected during a hiring
process may have had access to the interview questions in advance of the interview. My office has
investigated the matter and is currently drafting a report on our findings. Pending.
EPO2019-29: Three separate anonymous complaints were received via the Compliance Hotline
alleging that a Department Head is improperly transferring employees and positions are not publicly
posted as required by the Plan. Inquiry pending. Pending.
EPO2019-30/19-010:

Complainant alleged that the Director in the Department met with

complainant and another interview panelist after a hiring sequence and had them change their scores
for one of the candidates interviewed. By lowering the scores on two interview questions, that
candidate was no longer eligible for consideration despite the panel determining that the candidate
was well suited for the position. Upon investigation, it was found that the Director suggested the
panelists change their interview scores, the Director was not present during the interviews, and the
Director stopped the interview panel from meeting at the scheduled time to finalize the selection and
did not advise HR or my office of the new selection meeting time as required by the Plan. Based on
those findings, I recommended the following: (1) the panelists should correct their Interview
Evaluation Forms to reflect the original scores provided for each question that was changed at the
Director’s behest; (2) a proper selection meeting with the appropriate advance notice to HR and my
office should be held and my office will monitor the meeting; (3) based on the improper interference,
the Director should not remain the Hiring Manager for that particular position; (4) my office will
monitor all hiring processes in that department for the next 12 months from the date of the report to
ensure compliance with all aspects of the Employment Plan; (5) all personnel in the department
authorized to participate in hiring should go through a re-training on the Employment Plan’s hiring
processes and procedures to ensure a clear understanding of the expectations and regulations; and
(6) that the Director should be disciplined at a level commensurate with violating a core principle of
the Plan consistent with the current practice of CCH with a recommendation for termination;
however if termination is not in line with current discipline practices a minimum of a five day
suspension was recommended. Sustained.
Page 13 of 19

 HR Response: HR quickly issued a response to my recommendations, agreeing to implement all of
them. At present, the hiring packet is under review by HR to determine the appropriate steps for the
interview panel to take; the Director was terminated for cause and his name will be added to the
Ineligible For Hire list; and I am working with the Interim Director to schedule his managers for
training on the Hiring Processes.
EPO2019-31: An applicant filed a complaint with my office alleging that HR failed to provide the
applicant with the proper testing location and refused to provide final results. HR advised applicant
that the applicant failed the pre-employment testing and could not proceed. Inquiry has ended; no
investigation is necessary. The complainant has been contacted and the file closed. Closed.
EPO2019-32:

Complainant alleged that HR and the department were refusing to interview

Complainant despite meeting the minimum qualifications for the positions to which Complainant
applied. Complainant had not contacted HR to learn about the status of all of the applications yet,
so Complainant was instructed to first contact HR. Inquiry pending follow up with Complainant.
Pending.
EPO2019-33/19-010A:

Complainant alleged retaliation by the Director due to the complaint

19-010 filed previously. Investigation has concluded, a draft report is underway. Pending.
EPO2019-34: Complainant alleged that a job description was specifically crafted to prevent
Complainant from meeting the eligibility requirements for the position. Complainant further alleges
the job was designed for a specific individual. Upon initial inquiry, it was determined that the
department used a standard job description for the position, but based on department need, utilized
a language requirement which is at the discretion of the Hiring Manager to use. The position was
posted appropriately and the Complainant was advised accordingly. No further investigation was
needed and the file was closed. Closed.
2018 Complaint
EPO2018-26: Complainant applied to two Direct Appointment positions and alleged Complainant
was not selected due to political, age and/or religious discrimination. Complainant received an
interview but was not selected. After an extensive discussion, the Complainant decided to hold off
on moving forward with this Complaint until Complainant could further consider the implications.

Page 14 of 19

 After six months, Complainant failed to follow up with my office; this file was closed at that time
without further investigation. Closed.
Reports Issued
My office issued four (4) incident reports this reporting period. Two were sustained, and two were
not sustained. For the two reports with sustained findings, recommendations were made and HR
implemented all of the recommendations outlined in the reports. Below is a summary of the two
reports not descripted above:
18-011:

A Department Head reached out to my office to alert us that an employee was

inquiring about the status of applicants and was trying to convince management to select specific
individuals for the position. After investigating the matter, it was determined that the outreach by
the employee was simply a misunderstanding about with who to inquire about CCH hiring policies
and procedures. Once that was explained to the employee, the employee understood why the
Department Head was concerned. No recommendation was necessary. Not sustained.
17-002:

HR provided my office with information that a Candidate may have falsified her

application and resume in order to secure a position as CCH. After a full review of all of the
Candidate’s application materials and a discussion with the Hiring Manager about the interview
conducted, it was clear that this Candidate believed she would have graduated by the time the
application period was complete and an interview given. However, when the Candidate for whatever
reason did not finish her degree, as intended, and was upfront with the interview panel at the time
of her interview. The interview panel noted this in their records and submitted those records to HR.
There was insufficient evidence that the Candidate intentionally falsified her application materials
and therefore there was insufficient evidence to recommend placing her on the Ineligible For Hire
List. Not sustained.
The graph, below, shows the increased volume of complaints handled by my office during the last
four reporting periods.

The number of complaints received per reporting period increased

significantly from just one year ago.

It is almost double from the 7th Reporting Period and is more

than five times the volume of the 8th Reporting Period. The file and investigation closure rate stays
relatively low as the changes to the Plan evolve and take more of our energy away from the

Page 15 of 19

 investigations.

To remedy this, my office is working to recruit additional staff in order to

expeditiously handle the volume of work.

C O M P L A IN TS
BY R E P O R T IN G P E R I O D
40

32

30

24

20

10

17
9

6

10

12

2

0
7th Report Period

8th Report Period

Complaints Filed

9th Report Period

10 Report Period

Closed without investigation - same reporting period

EMPLOYMENT PLAN AMENDMENTS
Three Plan amendments were proposed this reporting period. Each was presented to the OIIG as
required by Plan Section XIII and approved for a pilot study. The proposed changes to the Plan were
to add: (1) a preferred qualification screening process at the validation stage of the General Hiring
Process; (2) a telephone screening process for the General Hiring Process; and (3) a Hiring Fair
Process. Once we get through the pilot of each of these new processes, we will update the language
accordingly and add into the Plan.
Screening processes for General Hiring
The first two submitted amendments modify the validation process under General Hiring (Section
V of the Plan). In order to use either process (or both), the Hiring Manager must request approval
from the CHRO.
The first amendment allows HR to screen applicants by the preferred qualifications in addition to
the minimum qualifications. Our current process does not distinguish which candidates may have
a preferred qualification; all external applicants are processed in one of two categories: Veteran
applicants and all other applicants. This amendment creates four categories of external applicants
that meet at least the minimum qualifications: Veteran applicants that those that meet at least one
of the preferred qualifications, all other applicants that meet all of the preferred qualifications,
Page 16 of 19

 applicants that meet at least one of the preferred qualifications, and applicants that do not meet any
preferred qualifications. If there are more than 10 applicants in any given category (except the
Veteran category), the HR team will randomize the applicants in that category before they begin
screening the applications. If there are an insufficient number of applicants to place on the Interview
List from one category, they will begin screening applications from the next category.
The second amendment outlines a telephone screening process that the HR team will use while
screening applicants to place on the interview list. It requires the HR team to work very closely with
the Hiring Manager to identify the qualifications for which HR will screen, and then each candidate
will be evaluated by HR about whether to be placed on the Interview List. This process can be used
when screening only for the minimum qualifications or in conjunction with the preferred
qualification screening process noted above. The goal of both of these changes is to identify the best
candidates to present to the Hiring Managers.
Hiring Fair
The third amendment creates a hiring process that incorporates a Hiring Fair or Open House (Fair)
model of meeting applicants and candidates. It is a bifurcated process which simultaneously allows
us to screen applicants and schedule them for interview in the traditional manner while also allowing
interested individuals to attend a Fair and receive an interview while at the Fair. The main
distinctions for this process are that the public Notice of Job Opportunity remains open until the end
of the Fair; candidates may be interviewed at the Fair even if they did not apply prior to attending
the Fair (must apply by end of day); multiple interview panels will be operating simultaneously; and
there is an accelerated decision to hire process by which selected candidates receive an offer within
approximately a week of the Fair. CCH will host its first Fair using this amendment on September
5, 2019. A report on its success and lessons learned will be in my next report.
HR and my team have been working to develop the procedures to put in place in order to execute
these new amendments. Once those procedures are finalized, we will begin training on the new
procedures and implement a pilot program for each amendment to assess ways to improve it before
implementing throughout all of CCH. These are the first three of several more amendments under
development. More changes are to follow throughout the next reporting period.

Page 17 of 19

 Plan Exhibit Amendments
My team works with HR on a monthly basis to review the different lists associated with the Plan. We
focus regularly on the following exhibits: Exhibit 1 (Actively Recruited Position List), Exhibit 5
(Direct Appointment Position List); and Exhibit 13 (Advanced Clinical Position Exhibit List). During
this reporting period we made the following updates to these lists:
Exhibit 1: Five updates were made to this list in - January, February, April, and two in May. We
added 38 new positions to the list, six of which were creating a bilingual requirement for the position.
In addition, seven positions were corrected (title change, clarification of qualifications, or changed
job code), and we removed 1 position for which we no longer recruit or have at CCH.
Exhibit 5:

Five distinct updates were made to this list – one in February, March, two in May,

and one in June. Three positions were job description and job code changes, and five new positions
were added to the list (one of which replaced at position already present on the list but
simultaneously removed). The CHRO and I will be conducting a comprehensive review with the
CEO of the entire list during the next reporting period to determine whether any changes need to be
made to the existing positions currently not in use by CCH.
Exhibit 13:

Three distinct updates were made to this list – one in January and two in May. We

added 16 new positions to the list, two of which were creating a bilingual requirement for the
position. Additionally, one position’s job code was corrected.

Page 18 of 19

 SUMMARY
This reporting period brought about many changes to our Plan which will require significant changes
to our procedures and training materials over the next few months. We are very excited to see how
well the Plan amendments work and look forward to partnering further with our Hiring Managers
to make our employment practices meaningful and user-friendly.
Sincerely,

Carrie L. Pramuk-Volk
cc:

CCH Board of Directors via Deborah Santana, Secretary of the Board, CCH
Jeffrey McCutchan, General Counsel, CCH
Kent Ray, Associate General Counsel, CCH
Barbary Pryor, Chief Human Resources Officer, CCH
Andrew Jester, Office of the Independent Inspector General

Page 19 of 19

 