Alton James
Chairperson
Lauren Hood
Vice Chair/Secretary
Marcell R. Todd Jr.
Director

City of Detroit
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

Brenda Goss Andrews
Damion W. Ellis
David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
A public hearing will be held by the City Planning Commission in the Committee of the Whole
Room, 13th floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226 on
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2019 AT 6:30 PM
to consider a text amendment that would amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Zoning.
The proposed ordinance would alter provisions related to three overlay areas:
•

•
•

Traditional Main Street Overlay (TMSO) Area,
o The boundaries of the Grand River Avenue TMSO are expanded and also include
a portion of Lahser Avenue .
o Segments of East Warren and West Warren Avenues are added to the list of
TMSOs.
o Several TMSO design standards are further tailored to the various TMSO areas.
o Various “maker” uses (light industrial) are newly permitted in TMSOs on land
zoned B2, B3, and B4, where the goods made are sold on site.
o Mixed-use residential/commercial-industrial uses are further encouraged in
TMSOs.
o Cabarets and bars are newly permitted in TMSOs on land zoned B2.
o Brewpubs are newly permitted in TMSOs on land zoned B3.
o Parking regulations for uses in TMSOs are made more flexible.
o Membership of the Design Review Advisory Committee, which advises the
Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department on TMSOs, is
updated and reduced.
Gateway Radial Thoroughfare Overlay Area—the number of uses prohibited on Gateway
Radials is reduced to allow certain “maker” uses (light industrial) in B2 and B4 Districts.
Far Eastside Overlay Area—the overlay is eliminated in its entirety.

Additionally, this text amendment provides for the following:
•
•

Removes “secondhand stores/secondhand jewelry stores” from the list of Regulated Uses;
Expands the definition of “residential use combined in structures with permitted
commercial uses;”

 •
•

Clarifies the rear setback requirements in three instances; and
Amends the coding symbols displayed in the use table.

This text amendment is being considered by the City Planning Commission in accordance
with the provisions of Article III, Division 2 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance. Zoning Ordinance
text amendments require the approval of the City Council after a public hearing and after receipt
of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. You may present your views
on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to represent you, or by writing to
this office prior to the hearing, 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208, Detroit, Michigan 48226
(FAX: 313-224-4336).
Because it is possible that some who are affected by this proposal may not have been
notified, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so that they too may express their
positions if they so desire.
With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter
services at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations.
Please contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313) 224-4950,
through the TTY number 711, or email crio@detroitmi.gov to schedule these services.”
For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 