Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
July 17th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Juan M. Calderon
Joseph B. Starshak
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Allison Arwady, M.D., Acting Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
July 17th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:00 am by Board President, Dr. Carolyn Lopez.
Approval of Minutes: Quorum was present, and June Minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Acting Commissioner, Dr. Allision Arwady, provided the following updates:
National Reaccreditation by the Public Health Accreditation Board: CDPH has successfully achieved
national reaccreditation through the Public Health Accreditation Board (PHAB), thereby extending our
accreditation status for another five years. CDPH is the first big city to have achieved re-accreditation
through PHAB thus far. We are pleased and excited to be recognized again for achieving national
standards that foster effectiveness and promote continuous quality improvement. The re-accreditation
process helped us to ensure that the programs and services we provide are as responsive as possible to
the needs of our community.
Healthy Chicago 2025: The Partnership for Healthy Chicago, CDPH’s coalition of more than 40
organizations, recently approved the framework and priority areas for Healthy Chicago 2025. The plan is
focused on ending racial inequities in life expectancy. The 8.8 year black-white life expectancy gap is
driven most by the following factors, in order:
•
•
•
•
•

Chronic disease (3.8 years)
Homicide (2.1 years)
Infant mortality (0.7 years)
HIV and other infectious disease (0.5 years)
Opioids (0.4 years)

CDPH will prioritize these issues in the years to come and looks forward to collaborating with the Board of
Health to carry out our commitment to health equity.
Lead: Mayor Lightfoot announced that the City has paused the installation of water meters in homes with
lead service lines after new data from an ongoing study found an increase in lead levels in a limited
number of homes with water meters. The City is actively working to determine the cause of the increase
seen in the latest data and evaluating options for reducing water lead levels in impacted homes. Prior to
this announcement, CDPH began a campaign of digital ads, social media, community education, and
provider webinars to increase the number of children that get blood lead tests. CDPH is also launching a
new pilot program that would allow for the ability to conduct on-the-spot, field-based blood lead
screening (via finger prick). We just received the necessary laboratory certification for our five new
machines and can begin training our nurses and staff. We aim to offer testing by early August.
Mosquito Surveillance and Control: CDPH confirmed the first West Nile Virus (WNV)-positive mosquito
batch in the City for 2019. CDPH will continue to monitor the area where the mosquito batch tested
positive. Following additional tests, CDPH will determine the appropriate next steps to be taken. No
human cases of WNV have been reported to date in 2019.
Hepatitis: CDPH has received a grant from the CDC to respond to Hepatitis A outbreaks. The funding will
help identify cases promptly and vaccinate people. Hepatitis A is a liver disease usually transmitted by
ingesting fecal matter (for instance, if a cook doesn’t wash his hands after using the bathroom) or
contaminated food or water. It can lead to fatigue, low appetite, stomach pain, nausea, and jaundice.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
July 17th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604
Best Babies Zone Initiative: A CDPH partnership with the Sinai Urban Health Institute and West Side
United was selected by a national group to create and enact a plan to cut infant mortality in East Garfield
Park. The Best Babies Zone Initiative, under the leadership of CityMatCH, applies hyper-local strategies
that are data- and community-driven. East Garfield Park was chosen due to high rates of infant mortality
and economic hardship, paired with strong community organizations. CityMatCH is a national
membership organization of city and county health departments' maternal and child health programs,
and leaders representing urban communities in the United States.
Teen Pregnancy: CDPH has been awarded a grant from the U.S. Dept. of Health & Human Services (HHS)
to finalize the evaluation of Chicago Healthy Adolescents & Teens (CHAT), a pilot program that provides
sexual health education and STD screening in high schools. This award marks the end of a two-year
dispute in which HHS tried to terminate the program’s five-year funding midstream for cities nationwide.
Early results show a positive impact on students’ health knowledge and behavior compared to students
who don’t participate.
American Society for Microbiology: The CDPH communicable disease and CDCs research on Candida
Auris was presented to the annual conference of the American Society for Microbiology in San Francisco.
The CDPH-CDC collaborative research, some of which was presented to the Board of Health in May,
confirms what scientists have suspected and feared, that hospitalized patients which carry fungus shed
large amounts of it from their skin, contaminating the environment in which they are being treated and
leaving enough of it to infect others later on.
Illinois Office of Healthcare Regulation: The CDPH communicable disease team, in collaboration with the
Illinois Department of Public Health, provided training on infection control and containment of multidrugresistant organisms. More than 200 long-term care surveyors from the Illinois Office of Healthcare
Regulation participated in the training.
National Incident Management System: The CDPH Emergency Preparedness team is partnering with the
Illinois Fire Service Institute to offer CDPH staff with training opportunities in the National Incident
Management System (NIMS). The NIMS guides all levels of government, nongovernmental organizations,
and the private sector to work together to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover
from incidents.
Pride Month: The CDPH LGBTQ Health & Outreach team was honored to host a reception at the Chicago
Cultural Center with Mayor Lightfoot to commemorate the Stonewall anniversary, and to celebrate the
many triumphs that have improved the overall health and well-being of the Chicago LGBTQ community
over the past 50 years. Also, Deputy Commissioner Jennifer Vidis and Allision Arwady were honored to
participate, and march with Mayor Lightfoot, in the 50th annual Chicago Pride Parade and Festival.

Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez addressed the large group of students attending the meeting and
explained the powers and duties of the Board as an advisory body to the City of Chicago and the Health
Department.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
July 17th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Presentation: “Public Health Innovation” Raed Mansour, Director of the Office of Innovation.
Comments from the Board: Member, Joseph Starshak, requested information on CDPH’s response to the
upcoming heat wave as it seemed to mirror 1995s heat wave. Dr. Arwady noted that CDPH’s emergency
preparedness team was actively working on spreading information about cooling stations and with other city
agencies to address resident’s needs.
New Business:
•

Infant Early Childhood Mental Health Resolution: Member, Juan Calderon, presented a new resolution on
infant and child mental health.

Old Business:
•

Policy Resolutions: Dr. Lopez announced a call to vote and the board motioned to approve the Climate
Change and Immigration resolution. However, due to many members being absent, an opportunity to
provide additional feedback by board members will be provided before the language on the final
resolution is voted on and adopted by the Board.

Public Comments: Students from various universities asked questions of board members about the role of board
members, and also asked for clarification about the presentation.
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:30AM.

 