th
July 17
, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.

Noticed for 10:00 AM: Commenced at 10:05 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (7/17/2019) (Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda”

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin Irvin
Johnny Miller. Absent: Alejandro Silva.
PUBLIC COMMENT: None.

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
th
June 12
, 2019. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with four yes votes.

EXECUTIVE SESSION: The Board convened into Executive Session, pursuant to Section 2-C (subse
and 5) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
The Board re-convened from executive session without taking any action.

COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY: Chairman Irvine presented the rep
The committee approved the February, April, and May (2019) committee meeting minutes. Mr. Irv
also stated that the committee reviewed an ordinance authorizing an agreement with the
Illinois Regional Commuter Railroad (Metra), discussed the ordinance, placed it on the omn
recommended the ordinance for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Vice-Chairman Irvine presented the report
th
committee reviewed the monthly (July) report on Finance and approved
, 2019
the June
committee
12
meeting minutes. Mr. Irvine also stated that all other Committee agenda items, listed on the Com
Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended f
approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.
Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Irvine. After
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with four yes votes.
All approved July 2019 Board ordinances are available on-line, www.transitchicago.com
. “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 019-58 through 019-62.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Bill Mooney presented the Construction Repo
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (July 2019), “Construction Report”.

NEW BUSINESS: Chairman Peterson announced the recent passing of Citizens Advisory Board Mem
Maury Fantus, and welcomed the One Summer Chicago interns working for the Authority d
summer.
1

 th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn
, the
2019
July
Chicago
17
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 