POLICE BOARD
CITY OF CHICAGO
REPORT OF COMMUNITY INPUT RECEIVED
AT THE PUBLIC MEETING ON JULY 18, 2019
Twelve members of the public spoke during the public comments portion of the meeting. See the
transcript of the meeting, posted on the Board’s website, for a complete report of each speaker’s
remarks.
The Chicago Police Department responded to the remarks made by Jennifer Edwards, John
Perryman, Matthew Brandon, and Carolyn Ruff (see below).
The Civilian Office of Police Accountability responded to the remarks made by Octavia Mitchell
(see below).
The Office of the Police Board determined that the remarks made by Crista Noel, Zyron
Washington, Patrick Murray Martin Preib, Lee Bielecki, Mark Clements, and Robert More did
not require a response in addition to that provided at the meeting.

  

Lori Lightfoot Department of Police - City of Chicago Eddie T. Johnson
Mayor 3510 S. Michigan Avenue - Chicago, Illinois 60653 Superintendent of Police

 

August 21, 2019
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL

Max A. Caproni

Executive Director

Chicago Police Board

30 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1220
Chicago, IL 60602
Max.Caproni@cityofchicago.org

Re: Response to Communi?g/ Input Received at the JulV 18. 2019 Police Board Meeting
Dear Mr. Caproni,

Thank you for forwarding the transcript of the July 18, 2019 Police Board Meeting so
that the community comments can be reviewed, and the Chicago Police Department (CPD) can
provide a report of the work it has done on this topic. This report is speci?cally in response to
the public comments from Jennifer Edwards, John Perryman, Matthew Brandon, and Carolyn
Ruff, each of whom presented various issues relating to policing in their communities and
speci?c issues which they ask CPD to review. The Department appreciates these individuals
taking the time to appear at the Police Board Meeting and raise these important issues which we
continue to evaluate and attempt to resolve. The Bureau of Patrol and the Bureau of Detectives
were consulted in drafting this response.

First, Jennifer Edwards spoke on behalf of Communities Organized to Win, a compilation
of 30 community groups concerned particularly with the Dan Ryan and 69th Street Transit
Corridor. The Commanders of the relevant Districts (3, 6, and 7) continue to work with these
organizations to address the crime, panhandlers, and non-licensed peddlers who are active in this
area. One suggestion raised by Ms. Edwards was to reinstate the 606 Queen car. The
Department continues to evaluate that suggestion given its current man power limitations. In the
meantime, the relevant Districts are coordinating with Mass Transit to resolve issues of crime
and look forward to continuing their work with these community groups.

John Perryman spoke to raise concern about a troubled business in his community that he
hoped to have shut down. The Department certainly understands his frustration that although
this business was shut down recently, it was only for a short time period and, once it reopened,
the issues surrounding the business again surfaced. The Chief of Patrol has been working with
Mr. Perryman to connect him to the Sergeant from Troubled Buildings. Additionally, the
Department is attempting to balance Mr. Perryman's requests for a patrol car at the location with
the many needs of the District. Recently, Mr. Perryman has con?rmed that he spoke with the
Sergeant from Troubled Buildings.

Matthew Brandon spoke to raise concerns that the Department does not re?ect the
communities it serves and, until it does, the Department needs beat integrity. To the ?rst point,
the Chicago Police Department has spent countless hours and dollars attempting to recruit
citizens of color from all over the City and beyond to test for the Department, offered classes to
help these individuals train, and even instituted call banks to remind applicants of various test
dates. This program has been successful in recruiting candidates that are more re?ective of the
City than its predecessors. The Department is committed to continuing this program moving
forward. Further, beat integrity is something that the Department strives for and recognizes the
importance of, but this importance must be balanced with the reality that emergencies and events
can often disrupt beat integrity. The Department hopes to resolve this issue through the various
portions of the consent decree which require the Department to take certain steps to establish
unity of command and span of control.

Finally, Carolyn Ruff spoke on behalf of the family of Kierra Coles asking for an update
on the investigation of her disappearance and for more detectives to help ?nd her. The
Department is sincerely sorry for the loss and pain that Ms. Coles' family is suffering in her
absence. The Bureau of Detectives continues to investigate every lead that they receive into her

disappearance. They hope to receive the information they need to close this investigation and
?nd Ms. Coles.

Sincerely,

Dana M. O'Malley
General Counsel
Of?ce of the Superintendent

COPA Remarks Regarding Comments of Ms. Octavia Mitchell
Chicago Police Board Meeting
July 18, 2019
During the July 18, 2019 Chicago Police Board (Board) meeting Ms. Mitchell requested that the
Civilian Office of Police Accountability (COPA) provide certain material related to a complaint she
filed with COPA against a member of the Chicago Police Department (Department). Below is a
summary of COPA’s communication with Ms. Mitchell regarding to her request.
• July 18, 2019: Immediately following the Board meeting, COPA Public Information Officer
Ephraim Eaddy provided Ms. Mitchell instructions and contact information to assist her in
submitting a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to COPA.
• July 23, 2019: COPA received Ms. Mitchell’s FOIA request seeking any and all documents and
body worn camera video footage related her April 13, 2019 traffic stop by Chicago Police Officers.
• July 29, 2019: COPA advised Ms. Mitchell that it was unable to provide the requested documents
and video footage at this time as the material is related to a pending investigation of her complaint.
COPA further advised Ms. Mitchell that Illinois law specifically exempts from production any
documents created in the course of an administrative enforcement proceeding to the extent their
disclosure may interfere with such proceedings.1 COPA was able to provide Ms. Mitchell with a
copy of the related investigative file “face sheet” which includes a record of the current status and
information regarding all documents in the investigative file.

1

See 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(d)(i) and (ii).

1615 WEST CHICAGO AVENUE, 4TH FLOOR, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60622
312.743.COPA (COMPLAINT LINE)   312.746.3609 (MAIN LINE)   312.745.3598 (TTY)   WWW.CHICAGOCOPA.ORG

 