Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, July 19, 2019 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. at
1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Heather M.
Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH; and Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (4)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Mike Koetting and Mary
B. Richardson-Lowry
Patricia Merryweather (Non-Director Member)

Telephonically
Present:

Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. (Non-Director Member)

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Claudia Fegan, MD – Chief Medical Officer
Valerie Hansbrough, MD – Provident Hospital of
Cook County
Umair Jabbar, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County
Trevor Lewis, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County

II.

Kent Ray – Associate General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Elizabeth Vaclavik, DNP, RN, OCN, NEA-BC –
Director of Ambulatory Procedures

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
There were no regulatory and accreditation updates provided.
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer, provided an overview of the metrics.
reviewed and discussed the information.

The Committee

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, July 19, 2019
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (continued)
C. Update on Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Prevention (Attachment #2)
Dr. Umair Jabbar, from the Division of Hospital Medicine at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County, provided an overview of the Update on VTE Prevention. The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
The Update included information on the following subjects:
•
•
•
•

Why are VTE Failures Happening?
Addressing Lapses in Ordering
Improving Implementation Processes
Documenting Compliance

D. Update on Process of Care Dyad (Attachment #3)
Dr. Elizabeth Vaclavik, Director of Ambulatory Procedures, provided an overview of the Update on the
Process of Care Dyad. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
The Update included information on the following subjects:
• Process of Care Metrics
- Rate of Excess Days
- Hospital Acquired Conditions
- Patient Safety Indicator-90 Composite
- Emergency Department Left Without Being Seen
Director Driscoll requested that a report be provided in the near future on sepsis.

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s) (Attachment #4)
Dr. Fegan presented the proposed Stroger Hospital Division Chair Initial Appointment listed below for the
Committee’s consideration.
Name

Department/Appt Term

Title

Nimmi Rajagopal, MD

Community and Family Medicine
07/19/2019 – 07/18/2021

Division Chair of
Administration and Community HealthFamily Medicine

Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to approve the
proposed Stroger Hospital Division Chair Initial Appointment. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, July 19, 2019
Page 3

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes (Attachment #5)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, presented
the proposed Stroger Hospital medical staff actions for the Committee’s consideration and provided
his report.
He stated that, at the recent EMS meeting, they received the following
presentations/reports from Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, regarding the Root Cause
Analysis (RCA) process, and from Jarrod Johnson, Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital and
Central Campus, regarding the Space Committee. They also received the Annual Report from
Pathology and are reviewing the abnormal labs for the next meeting.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, presented the
proposed Provident Hospital medical staff actions for the Committee’s consideration and provided
her report. She stated that on this upcoming Wednesday, the Operating Room Post-Anesthesia Care
Unit (OR PACU) Committee will be meeting; they will be looking at utilization and efficiency in the
operating rooms at Provident Hospital.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for
Provident Hospital of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, June 21, 2019
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of June 21,
2019. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Claims, Litigation and Quality and Patient Safety Matters
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, July 19, 2019
Page 4

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Requests/follow-up:
Follow-up:

A request was made for a report on sepsis, in relation to Process of Care Metrics. Page 2

 