Lottery Control BoardRegular Session MinutesApril 17, 2013James R. Thompson Center100 W Randolph St., Chicago, IL 60601Willard Ice Building101 West Jefferson St., Springfield, IL 62702On Wednesday, April 17, 2013 at 10:30am, a regular meeting of the Lottery Control Board was held atthe James R. Thompson Center, conference room #9-036, Chicago, Il 60601, and at the Willard IceBuilding in Springfield, Il 62702. Video conferencing was available to join the meeting attendees.The following board members were present in Chicago: Gary Fencik, Chairman, Robert AnthonyChristian, Geoffrey A. Richards, and Sharon Thompson. Paul Schaefer attended in Springfield.CALL TO ORDERChairman Fencik called the meeting to order with a quorum present at 10:45am. Additional attendeeswere: Lottery Staff (Chicago)- Michael Jones, Superintendent, Victor Golden, Deputy Superintendent,Sara Barnett, Chief of Staff, Shelly Banks, Chief Internal Auditor, Nora Iniguez, Lottery Control BoardSecretary. Lottery Staff Springfield- Jim Scroggins, Chief Financial Officer, Harold Mays, ChiefOperation & Technology Officer, Bret Finley, Finance Manager, Tiffany Blair, Budget Manager, MikeLang, Media & Player Relations.Other attendees: – Avis Lavelle, VP Corporate Affairs/Northstar, Victoria Ocholla, CorporateCounsel/Northstar, Kathy Gilroy, IL Church Action on Alcohol Problems.APPROVAL OF MINUTESChairman Fencik moved the Board to approve the open session minutes of its regular meeting ofJanuary 23, 2013. Member Richards seconded the motion. The Board approved the motionunanimously by roll call vote.OLD BUSINESS: No old business to report, Chairman Fencik moved meeting to the Superintendent’sreport.NEW BUSINESS:Superintendent’s Report /Michael Jones: Superintendent Jones began his report by announcing arecent tracking study commissioned by Northstar showing an increase in players understanding what theLottery is all about. The special instant games for breast cancer, veterans, HIV/AIDS awareness, andmultiple sclerosis are brand leaders and attract players who are interested in doing something positivefor causes they believe in, and who are interested in having their lottery play mean something. Lottery’snew rebranding, advertising, and ticket design are contributing factors to the perception and awareness.Marketing/Advertising: Downtown Partners, The Lottery’s advertising agency ofrecord, created a new campaign featuring Andy Richter as the spokesperson for bothPowerball and Mega Millions to announce high jackpots.1The reasoning behind this new trigger advertising can be traced back to March, 2012, when theMega Millions jackpot reached $656 million, and many adults did not know the record jackpotamount. The trigger advertising appears to be working. For example, a recent $320 milliondollar Powerball jackpot resulted in over $400,000 in sales as opposed to the normal $40,000,and 1000 new Internet registrants as opposed to the typical 100-150 registrants per week.Board member Christian asked what the goal is for new Internet registrants.Superintendent Jones responded that the goal is one million Internet registrants, and the new userfriendly interface and Andy Richter commercials are part of the plan to reach that goal.New Instant Games: The Lottery introduced a new series of games called The Good Life,which feature attractive ticket art and an enticing premise. This series replaced Cash For Lifegames, which were potentially misleading because they did not pay cash for life or by theweek.Specialty ticket: MS Project: Commonground is the ad agency responsible for the generalmarket campaign for each of the specialty games. Their latest ad campaign for the ticketbenefiting MS research asks the question, “What am I?” and creatively responds to thequestion with symptoms and statistics about multiple sclerosis. People can win up to$20,000 instantly and participate in the effort to find a cure for this disease.Chairman Fencik asked how long the MS campaign will last and what the net to charity will be.2Superintendent Jones responded that the Lottery does one specialty game a quarter and hopes to sellout all 2 million tickets. Twenty five percent, or about a half a million dollars, goes to charity. Fromthis ticket, the Lottery has contributed over $4.7 million to MS research in the last few years.Chief of Staff, Sara Barnett, added that the timing of specialty tickets changed strategically so that theHIV/AIDS ticket, Spread The Word, will launch in June which coincides with HIV testing month andthe breast cancer ticket, Ticket for the Cure, will be in the market in October which is Breast CancerAwareness month.Sales/Victor Golden: Deputy Superintendent Golden distributed sales figures for Instant and Onlinegames which were shown to the Board. Online sales, which are terminal sales of daily draw games, Mega Millions andPowerball, are down about 1.14% year-to-date; meanwhile, total sales are up five percent.The Lottery has various financial indicators: actual sales and profits; net profitsaccording to the Private Management Agreement; and transfers to the Lottery’sbeneficiaries. There has been a $100 million total increase in sales versus the prior year, but Northstaris not on track to meet its goal of $3.5 billion in sales. The total number of new retailers recruited in the current fiscal year is 857. The forecastaccording to Northstar was to increase the retailer count to 13,000 by the end of the nextfiscal year. Retailers are a key aspect of Northstar’s plan to boost revenues. DeputySuperintendent Golden commented that the improvement in Lottery’s image will help torecruit new retailers. He also noted that Northstar is helping to ensure that retailers are giving good service toour players. Lottery is working with Northstar on providing concierge service toeffective, high selling retailers.Board member Richards requested that board members receive a report of projected and actualfinancials. He also requested to see an income statement to understand how profits are transferredmonthly.FY SALES COMPARISONYearInstant SalesOnline SalesTotal Sales2012$1,276,068,901$844,797,385$2,120,470,2742013Inc/Dec.% Attained$1,391,985,151$115,916,2509.08%$834,759,606$-9,603,988-1.14%$2,226,782,536$106,312,2635.01%INTERNET SALESGamesLottoM/MPowerballWeekly Avg.$49,115$36,377$44,189Total Sales$1,807,071$3,082,517$1,452,5403Total$129,681$6,342,128Operations & Technology Update/Harold Mays: In the three months since Harold Mays joined theIllinois Lottery, he had as his primary goal to learn as much as he could about the business of the Lotteryin Illinois. Below are the two primary areas of his focus for the remainder of 2013.Harold Mays reported that Northstar manages the Lottery’s primary gaming systemand maintains our financial data and retailer data. He reported that the Lottery wantsto be in a position of self-reporting, with the ability to access, utilize and analyze thedata without having to go through Northstar.The Board asked what the plan is for coordinating data dumps from Northstar to make processing moreefficient.Harold Mays commented that right now there are approximately 150 various reports that the Lotteryasks Northstar to produce, so identifying and prioritizing those reports will produce a better system.Financial/Jim Scroggins: Chief Financial Officer Jim Scroggins discussed the Lottery’s budget and some of the majorexpenses. He noted that the budget contains a requested increase from fiscal year 13 to fiscalyear 14 of $187.9 million, but explained that 98.5% of that is an increase in prizeappropriation authority. He explained that if the Lottery achieves high sales levels withmajor jackpots, particularly for Powerball and Mega Millions, the Lottery needs to havefunds appropriated to pay those prizes. Lottery requested twelve new lottery sales reps due to the fact that there are 184 retailers perserviceperson and this will bring the average down to about 140 retailers per serviceperson. The increase in retirement costs is related to changes in retirement benefits. The Lottery budgeted $1.5 million for legal expenses primarily related to potential legalissues dealing with the Private Management Agreement. For fiscal year 13, Lottery used$500,000 for legal services and had $500,000 on reserve. In the House appropriation hearingit was noted that the total increase is about 18 percent.4Board member Christian asked how much additional revenue each new lottery sales representativewould generate.Deputy Superintendent, Victor Golden, responded that the Lottery expects each territory to averageabout $45 million in total sales. CFO, Jim Scroggins, added that additional reps will be needed if bigsellers are going to be visited several times a week as opposed to once a week.Lottery Sales Representatives are State employees which Northstar manages. There is an EmployeeUser Agreement between the Lottery permitting Northstar to manage these employees while the State isresponsible for their evaluations, approving time off, and disciplining.Legislative/Sara Barnett: Sara Barnett, Chief of Staff is giving the legislative report since the Lottery’slegislative liaison, Jen Acker, was unavailable. Senate Bill 2197 is a clean-up bill sponsored by Senator Muñoz to change theSuperintendent’s title to Director. Other legislative changes in SB 2197 are related to Lottery’s transition out of theDepartment of Revenue. It also clarifies the role of the Lottery Control Board in terms ofreviewing advertising and marketing. The MS Society approached the Lottery about adding an amendment to SB 2197 tochange the scope of how they issue grants from the MS ticket. It should pass out ofcommittee today. Senate Bill 1955, sponsored by Senator Link, is the expansion of the Internet lottery testto include all draw based games. Language was kept vague so that it could include anynew draw based game that could be created as well as raffles. Illinois Retail Merchants Association has added an amendment to SB1955, requiring theInternet Lottery Study Committee to publish its report prior to the addition of any newinternet based products. Jen Acker is working today to get some House sponsors. House Bill 311 is a bill allowing the Lottery to hold raffles benefitting specialty causefunds. Unfortunately this bill is going to be held in the Rules committee and we willprobably have to revisit the proposal during the veto session or next spring. We aretracking a third party initiative to create a new instant ticket that benefits local charities.It is a grant fund to be administered by the Attorney General’s office.Board member Sharon Thompson asked about opposition to HB 311.Sara Barnett responded that some legislators perceived the bill as taking money out of the CapitalProjects Fund.Superintendent Jones went on to explain that it seemed illogical to only allow the special cause games tobe supported by an instant game only. It requires a tremendous amount of expense up front and itrequires months of planning because millions of instant tickets that must be ordered and distributed to8200 retailers.DiscussionBoard member Richards asked about the report on the audit that was being conducted by KPMG for theOffice of the Inspector General. Shelly Banks, Chief Internal Auditor, stated that they are still workingon it and as of yet, there was not a date set on when final report would be out.5Lottery Board Chairman Fencik and Board member Richards requested that bylaws be developed tostate the responsibilities of the Lottery Control Board. The Board stressed that they would like a generalunderstanding of their advisory nature to ensure that they do all they can to support the Superintendentin his role and empower the Lottery staff.Jim Scroggins suggested that the Lottery look at the bylaws from the Oklahoma lottery.Superintendent Jones stated that he agrees and believes the board needs guidance and should be as activeas they want to be. He stated that the Lottery wants to be communicative about what is happening in theindustry and make sure the board receives sufficient information. The Illinois Lottery Control Board’srole is also critical in terms of supporting the Superintendent in managing the private manager. TheSuperintendent acknowledged the board’s great business backgrounds, and invited the members to assistin forming these bylaws.OTHER BUSINESS Board Member Geoff Richards asked if it is possible to have Marco Tasso,Northstar’s CEO, give a presentation on the new business plan with an opportunityfor the board to ask questions and discuss. The other board members agreed to hold aspecial meeting with Marco Tasso.ADJOURNMENTChairman Fencik recommended the motion to move to a closed session to discuss potential litigationwith the Lottery’s private manager on the current net income dispute. Board member Geoff Richardsseconded the motion and the Chairman conducted a roll call. The board voted unanimously in favor andthe open meeting adjourned at 12:15pm.Respectfully submitted,Lottery Control Board SecretaryNora Iniguez6