Illinois LotteryStudy Committee Meetingfor the Internet Lottery Study TestMinutes September 27, 2013 1:00 PMOpen SessionOn Thursday, September 27, 2013 a Regular Meeting of the Lottery Study Committee for the InternetLottery Test was held at the Lottery office at 122 S. Michigan Avenue, 19th floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603.Welcome:Roll CallThe Open Session on Internet Lottery Study Committee Meeting started at approximately 1:05 P.M.Present were the following members: Director Michael Jones, Marco Tasso CEO Northstar LotteryGroup, Nellie Ridsdale Governor’s Office via telephone, Brian Jordan via telephone, Holly Kruep viatelephone, Keith Jones via telephone. Non-Members present: Rosalind Byrd, Sara Barnett, VictorGolden, and Jen Acker. Members not present were: Ali Poonjai.Approval of Minutes:Member Brian Jordan moved that the Lottery Study Committee (Internet Lottery Study Committee)approved the open session minutes for the meeting of Wednesday, April 24, 2013. Member MichaelJones seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously.Approval of Agenda: The Committee approved the motion unanimously.Review of Minutes from previous meeting: Member Michael Jones yielded to Sara Barnett to review the prior minutes for April 24, 2013.Old Business: There was no old business discussed.New Business:The Lottery entered into a contract with Aeffect, Inc. which did market research on the feasibility of theinternet stored value card. Sara Barnett discussed two documents: The Executive Summary of the Lottery research regarding an Illinois Lottery Stored Value Card.This document has bullet points summarizing the research conducted and answers the points asrequired under the Lottery Law. Member Keith Jones asked how the stored value program was described to respondents.Member Michael Jones responded that the questions were vetted prior to being presented torespondents. Member Keith Jones asked about the initial acceptance by consumers concerning any newfinancial services products offered at retail. He asked whether 30% consumer acceptance wasgood or bad. Member Michael Jones replied there was a wide range of responses all over theboard. It depended upon the niche market and whether consumers felt they needed to have thetype of card provided. He said that Lucky Pac pilot with Safeway stores was not successfulbecause there were not many consumers who purchased the Lucky Pac card. Draft Internet Lottery Study Committee Report (September 27, 2013). Member Michael Jonesintroduced the report. Sara Barnett reviewed and answered questions 1-5. Member MarcoTasso reviewed questions 6-9. Sara reviewed timelines that the Internet Lottery Study Committee must adhere to (attached).Other Business:There was discussion about setting future meeting dates. Member Michael Jones motioned that thecommittee conduct their next meeting on Thursday, October 17, 2013 at 1:00 PM. The motion wasseconded by Member Marco Tasso.A motion to adjourn the meeting was made by Member Keith Jones and seconded by Member HollyKruep. The vote was unanimous and the meeting ended at 1:24 PM.Respectfully Submitted,Rosalind Byrd