Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603
On Wednesday, December 5, 2018 a regular meeting of the Lottery Control Board was held in Chicago at
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor. The following people attended.
Board Members:
• James Floyd
• Lori Yokoyama
• Nimish Jani
• Elba Aranda-Suh
Illinois Lottery Staff:
• Harold Mays, Acting Director
• Carol Radwine, Chief Financial Officer (via video conference)
• Jessica White, Interim Acting General Counsel
• Rolanda Sudduth, Senior Counsel
• Jason Schaumburg, Communications Director
• Joe Weiss, Director of Sales
• Guadalupe Marin, Director’s Assistant
• Nora Iniguez, Lottery Control Board Secretary
Camelot Staff:
• Keith Horton, General Counsel
• Jason Dolenga VP of Marketing (via teleconference)
• Wendy Abrams, Senior Advisor of Corporate Affairs
• Tim Culhane, VP of Finance
• Keary Fath, VP Retail Sales
Other Attendees:
• Kathy Gilroy, member of the public
CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL
Board member James Floyd called the meeting to order at 1:33pm. Roll call was taken and quorum was
present. Mr. Floyd welcomed attendees and new board members Lori Yokoyama and Nimish Jani. Lori
Yokoyama is the principal and managing partner of Yokoyama & Associates. Nimish Jani, is a trustee of
the Schaumburg Township, aid to Cook County Commissioner and part of the Asian American
Employment Advisory Council.
PUBLIC COMMENT
NONE
OLD BUSINESS
• APPROVAL OF MINUTES
James Floyd moved to approve the meeting minutes from June 6, 2018. Board member Elba
Aranda-Suh seconded the motion and minutes were approved.
1

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

NEW BUSINESS
• ELECT NEW LOTTERY CONTROL BOARD CHAIRMAN
Both board members Jani and Yokoyama nominated themselves. Jani stated he has retail
experience and Yokoyama stated she has legal, professional and social board experience. Board
member James Floyd moved to elect new Lottery Control Board chairman at next meeting. Elba
Arandah-Suh seconded the motion and all approved.
•

SCHEDULE QUARTERLY MEETINGS FOR CALENDAR YEAR 2019
Board member Lori Yokoyama motioned for next meeting to be held on Wednesday, February 6,
2019 at 1:30pm. James Floyd seconded the motion and all members approved.

•

LEGAL UPDATE
Rolanda Sudduth presented to board members status on four outstanding hearings.

DIRECTORS REPORT
• SALES UPDATE
Tim Culhane presented several charts of year to date sales summaries from July 1st through
November 19, 2018. First chart showing incline in total sales from 2.8% FY2018 to 12.47%
FY2019.

The FY19 increase was the result of a surge in sales in the month of October for a near world
record jackpot rollover of $1.5 Billion for the Mega Millions. Illinois Lottery announced that

2

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603
October 2018 were highest monthly sales in draw-based games in department’s history up 9.9
percent from previous record set in January 2016.

3

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

4

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

•

ADVERTISING AND MARKETING
Keary Fath presented power point slides to board members showcasing advertising for instant,
draw based games and experiential.
September 2018:
INSTANT- Multiplier Campaign, “It’s like wishing for multiple wishes.” Supported with TV, radio,
out of home, point of sale, and digital.
DRAW-Jackpot Time Campaign for Powerball on air through end of October. Instead of saying
what would you do with all that money, now using tag of “How would you spend all that time?”
“Fill up another passport.”
EXPERIENTIAL-PPOS Retailer Roadshow to roll out new equipment.
October 2018:
INSTANT-Carolyn Adams Ticket for the Cure was supported by Springfield board up through
November, digital and social media support and digital out of home boards (10/08-11/4).
Multiplier campaign running until end of October.
DRAW-Jackpot Time Campaign on air through end of October.

5

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603
EXPERIENTIAL- Ticket for the Cure events included: Carolyn Adams Casino Night, Beyond
October Community Education Event, Lincoln park Zoo Adults Night Out, sold tickets at
Millennium Park.
Near world record Mega Millions Jackpot roll incentives:

November/December 2018:
INSTANT-Holiday campaign “Give the gift of possibilities” launched on 11/12 supported by TV,
cinema, on line video, digital, point of sale, and out of home and with #InstantJoy sweepstakes.
Holiday commercial leaning more on pulling on the heart strings instead of humor.
DRAW-transitioned to Jackpot (MM 120Million) (How would you spend all that time?)
EXPERIENTIAL-holiday experiential activation included Lights Festival Lane (11/16-11/17), Mag
Mile Holiday Parade, (11/17), Millennium Park Hot Chocolate Buffet (11/18), Aragon Ballroom
Concert Series (11/29-12/9),
COMING SOON: December Instant tickets include: Hot $1000’s, Super 7’s, Amethyst 7’s
Emerald 10’s.
•

6

RESPONSIBLE GAMING-Wendy Abrams
Corporate Social Responsibility:
1. Goals are to help raise awareness of risks of underage lottery play during the holiday
season and educate parents on dangers of buying lottery tickets for children. This
consisted of news release, social media, website banner, and paid advertising.

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

2. Responsible play brochures are available in retail stores which includes tips on how to
play smart and resources for problem gambling.
3. Gamres Research was conducted using PPS (Positive Play Scale) which is designed to
measure four positive gambling related behaviors and beliefs which include, honesty
and control, pre-commitment, personal responsibility, and gambling literacy. It was
concluded that most Illinois players were in the high positive play categories
demonstrating that they engage in responsible behaviors and have a good
understanding about how to play responsibly. Players did score low on gambling
literacy which is an extent to which the player has an accurate understanding about the
nature of gambling.
4. New play campaign in development to address low levels of gambling literacy based on
Gamres research, Be Smart, Play Smart. This will include six core messages that will
be used for delivery: Be Smart-know how games work and your odds of winning, Game
of Chance-lottery games are a game of chance, strictly for entertainment not a source
of income, Play for fun, not for money-never spend more than you can afford, Stick to
a budget-be aware of how much time you spend playing, Take a break-Always be
honest about your game play, Adults Only- Lottery games are not for minors. Never
give ticket to anyone under the age of 18.
•

7

FINANCE
Carol Radwine, Lottery CFO presented charts with details on Common School Transfers, Special
Causes, Retailer Sweeps and State Lottery Fund.

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

•

8

OPERATIONS-Harold Mays

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603
Staff update: Separations include- Greg Smith, Director, Eric Albrecht, Legislative Liaison, Helen
Kim, Agency Procurement Officer, Annice Kelly, General Counsel.
Hires- no new hires, Jessica White, Deputy General Counsel, was named Interim Acting General
Counsel to replace Annice Kelly. Harold Mays, Chief of Operations and Technology was named
Acting Director to replace Greg Smith.
Legislative Update-agenda proposed for review for Spring session includes authority to expand
the sale of all our games on the internet, extending current iLottery language to 2028 and
requesting a continuing appropriation to allow us to pay players if there was ever a budget
impasse again. Also, we are attempting to clean up language in the Lottery Law that needs to be
updated and clarified. Law was passed allowing certain prizewinners to claim in privacy and
anonymity on winnings over $250,000 although identification can be requested via FOIA.
Audit update-FY18 Financial Compliance audit being conducted by the OAG is closing out. Final
report expected to be issued in new year. We have not received preliminary report of potential
findings yet.
Specialty Tickets Update-Legislation was passed last year to add 2 new specialty causes, State
Police Memorial Ticket with a late Spring launch and a ticket that will support homelessness
prevention programs is in early development.

•

PRIVATE MANAGEMENT
Transitioning Update:
Business- Full transition of core Private Manager business responsibilities has been largely
achieved. These are internal Camelot business functions in areas of Operations, Facilities,
Procurement, commercial (Retail, Marketing,) internal HR and compliance.
Technical-Full technology transition taking place which includes replacing our CGS, ICS, Instant
Ticket Management system, iLottery platform, and website . Retailers will also be receiving new
sales terminals, vending machines and point of sale equipment. Targeted completion expected
in January.
Questions and comments by Board Members:
Nimish Jani stated that mom and pop operations are having a tough time with the actual online
training of new equipment and the feasibility of getting to locations of where it is being held. It
was stated that there are multiple locations for training and that digital training will eventually
be available. 86% of retailers had already attended training. He also asked if he can bring
retailers to a board meeting. He was told he can since it is an open meeting.

9

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 5, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603
Elba Aranda-Suh asked if the elimination of the instant ticket Loteria was a financial decision
since it had good ticket sales. This ticket was initiated by our previous private manager
Northstar and Camelot did not have licensing rights.
Lori Yokoyama asked about targeting the Asian market. Jason Dolenga states that Lottery is
trying to be more diverse in its advertising and promotions.
ADJOURNMENT
James Floyd thanked everyone for their attendance especially to the new board members. James Floyd
gave the motion to adjourn the meeting. Elba Aranda-Suh seconded the motion and it was unanimously
approved. Meeting adjourned at 2:28pm.

Respectfully submitted,

Nora Iniguez
Lottery Control Board Secretary

10

 