Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2017
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603
On Friday, December 8, 2017, a regular meeting of the Lottery Control Board was held in
Chicago at 122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor. The following people attended:
Board Members:
• Jonathan “Blair” Garber
• Elba Aranda-Suh
• Haydee Olinger
• James Floyd
Illinois Lottery Staff:
• Gregory Smith, Acting Director
• Jayme Odom, Chief of Staff
• Annice Kelly, General Counsel/Ethics Officer
• Jason Schaumburg, Communications Director
• Carol Radwine, Chief Financial Officer
• Harold Mays, Chief Operations & Technology Officer
• Jessica White, Deputy General Counsel
• Rolanda Sudduth, Senior Counsel
• Joseph Weiss, Director of Sales
• Brooke Mayfield, Lottery Control Board Secretary
Northstar Staff:
• Michelle Tomao, Chief Operations Officer & Vice President, Finance
• Patrick Costaregni, Chief Financial Officer
Other Attendees:
• Kathy Gilroy, member of the public, Villa Park, Illinois
• Adam Barry, Camelot Global
CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Blair Garber welcomed attendees and called the meeting to order at 1:30 p.m. The roll
call was taken, and it was noted that a quorum was present.
OLD BUSINESS
Approval of Minutes
Haydee Olinger moved to approve the minutes from the September 8, 2017, meeting.
Board Member James Floyd seconded the motion, with a third from Elba Aranda-Suh
and the Board unanimously approved the motion.

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2017
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603
NEW BUSINESS
Senior Counsel Rolanda Sudduth presented updates on the Lottery’s 4th quarter legal
docket status, as there are no cases or matters currently set for a Lottery Administrative
hearing:
-

One old matter still pending in the Illinois Circuit Court for administrative review.
The Department received a favorable recommendation in a hearing involving a
lottery license denial.

DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Sales and Marketing Update
Michelle Tomao, Chief Operations Office/Vice President Finance, Northstar Lottery Group,
presented that overall sales are up 2.8 percent over the previous fiscal year.
Michelle Tomao, Northstar’s Chief Operations Officer & Vice President of Finance, summarized
advertising and retail marketing.

Sales Performance Overview
Referencing the graph below, Tomao detailed the year-to-date sales summary to the Board.

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2017
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603
iLottery Sales
Tomao detailed iLottery sales information to the Board, using the below graphs to illustrate sales
and registered user data. She also stated that the online games are up 2.1 percent due to Pick 3
and Fireball, which are performing well this fiscal year.

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2017
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603

.

Tomao detailed average spend was down 1.8 percent and percent change from 2017 was up 17.2
percent, with Mega Millions being slightly behind due to the game change that took place in the
fall.

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2017
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603
Advertising and Retail Marketing
Ms. Tomao spoke to the Board about the past, current and upcoming advertising and retail
marketing for the Lottery.
October 2017: Ticket For The Cure
• The October ticket was supported with a campaign that included audio, digital, OOH and
print.
• The paid campaign run dates were 10/06/217 through 11/06/17
October 2017: Mega Millions Game-change
• The Mega Millions game-change was supported with a campaign that included audio,
digital, OOH, print and TV snipes.
• The campaign run dates were 10/28/17 through 11/12/17.
November 2017: Mega Millions Promotion
• The Mega Millions promotion was supported with a campaign that included audio,
digital, OOH, print and TV snipes.
• The campaign run dates were 11/12/17 through 11/18/17.
November 2017: Holiday
• The Mega Millions promotion was supported with a campaign that included radio,
digital, OOH and TV elements.
• The campaign began with radio on 11/13/17, the rest of the campaign will run 11/25/17
through 1/14/18.
Coming Soon: January through February
• January Instants Campaign
o Campaign timing: January into February
o Supported by TV
• St. Patrick’s Day Millionaire Raffle
o Campaign timing: February into March
o Supported by TV snipes, radio, digital, and OOH

Responsible Gaming
Tomao gave a summary of Responsible Gaming practices. Tomao further explained the
processes of different awareness on responsible gaming throughout the state, including
explanations on print ads and their consistency.

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2017
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603
Tomao then let Illinois Lottery Acting Director, Greg Smith, explain that he joined State Senator
Sue Rezin, Ottawa Mayor Robert Eschbach and Board President Marty Ricconi, at the ribboncutting for a new Reading Oasis at the offices of Youth Services Bureau of Illinois Valley in
Ottawa, Illinois. The Lottery and Scholastic Books jointly sponsored the creation of the Reading
Oasis for the facility, which serves as a family unification site for parents working to regain
custody of their children from foster care. The site has more than 1,800 books for children ages
K through 8th grade, as well as bookshelves, chairs, and audio-visual materials. This site is one
of two co-sponsored by the Illinois Lottery and Scholastic Books. The second site, at the Boys
and Girls Club in Danville, Illinois, is scheduled to open later this month.

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2017
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603

Finance Update
Chief Financial Officer, Carol Radwine, presented the charts below with details on:
•
•
•

Common School Fund transfers
Special causes
Retailer sweeps/State Lottery Fund

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2017
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603

Operations Update
• General Headquarters Update
o Transition into Camelot Illinois becoming the full-time manager still moving
forward
o Lottery team took a trip to Ohio to see new Gaming vendor
• Staff Updates
o Carol Radwine was brought in to fill the Chief Financial Officer position
o Mike Porter is providing the agency with transition project assistance

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
December 8, 2017
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603

Private Management Update
Director Smith updated the Board on the private management procurement process for the
Lottery, stating that a private management agreement with Camelot Illinois was executed on
October 13, 2017. Camelot Illinois will assume Phase One private management responsibilities
on January 2, 2018 and Phase Two responsibilities on April 2, 2018. A technical transition will
take place over the next twelve months.
Public Comment
Board Chair, Blair Garber, noted to the board there were no requests to speak beforehand and
time permitting he would take public comment before adjournment, and reminded the room that
public comment must be confirmed in advance.
With time permitting member of the public Kathy Gilroy of Villa Park, Illinois, spoke to the
board on several topics. Ms. Gilroy stated she should not need to notify the agency prior to
speaking at a meeting citing the Open Meetings Act. Ms. Gilroy then addressed her ongoing
concern of mandated language on Illinois Lottery advertisements. Ms. Gilroy also stated her
concern of a Casino awarding players Lottery Tickets as prizes. Ms. Gilroy then asked the Board
to force a stop to Queen of Hearts Raffles taking place across the state.
When Ms. Gilroy was finished speaking, Chairman Garber asked Deputy General Counsel,
Jessica White, to address the Open Meetings Act and its policies. White stated that the act
allows public comments, but also allows the board to create reasonable parameters for public
comment, which we’ve done in our bylaws published on the website.
Addressing public comment, Lottery Chief of Staff, Jayme Odom, stated that the private
manager has an attorney on staff that inspects every ad and disclaimer. Odom went on to say
different advertisements have different appropriate disclaimers and that the Lottery takes its
mission very seriously.
ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Garber requested a motion to adjourn. Board Member Olinger moved to close the
meeting, and Board Member Floyd seconded the motion, which was unanimously approved.
Chairman Garber adjourned the meeting at 2:21 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Brooke Mayfield
Lottery Control Board Secretary

 