Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
June 6, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603
On Wednesday, June 6, 2018 a regular meeting of the Lottery Control Board was held in Chicago
at 122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor. The following people attended:
Board Members:
• Haydee Olinger
• James Floyd
• Elba Aranda-Suh
Illinois Lottery Staff:
• Greg Smith, Director
• Annice Kelly, General Counsel/Ethics Officer
• Scott Gillard, Chief of Staff
• Jason Schaumburg, Communications Director
• Michael Gedzun, Investigator
• Jessica White, Deputy General Counsel
• Joe Weiss, Director of Sales
• Carol Radwine, Chief Financial Officer (via teleconference)
• Guadalupe Marin, Director’s Assistant
• Nora Iniguez, Lottery Control Board Secretary
Camelot Staff:
• Colin Hadden, General Manager
• Jason Dolenga, VP of Marketing
• Keith Horton, General Counsel
• Tim Culhane, VP of Finance
• Wendy Abrams, Senior Advisor of Corporate Affairs
Other Attendees:
• Kathy Gilroy, member of the public
CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL
Board Chairman Haydee Ollinger welcomed attendees and called the meeting to order at 1:28pm.
Roll call was taken and a quorum was present.
OLD BUSINESS
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Haydee Ollinger moved to approve the minutes from February 26, 2018. Board member Elba
Aranda-Suh seconded the motion and minutes were unanimously approved.

1

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
June 6, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

NEW BUSINESS
LEGAL UPDATE
Jessica White, Deputy General Counsel presented legal updates for Lottery’s 2nd quarter.
• Administrative hearing involving player resulted in favor of the department.
• Settlement was reached between retailer and department on money owed.

DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Sales and Marketing Update
Sales Performance
Colin Hadden, General Manager for Camelot Illinois, presented breakdown of sales for Instant scratch,
in-state sales draw and our multistate for dates below. He stated that overall year to date Lottery is
2.87% ahead in sales at the end of May. Multistate draws were up 26% from last year. In-State Draws
are solid with 3.82 % up from last year. Scratch offs have been up and down throughout the year but
have seen a spike with the Frenzy family.

2

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
June 6, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

3

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
June 6, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

4

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
June 6, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603
Advertising and Marketing
Colin Hadden introduced Jason Dolenga who is VP of Marketing with Camelot and who newly joined the
team. Mr. Dolenga presented upcoming advertising and retail marketing for the Lottery.
March 2018: Instant Ticket Campaign
• Supported with point of sale in store, TV commercials and online video and ran from March 3rd
through April 3, 2018.
March 2018: St. Patrick’s Day Raffle
• Support included TV snipes, radio, digital, out- of -home, point of sale and experiential and ran
February 9th through March 18, 2018.
April 2018: “Frenzy” Instant Ticket Support
• April launch of the “Frenzy” family was supported with a campaign that included TV
commercials, online video and point of sale. This ran April 6th through May 16, 2018.
May/June 2018: Wonka Instant Ticket Support
• Willy Wonka instant ticket is supported with a campaign that included TV commercials, online
video and point of sale and will run May 3rd through June 21, 2018.
• Includes a second chance draw for chance to win $1 billion
Coming Soon: June Instant Tickets:
• $10-Break the Bank, (gigantic ticket with interesting way of highlighted in store), $5- Money
Match, $3- Red Ribbon Cash, $2- Triple Play, $1- Fruity Fortune (whimsical ticket that is like
games people play on their phone)
Coming Soon: July Instant Tickets:
• $20-Illinois Millions (celebrating Illinois Bicentennial), $3-Special Olympics,
$2- Double Your Luck, $1- Win Pigs Fly
Responsible Gaming
Colin Hadden highlighted some of the responsible play initiatives which include communications, retailer
and employee training and explained that this is a huge priority and foundation for Lottery’s business in
building trust and transparency with players and stakeholders. March was Problem Awareness and
Gambling month and below were some statistics just in communications.
•
•

Social media campaign increased responsible gaming landing page views by 554% through
March 19, totaling more than 8000. Social media reach over 10,000 on Facebook and more than
3700 on Twitter.
Retailer training is to be hosted on point of sale terminal with animation and voiceover both in
English and Spanish
5

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
June 6, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

•
•

Employee training consisted of Problem gambling and awareness and Gamgard training which is
a tool which measures the risk associated with games
Stakeholder Outreach consisted of renewed membership with the following organizations:
Illinois Alliance on Problem Gambling, Illinois Council on Problem Gambling, National Council on
Problem Gambling and World Lottery Association.

Board Member Arandah-Suh thanked Colin Hadden on the movement and enhancement on the
responsible gaming compliance. She also inquired about the Veterans specialty ticket and asked if it was
still in rotation. Colin Hadden, responded that it usually comes out toward the end of the year either in
November or December.

Finance & Operation
Carol Radwine, Chief Financial Officer presented charts below with details on:
• Common School Fund transfers
• Special Causes
• Retailer sweeps/State Lottery Fund

6

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
June 6, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

7

 Illinois Lottery Control Board
Open Meeting Minutes
June 6, 2018
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603

Operations Update
Director Greg Smith provided updates on staff, private manager transition and operations.
Staff Update-Chicago& Springfield
• Scott Gillard, Chief of Staff
• Guadalupe Marin, Administrative Assistant to the Director
• Larry Johnson, Deputy Chief of Security (Springfield)
• Karen Blumhagen, Instant Tickets Product Manager(Springfield)
• Continuing to fill positions for our claim centers around the state
Private Manager transition and operations:
• Camelot doing most of their hiring and taking over services, duties and key tasks
• Milestone schedule implemented for check and balances between both companies which
includes annual business plan, technology transition, and new gaming system. Once
completed and proven satisfactory between both companies a certificate of completion will
be issued and end the transition.
• Since last session Lottery received one-year extension to sell tickets online-iLottery
• Picked up two more specialty tickets benefitting police memorials and homelessness
• Statute was picked up allowing certain prizewinners to claim in privacy and anonymity on
winnings over $250,000
• Director explained about payments to capital projects which is last place money goes after
paying Common School Fund and beneficiary tickets
Board Chairman Haydee Ollinger asked if there was a deliberate effort to ensure the human story on
grant recipients of specialty tickets and not just ticket sales. Director Smith explained that there was
a launch event very next day for the Red Ribbon cash ticket that supports HIV and Aids and that there
would be more media emphasis in doing a check ceremony with recipients.
ADDJOURNMENT
Chairman Ollinger requested a motion to adjourn. Board member Aranda-Suh gave the motion and
Board member Floyd seconded the motion which was unanimously approved. Chairperson Ollinger
adjourned the meeting at 2:30pm.

Respectfully submitted,
Nora Iniguez
Lottery Control Board Secretary

8

 