Lottery Control BoardRegular Session MinutesNovember 13, 2013122 South Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL, 60603130 W. Mason St., #104, Springfield, IL, 62702On Wednesday November 13, 2013, at 9:30 a.m., a regular meeting of the Lottery Control Boardwas held at 122 South Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, Il 60603, and at the Training Roomin Springfield, Il, 62702. Video and teleconferencing were available to join the meetingattendees.The following board members were present in Chicago: Gary Fencik, Chairman, RobertAnthony Christian, and Sharon Thompson. Paul Schaefer attended in Springfield and GeoffreyA. Richards participated via teleconference.CALL TO ORDERChairman Fencik called the meeting to order with a quorum present at 10:30 a.m. Additionalattendees were:Lottery Staff (Chicago) - Michael Jones, Superintendent, , Sara Barnett, Chief of Staff, DaymonRuttenberg, General Counsel, Jen Acker, Deputy Chief of Staff, Alison Walters, IncomingDeputy Chief of Staff, Tracy Jacobson, Deputy General Counsel, Harold Mays, Chief Operation& Technology Officer, Melinda Westwater, Chief Internal Auditor, Craig Scott, LotteryConsultant, Nora Iniguez, Lottery Control Board Secretary.Lottery Staff (Springfield)- Brett Finley, Finance Manager, Tiffany Blair, Budget Manager,Mike Lang, Media & Public Relations.Other attendees: (Chicago) - J. Liebman, Novack & Macey, LLP, Kathy Gilroy, public citizen,Ted Gibbs, Governor’s office, (teleconference) Matt Wallberg, Chicago Tribune, Paul Marion,Crain’s Chicago Business,(Springfield)Anita Bedell, IL Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction Problems.PUBLIC COMMENT••Kathy Gilroy addresses the fact that not all lottery material and machines haveproper wording mandated by the law of stating in writing “if you or someone youknow has a gambling problem, crisis counseling and referral services can beaccessed by calling 1-800-GAMBLER.”Kathy Gilroy would like to see the Lottery Control Board review and vote onadvertising. She believes that the use of professional athletes, like Patrick Sharpof the Chicago Blackhawks is not satisfactory due to children looking up toathletes and being associated with gambling.Director Jones explained that we are working with our private manager making sure theyfulfill legislative mandate but they have taken upon handling all aspects of advertising andmarketing. The Lottery, in discussion with board members and senior staff, are committed tonot encouraging excessive behavior and not using advertising messaging that would appeal to1young people. Director Jones feels Patrick Sharp is an effective spokesperson for the lotterybecause he appeals to a younger demographic of adults. If an athlete allows his image and hisbrand to be associated with the lottery, it's because he believes the lottery's brand is good forhis image by educating people that the Lottery offers games such as Veterans Cash and theMS Project.Chairman Fencik thanked Ms. Gilroy for her comments, and stated that this new board wasformed in 2012 with new updated bylaws and advertising policy to follow. As respect toathletes being associated with gambling, the Lottery is not gambling, it is a game of chance.Director Jones adds that lottery is perceived as a different form of gambling. In researchstudies conducted, people do not say that lottery is a form of gambling partly becauselotteries have always only offered high odds, infrequent drawings, and are a very differentform of gambling. Lottery is perceived by over 80% of adults as a good idea.Public comments from last board meeting are addressed by Deputy Chief of Staff:1. Statute just changed regarding the board's role in advertising in where the board is nowreviewing only past advertising to be sure that it is in compliance with the advertising policy.Previously the board was required to review all proposed and past advertising for majorcampaigns with the private manager, which is a challenge for a board that meets quarterly so ithas been changed legislatively.2. Agenda was posted 48 hours in advance, unfortunately we realized 24 hours in advance thatthe meeting location we had originally assigned was no longer available and had to change inshort notice. It was beyond our control and reached out to everyone who we thought would be inattendance regarding the change.3. Lottery marketing materials are produced by Northstar so we will be issuing them formaldirectives asking that they understand that their policies and procedures are in place to be surethat all information resource disclaimer regarding problem gambling is properly included on allmarketing pieces. According to the law, the problem gambling information does not need to beon signage but on things distributed to the public.4. There are currently twelve individuals on the self-exclusion list. The lottery and Northstarhave ability to track excessive play over the internet, which is currently being done.5. Posting recordings of Lottery Control Board meetings on the website is not a requirement ofthe Lottery Control Board Act.APPROVAL OF MINUTESChairman Fencik moved for the Board to approve the open session minutes of its regularmeeting on 08/07/2013. Sharon Thompson seconded the motion and the Board approved themotion unanimously by roll call vote.OLD BUSINESS•An advertising policy that was distributed to the board during a previous meeting is inquestion by the private manager. Northstar believes that the policy as written is making achange to their operating standards, which they believe overrides any of the lottery'slegislation. Changes to their operating standards could potentially be a downwardadjustment because the lottery would be affecting their ability to advertise, market, andsell more tickets. Northstar submitted a document with track changes on original2••advertising policy that was written. IRMA, Illinois Retail Merchants Association, alsohas concerns about the word “winnability” being used.Board member Christian stated that there is no clarity as to what specifics Northstar isactually looking for and would like for them to provide additional data. Board membersdecide that Marco Tasso, Northstar's CEO, should be formally invited in writing to thenext board meeting. A vote on advertising policy is put on hold due to not having enoughinformation on Northstar's objection.Bylaws: Board members once again thank Geoffrey Richards for his assistance increating the bylaws which gives the board clear direction on what their duties andobligations are to the lottery. Member Christian makes motion to approve. ChairmanFencik seconded the motion and the Board approves bylaws by unanimous roll call vote.NEW BUSINESS2014 dates for upcoming board meetings are proposed for the Board Members to reviewand accept: Wednesdays/ Feb. 05, May, 14, Aug. 13 & Nov. 12• Other New Business- Board Member Richards requested that the lottery do an analysis ofretail expansion in affluent and poor neighborhoods. He would like a betterunderstanding of the penetration of the lottery in areas that have greater disposableincome available to its residents, as well as areas that may be less affluent, and alsowhere the dollars are coming from that are being used to purchase lottery tickets.Director Jones stated that Northstar can do a zip code analysis on their aggressive retailerexpansion goals and get back to the board.•Director's Report/Michael JonesMarketing: New Veteran's Cash ticket designed byCommonground, our multicultural agency, is same ticket design as last year only theyreversed the colors so there is a brand association with people recognizing it. We hope tosell two million tickets and raise $1 million for Veterans.Lottery appeared before Legislative Audit Committee, which is a combination of the House andSenate, to discuss with them our FY12 audit. Director recognized Melinda Westwater and BrettFinley for an excellent job in conducting this audit and answering every question completely in avery understandable manner. Highlights of lottery commercials and some POS from the pastquarter is shown to the board so they can review and make sure it is in compliance with theadvertising policy.Governor's office asked lottery to pull a Fireball television commercial because it wasracially insensitive to Asians. Commercial is shown twice to board members.Lottery won a Batchy award at the National Lottery Conference for one of ourcommercials.Governor did a fly around promoting the Veteran's Cash ticket, visiting a couple of thegrantees. Department of Veteran's affairs has separate website where people cancontribute on their own without buying a ticket to the fund year round.VSA, a new design firm, did better job this year with holiday tickets that can be seenaround Chicago.Chairman Fencik asks what we are trying to accomplish by viewing all these commercials sinceboard member Geoffrey Richards cannot see since he is on teleconference. Chief of Staff states3that the board must review. Director suggests for board to review commercials on their own nexttime and if they have any questions or concern it can be discussed at next board meeting.Sales/Jen Acker (filling in for Victor Golden)• Fiscal year '14 sales goal for Northstar is 3.5 billion dollars. First quarter sales are 691.7million.Chairman Fencik asks if there is any pattern to quarterly sales, over the year. Director Jones saysit is about a quarter, a quarter, a quarter depending on the grand prize.Board member Christian asks if Northstar has any comments on the numbers.Marco Tasso in the last governance meeting stated that the initiatives they had introduced in thefirst quarter had not reached the goals they anticipated.• Fireball Pick 4 is doing about $360,000 a week; Fire Ball Pick 3 is doing about 300,000 aweek. Both fireballs total about 600,000 per week but pick 3 and pick 4 sales havedeclined.• Hit or Miss is estimated to do 1 million dollars a week, it's doing about $400,000 aweek/on sale every day, drawn four times a day.• FY13 was 2.8 billion dollars in sales and net income shortfall was $167 million.• Northstar should be doing about 67 million dollars a week in sales and we're averaging51 to 52 million dollars a week.Chairman Fencik requests comparative information from other states. LaFleur's magazine trackssales by game, by state and rank states year to year. Copies will be distributed to board.•J. Liebman, Novack & Macey asks if FY13 was the best year the Lottery has ever done inIllinois in terms of transferring money to the state. Even though Northstar didn't gettarget according to the numbers, was it the best year? Director Jones says yes.Compared to FY 12, lottery was up 26 million in FY13.•Just finished Halloween Raffle, but Northstar made some changes to the raffle format, itwas $20 ticket and changed prize structure over 32% of tickets was unsold. Previouslythe 4th of July raffle also did not sell out.Legislative/Jen Acker• Just finished two weeks of veto session in Springfield and the legislature came back inSpringfield to work on a few initiatives.• Jen Acker introduces Alison Howlett Walters, who will now be doing legislative work forthe Lottery. Jen Acker will be leaving the lottery and has taken a position as Director ofLegislative Affairs at the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation.• Alison is on week two learning along. She is an attorney, went to school at Loyola, andwas on Speaker Madigan's legal staff. She also clerked for Judge Bauer of the SeventhCircuit Court of Appeals.• Last session we tried to add the remainder of the draw base games to the internet pilotprogram, which was met with some resistance. The bill might have to be reintroduced.• We are making an accounting change to the capital projects fund transfer, something thatthe auditors pointed out. It does not change the way the transfer is done, but is animportant legislative change that we're going to work on. Also seeking legislation to4••authorize the Lottery to enter into settlements with certain parties that have seriousdiligent accounts or debts due to the lottery that we would rather settle with.There’s interest in the specialty games and trying to support them in a way other thanscratch-off tickets. Not sure if that’s going anywhere right now but we have beenmeeting with legislators as part of our duty to build relationships to pass these importantinitiatives.The board had shared interest in meeting with legislators in Springfield and Alison willbe reaching out to them to schedule a time to be part of the process.Legal/Tracy Jacobson• Deputy General Counsel refreshes the board on a pending case from the last meeting thatthey must vote on. She presented additional information for review and asked if therewere any questions. The board is able to vote on paper where they agree or disagree withAdministrative Law Judge on the retailer owing the lottery debt and will be given to thelottery board secretary.Finance/ Brett Finley• Weekly sweep of retailers through PNC Bank are done Wednesday mornings afterTuesday activities, so our week is Tuesday through Monday. During October, we hadweekly sweeps that totaled 123.1 million dollars that we received from the retailers forsales throughout the state.• Synopsis of what the comptroller has for our records of the debts balance that we carriedover from previous month is 43 million dollars. Our receipts, show 123.6 million dollarsand a$500,000 variance from the sweep, which is money that came from other sourceslike direct deposits to the bank, or checks that came into us that we deposited from theretailer that did not get caught in sweep.• Expenditures for the month we paid vouchers are operating expenses at 4.4 milliondollars, we paid prizes in over 27 million dollars, and the transfers ended up at 58.5million dollars. In October, because the transfers to the common school fund occurred ona weekly basis and done on Wednesday mornings, we transferred the money and theninstructed the Treasurer's office to transfer the predetermined scheduled amount eachweek to the common school fund.• In October, there were five weekly transfers, which totaled almost 58.5 million dollarsthat went to the common school fund. Our schedule for November is a little over 12million dollars for the week for a total of 48.4 million dollars.• The board will now be getting a weekly sales report.Audit/Melinda Westwater• Overview is given about an internal audit that was started by predecessor, Shelly Banks,is generally not public and cannot be presented in detail. Northstar was presented withfinal report and there were several recommendations made to it. Northstar will becoming back with their corrective action plan; they have 30 days from the date of finalreport.• Melinda is working on the net income shortfall calculation with Daymon Ruttenberg andrest of the team. Also conducting external audits this year which consists of twocomponents. Last year FY12 was only a financial audit, FY13 is both the financial and5••••compliance audit. The compliance audit is done every two years. The financial audit wewill have every year.Financial audit and the final exit conference will be December 3rd and we are right onschedule. The compliance audit is a bit more challenging since it is lottery's first timethrough compliance component of it as an independent agency. Exit conference will beFebruary 7. Harold Mays has been heavily involved in the compliance and they areconcentrating on the IT world and our compliance requirements there are quitechallenging.Going to be starting the GAAP process audit which is required by the financial standardreporting board, a new board that was created in conjunction with many issues that thestate of Illinois has had in obtaining correct and accurate audit data from the agencies.Will be taking a look at the investment securities process within lottery and how we goabout doing that and following processes and ensuring that the funds are all safe guardedand so on.Going to be taking a look at the instant tickets process, the controls over the inventory inthe retailers and the controls over prizes that are distributed.Director Jones explained FY13’s final numbers basically triggered the shortfall using the samemethodology that we used in FY12. The same methodology that we used in terms ofdetermining net income shortfalls equates to an income shortfall payment from Northstar to thelottery and the state. Payment will be an estimated $38 million. Last year it was around $20million. Final numbers should be available soon.Board member Thompson wants to hear a verbal vote on ballot filled out by board membersregarding rulings on lottery retailer. Voting is conducted and it's unanimous to vote with theruling the ALJ has made.Josh Liebman of Novack & Macey asks the board why public comments were moved to thebeginning of the meeting, as opposed to the end like last time. This gives opportunity tocomment on what happened during the meeting. Board member Thompson states that it was hersuggestion, being that if a public comment was made that needed to be voted on or take actionon, this would allow time do so.J. Liebman suggests that they be at the end of the meeting. He also wanted confirmation on howto obtain audio transcripts of the meeting. Deputy General Counsel suggested emailing her forthat request.His last question is to Director Jones on a press release in 2013 where the Director stated that thelottery is going to adjust its net income population numbers in terms of Northstar shortfalls basedon the audited numbers. Press release was released before audited numbers came out. Is lotteryplanning on making an adjustment on that?Director Jones states that this is all under mediation and litigation and it is inappropriate tocomment.6Board member Christian moves that we go into a closed session to discuss possible litigationissues around our contract with Northstar. Board member Thompson seconded the motion andthe board approves unanimously by roll call vote.Chairman Fencik adjourns meeting at 11:35 a.m., and the board moves into closed session.Respectfully submitted,Nora IniguezLottery Control Board Secretary7