Lottery Control Board
Regular Session Minutes
March 12, 2014
122 South Michigan Ave., 19th floor, Chicago, IL, 60603
130 W. Mason St., #104, Springfield, IL, 62702
On Wednesday March 12, 2014, at 9:30 a.m., a regular meeting of the Lottery Control Board was
held at 122 South Michigan Ave., 19th Floor, Chicago, Il 60603, and at the Training Room in
Springfield, IL 62702. Video and teleconferencing were available to join the meeting attendees.
The following board members were present in Chicago: Gary Fencik, Chairman, Robert
Anthony Christian, and Sharon Thompson. Paul Schaefer attended in Springfield and Geoffrey
A. Richards participated via teleconference.

CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Fencik called the meeting to order with a quorum present at 9:30 a.m. The following
were also in attendance:
Lottery Staff (Chicago): Michael Jones, Director, Sara Barnett, Chief of Staff, Daymon
Ruttenberg, General Counsel, Alison Walters, Deputy Chief of Staff, Harold Mays, Chief
Operation & Technology Officer, Melinda Westwater, Chief Internal Auditor, Brett Finley,
Finance Manager, Nora Iniguez, Lottery Control Board Secretary
Lottery Staff (Springfield): Victor Golden, Deputy Director, Tracy Jacobson, Deputy General
Counsel, Mehpara Suleman, Senior Counsel, Tiffany Blair, Budget Manager, Mike Lang, Media
& Public Relations
Other Attendees (Chicago): Eric Macey and Josh Lieberman, Novack & Macey, LLP, Kathy
Gilroy, public citizen, Marla Harris, Governor’s Office
Other Attendees (Via teleconference): Paul Marion, Crain’s Chicago Business
Other Attendees (Springfield): Anita Bedell, Illinois Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction
Problems, Kristen Houch, Governor’s Office
Chairman Fencik specified the following proposed rules regarding public comment:
1.
Those wishing to speak must sign up ahead of time on the supplied sign in sheet.
2.
Each person will be allowed to speak up to three minutes.
3.
If multiple persons or a group wish to comment, the board asks the group to select
a representative to address the board.
4.
If three minutes is insufficient time, comments may be submitted in writing to the
Lottery Control Board Secretary.
5.
This will be only time during meetings that the public can address the Board.
6.
At conclusion of the allotted time for public comment, the Board asked the public
attendees to please be respectful of remaining proceedings.
1

 PUBLIC COMMENT
 Kathy Gilroy addressed the board, regarding a recent Chicago Tribune feature on
a liquor store that holds a lottery license. Ms. Gilroy questioned how a convicted
felon received a lottery license which she stated violates statute. Ms. Gilroy
commented on lottery material at point of sale that is still missing problem
gambling information. Finally, Ms. Gilroy inquired as to why casinos are allowed
to do lottery style promotions since lotteries are not listed as an approved game in
the Riverboat Gambling Act. The Gaming Board approved this promotion and
Ms. Gilroy wondered if Lottery was aware of this.


Eric Macey and Josh Lieberman of Novack & Macey spoke on behalf of Northstar
Lottery Group. Mr. Macey inquired if Chairman Fencik had received a letter
regarding the proposed advertising policy. He also commented on a letter that
Director Jones sent to Northstar regarding the Lottery’s collection of a FY13 Net
Income Shortfall Payment.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Fencik moved for the Board to approve the open session minutes of its regular
meeting on 11/13/2013. Bob Christian seconded the motion and the Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.
OLD BUSINESS-Advertising Policy
 The Board tabled the approval of the advertising policy. Chairman Fencik will
distribute the letter he received from Northstar, along with the Board’s draft
policy, to the rest of the board members for their review. The issue will be put on
the next meeting's agenda.
 Chairman Fencik and the rest of the Board members agreed that a formal written
invitation to the next board meeting should be sent to the new CEO of Northstar
Lottery group. Chairman Fencik also asked that the Lottery board members be
copied on the letter. The letter should specifically include the topic of the
advertising policy.
NEW BUSINESS
 Proposed BYLAW Amendment- General Counsel Ruttenberg explained the proposed
amendment to the bylaws regarding public comments. The amendment is a way to
formalize the Board’s process for receiving public comments. Board member Christian
made a motion to adopt the new proposed bylaw amendment. Chairman Fencik seconded
the motion. A roll call vote was taken on the recommendation to adopt the proposed
bylaw amendment and it was approved.


Administrative Hearing- Tracy Jacobson addressed the Board from Springfield and
introduced Lottery's new Senior Counsel, Mehpara Suleman, who will represent Lottery
2

 at Administrative Hearings proceedings. Ms. Suleman presented the facts of the Christina
Lyons case. Ms. Lyons had filed a Motion for Review (“Motion”) by the Board. The
Motion appeals the Decision of Administrative Law Judge Ken Galvin (“ALJ”) in favor
of the Lottery. Ms. Lyons had requested an Administrative Hearing to protest a decision
by the Lottery denying her claim for payout on a $1,000.00 winning instant ticket for
game 877, “The Good Life”. Ms. Lyons claimed that she purchased the winning ticket
and had it validated by a licensed lottery agent. However, she did not have in her
possession the winning ticket or a copy or a photograph of the winning ticket or a valid
claim receipt or a copy or photograph of a valid claim receipt. She claimed that she
mailed the winning ticket via Certified Mail to the Lottery’s Springfield address. The
validation showed that “cash limit exceeded.” The Lottery cannot confirm the contents
of the package, as it was misplaced. The ALJ ruled against Ms. Lyons based on Title 11,
Subtitle C, Section 1770.130 of the Illinois Administrative Code, titled “Lost, Stolen and
Damaged Winning Tickets and Other Discrepancies.” This states that each winning ticket
must pass validation and security tests as described in the rules of the game being played.
If a claim has been entered into the computer system but the claimant is unable to
produce a claim receipt, or when appropriate the claim ticket, no action will be taken with
respect to the claim until the claim period for the game has expired. For this game, Ms.
Lyons must wait one year from when the game closes to submit her claim, at which time,
the Lottery’s Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel have the authority to grant or
deny her claim.
Board member Schafer questioned the safeguarding of receiving certified mail and making sure
that mail is not misplaced in the future.
Director Jones explained that there was an error on the Lottery's side as the package was
misplaced and contents cannot be verified. The Lottery must follow the rules in waiting for a
year after game #877 ends. He also explained that the rule may need to be reviewed internally as
some games do not have an end date.
Ms. Suleman explained that each Board Member must submit his/her vote by signing a
Recommendation to affirm or overturn the judge’s decision, and that they must make the
decision based on the record of the case.
Chairman Fencik asked if a comment can be made in the next meeting regarding this policy.


Open Meetings Act-There is a Memo being published providing guidance to the
board members regarding the Open Meetings Act. It is being reviewed internally
and will be made available once completed.

DIRECTOR'S REPORT
 Director Jones explained that over that last two years Northstar and the Lottery
have been working together to evaluate the lottery’s current drawing process. He
explained that lottery drawings have traditionally been broadcast statewide on the
WGN news at noon and 9 PM. In February, WGN discontinued broadcasting the
evening news statewide. The Lottery has been exploring options to modernize the
3

 way we communicate numbers in a convenient way to our players. Director
Jones went on to explain how the Lottery currently offers two games, Hit or Miss
and My 3, which are both drawn by a random number generator. Director Jones
stated that the Lottery will adhere to procurement rules while exploring its
options, and will also evaluate marketing considerations. Director Jones reported
that the Lottery launched its latest specialty game, the MS Project. There was a
press event at the State Capitol that generated a tremendous amount of publicity
for the ticket.

Marketing








Northstar launched a mobile app for online lottery tickets.
St. Patrick’s Day Raffle is currently on sale. With six days remaining until the
drawing, sales have declined. Deputy Director Victor Golden explained that
marketing is not consistent and there are different programs occurring at retail
which is very confusing to the players. This is the third raffle that did not sell out.
The new television spot, Hoops, is running for the $10,000 a week for 20 years
game. The 20 years of Cash game which launched in February is replacing The
Good Life ticket. Games consists of $2000, $5000 & $10,000 a week for 20 years
MS specialty ticket is launched focusing on scratching out MS from Illinois.
Radio scripts are played for the Board members in which a “scratching noise” is
heard educating folks as to the existence of this sickness and where the money
goes.
Hit or Miss currently has a promotion where you purchase three tickets and
receive one free.

Board Member Christian asks, “What are the early signs of whether a game is working?” Victor
Golden states that Northstar looks at what is sold per week. A weekly sale of $200,000 per week
is considered successful for an online game.






Sales
Deputy Director Golden gave a presentation on sales for instant and online tickets for FY13
versus FY 14:
Northstar’s Retail Recruitment was a large factor in achieving the sales goal of $3.5 billion
for the FY14. Numbers show that goal versus actual is very low and this all part of the
Northstar business plan.
Director Jones indicated that it is a branding issue. If the lottery has a robust popular brand,
then it would be more effective to recruit retail.
Sales for Veteran’s Cash are down about 20 % from last year.
In order to achieve the $3.5 billion goal, the Lottery needs to average $97 million in sales per
week. Currently, sales are averaging $53 million per week. To match FY 13 performance,
Lottery needs to average $56 million per week to have equal sales as FY 13.

4

 FY14 Comparedto FY13 up to 3-10-14

Inst-ft
5m 57W
"8 5m 5714.537?


SW

SW

Realm

hasVeteran?s Ticket

58.131731

51.12015

5m

3333

$713.5?

55372?

$259,902



 

mm?!



Hm.?
?Win-- ?m
man?mm 8 mt.?


 

 Finance

Audit



Melinda Westwater reported that the Lottery is going to be undertaking a year-three
investigative audit of Northstar as required by statute. The external audit is currently
underway and is comprised of both a financial and compliance pieces.
The Lottery is annually required to file a report on compliance with the Fiscal Control
and Internal Auditing Act. Senior management is currently evaluating the Department’s
Internal Controls for this report. The Lottery Director will then certify to the Auditor
General that our internal controls are in place and will properly mitigate problems.

6

 Legal


Tracy Jacobson, Deputy General Counsel, reported that the Lottery has
followed up on some of Ms. Gilroy’s comments from the last meeting. The
Lottery did find some inconsistencies regarding the problem gambling
messaging on marketing materials and will instruct Northstar to correct the
problem.



Board Chairman Gary Fencik asked for an update on the net income
shortfall payments that Northstar was required to make to the Lottery.
Director Jones informs the Board that both the FY12 and FY13 shortfall
payments have been captured, for $21 million and $38 million
respectively.



Daymon Ruttenberg, General Counsel, explained that the net income
shortfall payments are capped at 5% of the net income.

ADJOURNMENT
In order to discuss potential litigation regarding adjustments to net income and net
income calculation, Board Member Fencik moved to close the open meeting session
according to Illlinois CS120-2C11. Board members Schaefer, Christian, and Richards
unanimously approved by roll call vote.
Chairman Fencik adjourned meeting at 11:05 a.m and moved into a closed session.
Respectfully submitted,
Nora Iniguez
Lottery Control Board Secretary

7

 