ILLINOIS LOTTERY CONTROL EOARDRegular Session MinutesOctober l0, 2Cli.?ZJames R. Thompson Center100 W. Randolph, Chicago, IL 6060iOn Wednesday, October 10, 2012 at 18:30am, the Lottery Control Board meeting was held. at the JamesR. Thompson center in room #7-2l6, Chicago, IL 60601. This was the first meeting since MichaelJones became Superintendent with a new panei of board members. Board rnenibers were appointed onby Governor Pat Quinn.Lottery Control Board Mentbers: Robert Anthony Christian, John Gary Feneik, Geoffrey A. Richards,Paul D. Schaefer, and Sharon U. Thompson.Lottery staff in attendance: Victor Golden, Depart}: Saperinzendenz?, Sara Barnett, Chz?efofSta?,Daytnon Ruttenberg, Generaf Counsel, Tracy Jacobson, Depart; General Cozinsel, Shelly Banks, ChiefNora 'l'niguez, Lottery Control Board SecretaryOther attendees: Marco Tasso, Lottery group, Brenda Donahue, Downtoiwz Partners,Chris Templeton, Critical Mass, and Sherman Wright, CornmongrozmdCALL TO ORDER:Michael Jones, Lottery Superintendent, called the meeting to order with a quorum present at l0:40a1n.Lottery Superintendent Jones welcomed board members and expressed the importance of having aLottery Control Board with a group of professionals with Varying business experie-nces and differentpoints of View that will be a great resource to the Superintendent, the Lottery, and the state. Having theexperience of running the Illinois Lottery from 1981 to 1.985, the Superintendent faces a new challengeof working alongside a private "manager, Lottery Group.The Superintendent went on to explain that Lottery Group is a consortium of long-timeLottery industry Vendors: GTECH and Scientific Gaines. The management company handles most day-to?day Lottery operations, with the exception of Lottery drawings and prize payments, which remainLottery-only functions. The Lottery also provides guidance and suggestions on everything from ticketdesign to advertising.Despite the Lottery?s Very good showing in FY 2012 (which was a very good year for lotteries acrossthe board), fell short of the net?ineoi:ne it promised to raise in Either $85 lniillion,assuming a. full year of internet sales; or $825 million assuming no internet sales.Lottery Superintendent Jones requested that the board inernbe-rs introduce thernselyes as well as theLottery?s senior staff that was present. He then proceeded to review a _power point presentation coveringthe following topics:Change in rnanagernerit, agencies, and philosophy with new marketing and advertising strategies.New technology Where we are introducing the usage of mobile device, new user interface addition of Powerball sales coining in November43 cents of every dollar went to CS1: back in 80?s, now only 28centsViReview of creative campaigns including:Artyt.hing?s l3?ossible(new brand), research conducted by Chris Templeton, Critical Massshowcasing Arnericarfs optimism on what they think about their lives. When they playlottery, it?s not that they think they can beat odds; it?s about how they think they can winfor New garne- began in September with two daily drawings: l0:30arn 6:30p.rn.,select three numbers and can win three different ways, exact order, any order or rnatchtwo of three in exact position. OVeral.l odds: 1 in 30, Prizes range from $4 to 3200.Halloween raffle-500,000 raffle tickets available at $20 each. Four $lrnillion prizes, ?ve$100,000 prizes, ?ve hundred $1000 prizes.New instant garne Birthday Surprise( Win $l 50,000 immediately and $150,000 on yourbirthday for 20 years), new design, advertising agency versus printing companydesigning instant tickets, specialty tickets and other instants are now being designed thisway.Specialty cause tickets( Ticket For the Cure, Vet?s Cash, MS &Red Ribbonniandated by legislature, absolute key in making people know whatLottery is all about, when played there is a direct. benefit.Member Gary Fencik asked following questions: 1.) Is education the primary bene?ciary from theLottery? 2.) Regarding the specialty tickets like the veterans ticket, where 100% pro?ts goes to otherIllinois programs that help veterans, is lottery worried that although trying to expand player base are weworried about cannibalizing the main purpose??Superintendent Jones commented: 1.) We also fund the roads and bridges and the capital projectsfund.2.) No, because we have a small group of people playing lottery now, and with our Specialtytickets, We can attract players that really don?t play except when jackpot is high. When you ask peopleon the street, everyone has a story as to being personally, or knows someone affected by one of theabove causes.Member Gary Fencik asked the question: Of all states that run a lottery, who has the largestpercentage of users??Superintendent Jones commented: It is all the same, universal at 69%.Member Gary Fencik asked the question: From a govemance standpoint, where does makedecisions versus where the lottery makes decisions??Superintendent Jones commented: On all strategies, decisions on games, advertising media, wemake those decisions jointly with but ultimately, we have the authority. Election of chairmanMember Geoffrey Richards recommends that Board Member Gary Fcncik be elected as the LotteryControl Board Chairman. He has the background of serving on the Lottery Control Board before in theearly eighties Robert Christian: I second this theory.Superintendent Jones asks the question: is this unanirnous??All members proceed to ?rote by a show of hands with four in favor and one abstaining.Superintendent Jones turns the agenda over to the chair.Chairman Gary Fencik continues meeting by discussing following:- New Business/Policy MotionsDesignate Hearing Officer:Daymon Ruttenberg explains the administrative hearing procedures presently conducted by theLottery in conjunction with the Administrative Law Judges of the IL Department of Revenue.Hearings involve retailers who have appealed a case when their license is suspended or revoked dueto fraud, delinquent in property taxes, income taxes or not paying money they owe from sales oftickets. Other hearings come from individuals claiming their lottery ticket is a winner when it hasbeen determined that it is not. After recommendation is made by the and rey"iea:ed, it is eitheraffirmed or rejected by the Lottery Superintendent. Daymon Ruttenberg, Lottery General Counselasks the board members to rule to continue to use the ALJ ?s contracted by IL Department ofRevenue.Chairman Gary Fencik makes motion to continue with this process, All are in favor; vote is unanimous.Other New Business:Lottery Superintendent discussed that Powerball will now be added to the product mix of saleswith a new and improved interface that should kickoff in November as well application capability forboth mobile phones and iPads.Chairman Gary Fencik asks if Marco Tasso, CEO of can give a brief introduction. Mr. Tassodiscussed his background and success at Lottomatica, the parent company in Italy that owns GTECH.Chairman. asks the Superintendent if he could further es_p'lain the arbitration issue between andthe IL Lottery since question will be asked.The Superintendent discussed:Under provisions of the Private Management Agreement, both the Lottery and the private manager canseek to have annual net income levels adjusted either up or down) due to a Variety of factors that mightoccur during the year. issued a series of letters (eight in total) seeking a reduction of well over$100 million for the FY12 net-income level. These downward adjustment requests from the privatemanager are being challenged by the Lottery. A third party professional) initially determined that morethan half of the downward adjustments sought by the private manager are unwarranted, and is currentlyconsidering further arguments from the Lottery to eliminate other reductions sought by the privatemanager. Ultimately, the private manager may find itself liable for financial penalties for not making itsnet income goalwbut a final determination is probably many months away.Merttber Pan} Schaefer asks the question: Will this liability continue until resolved??Superintendent Jones commented: If prevails, they are asking for five more years.Member Paul Schaefer asks the question: How long is the agreement betweeri arid Lottery??Superintendent Jones commented: Teri years.hfieniher Geoff Richards asks question: ls it appropriate for the board to receive copies of thepleadings that have been ?led to help educate them on what the issues are and what is the best Way toanswer questions regarding Lottery in general or the relationship between and Lottery?Dayrrioo Ruttenberg commented: This would not be a problem and that he would have to look overthe con?dentiality agreement in regards to what they can or cannot share.Member Robert Christian suggested that all inquiries should be submitted in Writing and for boardmembers to contact the lottery staff with any questions and discuss with other board members.Chairman Gary Fencik suggested that if media has questions they should Contact lottery directly.Member Sharon Thompson asked: Why did percentage of money that goes to school go from 41% to28??Superintendent Jones answered: Decision of the Lottery to increase their prize percentage payout.Member Sharon Thompson asked: What are various agencies and their percentages that we help?Since 1974, the Lottery has raised over $17.5 billion for the Common School Fund, $155 million for theCapital Projects Fund (roads and bridges) and nearly $30 million for specialty instantwgame causes (ILveterans, ?ght against breast cancer, MS research, assist people living with Lotteryproceeds initially went to the General Revenue Fund ?until l98S, when they started going to the CSF.The Lottery ?nished Fiscal Year 2012 with record sales ($2.67 billion) and record transfers to goodcauses ($708 million). $708 in transfers includes: $639.8 million to Commons School Fund, $65.2million to Capital Projects Fund, and $3.5 roil.lior1 to specialty?cause instant games (Veterans Cash,Ticket for the Cure, Red Ribbon Cash MS)Chairman Gary Fencik requests for future dates to setup next meeting. Dayrnoo Ruttenberg states thatWe can have meeting going on in two places at sarae time as long it is listed on the agenda.Gary Fericik requests for future dates to set up next meeting. Dayinon Ruttenberg states that we canhave meeting going on in two places at same time via video Chicago/Spring?eld as long as it is listed irragenda. The next Lottery Control Board meeting is still to be determined.ADJOURNMENTLottery Comm} Beard Members presented motion 1:6 adjaum at 12:05pm.Respectfully submitted,Nora Latteyy Central Board Secretary