Lottery Control BoardRegular Session MinutesAugust 07, 2013122 South Michigan, 19th floor, Chicago, IL 60603130 W. Mason St., #104, Springfield, IL 62702On Wednesday August 07, 2013, at 10:30am, a regular meeting of the Lottery Control Boardwas held at 122 South Michigan, 19th Floor, Chicago, Il 60603, and at the Training Room inSpringfield, Il 62702. Video and teleconferencing were available to join the meeting attendees.The following board members were present in Chicago: Gary Fencik, Chairman, RobertAnthony Christian, and Sharon Thompson. Paul Schaefer attended in Springfield and GeoffreyA. Richards participated via teleconference.CALL TO ORDERChairman Fencik called the meeting to order with a quorum present at 10:30 am. Additionalattendees were: Lottery Staff (Chicago)- Michael Jones, Superintendent, Victor Golden, DeputySuperintendent, Sara Barnett, Chief of Staff, Daymon Ruttenberg, General Counsel, Jen Acker,Deputy Chief of Staff, Nora Iniguez, Lottery Control Board Secretary. Lottery Staff(Springfield)- Harold Mays, Chief Operation & Technology Officer, Melinda Westwater, ChiefInternal Auditor, Brett Finley, Finance Manager, Tiffany Blair, Budget Manager, Mike Lang,Media & Player Relations.Other attendees: (Chicago)J. Liebman and E. Macey, Novack & Macey, LLP, Kathy Gilroy,public citizen, (teleconference)Matt Wallberg, Chicago Tribune, Paul Marion, Crain’s ChicagoBusiness, (Springfield)Anita Bedell, IL Church Action on Alcohol & Addiction Problems.APPROVAL OF MINUTESChairman Fencik moved for the Board to approve the open session minutes of its regularmeeting on 04/17/2013. Sharon Thompson seconded the motion and the Board approved themotion unanimously by roll call vote.OLD BUSINESS Superintendent Jones recaps FY13 by saying it was a good year. The Lottery had recordsales and profits, transferring $793.5 million dollars to schools, roads and bridges, andother important causes. Our brand transformation has done very well and, according tothe tracking study, we are becoming visible and relevant. The private manager, Northstar Lottery Group, did not reach its sales goal, but Lottery isworking diligently with Marco Tasso and Francesco Parola and their respective teams toreach their intended sales goals. The FY12 net income calculation has been finalized; however, the private managerdisputes the figure. The Lottery will capture $21.7 million dollars based on the privatemanger’s net income shortfall in FY12. Lottery will capture the net income shortfall payment from the management fees paid toprivate manager (which consists of Scientific Games and GTECH). The Lottery will1insist on full payments to Northstar subcontractors, advertising agencies, and mediaoutlets.Chairman Fencik asked how long the legal process will take in terms of resolving thenet income dispute. General Counsel, Daymon Ruttenberg, responded that it is a threestep process which includes mediation, and the Lottery, the private manager, and outsidecounsel are in the process of selecting a mediator. The last step would be court of claims.NEW BUSINESSSuperintendent’s Report/Michael Jones: 4th of July Millionaire Raffle –The cost was lowered from $20 to $10 and there were 4weekly drawings for half a million dollars with a final grand prize of $1 million. Since the raffle coincided with the exciting Blackhawks championship series, MarcoTasso, CEO of Northstar, decided to include some Chicago Blackhawks official gamejerseys as part of the incentive to purchase a ticket.Although the raffle did not sell out, it was a well-executed first time attempt of doing somethingdifferent from our previous Halloween and St. Patrick’s Day raffles where the $20 wager can bea barrier to play. Board member R. Christian congratulated Lottery on job well done with thisraffle. Lucky Day Lotto went from being drawn once perday in the evening to twice perday, with the addition of a midday draw. Draw times are at 12:40pm & 9:22pm.Cost remains at $1. Lotto changed significantly, moving the drawing from Wednesday to Thursday,making draw days on Monday, Thursday, and Saturday. It also added a new“match two” prize paying $1 and changed the “match three” prize payout to $5from $3. One game now costs $1 for one play as opposed to $1 for two plays.2 Pick 3 and Pick 4 plus Fireball- adding Fireball to your Pick 3 or Pick 4 purchasegives you a chance to get an extra number drawn and improve your chances tomatch a winning combination and turn your ticket into a winner. Cost isequivalent to the player’s original base wager. This is an enhancement of ourpopular online games that account for approximately 48 percent of our onlinesales. Spread The Word, our specialty game benefiting HIV/AIDS, has 2.3 milliontickets in market---with 473,000 sold. It launched on 06/04/2013, and hasgenerated a total contribution of $4,812,810 to HIV/AIDS causes since the gamebegan.3 Ticket For The Cure, our specialty game benefiting breast cancer awareness,education and research will launch on 09/03/2013. The total contribution to breastcancer causes since the initial launch of the ticket has been $9,856,065.Board members, Fencik and Christian asked about last year’s sales and if Lottery would beparticipating with the Susan G. Komen walk/run. Deputy Superintendent, Victor Goldenresponded that total sales for the four specialty tickets have been over $32 million.Superintendent Jones commented that we are trying to get the groups that benefit from thesegames to help promote the game with their own members and supporters. Northstar and itsadvertising agency were urged to reach out to third parties to co-promote. Last fall some majorconsumer goods companies like Dick’s Sporting Goods did creative, within business promotionsfor breast cancer and veterans causes. This is something the Lottery has urged Northstar tobecome involved in.Sales/Victor Golden: Fencik and Superintendent Jones questioned how we performedcompared to other state lotteries. The following graphs depict sales comparisons from FY13versus FY12. The salesfigures are actual; the charts do not depict the private manager’s salesgoals.4These sales figures are fromthe first month of the 2014 fiscal year versus the first month of last fiscal year. At this earlypoint, and based on last year’s profits at this time, the private manager is missing its projectionsby 26.7 percent.o Private Manager’s FY14 Business Plan: One of the game enhancements in Northstar’s new business plan, which is anextension to Lucky Day Lotto, is a Keno style game to be sold in bars and taverns.According to the Quinn administration it is not legal and not good public policy,so the Lottery denied the game extension, resulting in another downwardadjustment situation between the private manager and Lottery. Keno is a game mostly played in casinos and consists of frequent drawings, highodds, and a low cost to play.5 Northstar Lottery Group has asked for a downward adjustment of $556 million,promised to the state over five fiscal years--FY14 to FY18. There is nobackground as to how they came up with that specified dollar amount.Chairman Fencik asked if the private manager responded to the request from the Boardmembers to have someone from Northstar Lottery Group present its business plan. GeneralCounsel Daymon Ruttenberg stated that the request had been made, and would be made again,but that the private manager has marked its business plan as confidential and the only way theycould present it during an open meeting would be to waive the confidentiality. The privatemanager determines what is confidential, thereby limiting whatLottery can be present to theBoard today. Board member Richards stated that an invitation is appropriate and necessarysince Northstar is the architect of this business plan and would allow the Board Members tofurther understand both the plan and the requested downward adjustment of more than half abillion dollars.Operations & Technology Update/Harold Mays: Below are areas of concentration fromLottery’s operations and technology.Audit & Finance/Melinda Westwater: Melinda Westwater was formerly the CFO of the A&RShared Services Center---a division within the Department of Revenue that handles theaccounting and reporting activities for seven state agencies, including the Department of Lottery.As such, Melinda oversaw the Lottery’s FY12 audit as it pertained to items that Shared Serviceshelped account for. She has an MBA and CPA and has previously worked as the Director ofFinance in both governmental and manufacturing sectors.6 Finalization of FY12 audit was a very lengthy and difficult process due to staffingturnovers and vacancies both at Shared Services and Lottery, as well as the newPMA with Northstar Lottery Group, which brought new computer systems withreports and data presented in different ways that had to be reviewed, identified,adjusted and reconciled. FY13 will have a financial and compliance audit by the OAG. Compliance auditsare only done every two years while financial audits are done annually. Superintendent Jones commented that the methodology for calculating net incomehas been established which, along with Lottery’s experience from this fiscal year,will facilitate Lottery in creating financial reports in a timely fashion goingforward. He also noted that Lottery is now more familiar with and thus betterequipped to get data reports from the new Northstar system.Legislative/Jen Acker: Clean-Up Bill that makes several technical changes, a) changing Michael Jones’title from Superintendent to Director, b) change evidentiary burden to help in theadministrative hearings, c) change to the advertising policy to guide Boardmembers in reviewing advertising according to what law states, d) allowing MSSociety to make grants for prevention research. This passed both housesunanimously and should be signed by the Governor by August 18, 2013. 2nd initiative to add more draw games to our Internet Pilot Program passed theSenate but met with some concern in the House and did not get voted on. 3rd initiative concerns our specialty funds and finding other ways to support thesecauses besides having a scratch off ticket. This did not get voted on in eitherhouse. Other specialty tickets were proposed by various legislators but none passed.Looking ahead for next session consists of outreach planning, meeting andrelationship building with legislators, presence at state fairs, and meeting withlegislators to explain why Lottery’s initiatives are important for Lottery business.Board member Sharon Thompson asked if it is possible for the Board to have a presence inSpringfield and possibly meet with legislators there. This would also allow the Board to meetSpringfield Lottery staff. Superintendent Jones and Chief of Staff Barnett both agreed that itwould be a great idea and will take into consideration.Legal/Jen Acker for Tracy Jacobson: Jen Acker gave a brief description of a case on appeal inwhich the Board must make a recommendation to agree with the administrative law judge or findfor the claimant about a debt owed by a lottery retailer. The Board decided to follow up withDeputy General Counsel, Tracy Jacobson, for additional information on some unresolvedquestions. The Board unanimously voted to wait until next meeting to take a vote.Legal/Daymon Ruttenberg: The downward adjustment letter that Northstar submitted lastmonth, that related to Lucky Day Lotto, is one of five adjustment letters pending. Lottery is inthe process of hiring a new third party professional to adjudicate adjustments both up and down.There are two in both FY12 and FY13. Both sides are interested in moving forward andresolving this quickly. There is no estimate that can be given on the time frame.7Chairman Fencik asked the Board members if they want more detailed information on thedisputes with the private manager, which would require going into a closed session or if theyshould wait for the next meeting, at which point we will know more. The board votedunanimously to wait until next meeting.OTHER BUSINESSIllinois Lottery BYLAWS/Board Member Geoff Richards: Board member Richards thanksthe Lottery administration for allowing him to assist in creating bylaws. He indicated that thebylaws were created by looking at what other states and other jurisdictions have done. He toldmembers that these bylaws give clear directions on how current and subsequent board membersare to fulfill their duties and obligations to the Lottery director and to the Lottery itself. Thebylaws help Board members know what their roles are and enable good governance. Bylaws aredistributed to the Board members for review and to vote on next session.Chairman Fencik thanks the Lottery for the creation of these bylaws.A draft of the IL Lottery advertising policy is distributed for the board to review and vote on inthe next meeting. It outlines the standards by which the Lottery and its private manager shallconduct advertising.Board member Richards suggests verbiage change on “content and tone” section of policy.Public Comments: Kathy Gilroy, public citizen, addresses the Board on some items she believes haveviolated the Lottery Law: 1.) She states that there has not been quarterly presentations ofadvertising campaigns for the last two years; 2.) The rescheduled meeting date and timeof this Board meeting was not listed on the website in a timely manner; 3.) Certain Pointof Sale items did not include a statement in print regarding assistance with gamblingproblems. She points out that there are new online gambling sites, such as GamehouseCasino Plus and hooterspokeronline.com that are operating online in Illinois. Ms. Gilroywould like to see a report on the number of people who have signed up for the Lottery’sself-exclusion program and would like recordings of the Lottery Control Board meetingsto be available on the website. Eric Macey, Novack & Macey, are outside counsel for Northstar Lottery Group. Theystated that they will relay to Northstar the request for Northstar to address the Board andwill try to get answers to any questions. In regards to the advertising policy, Northstarreceived it yesterday and was not asked to make comments on it, but would like toprovide comment. Mr. Macey discussed the definition of Keno from an IL AttorneyGeneral opinion on the legality of Keno under the IL Lottery Law, which distinguishedlottery games and policy games. Policy game: like Keno, all players and the house take arisk of loss. Lottery game: the house never takes risk that it will lose. In Keno, the statewould become a participant in the process and could possibly lose money as it guaranteespayout. In conclusion, he does not believe that the Lucky Day Lotto extension is a formof keno as defined by the Attorney General’s office because there is no risk to the state.8Board member Thompson suggests an amendment to the agenda to allow public comments atthe early part of meeting to provide the Board the opportunity to take into consideration whatthe public says before the Board votes on something. She would also like to move meetings anhour earlier, from 10:30am to 9:30am. Board members approve to move the following meetingto 9:30am.Board member Richards asked if Ms. Gilroy’s comments will be addressed at the beginning ofthe next meeting and Superintendent Jones states that they will. A copy of Ms. Gilroy’sstatement will be emailed to the board members for review.Chairman Fencik moves to adjourn meeting, board member Sharon Thompson seconded themotion. Meeting adjourned at 12:05pm.Respectfully submitted,Lottery Control Board SecretaryNora Iniguez9