Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ. Chair
WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting
June 25, 2019,9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director [absent]
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Joan T. Agnew, Deputy Counsel
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
LaCretia Dandridge, Manager Human Resources
Joan T. Agnew, Deputy Counsel
Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Opal Walls, Purchasing Agent
Amanda Robledo, Purchasing
Sarita Villarreal, Consultant
Dean Ftikas, Consultant
Shobhana Verma, Consultant

Trupti Patel
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helena Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
Judd Ryan, ESStS
I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 9:39 am.

II.

Roll Call: All Board members were present.

III.

Consideration of Agenda: Items VIIA{1) through VIIA(6) were deferred to a future

meeting.

69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027
chicagoelections.com • cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting -June 25,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

IV.

Approval of Minutes:
A.
Minutes of the Canvassing Board Meeting of April 2,2019, which reconvened and
was adjourned on April 18, 2019
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Minutes of the Canvassing Board
Meeting of April 2, 2019, which reconvened and was adjourned on April 18,2019.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion was passed and the
Minutes were approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
B.

Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of April 23, 2019
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of April 23,2019. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The
motion passed and the Minutes were approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

V.

Executive Director's Report

Executive Director Lance Gough reported as follows:
• Mr. Gough requested authorization to send a letter that he had drafted to the Aldermen

regarding the changes to precincts. The Chair and Commissioner Kresse verbally
approved Mr. Gough's request.

• Mr. Gough provided the Board members with a copy of the cybersecurity table top
exercise that was held in Springfield last week. It was done so well that Mr. Gough has
asked the State and Department of Homeland Security(DHS)to perform the same table
top test in our office.

• Mr. Gough and staff met with two vendors regarding the Board's needs with new voting
equipment. We have seen the various vendors' demonstrations and proposals. We
should be getting responses from the vendors soon, and Mr. Gough will forward them to
the Board. As for finances, it will need to be a payment plan spread over several years,
similar to how the County financed their recent purchase of voting equipment. At the
end of the payments the Board will hold title to the equipment.
• We are preparing for the 2020 elections.
o Our IT Department is checking with each department to see what their needs are
for the 2020 Primary

o Although we are working on our 2020 calendar, we are waiting for the Illinois
State Board of Elections' calendar/pamphlet to make sure that the calendars
agree.

• The 2019 finances look solid. The Finance Director provided Mr. Gough with account
balances and the office is solvent at this time.

• The office has been conducting a search for a new Purchasing Agent/Director. Mr. Gough
introduced the recommended hire, Ms. Opal Walls, who provided some background

Page 2 of6

 Regular Board Meeting -June 25,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

infornriation about herself and to officially accept the position as the Board's Purchasing
Agent.

Ms. Walls addressed the Board, giving some background Information, Including:
o She was born and raised In the City of Chicago;
o She attended Chicago Public Schools;
o She graduated from Elmhurst College; and,

o She has worked In government for about 17 years, primarily at Chicago Public
Schools where she held the position of Chief Procurement Officer as well as
Business Diversity Officer.
Ms. Walls then officially accepted the position of Purchasing Agent to the Board.
The Chair stated that the Board is excited that Ms. Walls has accepted and looks
forward to working with her.

• Mr.Gough continued his report by stating that we are still working on contingency plans.
Mr. Allen will discuss that further In his report.

• We are working with the Department of Justice(DoJ)on a new settlement agreement
With regards to ADA matters, which we hope to have finished soon.
A.

Assistant Executive Director

Mr. Gough stated that Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday Is absent from
today's meeting. Mr. Gough noted that Mr. Holiday had offered to telephone Into
the meeting, even though he would be on the road at that time. Mr. Gough told
Mr. Holiday that telephoning In would not be necessary. The Chair pointed out
that Mr. Holiday is a great and loyal employee.
B.

Communications Director's report

Communications Director Jim Allen reported as follows:

• There has been much focus on the Board's contingency and emergency plans
meetings. These meetings have continued since the Board last met.
• We have also been working on specifications for canvass contracts.
• He has been dealing with media Inquiries
• We have been updating the website, which must be performed before we
convert the website to .gov.

Commissioner Swain wanted It stated on the record, and applaud Mr. Allen for
coming up with the Idea of the "I voted" wrist bands. Commissioner Swain had
attended a fashion show at Whitney Young High School where one of the students
wore a dress made up entirely of our wrist bands. The Chair suggested that we
acquire the dress.

Pages of6

 Regular Board Meeting -June 25,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: already discussed.

B.
Electronic Poll Books -Judd Ryan of ES&S addressed the Board stating that the
only change to be dealt with is on incorporating the Department of Justice survey form
into the poll worker module of the e-poll book. Voting Equipment: discussed above.
C.

Legislation

General Counsel Adam Lasker reported that the wait continues with regards to an
omnibus election law bill, noting that even though the State Legislature extended the
omnibus deadline,the legislature has taken no action yet
VII.

New Business

A.
Professional Services Agreements between the Board of Election Commissioners
for the City of Chicago and the following:
1.

Dean Ftikas

2.

JPA Consulting Group, Inc.

3.

Guillermo Perez

4.

Gary M. Rycyzyn

5.

Sarita Villarreal

6.

Shobhana Johri Verma

SKU Corp.
Mr. Gough stated that he sat down with Commissioner Swain who had had some
7.

concerns regarding these items.
Commissioner Swain wanted to clarify for the record -and to all those listed- that his

concerns are in no way a comment on the work and talent that these people have
brought to the Board for many years. The concerns Commissioner Swain raised with Mr.
Gough focused on the question of balance between employees and contractors.
Discussion ensued. Commissioner Swain then stated that he is prepared to move forward
on agenda item number 7(SKU Corp), but would wish to defer action on items 1-6 until
the next meeting.

Commissioner Kresse asked General Counsel Lasker if deferring items 1 through 6 would
be permissible.

Mr. Lasker stated that these items are not due to expire until the end of this month. If we
ask these individuals to continue working past the end of this month, we will continue
paying them under the terms of the current contract on a month-to-month basis.

Commissioner Swain moved to defer items 1 through 6 until the next meeting.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion carried by 3:0 vote of the Board
and items 1-6 were deferred until the next scheduled meeting of the Board.
As for item 7, Mr. Lasker explained that SKU is a privately owned business that has
worked with the Board on many projects and also works with the Cook County Clerk. SKU
Page 4 of6

 Regular Board Meeting -June 25, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

has developed our Voter Registration system and many other components that we use at
the Board of Elections.

Mr. Lasker explained that this item has two components. One is a maintenance and

support contract for the various modules that we are currently using. The other involves
several new projects.
Discussion ensued.

Commissioner Kresse moved to enter into a Professional Service

Agreement with SKU Corp for support and maintenance. The term of
which would be July 1,2019 through June 30,2021 at the rate of $28,175
per month. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion.The motion passed
by unanimous vote of the Board.

Mr. Lasker pointed out that the second contract is for new development
projects.
Discussion ensued as to the second contract with SKU.

Commissioner Kresse moved to enter into a Professional Services

Agreement with SKU Corp for new development with a term of July 1,
2019 through December 31, 2020(18 months)in the amount of$377,050

to be paid in 18 monthly installments of $20,947.22 per month.
Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous vote of the Board.

Vill.

Legal Report

• On Friday of last week the First District Appellate issued a decision in the case involving
the citywide mayoral term limit and consumer advocacy referenda petition that was filed
with the City Clerk last summer. Our Electoral Board found two legal reasons for keeping

the referenda off the ballot. This matter was split into two lawsuits. One case already
went up to the Illinois Supreme Court and has been decided. This instant case is the
original action which had already been to the Appellate Court, but returned on another
Issue. In this latest opinion, the Appellate Court again agreed with the actions of the
Board.

• Regarding the Americans with Disabilities Act(ADA)settlements with the Department of
Justice (DoJ), the DoJ has seen the work we have done and agrees that there has been
progress. The DoJ has agreed to extend the agreement and the benchmarks because the
DoJ is pleased with what we are doing.
• Commissioner Kresse had some questions regarding attorneys working on the

accessibility project. Mr. Lasker stated that currently the project does not have any
attorneys(other than those with Equip For Equality) working on the project. The new
plan regarding the polling place survey will have Board employees and other sister
agencies completing the surveys. This summer Equip For Equaiity and the Board are
training core groups. Additionaiiy, the City might use city inspectors for their properties.
Additionaliy, we have improved the survey tool.
Page 5 of6

 Regular Board Meeting -June 25,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

IX.

Financial Report: None.

X.

Public Comment: None.

XI.

Executive Session: None.

Xii.
Adjournment: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn until the next scheduled meeting
on July 9.- Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion was approved by unanimous
vote of the Board. The meeting was adjourned at 10:13 a.m.

Submitted,

Commn^oner William J. Kresse
Secretary

Page 6 of6

 