ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH (IDPH)
Illinois Suicide Prevention Alliance
May 15, 2019
10:00am - 1:00pm
Approved August 26, 2019

Chicago
Springfield
WebEx

I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.

VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.

WebEx
James R. Thompson Center, 100 W. Randolph St., Room 9-036 (Note: Room Change)
IDPH, One Natural Resources Way, Lake Level
https://illinois2.webex.com/join/IllinoisInjuryViolenceSuicidePrevention Select "Call Me" option; enter
10 digit number then the meeting will call you – other options are to “Call Using Computer” or “I Will
Call In” Meeting number (access code): 282 290 052. Phone +1-240-454-0879 USA Toll Global call-in
numbers; Access code 282 290 052

AGENDA
Welcome & roll call and Introductions
Review & approval of February 11, 2019 meeting minutes *
Update of ISPA member vacancies
Overview of suicide prevention related legislation
Guest speaker
Cheryl Potts, Executive Director, Illinois
The Kennedy Forum
Plan for the 20120 Suicide Prevention Summit
Update on the ISPA Adolescent Suicide Prevention Ad Hoc Committee
Set FY20 meetings
Partner Sharing/Agency Announcements
a. Share information about your agency’s suicide prevention activities

Appointed Members in Attendance
Present
Excused Un-Excused
Stan Lewy
Survivor of suicide loss
X
Jenna Farmer (proxy:
SP Program serving rural communities
Phone
Janette Heath)
Mike McCarter
Representing emergency medical services
Phone
Katie Jones
Representative for the lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgender
X
and questioning community
Chuck Johnson
Illinois Hospital Association
Phone
Hannah Chapman
Representing veteran services
Springfield
Eric Davidson
Higher Education
Phone
Ex-Officio Members in Attendance
Dr. Teresa Glaze
Illinois Department of Human Services
Rebecca Doran (proxy:
Adenike Sosina)
Brian Kieninger
Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH)
Mike Berkes
Illinois Department on Aging
Lt Colonel Akil Smith
Illinois State Police
Jennifer Martin
IDPH Injury & Violence Prevention Program

X
Chicago
Phone
Springfield
Springfield
Springfield

 Stakeholders in Attendance
Chicago
• John Boucher, Hope for the Day
• Steve Moore, American Foundation for Suicide
Prevention, Illinois Chapter
• Cheryl Potts, The Kennedy Forum
Springfield
• Kim Bryan, Survivor of suicide loss, Rattle the Stars
• Candace Decker, Illinois State Board of Education,
Regulatory Support and Wellness
• Geetu Sharma, IDPH
WebEx/Phone
• Lia Daniels, Illinois Health and Hospital Association
• Angelica Hernandez, IDPH Office of Women's Health
and Family Services

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Stacey Hoferka, IDPH Office of Policy, Planning, and
Statistics
Maryann Mason, Injury Prevention and Research
Center
Beth Morrison, Southern Illinois University
Mike Predmore, Survivor of suicide loss
Ofc. Douglas Rashkow, Aurora
Mary Ratliff, Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority
Tandra Rutledge, Riveredge Hospital
Kelly Ryan, Linden Oaks Behavioral Health
Veronica Trimble, John J. Madden Mental Health
Center
Kelly Vrablic, IDPH Office of Women's Health and
Family Services

Welcome & roll call and Introductions (Steve)
• Steve Moore (Facilitator) welcomed and thanked everyone for attending the meeting. Jennifer provided an overview
of the WebEx format.
Review & approval of February 11, 2019 meeting minutes (Steve)
• Hannah Chapman motioned to approve the minutes. Seconded by Lt Colonel Akil Smith. Minutes approved.
Update of ISPA member vacancies (Jennifer)
New appointees – the following people are new appointees. Each were invited to introduce themselves to the alliance.
• Hannah Chapman will represent veteran services. Michael Berkes will represent Illinois Department on Aging.
Lieutenant Colonel Akil Smith will represent the Illinois State Police. Rebecca Doran will represent Illinois State Board
of Education - not present but will be invited to provide introduction during the next meeting.
Reappointments – the following people were reappointed and invited to introduce themselves.
• Eric Davidson will represent higher education. Chuck Johnson will represent the Illinois Health and Hospital
Association. Brian Kieninger will represent the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH)– Division of Emergency
Medical Services and Highway Safety.
Nominations – a third position representing survivors of suicide loss was added to the membership. Kim Bryan and
Michael Predmore were nominated to represent the two vacant positions for survivors of suicide loss. Dr. Olivia Johnson
was nominated to represent the position of researcher.
Current vacancies – 1) Representative from fire service. Steve outreached to the Illinois Fire Chiefs Association. He will
follow up. 2) Representative of consumers of mental health/attempt survivor – 2 positions. Send nominations to Jennifer
or the ISPA co-chairs.
Overview of Suicide Prevention related Legislation (Steve)
• SB1425 – amends the Amends the statue to authorize the alliance. It takes out the requirement that the Illinois
Suicide Prevention Plan be based on the 2002 Surgeon General’s national plan. It gives IDPH more explicit

 •

•

•

•
•

requirement to implement the new plan and to coordinate suicide prevention activities around the state. Subject to
appropriation.
HB2152 - Mental Health Early Action on Campus Act. Requires state colleges, communities, and universities to
implement awareness; new training for students, faculty, and staff on how to address mental health needs; Mental
Health First Aid for residence assistants; develop peer support program for students; and minimal staffing
requirements. The board of higher education must have a technical assistance center to develop strategies or policy
for student mental health-related medical needs; provide support to the college; and disseminate best practices for
the training, peer support, and partnership programs. Collaborate with local community’s health services to provide
these services.
HB2766 - First Responders Suicide Prevention Act. Requires one mental health specialist for 1000 persons employed
by sheriff’s office, police department or fire fighters’ station. Receive training on effective recognition of stress,
trauma, and post-traumatic stress that is consistent with Mental Health for Aid Training Act. It also addresses
concerns about being fired over losing a Firearm Owner’s Identification Card. Extends the protection to state police,
parole, and correctional officers.
HB2767 - companion bill to HB2766, requires curriculum for police officer training schools to include recognizing sign
and symptoms of stress, issues that can lead to suicide, solutions for intervention, and peer support. Requires inperson service trainings include officer well-being and the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board
developed service courses that address offer well-being and suicide prevention.
SB1731 - Mental Health Bill for Elementary Education. This provision allows Mental Health First Aid training to meet
the requirement for schools to be trained in suicide prevention.
Candace provided an update on the implementation of Ann Marie’s Law. Becky is working on the Illinois AWARE
grant. Becky, Candace, and Adenike are certified Mental Health First Aid training instructors. They have several
activities planned to disseminate the training this summer. Schools are receptive. The train-the-trainer model allows
others to offer the training beyond the ISBE staff. Contact Becky if a school is interested in the training.

Guest Speaker
• Cheryl Pott, Executive Director of the Kennedy Forum, Illinois, provided an overview of The Kennedy Forum’s
background and history nationally and in Illinois. She shared what the Forum does and the problems remaining.
They have three goals are 1) Increase the Mental Health of the Workforce, 2) Fight stigma and discrimination
through high impact communications, and 3) Develop state policy responses to mental health and substance use
disorder parity and equity. A power presentation was provided.
Plan for 2012 Suicide Prevention Summit (Tandra and Steve)
• Tandra reported they are looking for a date for the 2019 summit. They are coordinating with the Loyola University
School of Nursing to host the event. She is waiting for a list of days of availability. They are looking at October dates.
Steve shared the intent of the summit will be to focus suicide prevention in the medical community - such as
hospitals, primary care systems, emergency departments - and how they could integrate care into their system. They
would like to invite systems who have implemented suicide prevention strategies, like Zero Suicide, to learn about
their efforts and challenges they encountered. The next step is to organize a planning committee and various sub
committees. Steve and Tandra will send more information.
Update on the ISPA Adolescent Suicide Prevention Ad Hoc Committee (Geetu)
• Geetu shared the committee met three times since the last ISPA meeting. Their first meeting was in February. It
focused on member introductions, an overview of why the ad hoc committee was created, a summary of suicide
prevention activities implemented in maternal and child health programs in other states, and an overview of past
ISPA efforts around youth suicide prevention. Members decided the first two tasks were to gain a better
understanding of the data and learn more about the youth suicide prevention activities occurring at the state and
local level. Data was collected and shared with the members. A list of activities and coalitions was developed and
mapped to demonstrate where they are located across the state. Staff from the Illinois State Board of Education
provided an overview of their youth suicide prevention toolkit. Fourteen objectives from the state plan were

 identified as possible items the committee can address. The next step is to determine long- and short-term
objectives. A power point presentation was shared.
Set FY20 Meetings
• Member decided to continue to meet in Chicago, Springfield, and WebEx. Meeting will continue to be held quarterly
in August, November, February, and May.
Partner Sharing/Agency Announcements
• Kim shared Rattle the Stars is assisting with the response to gun violence in Champaign. She would like suicide
prevention to be part of the larger violence prevention discussion. She is encouraging the community to recognize
traumatic experiences can increase a person’s risk to suicide. Also, several people who carry out mass shootings had
previous thoughts of suicide and were treated – these would be opportunities for intervention. She is talking with
community organizations about how suicide prevention can be part of their violence prevention and post-vention
efforts to trauma.
• Jonny shared Hope for the Day’s (HFTD) Sip of Hope, located in Logan Square, is celebrating their 1-year anniversary.
It is a collaboration between HFTD and Dark Matter Coffee. They added pop-ups in several locations. Their
education program is expanding rapidly. They created a program called “Support Staff” which is their training
program for the food and beverage industry. The hospitality industry is the second largest private industry in the
area and less than 1/3 employees have benefits. In a few days, a new beer called “Hobbs for Hope” will be released.
It includes hotline numbers on it. They created “It’s Okay Not To Be Okay” coasters and it has been distributed to
bars. On September 7, HFTD is hosting the Conversation Summit which is a youth focused mental health
conversation at the UIC Forum.
• Beth reported they held a campus community walk in April. This year was larger than last.
• Steve reminded members the AFSP will host community walks around the state in September, in addition to campus
walks (which are in the Spring). Let Steve know if there are any campus interested in the spring campus walks. AFSP
has several social media projects to promote mental health. One is the Seize the Awkward series, the other is a
hashtag created by Twitter – HaveACon# (have a conversation). Steve provided an update on Project 2025. On June
10, AFSP will have an advocacy forum in Washington. It will be broadcast live.
• Chuck shared a rural school in their community created a consortium. They invited every school in the county and
mental health professionals to gather to learn what schools were doing to respond to students in crisis. There will be
ongoing meetings to share resources. On September 7, The Adams County Suicide Prevention Coalition will host a
fundraiser called “Behind the Mask: the Night and the Delta” to support suicide prevention activities.
• Jennifer shared the Illinois Partnership for Safety has an objective to review the priority areas of local health
departments (LHD) and hospitals. Geetu collected that information from the hospitals, then will look at the plans
from the LHD. The next step will be to map the information. Several communities identify mental health, behavioral
health, or substance abuse as a priority. The results will be shared with ISPA.
• Hannah shared the VA wants all the centers to have a public health approach and they are providing guidance to the
centers. Hannah had asked Jennifer for a list of local coalitions. Peoria, Woodford, and Tazewell counties have
identified suicide prevention as apriority area. Hannah will join their behavioral health coalition. They are getting
ready for suicide prevention month. The VA and DOD are hosting a conference in August.
• Mike reported the Illinois Department on Aging has an annual symposium planned for September 17-19 in Peoria.
He is looking for a speaker on suicide prevention. The participants include case managers, area agencies on aging,
emergency home response providers, and adult day service providers. If you have speaker ideas for the risk
mitigation track, please outreach to Mike.
o AFSP has a component for seniors. Steve will think about speaker ideas.
o Hannah can co-present and give a Veteran perspective.
• Beth reported SIU will host their first annual Find Hope Here conference on September 10. Still looking for
presenters. They also will host Youth Mental Health First Aid on September 9.

 