COOK COUNTY INDEPENDENT REVENUE FORECASTING COMMISSION
July 31, 2019
10AM-12PM
Cook County Building
118 N. Clark St., Room 4S-B,
Chicago, IL 60602
MINUTES
Present: Chairman Ammar Rizki, Dr. David Merriman, Dr. Paula Worthington, Karen Walker
1. Public Comments
Chairman Rizki called upon registered public speakers, there were none at the commencement of
the meeting
[Note: George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen, arrived after the public comment period but was given the
opportunity to speak prior to adjournment.]
2. Approval of the Minutes from the Meeting of 07/02/2019
A motion was made by Dr. Merriman, seconded by Dr. Worthington, to approve the minutes
from the meeting of 07/02/2019. The motion was approved unanimously.
[Note: Prior to discussing the forecasting data and assumptions, Dr. Worthington and Dr. Merriman asked
that the memos they had written and distributed to other members not be shared as the should be
considered rough drafts/work product and had not been intended for public distribution]
3. Pending Commission Item: Working Session/Discussion on Revenue Forecasting Data and
Assumptions
Chairman Rizki began by noting that the focus of the Commission should be on the methodology
used to develop the forecasts and not necessarily on the numbers, as they may change with each
new month of data that comes in. The Chairman then asked each member to summarize their
memos so the commission could use the information as a basis for the discussion and the
forthcoming recommendations that would be issued to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
Dr. Worthington provided the Commission members with a memo on her overall
recommendations, as well as memos specific to fuel taxes, cannabis and the health and hospital
system. Dr. Worthington stressed the importance of developing the capacity to vary key
assumptions to test the sensitivity of revenue forecasts to those changes and report some scenariobased forecasts. Dr. Worthington also noted that she believed the County’s forecast on the Fuel

 tax seemed a little optimistic. Additionally, Dr. Worthington said that it is too early to know how
much the Cannabis tax will bring in because there are so many factors which have no historical
data to look at.
Dr. Merriman’s focus was on the sales tax since it is the largest single source of tax revenue for
the County. He noted that in order to ensure more accuracy, monthly data should be used because
the effective tax rates can vary from month to month since taxable purchases are not spread out
evenly throughout the fiscal year and there can be administrative delays at the state level in
forwarding revenue to the county. His conclusion was that the sales tax was not sustainable in the
long run because of a shrinking tax base on the sale of goods and the County must look for ways
to modernize the tax system.
Karen Walker stated that, moving forward, anticipating policy changes could be key to coming up
with future forecasting models. Ms. Walker also thought it might be worthwhile to look at the
seasonality of certain revenue sources such as the Hotel tax.
Commission members then discussed next steps and what the Independent Revenue Forecasting
Commission Ordinance requirements were. Commission members discussed the possibility of
providing a report to the Cook County Board of Commissioners with recommendations on how to
improve upon the current forecasting and vote on approving it at the next Independent Revenue
Forecasting Commission meeting.
It was moved by Dr. Merriman that Commission members draft a report to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners with recommendations on how to improve upon the current forecasting
models to be approved at the next Commission meeting. The motion was approved unanimously.
4. Adjournment
A motion was made by Dr. Merriman, seconded by Dr. Worthington, to adjourn the meeting. The
motion was approved unanimously.
The next Independent Revenue Forecasting Commission meeting will be on August 26. 2019 at 1pm.

 