RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF THE CITY OF DETROIT

 

500 WOODWARD AVE STE 3000 DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226?5493

 

PHONE 31302246362 ITOLL FREE 800639-8344 FAX 313.224.9394

MINUTES
Meeting No. 036

Police and Fire Retirement System Investment Committee
May 13, 2019

 

A meeting of the Investment Committee of the Police and Fire Retirement System of the
City of Detroit was held on Monday, May 13, 2019, at the Retirement System?s office at
Ally Detroit Center, 500 Woodward Ave, Suite 3000; Detroit, Michigan. Robert Smith,
Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 10:03 am.

A quorum was present.

ROLL CALL:

Attendance was taken by the Committee's Recording Secretary with the following
Committee Members present: Robert Smith (Chairperson), McCullough Williams ill
(Vice Chairperson), Joseph Bogdahn (via telephone) Mark Diaz, George Orzech,
Jeffrey Pegg, Robert Skandalaris, Gregory Trozak and Woodrow Tyler.

Staff Present: Kevin Kenneally (Deputy Chief Investment Officer), David Cetlinski
(Executive Director), Kelly Tapper (Assistant Executive Director), Ronald King (General
Counsel - Clark Hill, P. C.) and Kristi Grden (lnvestmentAnalyst).

Committee Members Excused: None

Staff Excused: None

Visitors Present: John Naglick, City of Detroit Chief Deputy Financial Officer and Police

and Fire Retirement System Ex-Of?cio Trustee and Dean Pincheck, Police and Fire
Retirement System Trustee

 

Minutes - PFRS iC Mtg.
Meeting No. 036
May 13, 2019

Approval of Agenda

Motion #01: Woodrow Tyler moved to approve the agenda dated Monday May 13,
2019. Jeffrey Pegg supported. The motion passed unanimously.

Approval of Minutes
Motion #02: McCullough Williams Ill moved to approve the Minutes of Meeting No.
035, held on Monday, March 2019 Gregory Trozak supported. The motion passed
unanimously. .
Future Agenda Items:
0 None
Presentation:
Chief Deputy CFO John Naglick discussed the following with the Committee:
0 City of Detroit Long Term Forecast

Presentation materials were provided

The Presentation concluded at 10:28 am.
Presentation:
Gabriel, Roeder, Smith and Co.

Representatives Kenneth Alberta, Judith Kermans and David T. Kausch, from the
system?s Actuarial firm, Gabriel, Roeder, Smith and Co. discussed the following with the
Committee:

. Annual Actuarial Valuation of Components and Il

Presentation materials were provided 
The Presentation concluded at 11:30 a.m.

Motion #03: Jeffrey Pegg moved to acknowledge receipt of and approve the Annual
Actuarial Valuation of Components and II for the year ending June 30, 2018 and direct
that copies are forwarded to the Police and Fire Retirement System Board of Trustees.
Mark Diaz supported. The motion passed unanimously. 

 

Minutes PFRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 036
May 13, 2019

Presentation:

Hamilton Lane

Representative Katie Moore discussed the following with the Committee:

. May 2019 Private Equity Portfolio Update

Presentation materials were provided

Chief Investment Officer Ryan Bigelow entered the meeting at 11:40 a.m.
The Presentation concluded at 12:05 pm.
Presentation:
Wilshire Consulting

Representative David Lindberg, Calvin Born and Joanna Bewick discussed the following
with the Committee:

. Capital Markets Review/Update First Quarter 2019
0 March 2019 Performance
0 Opportunistic Credit Discussion

The Presentation concluded at 12:44 pm.

Motion #04: Robert Skandalaris moved to approve the recommendation of the Chief
Investment Officer and Investment Staff to commit $60 million to the managers
highlighted below for the Private Credit Portfolio:
Direct Lending:
- Churchill Asset Management: $10 million commitment to the Churchill Middle
Market Senior Loan Fund Ill
- Comvest Capital: $10 million commitment to Comvest Direct Lending Fund 
0 Raven Capital: $15 million commitment to Raven Asset-Based Opportunity Fund
lV
. Crescent Capital Group: $10 million commitment to Crescent European
Specialty Lending Fund ll
- CLO Equity: THL Credit: $15 million commitment to THL CLO Equity Fund.
Woodrow Tyler supported. The motion passed by vote as follows:

Yeas: Diaz, Orzech, Skandalaris, Tyler, Trozak, Williams and Chairperson Smith 5 72
Nays: Pegg 1/2

Committee Member Pegg?s comment regarding his vote: ?i would like to see
additional due diligence performed before approval?.

-3-

 

 

Minutes PFRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 036
May 13, 2019

The Committee recessed for lunch at 12:45 pm. and adjourned the
Committee?s regular meeting.

Committee member Joseph Bogdahn joined the meeting via telephone at
1:05 pm.

The Committee reconvened at 1:05 pm. for the purposes of a special joint
conference/discussion with Trustees of the Police and Fire Retirement System Board
regarding the Personnel Issues/ Compensation of Investment Staff. The following Police
and Fire Board of Trustees were present: Michael Berent, John Naglick, Dean Pincheck
and Steven Watson as well as IC members/Trustees Pegg, Orzech, Diaz and Trozak.

Police and Fire Trustee Brenda Jones entered the Boardroom at 1:25 pm.

Chairperson Robert Smith adjourned the special joint conference and
called the Committee?s regular meeting back to order at 1:58 pm.

ROLL CALL:

Attendance was taken by the Committee?s Recording Secretary with the following
Committee Members present: Robert Smith (Chairperson), McCullough Williams 
(Vice Chairperson), Mark Diaz, George Orzech, Jeffrey Pegg, Robert Skandalaris,
Gregory Trozak, Woodrow Tyler and Joseph Bogdahn (via telephone).

Re: Compensation Discussion

The Investment Committee of the Police and Fire Retirement System of the City of
Detroit together with Trustees from the Police and Fire Retirement System
discussed the motion that was approved at the March 11th, 2019 Committee meeting
adjusting the compensation of the Chief Investment Officer, Ryan Bigelow and Deputy
Chief Investment Officer, Kevin Kenneally to the median range of ?salary plus bonus? for
Small Public Funds as referenced in the December 4, 2018 Investment Staff
Competitive Pay Analysis prepared by McLagan? The McLagan report wasprepared at
the request of the PFRS IC. The primary focus of the discussion was with respect to the
authority given per the Combined Plan to set compensation for the Investment Staff.
After discussion, the following motions were made:

 

 

Minutes PFRS iC Mtg.
Meeting No. 036
May 13, 2019

Motion #05: in review of the McLagan Report, Joseph Bogdahn moved to approve the

compensation for Chief Investment Officer at $315,000.00 effective January 1, 2019. If
the investment Committee of the General Retirement System of the City of Detroit (GRS
IC) does not approve the aforementioned adjustment, the PFRS lC will cover the cost of
the adjustment to be paid out of the PFRS Trust Fund pursuant to its authority under the
Plan of Adjustment and State Contribution Agreement. Additionally, in the event the
approved salary exceeds the maximum salary range as listed in the City?s ?White Book?,
that the PFRS Trust Fund will cover the difference. McCullough Williams supported.
The motion passed by a vote as follows:

Yeas: Bogdahn, Diaz, Orzech, Skandalaris, Tyler, Trozak, Williams
and Chairperson Smith - 6 %2

Nays: Pegg- 1/2

Motion #06: Joseph Bogdahn moved to approve the compensation for the Deputy
Chief investment Officer at $224,000.00 as an employee/hybrid employee depending on
the administrative feasibility of doing so. This base compensation adjustment will be
effective January 1, 2019 and if the investment Committee of the General Retirement
System of the City of Detroit does not approve the aforementioned adjustments or
agree to share in the costs of these adjustments, the PFRS lC will cause all the
expenses associated with these adjustments to be paid for out of the PFRS Trust Fund
pursuant to its authority under the Plan of Adjustment and State Contribution
Agreement. Furthermore, Investment Staff will be paid to the maximum of the salary
range as listed in the City's ?White Book?. For any difference between the City?s set
compensation and that set forth by the IC, compensation will be paid by agreement
between the PFRS Board and PFRS Investment Staff. If not administratively feasible,
the System will accept the full amount of compensation for Investment Staff and provide
for benefits separately as a hybrid/contractual employee. Robert Skandalaris supported.
The motion passed by a vote as follows:

Yeas: Bogdahn, Orzech, Skandalaris, Tyler, Williams
and Chairperson Smith 5 

Nays: Diaz, Pegg and Trozak, - 1 

Committee member Joseph Bogdahn left the call at 2:18 p.m.

Minutes PFRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 036
May 13, 2019

CHIEF INVESTMENT REPORT

Chief Investment Officer, Ryan Bigelow, provided the following updates and discussion
items for approval:

a American Realty update
. No action needed
0 Fiduciary Liability Coverage
0 No action needed; the underwriter will come before the committee at a
later meeting to help assess the level of coverages
. Real Estate RFP memorandum
- CEM Benchmarking

LEGAL REPORT

 

General Counsel, Ronald King, provided the following informational items for
discussion:

. Correspondence from Jeffrey Pegg, PFRS Board Chair, regarding disapproval of
PFRS Investment Committee compensation adjustments.

 

 

:5
Minutes - PFRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 036
May 13, 2019
NewlOld Business

. None

ADJOURNMENT
Mark Diaz moved to adjourn meeting #36; Woodrow Tyler supported.

There being no further business before the Investment Committee, the meeting was
adjourned at 2:24 pm. The Investment Committee?s next meeting is a teleconference
scheduled for Monday, July 2019, at 10:00 am. in the Retirement Systems?
Conference Room, 500 Woodward Avenue Suite 3000; Detroit, Michigan 48226.

RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED,

RYAN 
CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER

Recording Secretary: TaKneisha Johnson

