COOK COUNTY COMPLETE COUNT CENSUS COMMISSION
August 5, 2019
2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.
Cook County Building
118 North Clark Street, 5th Floor, Board Room
Chicago, Illinois 60602
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Moore, Vice Chair Deer, Vice-Chair Anaya, Everett, Flores, Ford,
Gonzalez, Garcia. Garrett, Kang, Logan, Lumpkin, McMorris, Samuel, Valentin,
and Wilbon (16)

Absent:

Vice Chair Arroyo, Jr., Banerji, Lightford (3)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Moore asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code.
George Blakemore – Concerned Citizens
COMMISSION MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 07/22/19.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Anaya, seconded by Commissioner Everett, to approve
the meeting minutes. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Moore, Vice Chair Deer, Vice Chair Anaya, Everett, Flores, Ford,
Gonzalez, Garcia. Garrett, Kang, Logan, Lumpkin, McMorris, Samuel, Valentin,
and Wilbon (16)

Absent:

Vice Chair Arroyo, Jr., Banerji, Lightford (3)

 I.

Welcome
• Opening Remarks from Chairman Moore
o Discussed 2010 Census and where we are today in preparation of the 2020
Census.
o Shared the Chairman’s vision for the Cook County Complete Count
Census Commission.
• Opening remarks from Vice Chair Deer
o Discussed the challenges of reaching the ex-offender populations to obtain
a complete count.
o Spoke about why the 2020 Census is important to Cook County and what
the County potentially stands to lose if there is an undercount of residents.
• Opening remarks from Vice Chair Anaya
o Commented about Chairman Moore, Vice Chair Anaya, and Vice Chair
Deer participation in the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights Get Out the Count Summit.
o Further discussed many of the questions that came up surrounding the
citizenship question and risk of an undercount.
• Opening remarks from Rudy Urian on behalf of Vice Chair Arroyo, Jr.
o A Census Committee meeting was hosted in the 8th District with feedback
about strategies to avoid duplication of census outreach efforts.
o To encourage collaboration and to reduce duplication, the committee
members will meet with other stakeholders and in particular at the state
and city levels.

II.

Update from intergovernmental partners
• VMLY&R Chicago Office
o Madeline Larsen, Executive Director, VMLY&R Chicago Office gave a
brief update on the 2020 Census national marketing efforts.
• U.S. Census Bureau
o Dionne Roberts-Emegha, Partnership Specialist, U.S. Census Bureau
Chicago Regional Office provided an update on their operations.
• State of Illinois
o Kia Coleman, Assistant Secretary, Illinois Department of Human Services
spoke about the 2020 Census Grant Program Notice of Funding
Opportunity.
• City of Chicago
o Nubia Willman, Director of the Office of New Americans, City of
Chicago provided an overview of the city’s current census related
activities and partnerships.

 III.

Update from the Bureau of Economic Development
• Andre Ashmore, Deputy Bureau Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
presented on the Bureau’s efforts to-date with the Cook County 2020 Census
efforts.
o Discussed the Census Outreach application with an emphasis on how
Cook County will achieve a complete count with the assistance of local
Complete Count Commissions and Complete Count Committees.
o Shared the Bureau’s role with Cook County 2020 Census.
o Discussed the post application process including the Bureau of Economic
Development’s plan to provide technical assistance as needed.

IV.

Cook County Complete Count Census Commission Sub-Committees
• Chairman Moore discussed the importance of the Commission’s Sub-Committees
beginning to meet and operate before the Census Outreach application is released.

A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Logan, to approve the
appointment of Complete Count Census Commission Sub-Committee Chairs and Vice
Chairs. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Moore, Vice Chair Deer, Vice Chair Anaya, Everett, Flores, Ford,
Gonzalez, Garcia. Garrett, Kang, Logan, Lumpkin, McMorris, Samuel, Valentin,
and Wilbon (16)

Absent:

Vice Chair Arroyo, Jr., Banerji, Lightford (3)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Logan, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Moore, Vice Chair Deer, Vice Chair Anaya, Everett, Flores, Ford,
Gonzalez, Garcia. Garrett, Kang, Logan, Lumpkin, McMorris, Samuel, Valentin,
and Wilbon (16)

Absent:

Vice Chair Arroyo, Jr., Banerji, Lightford (3)

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

 