Detroit Wayne

Mental Health Authority

707 W. Milwaukee St.
Detroit, MI 48202-2943

DWM HA 

Your Link to integrated Healthcare

 

  
 

FAX: (313) 833-2156
TDD: (800) 630-1044 (888) 339-5588

FY 2018-19 RESOLUTION NUMBER 1

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTIVE OFFICER TO
PROCEED WITH THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE HOLISTIC MODEL OF CARE

WHEREAS the Detroit Wayne Mental Health Authority is responsible for
providing specialty behavioral health supports and services for the citizens of Wayne County,
Michigan, through its Pre-Paid Impatient Health Plan and Community Mental Health
Services Program agreements with the Michigan Department of Health and Human
Services and

WHEREAS in June of 2018 Board of Directors (?the Board?) adopted the
recommendation of the Systems Transformation Committee and directed President/CEO, Willie
Brooks (?Brooks?), to develop and implement a transformation plan (?Plan?) for directly
managing services and responsibilities that were delegated to Managers of Comprehensive
Provider Networks and moving away from primarily being a funder of care to a
manager of care; and

WHEREAS on October 1, 2018 DWMHA began directly managing the services and
responsibilities delegated to three (3) of the four (4) CareLink, ConsumerLink and

Integrated Care Alliance, and extending the MCPN agreement with Community Living Services
and

WHEREAS DWMHA has successfully taken over the services and responsibilities previously
delegated to the and is now beginning to work on other parts of the Plan which will include
taking over the services and responsibilities currently performed by CLS by July 1, 2019; and

WHEREAS CEO Brooks has developed a plan for reorganization of the provider
network to transition to a holistic model of care; which includes establishing criteria for the full
range of holistic services, identifying those providers capable of providing the full range of holistic
services and functioning as holistic providers, identifying providers of specialty services and
supports, ensuring greater coordination between the holistic and specialty providers, developing
funding models for the different areas of service, developing and implementing appropriate risk-
assessment and management systems for the network and working with the provider network to
educate them on Plan; and

Board of Directors

Dr. Cheryl Munday, Chairperson Dr. Iris Taylor, Vice-Chairperson Bernard Parker, Treasurer Heather Underwood, Secretary
Ghada Abdallah, Dorothy Burrell Angelo Glenn Timothy Killeen
Kevin McNamara William T. Riley, Herbert C. Smitherman, Jr., MD Dr. Taueg

Willie E. Brooks, President and CEO 

WHEREAS DWMHA is also in support of ensuring that this model of care is reinforced beyond
the provider network, including but not limited to schools, correction and detention facilities and
the homeless population; and

WHEREAS Brooks has presented the Board through System Transformation reports, a proposed
timeline and benchmarks for further development of a holistic model of care and reorganization of
the provider network and will keep the Board informed about the progress as it relates to the
timeline and other signi?cant events associated with the Plan; and

WHEREAS the Board acknowledges the holistic model of care focusing on behavioral, physical,
economic, social and spiritual well?being is consistent with the system transformation policy
adopted in June of 2018;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:

1. The Board hereby acknowledges its support and endorsement of Brooks? plan for
developing a holistic model of care and a holistic provider network.

2. Brooks shall begin the implementation of the Plan following the Board?s approval of this
resolution.

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing Resolution was adopted on this twentieth day of
February, 2019, by the Board of Directors of the Detroit Wayne Mental Health Authority.

gamma a

Ghana/c. Munday, 
Board Chairperson
Detroit Wayne Mental Health Authority

