COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
NOTICE OF A REGULAR MEETING
The Commission on Chicago Landmarks will hold its regular
meeting on Thursday, September 5, 2019, at 12:45 p.m. in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A, 2nd Floor.
The Permit Review Committee will hold its regular meeting in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, in Room 201-A on Thursday,
September 5, 2019, at 1:15 p.m.
Attached is a copy of the agendas for the Commission meetings.

Eleanor Gorski
Secretary

 AGENDA
COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
Regular Meeting – Thursday, September 5, 2019
City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A
12:45 p.m.

1. Approval of the Minutes of Previous Meetings
Regular Meeting of August 1, 2019
2. Report from the Department of Planning and Development
THE PROMONTORY APARTMENTS
5530-5532 South Shore Drive

WARD 5

3. Class L Property Tax Incentive – Final Certification
FORMER CHICAGO HISTORICAL SOCIETY BUILDING
632 North Dearborn Street

WARD 42

4. Preliminary Decision on Permit Application for Demolition Pursuant to §2-120-740 through
§2-120-825 of the Municipal Code
ARMITAGE-HALSTED DISTRICT
2132 North Halsted Street

WARD 43

5. Schedule for a Public Hearing on Final Landmark Recommendation – Announcement
CLAREMONT COTTAGE DISTRICT
WARD 28
1000-block of South Claremont Avenue between West Taylor and West Grenshaw Streets,
and 2342 West Grenshaw Street
The request-for-consent period expired June 20, 2019. A public hearing will be held:
Date:
Location:
Time:
Hearing Officer:

Monday, September 9, 2019
City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 1003-A
9:30 a.m.
Richard Tolliver

6. Permit Review Committee Reports
Report on Projects Reviewed at the August 1, 2019, Permit Review Committee Meeting
Report on Permit Decisions by the Commission Staff for the Month of August 2019

 7. Announcements
Meeting of the Program Committee: Review of Suggestions* Received from the Public
for Chicago Landmark Designation and Nominations to the National Register of Historic
Places will be held:
Date:
Tuesday, September 24, 2019
Time:
10:00 a.m.
Location: City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A
*Deadline for submissions: Monday, September 16, 2019
All suggestions must be submitted on a suggestion form available on the Chicago
Landmarks website at:
http://www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/depts/dcd/supp_info/chicago_landmarkspublicationsandadditionalinformation.html or from the Historic Preservation office.
8. Adjournment

 NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
THURSDAY, September 5, 2019
City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St., Room 201-A
1:15 p.m.

AGENDA:
1. 2708 N. Lakeview
43rd Ward
Lakeview Avenue Row House District
Proposed rehabilitation of row house including replacement of a non-historic mansard
addition at the fourth floor and construction of a new east wall rear addition with garage and
rooftop decks.
2. 3551 S. Giles
3rd Ward
Calumet-Giles-Prairie District
Proposed new construction of two and a half-story masonry single family home with a raised
entrance, roof deck, and detached one-story garage with roof deck.
3. 4801 S. Woodlawn
4th Ward
Kenwood District
Proposed reconstruction of a one-story rear addition, repair and adaptive reuse of an existing
two-story coach house, construction of a new one-story masonry garage, and relocation of an
existing curb-cut on 48th Street.
4. 1001 W. Fulton Market
27th Ward
Fulton-Randolph Market District
Proposed new 11’ x 3’-7” LED channel letter sign on parapet of east elevation to read
“Vequity”.

Dijana Cuvalo, AIA
Historic Preservation Division
Bureau of Planning, Historic Preservation & Sustainability
Department of Planning and Development

 PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
Summary of projects and staff recommendations, September 5, 2019

1. 2708 N. Lakeview
43rd Ward
Lakeview Avenue Row House District
Proposed rehabilitation of row house including replacement of a non-historic mansard
addition at the fourth floor and construction of a new east wall rear addition with garage and
rooftop decks.
Applicant:

Alexander Ripley and Edward Steinemann, owners
Edward Steinemann, Steinemann Architects

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 9 and 10 of the U.S. Secretary of the
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings and
therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property and district and approve the project with the following
conditions:
1. Historic Preservation staff shall review and approve masonry
samples prior to permit submittal. As proposed the brick and
mortar on the east elevation of the four floor enclosure shall
match the historic brick and mortar in color, texture and overall
appearance; and,
2. The project as proposed would require a zoning variation
and/or adjustment, and the Commission takes no position
regarding any requested variance/adjustment relative to the
zoning code requirements.
2. 3351 S. Giles
3rd Ward
Calumet-Giles-Prairie District
Proposed new construction of two and a half-story masonry single family home with a raised
entrance, roof deck, and detached one-story garage with roof deck.
Applicant:

Majdi Darwish, owner
Majdi Darwish, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations and the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction and therefore, the project will not have an adverse

 effect on the significant historical and architectural features of the
landmark district and approve the project with the following
conditions:
1. Historic Preservation staff shall review for approval samples of
proposed stone, brick and mortar prior to permit submittal. The
stone shall have an even color and the mortar for the stone
façade shall be a light grey color rather than dark brown as
proposed. The masonry for the rear portion of the north
elevation shall be standard- or jumbo-sized face brick rather
than CMU as proposed;
2. Details of all proposed windows and doors shall be submitted
for Historic Preservation review and approval with the permit
plans; and,
3. The Commission shall request in writing that the Zoning
Administrator approve an administrative adjustment to reduce
the side yard setbacks to 0’ for the proposed construction
pursuant to Section 17-13-1003-G “Setbacks in Landmark
Districts” of the Chicago Zoning Ordinance, as depicted on the
site plan, as necessary to meet the predominant house widths
contributing to the district’s character.
3. 4801 S. Woodlawn
4th Ward
Kenwood District
Proposed reconstruction of a one-story rear addition, repair and adaptive reuse of an existing
two-story coach house, construction of a new one-story masonry garage, and relocation of an
existing curb-cut on 48th Street.
Applicant:

Jay Dandy and Melissa Weber, owners
Nathan Bowman, Woodhouse Tinucci Architects

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 1, 9 and 10 of the U.S. Secretary of
the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings
and therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property and district and approve the project with the following
conditions:
1. Construction of the new 3-car masonry garage is approved per
submitted renderings and plans (dated 8/13/19). Historic
Preservation staff shall review and approve garage-door cutsheets/details with the permit submittal;
2. Modifications of the historic coach house, including the glass
swing doors and attached metal stairs, are approved as
proposed. Replacement windows shall match the existing

 windows in size, glass size, operation, muntin arrangement,
and muntin size. Existing and proposed details of exterior
profiles shall be submitted with the permit application;
3. The proposed Midnight Black Emperor-size brick produced by
Interstate Brick is approved per submitted samples. As
proposed; the mortar shall match the color of the brick; and,
4. The relocation of the curb-cut on 48th Street is approved as
proposed.
4. 1001 W. Fulton Market
27th Ward
Fulton-Randolph Market District
Proposed new 11’ x 3’-7” LED channel letter sign on parapet of east elevation to read
“Vequity”.
Applicant:

Kim Ward, Vequity Holdings
RGD Sign Service LLC
Gayle Miller, Chicago Permit Expediter

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project meets
the criteria set forth in the Commission’s Rules and Regulations,
the Commission’s Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings
and New Construction, and Historic Fulton-Randolph Market
District Design Guidelines, and therefore, the project will not have
an adverse effect on the significant historical and architectural
features of the landmark district and approve the project with the
following conditions:
1. Signage attachments for the proposed parapet sign are to be
made at mortar joints wherever possible, and as proposed, there
will not be any visible conduit installed on the exterior of the
building.
2. The illumination for both signs shall be dimmable in order to
adjust the lighting levels to ensure that they will not be a source
of distraction or unwanted flashiness in the district.

 