Arts Committee Minutes
Tuesday, August 27th, 2019 9:05 AM – 10:45 AM
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce – 1414 N Ashland Ave.
In attendance: David Ginople (Chair), Sam Marts (voting member), Alma Weiser (voting member), Dan
Murphy (voting member), Charlie Rees (voting member)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager), Jordan Miller (Social Media and
Arts Admin)

1. Jordan’s WPB Arts Report
a. Jordan presented the updated public art map, including all sculptures, murals
(present and old).
b. He has submitted all current WPB murals to the City’s new mural registry and
have received approval. They will be sending signs for them soon.
2. Wicker Park Fountain Restoration
a. Restoration is complete with final touches scheduled for this week
b. The Ribbon Cutting will be held on Sunday, September 8th at 12:00 PM. David
Ginople will be saying a few words on behalf of the SSA. Alderman LaSpata and
representatives from Park District.
3. Artwork Plaques
a. 5 plaques for public art installations are on the way in the coming weeks
b. The committee would like to see Worker Cottage’s plaque be installed
somewhere other than on the bench.
4. Wicker Tree Art Installation Repairs
a. Mike Helbing is continuing to work on the canopy (which has been removed)
b. The committee discussed timeline and options going forward for short-term and
longterm upkeep.
c. Park District would like to be kept in the loop on all discussions taking places.
5. Wicker Park Fest Arts Area
a. The committee reflected on the 3 art installations at WPF 2019
b. DG, SM, AW and others brainstormed ways to solicit broader and more diverse
options for next year
c. GK observed that all 2019 selects were very abstract and that the committee
might want to consider choosing a few specific guidelines or categories that
might focus this area in the future
d. SM brought up the possibility of using WPF Arts funding on installations intended
to promote the festival from outside of festival grounds

 6. Mural Program
a. Yeti has chosen David Heo for their mural that will be seen from the CTA Blue
Line and should begin soon.
b. “Monument” at Wicker Park Athletic Club has been heavily tagged. It is
irreparable in its current state. The artist has expressed interest in returning to
do another piece.
c. Ali Six is interested in returning to re-paint the mural along the CTA embankment
next to Walgreens (Wolcott/Milwaukee)
i. Arts Committee would like staff to work with 1st Ward office on securing
funding and approval
ii. This will likely be a 2020 project based on timeline and budgeting

 