7m4/LmJ

@347

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

[05?

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
August 28, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001294 100% Federal Funding AMEND 1? To Provide Leadership
Development/Scholarship Program. Contractor: Coleman A. Young
Foundation Location: 7650 Second, Ste. 206, Detroit, MI 48202?
Contract Period: July 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019 Total
Contract Amount: $66,535.00 HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION
(This Extension is for Time Only. Original Expiration 6/3 0/19)

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001294 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated August 28, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

[(50.9

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

August 28, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002180 100% City Funding To Provide Digitizing Services for the Tax
Incentive, HUB Entitlement Funding, and other Public Investment
Processes. Contractor: Berry, Dunn, McNeil, Parker, LLC 
Location: 1000 Middle St., Portland, ME 04104 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval through July 31, 2021 Total Contract Amount:
$112,975.00 HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002180 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated August 28, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

[07

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

August 28, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002346

100% City Funding 19-20 FY Agreement for the Detroit Economic
Growth (Corporation. To Provide Assistance in Economic Development
Activities by Attracting new and assisting with the Retention and
Expansion of Existing Commerce and Industry in the City. Contractor:
Detroit Economic Growth Corporation Location: 500 Griswold, Ste.
2200, Detroit, MI 48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval
through June 30, 2020? Total Contract Amount: $l,936.304.00
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002346 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated August 28, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

IOX

 

a 1301 THIRD Ave. SUITE 767
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 596-1830 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 596-1831 FAX
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS 
- St

August 23, 2019 a:
SF: 
corn
Detroit City Council '4 :91
Janice Winfrey, City Clerk '0 
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center r-E?
2 Woodward Avenue, Second Floor L, 53
Detroit, Michigan 48226 33 3"

Re: Letter of Support for Jefferson East, Inc.

Dear Honorable Council Members:

This letter is in support ofthe Jefferson East, Inc. application for public service funding.
The Detroit Board of Police Commissioners is dedicated to transparency and improving public

safety service delivery to all Detroit residents. That?s why we value the relationship we enjoy with
Jefferson East, Inc. and their staff.

The Board of Police Commissioners shares particular interest in addressing the quality of life
issues identified by our constituency, such as auto theft, larceny from motor vehicles, robbery and
intimate partner violence. It?s clear to us that JEI strives to empower residents with resources and
strategies to succeed in community policing and crime prevention programming.

JEl?s CompStat convening brings community stakeholders together with law
enforcement to discuss neighborhood issues and solutions. JEl?s AmeriCorps Urban Safety team
engages the public via target hardening, neighborhood canvassing, and peace walks to raise
awareness. They employ innovative ways to promote public safety; residents are offered
promotional give-a-ways of anti-theft devices for the home and auto. JEl's domestic violence

prevention outreach provides referrals and resources to survivors

of intimate partner violence in
the DPD 5th and 7th Precincts. 

JEl?s efforts have a broad impact on City Of Detroit Districts Four and Five. Please approve their

application for funding. Feel free to contact the board answer any questions you may have
about our support ofJEl. 

Sincerelyr

EM [1 

Lisa Carter
Chair, Detroit Board of Police Commissioners

Alton James
Chairperson
Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair/Secretary

Marcell R. Todd, Jr.

Director

(titty of Enron

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit. Michigan 48226
Phone: (313') 224-6325 Fax: [313) 224?4336
email: cpct?rttdetroitmigov

August 28, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE:

Request of the City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Author

[0?7

Brenda Goss Andrews
Damion Ellis

David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

ity to amend Article XVII.

District Map No. 24 ol'the 1084 Detroit City Code. Chapter 6t . Zoning. by showing an M3
(General Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where an R2 [Two-family Residential
District] zoning classification currently exists on tln?ee-hundred and twelve (312} parcels
commonly identi?ed as the former Kettering High School located at at 01 Van Dyke Avenue
and the former Rose Elementaiy School located at Still? Field Avenue. generally hounded by
the 134 Edsel Ford Expressway and Medhury Avenue to the Van Dyke Avenue to the
east. Hendrie Avenue to the south and Townsend Avenue to the west. (RECOMMEND



NATURE OF REQUEST AND PROJECT PROPOSAL
The City Planning Commission has completed its review and deliberations on the request of
the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority to amend Article XVII. District Map No. 24 ot'the
[984 Detroit City Code. Chapter Zoning. by showing an M3 [General Industrial District) zoning
classi?cation where an R2 t'l'wo-l'iimily Residential District} zoning classification currently exists on
three?hundred and twelve [312) parcels commonly identi?ed as the former Kettering High School
located at 1v?an Dyke Avenue and the tin-titer Rose Elementaty School located at 5800 Field
Avenue. generally bounded by the HM Edsel Ford Expressway and Medbury Avenue to the north.

an Dyke Avenue to the east. Hendrie Avenue to the south and Townsend Avenue to

REVIEW
The R2 district is designed to protect and enhance those areas developed or likely to develop with
single- or two-thmily dwellings. The district regulations are designed to promote a suitable
environment for homes and for activities connected with Family life. The only principal uses
permitted by right are single and two-tbmily dwellings. With limited additional uses being allowed
on a conditional basis.

the west.

The MJ district is composed ot'property so situated as to be suitable l'or industrial development. but
where the modes ot'operation ol'tlte industiy may at'l'ect nearby residential uses. The purpose ol'this

district is to permit the normal operation ol?certain industrial uses. subiect 01

to those regulations

needed to control congestion and to protect nearby residential districts. No new residential
construction is permitted in this district with the exception ol'lot't conversions ot'esisting buildings
and of residential uses combined in structures with permitted commercial uses. These requirements
are to protect residences From an undesirable environment and to ensure reservation ol?adequate
areas for industrial development.


4
i" 

Page 1 of7

The subject properties are located in Council District 5 and measure approximately 31.9 acres in
area. The subject parcels are currently under the sole ownership of Detroit Public Schools
Community District. however are being offered for sale to accommodate the pending Dakkota
Integrated Systems manufacturing development on the subject site.

The subject propeities are located in Census Tract 5159. Based on the most recent census data the
total population for the area is 1,645. There are approximately 471 occupied residential units and
393 vacant residential which results in a vacancy rate of 45%.

Proposed Development

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow for the establishment ot'an ?high-?mediuin-
impact manufacturing Facility" specitically an ?automobile accessory ntanutacture (not including
tires. heat treating. or foundry work} at the former Kettering High School located at 6101 Van Dyke
Avenue and the former Rose Elementary School located at 5800 Field Avenue. The proposed use
would be permitted on a by-right basis in an M3 atoning district per Sec. 6 - 0~57[ 12}.

This rezoning request is being sought in order to allow the development of a 632,500 square that
automobile accessory manufacturing facility. Daltkota Integrated Systems is a joint venture with
Rush ("troop LLC and Magna International Inc. that will manage the complete assemhly and
sequencing ot?interior components and suspension for the soon to be expanded FCA .lcep Plant in the
area ot'St. .Iean between E. Warren Avenue and Avenue. lt is anticipated that this
proposed development will create approximately 625 new jobs for Detroit residents.

The parcels identi?ed as 6l 0  Van Dyke Avenue and 5800 Field Avenue are presently hoth zoned
RE. (i 01 Van Avenue is presently the site ol'the former Kettering High School. 5800 Field
Avenue is presently the site of the Former Rose Elementary School. Both properties are anticipated
to be demolished to accommodate the development of the proposed Dakkota manulacturing facility.
The tiiotprint ol'the main lacility will primarily he on the site ol'the tiirmer Kettering High School.
The entirety ol? the Kettering High School building will be razed. however. the iconic in [root of
the property will remain as an homage to the history ofthe site and the thousands of Kettering High
School alumni. 5800 Field Avenue is also anticipated to be razed. however this site is slated to
accommodate a detention basin bounded by Medbury Avenue to the north, Van Dyke Avenue to the
east. Hendrie Avenue to the south. and Field Avenue to the west. The entirety ofthe site is
anticipated to be landscaped and buffered in order to screen the development from the adjacent
residential communities. Preliminary site plans shows landscaped berms along Van Dyke Avenue to
the east and Hendrie Avenue to the south. A narrow strip ol?landscaping is also present along
Townsend Avenue where the majority ofoccupied residential is present.

SURROUNDING LAND USE AND ZONING
The zoning classi?cations and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: 1-94 Edsel Ford Expressway 1with 133; Shopping District beyond.
East: Single-Tamil and Two-lamily residential.
South: Single-family and Two-family residential.
West: Single?family and Two-family residential.

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING OTHER COMMUNITY
MEETINGS

One?hundred and two (102) notices were sent out to residents and property owners within 300 radial
feet of the subject site. Twelve (12) have been returned as undeliverable. To date, the Commission
has received no communications via mail or telephone either in opposition or support of the

Page 2 of7

requested rezoning.

On Tuesday. July 9, 2019 a community meetingr was held regarding this proposed rezoning and
development at Alkebu-Lan Village, located at 7701 Harper Avenue. There were approximately 74
members of the public in attendance. In anticipation of the albrementioned meeting. the Department
of Neighborhor'rds District 5 Manager Ms. Melia Howard canvassed the area of the proposed plant
along Townsend Avenue, Field Avenue. Sheridan Avenue. Van Avenue. Granger Avenue. E.
Edsel Ford Service Drive, E. Palmer Avenue and Baldwin Avenue. In total contact was made with
occupants of 75 residential structures. Residents provided mixed responses to the proposed
development ranging from excited about employment opportunities, to not caring to engage because
they felt their voices wouldn?t matter in the process. Additionally, the project was discussed with
several area block clubs and neighborln'rod associations in order to increase attendance at the July 9th
meeting.

At the community meeting there were several questions with regards to Dakkota having a
Community Benelits Agreement with the residents even though the proposed development does not
meet the city's threshold criteria The anticipated amount ot'capital investment for
this development is Residents in attendance raised questions regarding truck traf?c.
air and noise pollution. jobs and wages, the preservation of the ?Big being bought out of their
homes in the future to expand the plant- and one resident asked Dakkota to have revenue sharing with
residents within the impact area. Overall. the meeting was perceived as being productive with the
majority of residents in attendance agreeing with and voicing support of the planned project.

On July 3019, the City Planning Commission held a public hearing on this request. There were
thirteen members of the public in attendance to address the rezoning request. All thirteen of those
who spoke during public comment were in support of the proposed rezoning.

The Commission requested that staff report back with inliirmation pertaining to the ownership of
vacant parcels adjacent to the project area; the administration?s overall vision for industrial
development on the east side of Detroit. (particularly along Willi [-94 industrial corridor) as well as
what impacts, if any, would the pending development have on emergency services.

In response to Commission's questions regarding the ownership ofthe vacant parcels adjacent to the
Kelleringr?Rose Daidtota site. stafl?presented a detailed listing ol?publicly held vacant
proper'ties. In order to determine the feasibility ol'establishing an in?eld housing strategy in close
proximity to the subject site.

MASTER PLAN CONF ORMAN CE

The subject site is located within the Kettering area ot'Neighborhood Cluster 3 of the Detroit
Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows ?Institutional? for the
subject property. An amendment will be forthcoming to show ?Light Industrial? as the future
intended land use. Additionally, a review of the Van Dyke frontage between 1-94 and Hendrie
Avenue will be reviewed to determine the feasibility of establishing a commercial or mixed use
character for that corridor.

ANALYSIS
The proposed zoning classi?cation of M3 would permit the requested use of a ?high ?medium-impact

manufacturing facility? specifically an "automobile accessory manufacture (not including tires. heat
treating, or foundry work) on a by-right basis.

Page 3 of7

The proposed M3 zoning classi?cation would pennit 13 by?right public, civic, institutional, retail,
service, commercial and other uses. The most intensive uses in the M3 zoning classi?cation include
?Trucking terminals, transfer buildings. truck garages, recreational vehicle storage lots. and open
areas for the parking buses, and other operable commercial vehicles, not including
limousines and tasieabs" and ?Storage or killing ot?poultty or small game for direct. retail sale on the
premises of for wholesale trade."

The following analysis details how the proposed rezoning either meets or fails to meet the eight
approval criteria of Section 61?3-80 of the Zoning Ordinance. which must be considered in making
recommendations and decisions on standard rezoning requests.

1) Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or meets the challenge of some changing
condition, trend or fact;

With the dramatic decline in population of the City of Detroit over the past 20 years, several of the
city?s neighborhood schools have closed and have fallen into disrepair. Among them are the former
Kettering High School and the former Rose Elementary School. In 20l2. the 'City of Detroit adopted
an adaptive reuse ordinance for the city?s [onner school sites. however, the level ot'capital
reinvestment in these properties has been nominal to nonexistent. The challenge remains as to what
to do with these properties which have since become a blighting in?uence on our communities. The
City of Detroit has taken the approach of re-energizing the manufacturing sector of our economy.
Many publicly held properties have been and are being sought for this purpose. The rezoning request
is in line with this stated purpose.

(2) Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the Master Plan and the stated purposes
of this Zoning Ordinance;

The proposed rezoning to M3 is not consistent with the Master Plan of Policies; however the
Flaming and Development Department is putposing a Master Plan amendment to accommodate this
rezoning request. as well as to address other concerns raised by members of the public at the July 18,
Bill hearing regarding the potential for conunercial frontage along the east side ol'Van Dyke
Avenue between l-U?t and Hendric Avenue.

(3) Whether the proposed amendment will protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public;

(liven the nature ol'the proposed development and the impact that the operations are anticipated to
have on the adjacent community. mitigating factors are being implemented to minimise the negative
impacts ot?noise. light and fumes. which may emit from the premises. There are approximately 14
residential properties along Townsend Avenue which will be impacted directly as a result ol'this
development. The vast majority of the adjacent parcels are vacant and primarily publicly owned. The
subject site is located directly south of the l??M Expressway and west ofa Major Corridor (Van Dyke
Avenue}. In general, an intensi?cation in zoning adjacent to residentially zoned properties is not the
preferred approach. Hon-ever. the inclusion of?? too! setbacks from residentially zoned land as
required by the soning ordinance as well as the implementation oflandscaping and elevated benns
along the perimeter of the property will aid in the goal of protecting the health, safety, and general
welfare ofthe adjacent residents.

(4) Whether the City and other service providers will be able to provide adequate public facilities

and services to the subject property. while maintaining adequate levels of service to existing
development;

Page 4 of7

The physical characteristics of the subject property will change significantly as a result of the
proposed rezoning. Preliminary site plans have been presented which show the layout of the
proposed development. Given the anticipated consolidation of the subject parcels as well as the
potential for street and alley vacations which will not be disruptive to the traditional street grid,
disruption to city services is not anticipated.

(5) Whether the proposed rezoning will have signi?cant adverse impacts on the natural
environment, including air. water. soil. wildlife, and vegetation and with respect to
anticipated changes in noise and regarding storm water management;

The proposed development is anticipated to create a vast amount of hard surface. where pervious
green space currently exists. This was taken into account with the planning ot?the site. hence the
inclusion of the detention basin on the former Rose Elementary School site, to address stormwater
management concerns.

(6) Whether the proposed amendment will have signi?cant adverse impacts on other property
that is in the vicinity of the subject tract;

The vast majority of the uses in the immediate area are residential. Given that the truck traf?c will
primarily be intemal to the site, adjacent to Townsend Avenue. design elements are being
implemented to mitigate any negative impacts which may occur.
(7) The suitability of the subject property for the existing zoning classi?cation and proposed
zoning classi?cation; and

As noted previously. the existing RB zoning classi?cation is not conducive for the proposed use
which is industrial in nature. Betbre making the recommendation to pursue an M3 zoning

classi?cation. stai?t'evalualed all zoning classi?cations and determined that the M3 zoning
classi?cation was the least intensive zoning classi?cation that would allow for the proposed use.

(8) Whether the proposed rezoning will create an illegal ?spot zone."

Given the commerciali?industria  nature ol?the corridor in which this rezoning has been requested
along with the size and proposed consistency 1with the pending l?v'laster Plan amendment, staffis of
the opinion that the proposed rezoning would not constitute an illegal ?spot zone.?

Suitability of the Property

One ol'the alorementioned criteria for rezoning states. ?The suitability of the subj cet property for the
existing zoning classi?cation and proposed zoning classi?cation." Zoning Map No. 24 generally
shot-vs R2 zoning to the north. south. east and west of the subject property. This section of the
Kettering is primarily developed with residential and institutional uses The existing
residential properties along Townsend A venue and Hendrie Avenue were primarily built between
1900 and 1921. The newer in?eld housing along Hendrie Avenue was built in 201 1.

As previously stated. the M3 zoning classi?cation allows for a variety ol'manutacturing type uses.
Historically, the manufacture ol'automotivc related uses necessitated the demand for parking 
employees. Given automation and the implementation ol? the third shift. the parking demand for this
use and similar uses has drastically declined since the advent ol? the current parking requirements.
Circa was.

Page 5 of7

The current parking standards for a Schedule A use require the greater of either 1 space per every
800 square feet. or 1 per 3 employees. With this eunent Formula, the petitioner would be required to
provide 790 employee parking spaces, although they will only have approximately 200
employees per shill. The current site plans, which show approximately 230 off-street parking spaces
will require the petitioner to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals for a parking variance. A
possible alternative would be the adoption ot'a proposed a text amendment to allow the Flaming and
Development Department to make the determination on the number of spaces needed, similar to what
was done in 2016 for ?Recreation, indoor commercial and health club.? In that situation, much like
what is anticipated to occur with Dakkota Integrated Systems, and likely any other automotive
supplier looking to break ground in the City of Detroit, the usable ?oor area is much greater than the
number of individuals occupying the space at any given time.

The Commission recommends that language similar to that adopted in 2016 be adopted for
manufacturing uses mowing ibrward. Such language is currently before the Commission and is slated
fora public hearing on September 5. 2019. As a point ol'rc Fercnce the existing language for the
aforementioned use is included below.

?Because Schedule uses have widely vaiyin parking demands, it is difficult to specify a
single requirement. The of?street parking requirementtin' sin-h uses shalt hr established by
the Planning and Development Department based on nt?parking demand. which
may include reeommendations ofthe Institute of ra??ic Engineers (1 TE), data collectedfrom
uses that are the same or comparable to the proposed use, or other relevant information.
The Planning and Development Department may require that a parking study he prepared at
the applicant ?s expense. Said study shall provide analysis andiustificationfor the proposed
number of'spaces to be provided. Parking studies shall document the source ofdata used to
develop the recon'nnendations. The Planning and Development Department shall review the
submitted study along with any other tra??ic engineering and planning data that are
appropriate and establish the offistreet parkin or loading requir anentsfor the use
proposed. 

Such a text amendment could bene?t future developments by allowing the applicant to move straight
ton-'ards permitting. rather than applying to the BZA for a parking variance. The text amendment is
now being proposed.

In general, the CPC looks favorably on the rezoning of the subject parcel to accommodate the
establishment of an automobile manufacturing supplier.

Land Use
The CPC is of the opinion that an M3 zoning classi?cation is an appropriate designation consistent

with the characteristics of the adjacent properties, which will allow for the establishment of industrial
related uses.

igni?cant Impact on Other Property

The CPC is of the opinion that the rezoning of this property from an economic development stand-
point will add to the sustainability of the surrounding community by allowing the establishment of an
economically viable, job creating, tax revenue generating development. Given the landscape of the
City of Detroit, wherein educational institutions are nestled in the midst of residential communities,
an M3 zoning classi?cation would not typically be ideal for such a site. However, given the sites
adjacency to the 1-94 Expressway as well as its adjacency to Van Dyke Avenue, along with the stated
bu l?t?ering and landscaping along Townsend Avenue and Hendric Avenue. the Commission is ol'the

Page 6 of7

opinion that any adverse impacts associated with locating an M3 zoning classi?cation alongside an
R2 zoning classi?cation can be addressed.

RECOMMENDATION

On July IS. 2019 the City Planning Commission voted to recommend approval ol? the request ofthc
City ol?Dctroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 24 of
the 198?1 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61. Zoning. by showing an M3 [General Industrial District]
xoning classi?cation where an R2 [Two-Iamily Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently
exists on and twelve [312) parcels commonly identi?ed as the Kettering High
School located at oI Van Dyke Avenue and the thinner Rose Elementary School located at 5800
Field Avenue, generally bounded by the 1-94 Edsel Ford Expressway and Medbury Avenue to the
north, Van Dyke Avenue to the east, Hendrie Avenue to the south and Townsend Avenue to the west.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES,
CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr, Director
George A. Etheridge, Staff

Attachments:

Zoning Map No. 24
Ordinance

Page 7 of7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23?2?5?

f4 1



 

- Sit-.31 
yawmww itLiam?31W 

24

3mm 3mm
- 2.45%? 



.

c-uVENUE

 

mm A we; I

 



(1-25-2012)

 

24

 

 

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zom?ng,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 24, by
showing an M3 (General Industrial District) zoning classi?cation Where an R2 (Two-family
Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on three-hundred and twelve (312)
parcels commonly identi?ed as the former Kettering High School located at 6101 Van Dyke
Avenue and the former Rose Elementary School located at 5800 Field Avenue, generally
bounded by the I-94 Edsel Ford Expressway and Medbury Avenue to the north, Van Dyke
Avenue to the east, Hendrie Avenue to the south and Townsend Avenue to the west.



COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No.
24, by showing an M3 (General Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where an R2 (Two-family
Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on three-hundred and twelve (312)
parcels commonly identi?ed as the former Kettering High School located at 6101 Van Dyke
Avenue and the former Rose Elementary School located at 5800 Field Avenue, generally bounded
by the 1-94 Edsel Ford Expressway and Medbury Avenue to the north, Van Dyke Avenue to the

east, Hendrie Avenue to the south and Townsend Avenue to the west.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Article XVII, Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly

known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, is amended as follows:

District Map No. 24 to show an M3 General Industrial District) zoning
classi?cation where an R2 ['l'wo~familv Residential District) zoning classi?cation
currentlv exists on three-hundred and twelve (312) parcels commonlv identi?ed as the
former KetteringJ-Iiah School located at 6101 Van kae Avenue and the former Rose
Elementarv School located at 5800 Field Avenue. generally bounded by the [~94 Edsel
Ford Expressway and Medbury Avenue to the north. Van Dyke Avenue to the east.
Hendrie Avenue to the south and Townsend Avenue to the west. identi?ed more
speci?cally as:

Land situated in the City of Detroit. County of Wavne. State of Michigan, as Follows:
PARCELS 1,2. 3. 4, 5 AND 6 ALSO DESCRIBED BY SURVEY AS FOLLOWS:

Part of SUBDIVISION of the East part of RC. 390. North of Gratiot Ave ..
according to the Plat thereof as recorded in Liber 13 of Plats. page 92. and Part of GEO.
H. SUBDIVISION OF THE WEST PART OF PC. 390, according to the plat
thereof as recorded in Liber 14 of Plats. page 5, and cart of WILLIAMS TAITS
SUBDIVISION OF PART OF CHURCH FARM (PC. 16) NORTH OF GRATIOT

AVE, according to the plat thereof as recorded in Liber 16 o'I?l?lats, page 8? in the Ci_t\g






of Detroit. Wavne Countv. Michigan and being described bv metes and bounds as
follows: Beginning at the Southeast Corner of Lot 115 of said 
SUBDIVISION: thence South 62 degrees 50 minutes 00 seconds West 540.64 Feet along

 

the Northerlv right?of-wav line of Hendrie Boulevard (80.00 feet wide): thence South 26
dogrees 56 minutes 05 seconds East l7.16 feet along the Westerly right-otlwav line of
Baldwin Avenue (60.00 feet wide}; thence South 62 degrees 50 minutes 18 seconds West
273.83 feet along the Northerly right-of-way line of Hendrie Avenue (60.00 feet wide) to
anoint hereinafter referred to as reference point thence North 27 degrees 15 minutes
02 seconds West 1586.59 feet along the Easterly right-of?wav line of Tournsend Avenue
{60.00 feet wide}: thence along the Southerlv right-of?wav line of 1-94 the following nine
(9) courses: LI) North 76 degrees 49 minutes 02 seconds l-?ast 136.29 feet; North 84
d_egrees 08 minutes 38 seconds East 19.31 feet; (3) North 76 degrees 01 minute 23
seconds lilast  35.63 feet: North 75 degrees 51 minutes 47 seconds East 61.53 feet: (5)
North 69 degrees 55 minutes 52 seconds East 100.71 feet; (6) North 69 degrees 26
minutes 10 seconds East 14.09 feet: (7) North 68 degrees 22 minutes 19 seconds East
194.36 feet: (8) North 62 degrees 20 minutes 18 seconds l?iast 16.0] feet: (9) North 69
d_egrees 05 minutes I 1 seconds East 56.52 feet; thence along the \llr'esterltI right?of?way
line of Van kae Avenue the following three (3) courses: (1) South 29 degrees I 1
minutes 01 second East 166.49 feet; South 62 degrees 26 minutes 18 seconds West
9.90 feet; (3) South 29 degrees 11 minutes 01 second East 216.03 feet: South 62
degrees 31 minutes 36 seconds West 61.06 feet: (5) South 29mrees 1 1 minutes 0]
second liast 50.01 feet: (6) North 62 degrees 31 minutes 26 seconds East 1 15.09 feet: 
South 29 degrees 11 minutes 01 second East 1014.44 feet to the Point of Beginning.
ALSO: Commencing at reference point thence South 62 degrees 50 minutes 18
seconds West 60.00 feet along the Northerly right-of?wav of said Hendrie Avenue to the
Point of Beginning: thence continuing South 62 degrees 50minutes 18 seconds West
549.63 feet; thence North 27 degrees I 1 minutes 09 seconds West 313.98 ?eet along the
Easterly right?of?wav line of Field Avenue (66.00 feet wide): thence North 62 degrees 51
minutes 12 seconds East 549.28 feet along the Southerlv right-of?wav line of Medburv
Avenue (60.00 feet wide): thence South 27 degrees 15 minutes 02 seconds East 313.82

feet along the Westerly right-of-wav line of Townsend Avenue (60.00 feet wide) to the

Point of Beginning. including in the above descriptions all the vacated alleys adiacent
thereto and vacated Ladue Avenue. Lambert Avenue. Conger Avenue. Medburv. Baldwin

Avenue. Phelps Avenue. Piquette Avenue and Sheridan Avenue.

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,

health, safety and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after publication
in accordance with Section 401(6) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, Michigan Compiled
Laws Section l25.3401(6) and Section 4-118, paragraph 3, of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to Form:

Lawrence T. Garcia,
Corporation Counsel

. . 
Alton James Elf? (If watt? It Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis
Lauren Hood, MCD Damion W. Ellis
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Esparza AIA LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory 
MSICEH R- Todd, Jr. Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e-mail: cpc@detr0itmi.gov

August 28, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of the City of Detroit Planning Development Department to amend
Article XVII, District Maps 28 and 30, of the 1984 Detroit City Code Chapter 61,
?Zoning? by showing an M2 (Restricted Industrial District) zoning classi?cation
where a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation is currently shown on
seven (7) parcels generally bounded by East Warren Avenue to the north, St. Jean
Street to the east, Kercheval Street to the south and Lillibridge and Beniteau streets
to the west.

BACKGROUND AND PROPOSAL

The City Flaming Commission (CPC) has received a request from the City of Detroit Planning
Development Department requesting that the City of Detroit amend Article XVII, District
Maps 28 and 30 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? to show an M2
(Restricted Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where a B4 (General Business District)
zoning classi?cation is currently shown on seven (7) parcels generally bounded by East Warren
Avenue to the north, St. Jean Street to the east, Kercheval Street to the south and Lillibridge and
Beniteau streets to the west.

The subject property is located on two separate blocks:

- At the southwestern comer of East Warren Avenue and St. Jean Street - Five vacant parcels

- At the northwestern corner of Kercheval and St. Jean streets Two parcels. One is vacant land
and the other is developed with a vacant, two-story brick building (legal use: assembly hall).

Proposed Development

The rezoning is being requested to facilitate the expansion of the Fiat Mack Avenue
Engine Plant. This is a follow-up to the large map amendment that the City Planning
Commission recommended approval of on April 25, 2019 and that was subsequently approved
by the City Council. These parcels should have been included in the ?rst rezoning, but were
overlooked. They are directly adjacent to areas that were previously rezoned for the project. The
subject property is proposed to be used for employee parking, new vehicle storage and semi-
trailerIf-parking. These uses are not allowed in the current B4 zoning district, but are by-right in
the prloiposed M2 district.

There is one exception?11235 Kercheval is privately owned and not included in the proposed
expansion, but is included in the rezoning for consistency as the rest of the block will be zoned
M2.

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
Surrounding Zoning and Land Use
The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: M3 (General Industrial) DDOT Shoemaker bus terminal

East: M4 (Intensive Industrial) existing Mack Engine Plant

South: B4 (General Business) Detroit Enterprise Academy (K-8 charter school) vacant
land

West: B4 and M2 vacant land

Approval Criteria

Preliminarily, this proposal appears to meet the eight approval criteria for a map amendment
listed in Section 61?3-80 of the zoning ordinance, speci?cally:

II Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or meets the challenge of some
changing condition, trend or fact. As these parcels will be part of the FCA development,
rezoning them to M2 will reduce the confusion created by split-zoned parcels.

I The suitability of the subject property for the existing zoning classification and proposed
zoning classi?cation. The M2 zoning district is designed to be a buffer between
residential and intensive industrial districts. Although the proposed rezoning puts
industrially-zoned land closer in proximity to occupied residential land, the M2 district
was speci?cally chosen to protect residences from undesirable spillover effects of
industrial uses.

I Whether the proposed rezoning will create an illegal ?spot zone. As the property to the
east is zoned M4 (Intensive Industrial) and adjacent property to the north and south are
zoned M2, the addition of this M2 area only expands the existing industrial
districts and does not create a spot zone.

Additionally, the analysis in the report for the original rezoning (attached) also applies to this
request.

Master Plan Consistency

The subject site is located within the Foch and St. Jean areas of Neighborhood Cluster 3 of the
Detroit Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows Low-Medium
Density Residential and Neighborhood Commercial for the subject properties.

Community Input

The process for the original rezoning included extensive community engagement culminating in
a Community Bene?ts Agreement. Due to the limited nature of this additional request, no
additional outreach was done.

RECOMMENDATION

On July 18, 2019, the City Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of the rezoning
request to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 13 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
?Zoning,? to show an M2 (Restricted Industrial) zoning classi?cation where a B4 (General

2

Business) zoning classi?cation currently exists on seven parcels generally bounded by East
Warren Avenue to the north, St. Jean Street to the east, Kercheval Street to the south and
Lillibridge and Beniteau streets to the west. The ordinance establishing the map amendment has
been reviewed and approved as to form by the Law Department and is attached for your
consideration.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Jamie J. Murphy, Staff

Attachments: Rezoning Ordinance
District Maps 28 3O
CPC Public Hearing Notice with map

cc: Maurice Cox, Director PDD
Katy Trudeau, Deputy Director, PDD
Karen Gage, PDD
Matt Walters, Mayor?s Of?ce
David Bell, Director, BSEED
James Foster, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, onning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map Nos. 28 and 30
to show an M2 (Restricted Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where a B4 (General
Business District) zoning classi?cation is currently shown for seven parcels cormnonly identi?ed
as 11232, 11238, 11244, and 11250 East Warren; 2115 and 4711 St. Jean; and 11235 Kercheval.

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map
Nos. 28 and 30 to show an M2 (Restricted Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where a B4
(General Business) zoning classi?cation is currently shown for seven parcels commonly
identi?ed as 11232, 11238, 11244, and 11250 East Warren; 2115 and 4711 St. Jean; and 11235
Kercheval.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Article XVII, Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, is amended as follows:

District Map No. 28 is amended to show an M: (Restricted Industrial District}
zoning classi?cation where a 134 (General Business District) zoning. classi?cation is currentlr
shown on live parcels cnl?n'mnnl?r?r identi?ed as 11233- 11238. 1134-1, and 11350 liiast Warren:
and 4'71 1 St. Jean. identified more specilicallv as:

74 FT OF LOTS 15?19. JOHN WALSHS 811131.28 P17 FLATS. W.C.R.

(11} District Map No. is amended to show an MD [Restricted Industrial District)
zoning classi?cation where a B4 (General I'Susiness District) zoning classi?cation is currently
shown on two parcels commonly identi?ed as 2115 St. Jean and 11235 Kercheval. identi?ed

more speri?nallyr as:

 

LOTS 8-12. HUTTON 8.: NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS. W.C.R.
Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance

are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after publication
in accordance with Section 401(6) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, M.C.L. 125.3401(6)

and Section 4?118, paragraph 3, of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to Form:

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Council



Alton James @it? of metrnit Brenda Goss Andrews

LChairplefsor? MCD Damion W. Ellis
auren 00 'd AIA, LEED
Vice Chargecretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Msrceltl R- Todd, Jr- Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb
01'

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

August 28, 2019
HONROABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of Tower Construction on behalf of A.F. Jonna Development and Management
Company to modify and amend map No. 11 of Chapter 61, Article XVII of the 1984
Detroit City Code, Zoning, and the provisions of an existing Flamed Development (PD)
District established by Ordinance 512-H for the area generally bounded by Wight Street
(extended), the Coast Guard facility, the Detroit River, and East Harbortown Drive, also
known as 3500 E. Jefferson Avenue. (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

The Detroit City Flaming Commission has concluded its review and deliberations and
recommends approval in regards to the above captioned request of Tower Construction on
behalf of A.F. Jonna Development and Management Company. The requested modi?cation
would allow for the construction of a ?ve?story apartment building and 11 townhomes and
requisite off?street parking in the Harbortown complex. Below please ?nd the Commission?s
report and recommendation.

PROJECT PROPOSAL

The subject property, located in District 5, sits within a site measuring just over ?ve (5) acres
(6.88 acres). The parcel is largely undeveloped with the exception of two tennis courts located
on the northwest corner of the subj eet parcel which are slated to be removed. The proposed
building height for the multi-family residential structure is ?ve stories and would contain
approximately 202 one, two and three-bedroom rental units. Additionally, the proposed
development includes 11 two-story townhomes with attached garages which would be situated
along the southern shoreline of the manmade lagoon located in the Harbortown complex. The
building exterior is to be clad primarily of brick, with balconies for each unit, much like what
was constructed in phase one of the Water?s Edge development (134 one, two, and three-
bedroom rental units). It is anticipated that construction will take approximately twelve to sixteen
months to complete.

As indicated in the attached site plans, the proposed use is a 202-unit, ?ve-story apartment
building, as well as an associated parking lot, in addition to 11 two-story townhomes with
attached garages, parking pads and guest parking. The units will include one, two, and three
bedroom con?gurations, the majority of which consist of two-bedroom units. The breakdown of
the proposed unit count is as follows: 85 one?bedroom units, 102 two-bedroom units, and 15
three-bedroom units.

On the ?rst ?oor of the apartment structure the proposed unit con?guration is as follows: 17 one-
bedroom units, 18 two-bedroom units, and 3 three-bedroom units. On the residential levels of
two through ?ve, the con?guration is as follows: 17 one-bedroom units, 21 two-bedroom units,
and 3 three-bedroom units.

The proposed multi-family residential structure would consist of four sections: A, B, C, and D.
Section A is proposed to be 73,630 square feet; Section B, 62,355 square feet; Section C, 58,620
square feet; and Section D, 82,980 square feet. The foot notes on sheet CS100 state that the
apartment structure is divided into 4 buildings separated by two-hour rated ?rewalls.

The proposed parking lot consists of 312 parking spaces which would be located to the west,
north and east of the proposed apartment building. Fifteen of which are proposed guest parking
for the 11 townhomes in the north?east section of the development. The off-street parking
standards in Sec. 61-14-24 only require 252.5 off-street parking spaces, nearly 60 parking spaces
fewer than what is being proposed. The developer is proposing to place 19 off-street parking
spaces in reserve for future use in the southeast corner of the parking lot in order to provide an
additional 3,468 square feet of landscaped area, as was done in 2013 with phase one of the
Water?s Edge development. The parking areas to the west, north and east of the proposed
apartment building would be screened from the exiting residential units to the north by Patrnore
Green Ash trees. As the site plans show, the River Walk follows the southern boundary of the
subject area. The parking areas would be screened from the River Walk by new landscaping
consisting of Shadblow, Patmore Green Ash, and Kousa Dogwood trees.

Building materials are proposed to be predominantly red masonry to match the architectural style
and materials of Water Edge phase one. There has been additional conversation with the
developer regarding the proposed height and massing of the proposed multi-family residential
structure. Several concerns have been raised by the Flaming and Development Department
related to materiality, massing of the buildings, surface parking and loss of green space. CPC
staff is of the opinion that if a greater building height were utilized as well as some form of
structured parking, the issues around massing and loss of green space would be minimized. The
developer has indicated that they have forgone greater density which would be permitted, in lieu
of preserving visibility to the Detroit River for as many residents of Spinnaker Tower as
possible.

BACKGROUND

When Waters Edge Phase I was presented in 2015 a number of concerns which closely resemble
those expressed by residents regarding Phase II were communicated to the Commission, 
storrnwater management, ingress and egress, snow removal, etc.

The public hearing for this requested PD modi?cation was held on October 19, 2017, at which
time many of these concerns were revisited along with a great number more of recent issues,
particularly, basement ?ooding during storm events, the proposed height and elevations of the
building, the loss of outdoor recreational space and the like.

Members of various Harbortown condominium associations provided copies of lease agreements
and promotional materials believed to guarantee a resort like lifestyle within the Harbortown
community

At the public hearing of Thursday, October 19, 2017, the Commission requested that staff work
with the petitioner to among other things hold a community meeting to further discuss the issues
and concerns raised by members of the Harbortown community, as well as allow the Law
Department, Detroit Water and Sewerage Department and the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department to review and comment on documents submitted by the members of
the Harbortown community believed to be relevant to your review. The culmination of these
ongoing discussions concluded on Tuesday, June 18, 2019. It is for this reason that this request
is just now being forwarded to Your Honorable Body for your consideration.

Attached is a copy of staffs August 30, 2017 report to the Commission which details all
concerns raised by the residents of Harbortown and the developer?s responses to those concerns.

As previously stated in this report a number of community meetings were held between the
developer and the residents of the Harbortown Community over the course of two years.

The most recent of which was held on Tuesday, June 18, 2019, at which the developers plans for
sanitation and storm water management were shared with the various condominium associations
in the Harbortown community. Prior this the June 18th meeting a meeting was held on May 14,
2018 at 6 pm. at the Water?s Edge Club House. There were approximately 100 residents in
attendance. An overview of the proposed development, i.e. Water?s Edge Phase II was given by
the developer, Arkan onna, who also solicited recommendations from members of the
community in an effort to improve the site plans now before Your Honorable Body for your
consideration. While many of the comments received at the May 14th community meeting
centered on operational concerns, a summary of the comments received have been included in
this report for your information.

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS

Surrounding Zoning and Land Use
The zoning classi?cations and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: residential, Spinnaker Tower
East: residential, Water?s Edge Phase 1.
South: River Walk and Detroit River.
West: UAW Training facility.

Master Plan Consistency

The subject site is located within the Near East Riverfront area of Neighborhood Cluster 4 of the
Detroit Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows ?Mixed-
Residential/Commercial? for the subject property. While the proposed use appears to be
consistent with this designation the Planning and Development Department has been
requested to submit its comments regarding this proposal.

COMMUNITY CONCERNS

Site plans

The recommendation was made that the deve10per provide additional site plans and seek
community input rather than simply presenting their vision for the development as a foregone
conclusion. It was explained by the developer and by City Flaming Commission staff that the

property in question is not a part of the condominium association and that the has an opportunity
to express concerns just as when any rezoning or PD modi?cation is being proposed. It was
further explained that the subject property is not a part of the community commons and that the
Harbortown community has no vested interest in the subject property. The developer stated that
he has solicited comments from the community in order to improve the sight plans and once
again offered that opportunity at the community meeting of May 14, 2008.

It was recommended by one member of the Harbortown community that the developer consider
stackable townhomes, rather than a hi ghrise apartment building that is slated to be converted into
condominiums that would be in direct competition with the Great Lakes and Spinnaker Towers,
Presently, both towers have a high rate of vacancy.

Ingress and Egress

Concerns over traf?c congestion have been at the forefront in regards to the Harbortown
Development since its inception. There is currently a proposal being considered to address the
ingress and egress issues. The opening of Adair and Wright streets to emergency vehicles has
been recommended by the residents, developer and City Planning Commission, dating back to
1986. It has been demonstrated that the access points to the development, from E. Jefferson
Avenue are not suf?cient to accommodate the Detroit Fire Departments equipment, as evidenced
by a failed emergency preparedness operation which took place last fall. Since that time, lock
boxes on Adair and Wight have been added which emergency personal have access to.

Additionally, the developer has assessed what would be required to provide regular access from
Adair and Wight, including the construction of an attendant?s booth.

A traf?c study was conducted in February of 2018, which is attached. Many residents of the
Harbortown community believe that a traf?c light at the E. Jefferson point of ingress and egress
would be bene?cial considering the City?s recent street improvements with parking and bike
lanes. It has been requested by the Commission that a new traf?c study be conducted which
takes into account the parking and bike lanes on East Jefferson and the impacts they have on
traf?c patterns.

Green spaces and obstruction of views

Given the utilization of existing green space, which is not a part of the community commons, the
deve10per has opted to move forward with the development and implementation of the
recreational area to the south-east of Water?s Edge Phase I to ensure that a recreational area
would be made available to the community sooner rather than later.

There were concerns expressed over the location of condominiums on Jib Lane and the loss of
views of the Detroit River. Additional concerns were expressed over the loss of trees throughout
the Harbortown development that have never been replaced.

The question was also raised if the language in resident?s lease agreements remains relevant once
the units have been converted into condominiums regarding the obstruction of views. In several
conversations with attorneys well versed in real estate law they have issued to the opinion that
the language remains relevant.

Snow removal

Concerns arose regarding snow removal and on-site storage space, given that the vacant subject
property proposed or development is currently being used for storing plowed snow. The
developer indicated that snow would be stored in the landscaped areas throughout the
development.

Preservation of property values

The concern regarding the preservation of property values is a question which often comes
before the Commission and was raised again by residents of the Harbortown Community.
Residents inquired why the developer is considering rental units rather than condominiums,
citing their belief that rental units decrease property values. The developer stated that the idea is
to covert the rental units to condominium units over time.

DEPARTMENTAL ANALYSIS

In light the various questions raised by the community, particularly those with legal rami?cation,
the commission requested review by the Law Department. A report was submitted addressing the
questions of community commons, obstruction of views, and outdoor recreational spaces. The
Law Department?s response to the questions and concerns raised by members of the Harbortown
Community were addressed in a memorandum dated July 17, 2018 which is attached for your
review. The memo states in part, ?Your letter, dated May22, asked about whether a certain
structure(s) at Harbortown had been built to speci?cations and about the prospective construction
of a second residential tower at 3500 E. Jefferson. Both issues are private in nature. I do not see
how any government agency should or could - weigh in on these matters.?

At the July 21, 2018 continued public hearing, the Commission once again took testimony
regarding the resident?s concerns of the proposed development. The comments received were
not in regards to the design or scale of the proposed development, nor the content of the site
plans being considered. The majority of the public testimony was in regards to the on-going
?ooding issues of previously built residential units within the Harbortown community. Given
that the issues at hand pertained largely to stormwater and sanitation concerns, the Commission
voted to recommend approval of the proposed PD modi?cations and instructed staff to delay the
advancement this matter to City Council until such a time that the developer and the Detroit
Water and Sewerage Department jointly reviewed the developers plans for stormwater and
sanitation and presented their ?ndings to the residents of the Harbortown community.

RECOMMENDATION

On July 21, 2018 the City Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of the requested
PD modi?cation. This recommendation comes with the following conditions:

1) That the conversion of the ?landbanked? areas to parking, if required in the future, is
approved, and

2) That ?nal site plans, elevations, landscaping lighting and signage plans shall be submitted
to the staff of the City Flaming Commission for review and approval for consistency
with the approved plans prior to application being made for applicable permits.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr, Director
George A. Etheridge, Staff

Attachments: Departmental Reports

cc: Maurice Cox, Director, PDD
Karen Gage, PDD
Ester Yang, PDD
Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Gary Brown, Director, DWSD

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No.
11 to modify the existing PD (Planned Development District) zoning classi?cation, established
by Ordinance No. 512-H, shown on property located at 3500 East Jefferson Avenue, generally
bounded by Wight Street (extended) to the north, the US. Coast Guard facility located at 110
Mt. Elliott Street to the east, the Detroit River to the south, and East Harbortown Drive to the

west.

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No.
11 to modify the existing PD (Planned Development District) zoning classi?cation, established
by Ordinance No. 512-H, shown on property located at 3500 East Jefferson Avenue, generally
bounded by Wight Street (extended) to the north, the US. Coast Guard facility located at 110
Mt. Elliott Street to the east, the Detroit River to the south, and East Harbortown Drive to the
west.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Article XVII, Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning, is amended
as follows:

Article XVII. District Map No. 11 of the 1984 Detroit Citv Code. Zoning. is amended to
modify the existinn PD [Planned Development District) zoning classification. established by
Ordinance No. 512-H, shim-n on property located at 3500 East Jefferson Avenue. generally
bounded by Wight Street (extended). the US Coast Guard facility located at 110 Mt. Elliott
Street to the east. the Detroit River to the south. and East llarhorlown Drive to the west, and
more speci?cally described as:

LAND IN THE CITY OF DETROIT. COUNTY OF WAYNE. OI: IIGAN

BEING DESCRIBED AS: BEGINNING AT A POINT 872.00 FEET

ALONG THE EASTERLY LINE OF ADAIR (60 FEET

 

FROM THE INTERSECTION OF THE LINE OF 

 

AVENUE {120 AND THE EASTERLY LINE OF SAID ADAIR

THENCE 59?52?00" E. 308.57 THENCE 89?57'37" E. 155.89

THENCE 46?47?23? E. 219.00 FEET: THENCE 29?58?20? E. 74.48 FEET:
THENCE 60?01'40? W. 177.48 THENCE 29?58'20? E. 224.69 FEET:
THENCE 49?55'28" W. 211.69 FEET: THENCE 40?04'32" F. 161.03 FEET TO A
POINT ON THE UNITED STATES HARBOR LINE AS ESTABLISHED THE US
CORPS OF ENGINEERS IN 1933: THENCE 49?55?28" ALONG SAID UNITED
STATES HARBOR LINE A DISTANCE OF 153.54 FEET TO A POINT ON THE
EASTERLY LINE OF SAID VACATED ADAIR STEET: THENCE
ALONG SAID VACATED ADAIR A DISTANCE OF 805.11
FEET TO THE POINT BEGINNING. 371537.37 SQ. FT. OOR

6.25 ACRES AND SUBJECT TO AN AND ALL EASEMENTS OF RECORD.

to approve the site plans. elevations. and other components of the development proposal for the

I-larhottown residential development. as depicted in the drawings prepared bv Stonelield

Eligineema. dated August 30. 2017. subiect to the following conditions:

1.

That the ?nal site plans. elevations. lighting. signage. and landscaping plans are subiect
to review and approval by City Plannina Commission Stall" l?or consistencv with the

approved plans prior to application being made For applicable permits. and

hat anv conversion ol? the ?'landbattkecl" areas to parking. if required in the future. is
subject to review and approval hv Citv Planning Commission staff for consistencv with

the approved plans

 

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,

health, safety and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.



Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after
publication in accordance with MCL 125.3401(6) and Section 4-118, paragraph 3, of the 2012

Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to Form:

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

 

 

LOCATION MAP
SCALE 2000';

 

1-3223}
ENE 

If?
15* 

 

g? v. ZDNE SDI
. a 612+?? "Hunt I
- I
l' 
35256? - . - 
SITE 
Tsar.? -. 35:22. 2/ I
min-Dumc 
2" anal-II- 9"
I - icing-Hal I

SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS

FOR

WATERSEDGE ll

DEVELOPMENT

PARCEL ID:  3000  I4.003L
3500 EASTJEFFERSON AVENUE
CITY OF DETROIT, WAYNE COUNTY MICHIGAN

PROPOSED 

 



g}

 

a - - .?u-Mm

TAX 8: ZONING MAP
SCALE 300':

 

DESCRIPTION

LMIH TIE CITY OF COUNTY OF HAM STATEOF MICHIGAN
BEING 

em LT EMT 
(M THE
INTEBECTIGI OF THE LIE OF IEFFEISON AVENUE FEET
HIM) AND THE LINE OF SAID 



mun IISII 

WEB-E 5 

 

THENCE 5.114: 

5 PET,

TM 1 nun-Luau rul.

THEME 1? I. FEET

THENCE 5 .1 FEET TOR WTTE STATE
HARIOILNE TIE USCOMSOF ENGINEERS Ill 
Inn-:1 I urn-.Irvlnumum mun-a 51?1? um will
5' ?15? PHI taxman mar-nu
um ormDut-nlo-Iz-unir?r.

I'll? 
OFII II 
Know What's below

u-x Call before you dig.

PLANS PREPARED BY:

STONEFIELD

engineering design

Royal Oak. MI Long Island City, NY -



Rutherford. NJ

28454 Woodward Avenue, Royal Oak. MI 48067
Phone 248 247 I I IS

AERIAL MAP
SCALE 300':

PLAN REFERENCE MATERIALS:

I Tm: Pun IEFEIIEM-CES THE rougwmc 
INCLUDING NOT LIMITED To.
sumv HEEL-ED Br WW 
DATED lulu-nu
. ARCHITECTUIAL PLAM PREPAID: s?rucln 

GEOTECHNKAI. REPORT manna: av 7mm
ENGINEEIS I cousuumsmc DATED Imequ
- AEHIL HAP OITAINEI GOOGLE EMTH Pm
LOCATION HAP olTAlNuJ Flow WAYNE COUNTY 55 I
DErIorr 20mm: HAP
a. ALI. maniacs I-u?riwu. unto Aqu HALL BE
comm A unr OF rum :Er AND ALI. 

WELE TO A Em EACH ME AND
IT THC START OF
?0.67le 

APPLEAM

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?mam-mum i I
in TELEEWHIIMIB ?Tin: .
5
nun-mnrvIrAIIA-cumm z: i a 3
?trimming-mu: 3' i I i
norALaAmer-acm I I
24mm 5.:Ill$2I.IESE5?2?
a n. 5:0;
I SHEET INDEX 1
I TITLE STONEFIELD
uhm my run:
02'" TITLE
- 0' COVERSHEET
ADDITIONAL SHEETS I puma

 

DRAWING TITLE
ALT 

 

I 
Icrl 

 

 

C-I

 

 

 

N.U



 

ZSL 

mun!

 

1.43. Hv?a? Wil-

 

 

Su?-53mg

 

 

FAICELID 
JIMEIEFFEIION AVENUE
CITY 

IMPROVEMENTS

PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
COMPLEX WITH ASSOCIATED

WAYNE COUNTY. HICHKAN

SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS

WATERSEDGE II

 

 

HI

STONEFIELD

Lnll 

?humming Iv dulgn
Clly NY
ww ?anal-Id?. (am
23454 HHIOGT
Plum: 24B 247 I I I5

?mom-?1 ru

 

28.35.39 8. E3552

 

 

n-
I




IISUE DATE

 

I.. (It!


 

r"


95?, .

   

 

DESCRIPTION

 



u-u

mun

.. . .mu- .. 

ur?n 

 

 

9253.. Sugguu Y:

??r-Ina 5:1qu at. ?Etch-



30.3 
305.

 

024 25m meEn
wad. 
u. .ZUENQ 02.xww2.02m 
KOBEFZOU .OWFOZ
.. nm>02m? mm
ZdJn. 20 DWFQU.DZ241E (mud.
. I . A. I v.14; 02.94.53 IFGOZ

 

 

 

Ehmhast 5651?.?


mum 

Tania?:


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
Om Noz_zn anmbr Oman??14402
ulnar! 3


I: I. alga?! >4>w924m3??a? gbmiiciom 4/ .m I 
15.4525?In?onmuundl?m?psummum
m<3w0r {1555 I 
.. _n I.
.. I.I..IJ.. I 3501:9532.? gm?iniubzuwczmaqobquzo ..I M_u I
I 33.59- I I I 
..II.. I. 333
36.34_uuynmummE-q 3.495t6cm?rnmw . I I I 
Esaucuiuun? !Qg?qogr I I.. I. I I I 
49,235: .
_.ecinochm . n. I In. I I Saga?6:353:


4042? .55! . I. ..th 
:21. .. Than DEM) m_I_Im 152 I 
ik?i?k?w?m I
91.71.71 Sign). _haahumj
i IggInglnu?ng II dulgn
Roy-l OIIL HI Lou CIry NT HulhorIard. NJ

1.454 Woodwud Avonun RafBugma?usgSHIEB?R-dla

O. . . I I ?gu- 

. . I. . Fh Hindi-?Egg
. ?rm gun?.0- gagi?wgimg
. II ggiid?iaggpr
. I I nIQSEIzZ-??olibnrn?i-nJinng?idugigz
I I- I, II. .nrulj. EDD.

.. I
. I . ain?dgn-EiqigioI-ong
. II. I.. Eganl:??1?ig?z

. . . 

 

 

PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
COMPLEX WITH ASSOCIATED

IMPROVEMENTS

PAICELID 

I

I

a



I





2

3
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS
WATERSEDGE 
mo 
wnme COUNTYJ-IICHIGAN

EITV OF 

 

 

 

 

 

5.


        

In:
I ?Edo Equia?gn?niaie 3..) .
urau . 
.IvI?tIr?.? Hr31.2II.

.II I..II IFII 
I. I. I.
I . . 1.3.1: 1.{garaiik?gliiga
. . .. g?g?gaz 92.0:glans-939.52.WIN .Ixnh r1. .151 I . Hug-w 3:3
I anti. I. . . . ISILI Rggaliuiiggawou
. .. . 

 

. I . 
I . {uuggaliuagigi 

 

.Bti IIH an ha Eu. ILPZ

A . I

l?lhl

 

Big-.2: at!?


nIu

 

 

 

 

 

v-0

 

2.41: 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLEX WITH ASSOCIATED
IMPROVEMENTS
AM: 

PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
AVENUE

NTV. MICHIGAN

SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS

WATERSEDGE 

 

 

Ian] on. HI Lulu 
.. up nu. 0

"Ion-2452?? 

mm unmin?qnuun
?'04 4"

but 

6

STONEFIEL
Irma

 

 

.2 E25 .5:

 




EASSu-luiinlh-uIIFE

24:55:51.0

?5-1;qu

 

gEEg=i5u1.E
41E Elm-E Ii llut Db MEI):

gala};

Egg


In: 
mg! .2



inning

gaginigil?lpg
its

dig-qln?n?Ellirl

.Iurnaiq



 

 

II 


 

 

 

 

 





If

I.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

muu

it:

 

Ids?n" karma?42?:




 

Hil? m4?

 

511i


 

 

 

IMPROVEMENTS
PARCEL ID: IIMIM 

COMPLEX WITH ASSOCIATED

PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
CITYWIIYHT
WATNE COUNTY. MICHIGAN

AVENUE

WATERSEDGE 

 

 

6

engineering I: 
loyal 01k. HI Lang Ilhnd Clq. NT Rulhorbcd. 
muon?hlkn' mm

STONEFIELD

1.454 Wood-?d Anna. Royal on: MI ?061
240117 

 

$28.32 @9225:

 



 

I 

I null"

Egalbl?runx?i:
51:11.0 Ba?lt?iin! wing

:5 Ebro.? cl .



Elan-335E
gin-53;
Egon

it. 9530??!

?33.13!

 

All carat-cu .

.
np?tEutt??geuorgz.

955!

35:15: 9105:

Iii-gag:

 

IImInn? m?

mun DATE II

 

 

In!" pin 1rl l-P
Ir lama-nu-

arrow:
ill! El'rl'l-IM-I vu

 

I .
DESCRIPTION

II IIA- 

 

 

 

do:

wit;





Estg?m?

 

,Ir

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



II.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hm 



  

 

 

 



Erl? Err-Sun?s

 



antingG-Egrag
NEE. xi ?5.3m in an! .150 5.93:8

 

w?g?glgxiz?iu
niacin!?? 1.53.5 :3 ?15.09 .2 LEE:

 

 

 

 

lag!? iszgnEUH-Lg

fail u! 555-3153. 
H?sjz?a "31.:th ?caidwuuixana
.1. . .. .5.

 

 

5?g1ii9gn?ngz .

 

gaging
nut?.0: Ea: LEE all 

 

 

 

IMPROVEMENTS
.. m3? PMCIL ID: IlmlluolL

PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
.5 COMPLEX WITH ASSOCIATED

KEE?E?sgo-g?gui


girl?3.415533 




3
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS

WATERSEDGE 

 

 

 

 


5 I
$33:
is?;

NI Lon: Ch): NY

ww- (um

7Il 5

Innhudng dulgn
25454 Woodward Arum?: ?apl OIL MI ?067
Hm I


I
STONEFIELD

lluIImIard. NI

 

zggn?sug?goghoz in. I upI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29.5233 .5996

I
DMWTIDN



 

a; nun?pu- 
8
Ii? 
a 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WU
Ella; . .. . Ii . .lAr? I 1? .vl 51v1.1
Human251.I I.II I .I. I .03.wl?L 

alu- t, . .

Iii-6 . .. . . 
SmEmzoha . . . Ind-?In

      

 

 

 

    

 

 

  

  
  



gal?hunt??wIEi?uEiEn-n.59.;ch

inkling?Elutawigia:


'0

 

 

 

WAYNE

 

CITY OF DETIOIT

IEFFEMN AVENUE

 



IMPROVEMENTS

COMPLEX WITH ASSOCIATED

:2 PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING


WATERSEDGE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9

STONEFIEL
onglnurlng I: dulgn

Royal Oak. HI Lu. Ilhnd Cry. NV

2.454 Woodilld Am Roy-l Oak MI
Him N1 IIS

wand-Bhutan

Rulhql'Inrd. NJ


 

 

 

 

 

I 35.8..

Slug-Eli. 

 

lining

 

(.IIH (Egg

40nihm

. .. 23.3%}
[Ii-Ill?; I. Arianamuu?gn. . .. . . windwHam?.3 I
I: . 531E?J?g<gnm . .
I. minim? 

mu: ?ESL?ran..? 38E

 

 

 

 



 











a .

. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 





 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

      

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

   

I ?mu?inning.? 
9.23.4 gill I?ll.
.IILImu.? 
If I _hm Nun 
-..- mmInn?m.
.. 
was.) ii Shiau?li x. .
I ?auwmuzLihm? 
.3. - 5..mm?u?w 
i .l .l J47II .....wc_ru_zn 35: hum.? .11..- II -- 
1E2 . 3:5. Igrh??n?yr Ritz-ll.II1..03Egg?Elicia K. .m .M

01.60 .I PI. is nl. grin M.
. II Fleur-501 .Enaiixainq _nz. no.5 ??an
- 1H5--. .1335: 



:ggi a 
A 
46! as. E.I.II I-l Sal .2. ll- I

Egiglliuprii 5 Ts
light-In 

Eigia?inqilfl-I?EI?E' A
I. 
?1134.5.- nr I 5
IF Elkmm?:


nr
I A
5 II P??w

h-"I :041?192
.claim
. a
O-

 

 

 

 

 

o.U

.30..


 

2.44m
AOIIFZOU Flux?own
.- dam.
HE.

 

uUIf- mid.

 

 

 

 

PMCELID. IWIIAMIL
JIMEIEFFEISON AVINUE
CITY 

IMPROVEMENTS

PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
COMPLEX WITH ASSOCIATED

WAYNE COUNTY. HICHIGAN

SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS

WATERSEDGE 

 

 

0

Plum- ?48147 

Haul-Bong mm
2.451 WondulrdA-?unun RayIlOaI: 

Ingl?lfing I: design
Ramon. HI LnlulIlImd cm NV 

STONEFIEL



 

zgu?E 

 



 

 

 

HIUI DATE I'l'

 



 

 

  

cI??unuhulhcu



.- 
mull-J? ill?-
m4 sun-mm.529: Suzi?~15 
a 
=3 TV ?in .15! p1 aria-Bu
to Jag T. 09.3: dill g! ?35: El.

g?r?s: .lun gin-n cob-EKG ax?


Umwn

lit-nt?-O?u-?gug


533:1?;
a?cuz?iolqnixhigaggt 

i?ighaul

a! #41 32.31 4-: g! V: 
Epgingaguz? A


3 {2.50 an wag-claw 5 15 En 
Eg?quwEDEB?ilhni?l.


e: a. RI BEE.-
Egi?imglaSsnu-hlaai.

JOKPZOU 

 

 

E15
55 are 55.13.. 0.. 13?! En.? 531.

w?gzugialg?s 51156-9:
.??rfp?i

I .32? pf. :32!
?QLInqufaagln?htuuo nE??i?S
upIturIlrau .E 34:38:95.5; 


tagu 15; I. 0.0ch 014 5301; o.

mun?.02 ZOEOKW
02? JENZWU

 

 

 

 

In! EB: min 


11.0ng

195:0: Era?I5

 

 

235E: Sauna:

..Iv . ..I 1.51?-

Lsalau- Furni-

 

 

ZOELEUMWD


I,

 

   

Fm a

.. 11.1..)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

    

umIIU no. .IIL. .I.. I. I

 

 

 

 

 

 

261E 2050mm
4.0m (mu?4 v3.4a. 1.5.pgaUV?i?yF?SU
a GP

8. 333535.055: 355.3 :25

UP ?13 4.7. EPUIJEU WE Oh 

Oh wa?:3g??



 

 

 

 

 

 

.

a
. r3 auuiB?L .
d. 

 

 

?.83 340m
m<z 

 

1F 14.! N. 

  

 

 

 

 

mum
- 


 

914:1 IErrlu
anti 

 

In-lrlm-lm

 



- Hanan-.2291
1" Maw-?41mm:
Cum

 

"Cm 
1" 

 

rarTumem
murmur?.
FMTEDIMIBJEN

 

..
I 

roan?:
-.I .. 

.u ?z?crumrlnug

PARKING SIGN WITH
BOLLARD DETAIL

- rczucmpcicuun
sauna?: 11:11 In
mgnm'Mk-I m'h-Lm
3J4 ?I?ll-E
humus

 

. 1

I
run 
cum
ram-mu
I.
1: 11 1 .
r-nnIrIE .1 . ..
1 
. 
rack-ml: 
WWII-C 2
Erna-.1. 
can?:
11-11mm 
?ma-1n- 
- - no 
1.
PARKING
I I

 

 

 

. "om-Inn
1 '59! (?'1qu 

ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALL MARKINGS

 

 

mm

 

 

 

. - Inn Im-
-llnm?n A mnuu 1unhrun
.- guy-E 51:? I
.. 3' 

 

TRANSITION RAMP DETAIL

whom

I 
1 mmulu?mn
I 

 

 

 

 


imam- . 
"mum."

FLILL DEPTH ASPHALT PAVEMENT DETA11

hurl: mac-mu cubism Ila-?5
concur! TO Elna 
cquwumu Manama-"rim-wow 
mam 
\Hrl

. 
[El I'm-mum-
-. . note-2c: 
- I 
. 5
.I 
f?1I' 1
- 14 
.- M-Izrn-e
n1

I. 
.- 
I121 40..

FIRE HYQRANT INSTALLATION a

non-m run MN
wt

 

 

 

 

 

mum
urn-um
- 1- ur_-nral1 

Lam. 
1  1 '?uw-man'i?J
UTILITY TRENCH DETAIL
- In 1.1
vn-I-I 

mutt??WW1m1-cmr
mlw?-h MW
Immune 9

cn-ucu'lunimv?

1161mm: ?bu-c hoe no 
Inc-rm (own-um: T: (cw-u
mm mm?. Eda-c can

LIGHT POLE INSTALLATION DETAIL

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONCRETE COLLAR

gnaw

 

 

.

 

_n

 

 



N?tlu?'?lm? 
urn-nut 



-. I
?Duncan??0


11 cigar-1w:-
?gum-{rum

Mmumr;
mu

1 WI alumna

cone-5:4 
an

REINFORCED WALKWAY DETAIL

1.211
mmnooummulrm ml
1 I ?Diwa' {hum Him

1 Hanna-?nun. nun.?

a" 1:1ch 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



  

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

.
mm 
TIM-IN can .. 40.17.11; [mgw
CONCRETE CURB AND GUI IER DETAIL


I 
ll 
ma pm 11.1.11 Ml sum-c: 
WIMP-LIE Wm IT ll?ocl 
.TIDOUBLE TRASH I RECYCLE ENCLOSURE DETAIL

 

 

"snow

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

   

 

 

.
Iii]

- 
?=a=llg

gliliig
.- f:r"

IE: 
I: 
2 


. 

ll! 
.1.


 

IIOT 

 

f.
a
llan,? Oak. MI

 





3111
I-

.1. LLIFR
02"
g<
n?zup
5
?1-2432
3111?:
3 mnxz?i
_1 mgmugiv-g
E:

3<05E2a11

3:115:15;

 

   

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

STONEFIELD

 

 

 

 


cm urn-? Irma-I: muu:


CONSTRUCTION
DETAILS
a?

C-IO

 

 

 

 

 

Ill! unl' ouc-tuvu- I

I
r.

m'



E?aner. AF. JONNA

 

 

 

..
h.
I.
w. I
04.1. 
. ?rum?
.Fu. 1
2minEgan ..
a. 3191.7 
..4444523 4 
. . 

2 
Wmom?m
PCImnuw

 

 



 

. .
?414.. 4.44.. 4.44. ..4 .4444. . 

 

JJ .j (I411. Ninja um010mmun>4mu
. . . 

bnnmum 

. . . . . . mx._

:3

 

 

 

 

 

 

IOrdinance 512-H is adopted authorizing the American Natural Resources Company and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company requested zoning change from M4 to PD to allow for the construction of the Harbortown 
Development. I

 



OCity Council passes a resolution authorizing the general design for the Harbortown Development, and issues approval for demolition, clearing and grading, the installation of water and sewerage infrastructure and the
1934 paving of the main roadways in the project area.

 

- nitial authorization for phase I ofthe Harbortown Development is granted by City Council.

 

 



OCity Council authorizes the site plans for phase I of the Harbortown Development ensuring that access to the pedestrian bike path and walk way remains in place during construction of two high-rise residential towers
and townhouses.

 

 

 

-Authorization is given for the construction 22 additional townhouses for the Pond East Condominiums within the Harbortown Development project. 

 

 

OAuthorization is given for the construction of the marina with a maximum of 134 slips at the site expanded to the west.

 

 

?66
.

00rdinance 31-97 is adopted authorizing the PD modi?cation which allowed for the construction of the UAW GM training facility. 4

 

 



OThe Harbortown Development goes into bankruptcy and the property is managed by the Robertson Brother's ?rm. 

 

 



-The Harbortown Development is purchased by the Slavic Murray Investment group of which Mr. Jonna was a principal member. 

 

 



0A.F. Jonna Development Management Company became the principal owner of Slavic Murray Investment groups holding in the Harbortown Development. 1

 

 

00rdinance 03-13 is adopted authorizing the construction of Water?s Edge phase I. 

 

 

-PD modi?cation authorizing increased heights for the Water's Edge Community facility. 

 

 

OPD modi?cation request for Water's Edge phase 

 



 Fairrow, ESQ- @it? at Etna)? Brenda Goss Andrews

.Chairperson David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Llsa Whitmore Davis

Vice Chaj?s?m, CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory pawlowski
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy 

e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

CORRECTED

TO: City Planning Commission
FROM: George A. Etheridge, Staff

RE: Request of Tower Construction to modify and amend map No. 11 of Chapter
61, Article XVII of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning, and the provisions of
an existing Planned Development (PD) District establish by Ordinance 512-H
for the area generally bounded by Wight Street (extended), the Coast Guard
facility, the Detroit River, and East Harbortown Drive, also known as 3500 E.
Jefferson Avenue.

DATE: August 30, 2017

On September 7, 2017, the City Planning Commission (CPC) will hold a 5:45 P.M. public
hearing on the subject rezoning request. Please see the attached copy of the public hearing
notice with a map showing the location of the subject property (attached).

BACKGROUND AND PROPOSAL

The City Flaming Commission (CPC) has received a request from Tower Construction on behalf
of AF. Jonna Development and Management Company, requesting the approval of a proposed
modi?cation to the existing PD (Planned Development) District shown on Map No. 11 of
Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? for the area generally bounded by Wight
Street (extended), the Coast Guard facility, the Detroit River, and East Harbortown Drive,
known as 3500 E. Jefferson Avenue, to re?ect changes to the PD zoning district classi?cation
previously authorized by Ordinance 512-H of 1982 in order construct a ?ve-story apartment
building and 11 townhomes in the Harbortown complex.

The authorizing language of Ordinance 512-H states that subsequent phases of the Harbortown
Development may be separately approved by the City Council as those plans become available.
This intent for future site plan approval is further codi?ed by City Council?s resolution published
in the Detroit Legal News, Monday, August 6, 1984 authorizing the site plans submitted for
Phase I of the Harbortown Development (attached).

Proposed Development

The subject property located in District 5 sits within a site measure just over ?ve (5) acres (6.88
acres). The parcel is largely undeveloped with the exception of two tennis courts located on the
northwest corner of the subject parcel which are slated to be removed. The proposed building

1

height for the multi-family residential structure is 5 stories and would contain approximately 202
one, two and three bedroom rental units. Additionally, the proposed development includes 11
two-story townhomes with attached garages which would be situated along the southern
shoreline of the manmade lagoon located in the Harbortown complex. The building exterior is to
be clad primarily of brick, with balconies for each unit, much like what has been constructed in
phase one of the Water?s Edge development (134 one, two, and three bedroom rental units). It is
anticipated that construction will take approximately twelve (12) sixteen (16) months to
complete.

As indicated in the attached site plans the proposed use is a 202?unit, ?ve (5)?story apartment
building, as well as an associated parking lot, in addition to 11 two-story townhomes with
attached garages, parking pads and guest parking. The units will include one, two, and three
bedroom con?gurations, the majority of which consist of two (2) bedroom units. The
breakdown of the proposed unit count is as follows: eighty-?ve (85) one (1) bedroom units, one
hundred and two (102) two (2) bedroom units, and ?fteen (15) three (3) bedroom units.

On the ?rst ?oor of the apartment structure the proposed unit con?guration is as follows: 17 one-
bedroom units, 18 two-bedroom units, and 3 three-bedroom units. On the residential levels of
two through ?ve, the con?guration is as follows: 17 one-bedroom units, 21 two-bedroom units,
and 3 three?bedroom units.

The proposed multi-family residential structure would consist of four sections, A, B, C, and D.
Section A is proposed to consist of 73,630 square feet; Section B, 62,355 square feet; Section C,
58,620 square feet; and Section D, 82,980 square feet. The foot notes on sheet C8100 state that
the apartment structure is divided into 4 buildings separated by two-hour rated ?rewalls.

The proposed parking lot consists of 3 12 parking spaces which would be located to the west,
north and east of the proposed apartment building, ?fteen (15) of which are proposed guess
parking for the 11 townhomes in the north-east section of the development. The off-street
parking standards in Sec. 61-14-24 only require only 252.5 off-street parking spaces, nearly 60
parking spaces fewer than what is being proposed. The developer is proposing placing nineteen
(19) of off-street parking spaces in reserve for future use in the southeast comer of the parking
lot to provide an additional 3,468 square feet of landscaped area, as was done in 2013 with phase
one of the Water?s Edge development. The parking areas to the west, north and east of the
proposed apartment building would be screened from the exiting residential units to the north by
some vegetation, primarily Patmore Green Ash trees. As the site plans show, the River Walk
follows the eastern and southern sides of the subject area. The parking areas would be screened
from the River Walk by new landscaping consisting of Shadblow, Patmore Green Ash, and
Kousa Dogwood.

Building materials are proposed to be predominantly red masonry to match the architectural style
and materials of Water Edge phase one. There has been additional conversation with the
developer regarding the proposed site plans, height and massing of the proposed multi-family
residential structure. Several concerns have been raised by the Planning and Development
Department related to materiality, massing of the buildings, surface parking and loss of green
space. CPC staff is of the opinion that if a greater building height were utilized as well as some
form of either structured parking, the issues around massing and loss of green space would be
minimized. The developer has indicated that they have forgone greater density which would be
permitted, in lieu of preserving visibility to the Detroit River for as many residents of Spinnaker
Tower as possible.

Your Honorable Body received a presentation of the subject PD modi?cation on Thursday, July
20, 2017, at which a number of residents of the Harbortown complex were in attendance and
expressed many of their concerns, which were also stated at a community meeting held by the
developer on Wednesday, July 12, 2017. The concerns and sentiments expressed by members of
the community from both the July 12?" and July 20?? community meeting and public discussion,
respectively, are as follows, along with responses from the developer.

JULY 12m 3: 20"" 2017 COMMUNITY MEETING SUMMARIES

On Wednesday, July 12, 2017 a community meeting was held at 6:30 pm. at the newly
constructed community center, originally designed to service the residents of Water?s Edge
phases I and II. Notice was given to each of the condominium associations, to be given to each
resident in the Harbortown complex regarding the aforementioned Water?s Edge phase II
development. Over ?fty people were in attendance, inclusive of the developer, his development
team, Council Member Mary Shef?eld, members of her staff, and residents of Harbortown.

A brief history leading to the implementation of phase I of Water?s Edge in the Harbortown
complex was given by Mr. Arkan onna, who was a part of the original group of investors who
purchased Harbortown out of bankruptcy. Mr. Jonna stated that Water?s Edge phase II has taken
into account the lessons learned from Water?s Edge phase I, and the process undertaken in 2012
and 2013.

Concerns were raised over the lack of proposed recreational areas and the removal of the
tennis courts at the northwest corner of the development area. It was stated that no new
recreational opportunities were provided after phase I of Water?s Edge was completed.

Mr. onna indicated that two new recreational areas will be implemented for both phase I and
phase 11 adjacent to the River Walk. The proposed recreational and community spaces can be
seen on sheets of the site plans provided, inclusive of 17,000 square feet of green space,
along with barbeque pits, picnic tables, etc. Additionally, as a result of concerns expressed over
open spaces for dogs, a centrally located dog run has been incorporated into the plans.

A number of residents expressed concerns over having to potentially cross the large
contiguous surface parking lot to access the newly proposed outdoor recreation areas.

Mr. onna indicated that there are walking paths all throughout the Harbortown development
which will be connected to the new recreational areas, therefore, there would be no need to cross
the parking area. It was stated that the proposed density is about half of what was anticipated for
the site and that the parking spaces are far fewer than what was initially conceptualized.

A number of residents made the argument that if taller towers with higher density were
built as originally envisioned that would allow for more green space.

Mr. Jonna stated that the site plans originally approved in the 1980?s were conceptual and that as
the developer he has the opportunity to submit site plans to develop the property he owns in a
manner which works best from a development standpoint.

Several residents expressed concerns over the backups of traf?c along E. Jefferson, citing
that E. Jefferson is the sole point of ingress and egress for the development.

3

Mr. Jonna stated that a traf?c study is currently underway which will evaluate the ingress and
egress for the Harbortown property.

Staff notes that the concerns over ingress and egress go back to the Commission?s initial
approval of the Harbortown development dating back to 1982. In the authorizing ordinance it is
stated that American Natural Resources Company and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company
were to undertake traf?c studies to determine if other streets such as east or west bound Wight
Street could be used for additional points of ingress and egress for residents. The
aforementioned traf?c study which expands upon the 2013 traf?c study completed for phase I is
complete and explores several options for elevating traf?c concerns.

Longtime residents of Harbortown are concerned with renters from Water?s Edge phase I
who do not realize what is not public or community property, i.e. the private back porches
of Townhome owners.

Mr. Jonna stated that he would work with the property manager of Water?s Edge phase I, to
better educate residents on where the common areas are in order to avoid future incidents of
trespass.

Residents have expressed concerns over where residents currently park. One residential
tower along Harbortown Drive has no dedicated surface street parking area, so residents
do park on the street rather than in the existing tower.

Mr. Jonna indicated that there is presently a surplus of off-street parking spaces available, noting
that the available parking lots for Water?s Edge phase I are never full. Mr. Jonna is of the
opinion that residents of Water?s Edge phase I are not the residents parking along Harbortown
Drive in the designated no parking areas and that greater traf?c enforcement should be
implemented in order to alleviate parking and traf?c congestion along this thoroughfare.

Staff notes that previous concessions where made regarding resident parking for the Harbortown
development dating back to the original development in 1982. The Commission had previously
expressed concerns that there may be a parking de?ciency for the residential portion of the
project. As a result, the developer had agreed to provide additional parking if needed by 1)
utilizing spaces in the commercial area when stores are closed or at off-peak times; 2) by
expanding surface lots; or 3) by converting surface lot space into multi?level space. Also, the
developer agreed to provide no-parking signs for the streets in the project so as to allow on-street
parking only in designated parking bays.

Longtime residents want to know how they can have access to the new community center.
What are the barriers? While the various properties have their own amenities, which
others may access, the concern is that the community center is not accessible to the
residents in the Harbortown development.

Mr. Jonna indicated that it needs to be determined who would manage the property and cover the
cost of operations if it were open for all of the residents of Harbortown. The original concept
was for the community building to be only for Water?s Edge phases I and II. There was a
meeting with the various association presidents on Wednesday, August 23, 2017 regarding the
operational scheme for the community center. Staff was not able to attend this meeting. Mr.
Jonna may be able to provide clarity as to what was discussed. The aim of the meeting was to

4

develop a strategic plan to allow the whole Harbortown community to have access and cover the
cost of operations for the community center.

Residents indicated that they would like to see a plan for snow removal, given that the
future location for Water?s Edge Phase II is the current storage location for snow removal
within the Harbortown Community.

Mr. onna indicated that a new snow removal plan would be developed which might include the
storage of the snow in and round the lagoon.

Several longtime residents expressed their concerns over the shared cost of maintenance
and security for the Harbortown development.

Mr. Jonna stated that currently Water?s Edge phase I residents collectively contribute $17,000.00
per month through their $150.00 per month association fees towards security, roads, snow
removal, etc.

A number of residents expressed a desire to see a parking structure erected rather than
surface parking. Several residents indicated that they would like as much green space as
possible to be preserved.

Based upon community discussions and concerns, additional green space has been added to the
site plans re?ecting approximately 17,000 square feet of green space, inclusive of a dog
run/park, cook-out and picnic areas adjacent to the proposed residential apartment structure to
the west as well as the existing residential apartment structure (Water?s Edge phase I) to the east.
Additionally, as previously stated approximately 3,500 square feet of green space is being added
due to the proposed reservation of nineteen (19) parking spaces.

Residents indicated that they would like to see what authority the developer has to remove
the tennis courts.

Given that Mr. onna owns the 6.88 acres which are slated to be developed as Water?s Edge
phase II (in addition to the 5 acres which house Water?s Edge phase I, the ?federation? or
common areas as well as the shopping component for the Harbortown development) and that the
property containing the tennis courts is not a part of the ?federation? or common area, it has been
determined that Mr. onna is well within his legal rights to develop the site and remove the tennis
courts. While the tennis courts are included in the promotional and marketing materials for
Harbortown under its previous ownership, they were never included in any rendition of any of
the approved site plans considered by the City Planning Commission or the City Council over
these past thirty??ve (35) years. Copies of the promotional site plans and the actual approved
site plans for the Harbortown development are attached for your review (attached). Additionally,
page 5 of the lease agreements for both Grate Lakes Tower and Spinnaker Tower under the
heading ?Harbortown Community? states in part ?The Developer intends to undertake some
form of residential construction upon the vacant land at some point in the future, which
development when complete will also become a part of the Harbortown Community. Therefore,
Purchasers should be aware that construction upon the vacant land is likely to take place at the
Harbortown Community, which could possibility impact their panoramic view as it exists today.?

There were a number of concerns that were further communicated that would require additional
reporting by various parties that are not germane to this development, the additional cost of



footings for the UAW General Motors training facility located west of the Harbortown
development, etc. The question was also raised if what the developer presented in 2012 and
2016 pertaining to the Water?s Edge phase I development is consistent with what is now being
presented for Water?s Edge phase II in terms of scale, density, and design.

The Commission requested that CPC staff review the meetings of July 12, 2012 and November
17, 2016 in order to determine if any inconsistencies exist. Unfortunately, as it relates to the
meeting of July 12, 2012 when Water?s Edge phase I was presented to the Commission, the City
of Detroit was in the midst of its budget crisis and funding for media services had been cut,
resulting in the City Planning Commission meetings no longer being recorded until the early part
of 2017 when funding was reinstated.

The minutes of the meetings of for both July 12, 2012 and November 17, 2016 reference the
developments of Water?s Edge phase I, and the modi?cations in height to the Community
Center, respectively. Site plans of what was initially proposed for Water?s Edge phase I are
included as an attachment to this report, however, prior to July of 201 7 no renderings or site
plans of Water?s Edge phase II have been publicly shared, therefore, staff cannot comment on
the referenced contradictions.

QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS .BY THE COMMISSION

As it relates to Commission?s concerns, the question was raised by the Commission does a letter
of support need to be given from the other associations given that the site is privately held? The
answer to this question is no, letters of support are not required, however, they could prove
helpful should the PD modi?cation request become contentious.

Also among Commission?s concerns and inquiries was the desire to see a comparison between
what was originally conceptualized for the Harbortown Development and what is now being
proposed.

Commissioner Russell inquired as to the Master Plan designations and the zoning classi?cations
between the Harbortown development and the Downtown area. The Master Plan of Policies
shows 90% of the riverfront south of Jefferson Avenue being designated at ?Mixed 
Residential/Commercial.? (attached) The subject property is located within zoning district map
No. 11, while the downtown area is primarily comprised of zoning district maps 1 and 2. The
zoning classi?cations south of Jefferson Avenue heading west towards downtown are primarily
PD (Planned Development District), SD4 (Special Development District, Riverfront Mixed Use),
PC (Public Center), and PCA (Public Center Adjacent). Zoning maps, 1, 2, and 11 are attached
for reference.

The Commission also, requested a complete copy of the storm water management plan, and
traf?c study plan. Those plans have been attached for your review and consideration via the
revised site plans dated August 30, 2017. The storm water management plans have been
submitted to the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MEDQ) and the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers (USACE). MDEQ and USACE are currently reviewing the submitted plans
and approval is pending. The plans indicate that storm water management will be completely
independent from the remainder of the Harbortown community. The petitioner did have several
initial meetings and discussions with MDEQ in which it was conveyed that the plans seemed
reasonable and would have a negligible impact on the Detroit River.

The Drainage and Stormwater Notes can also be referenced on page C-5 of the Stone?eld
Engineering site plans dated May, 23, 2017. In essence that note states the new storm lines will
be constructed for this phase of the development in order to mitigate any impacts on the current
drainage and sewer system.

Other changes to the site plans include the access driveway to the north of the proposed building,
between the proposed development (Water?s Edge phase II) and Spinnaker Tower which has
been removed to provide an additional 3,550 square feet of landscaping area. Additionally,
another patio area has been added in the southwest corner of the site along with a gated access
point to the River Walk.

Commissioner Pawlowski inquired as to the manner in which the Detroit Police Department and
other emergency personnel gain access to the property in case of emergencies, given that the
development is a gated community with limited access.

Staff notes that the initial concept for the emergency vehicle access was for the vehicles to have
additional points of access to the site from Wight on both the west and east, per CPC staffs June
24, 1985 report. The Commission at that time had a concern about the capacity of the single
main entranceway on E. Jefferson Ave. to handle all of the residential and most of the
commercial traf?c. The original petitioner (American Natural Resources Company and
Michigan Consolidated Gas) agreed that when the entire development is completed, there could
be a traf?c problem if this were the only point of access. Therefore, they agreed at the time to
hold open the option of making use of existing north-south streets (Walker, Adair and/or Mt.
Elliott) as additional means of access to the west and east points of access, if needed in the
future. At present, all emergency personal are permitted to enter the property as needed to
address any public health or safety concerns which may arise.

Finally, the Commission requested that staff prepare a timeline of the Harbortown Development
which chronicles the various phases of development and ownership (attached).

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS

Surrounding Zoning and Land Use
The zoning classi?cations and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows;

North: residential, Spinnaker Tower
East: residential, Water?s Edge phase 1.
South: River Walk and Detroit River.
West: UAW Training facility.

Master Plan Consistency

The subject site is located within the Near East Riverfront area of Neighborhood Cluster 4 of the
Detroit Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows ?Mixed?
Residential/Commercial? for the subject property. While the proposed use appears to be
consistent with this designation the Planning and Development Department has been
requested to submit its comments regarding this proposal.

Comm unity Input
To date, staff has received several phones calls in opposition to the proposed PD modi?cation for
reasons cited. No calls or letters of support have been submitted at this time.

7

This matter was before your Honorable Body on July 20, 2017 for an informational presentation
with the expressed intent of pursuing same day action on September 7, 2017, however, staff is
not prepared at this time to offer a recommendation.

cc: Maurice Cox, Director PDD
R. Steven Lewis, PDD
John Baran, PDD

Attachments: Public Hearing Notice
1984 authorizing resolution
Site Plans dated 8- 31-17
Promotional Site Plans dated 1984
1984 approved site plans
Harbortown site plans
Master Plan of Policies Near East Riverfront Future Land Use Map
Zoning Map 1
Zoning Map 2
Zoning Map 11
Storm Water Management Plan
Traf?c Study
Timeline

Alton James @it? [If ?etl?? it Bren'da Co?drews

Chairperson Damion W. Ellis
Lauren Hood, MCD CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Vice Chair/Secretary 208 Coleman Young MumClPal Center Gregory Pawlowski
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Marcell Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy We?)
Director

e?mail: Cpc@detroitmi.gov

August 29, 2019
RE: HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of Parkstone Development Partners on behalf of Develop Detroit, to amend
Article XVII, District Map 2, of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, to
establish a PD (Planned Development) zoning classification where B4 (General
Business District) and M3 (General Industrial District) zoning classifications
currently exist on land generally bounded by Gratiot Avenue, Russell Street, and
Maple Street to allow for multiple mixed?use buildings with residential units, retail,
commercial and institutional space, to also including a parking structure and
additional off?street parking spaces (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

The City Planning Commission (CPC) completed its deliberations on the above captioned
matter. On September 6, 2018 CPC voted to recommend approval of this development.
Subsequently, minor modifications were made of a less intensive nature and that matter was
brought back to the CPC for informational purposes at the regular meeting of August 1, 2019.
At that time the CPC reaffirmed the original recommendation.

NATURE OF REQUEST

Before this Honorable Body is the request of Develop Detroit to consider approving its multi?
structure infill project known as Eastern Market Gateway?The Hive on a site that sits along the
Gratiot corridor. The site is a 2.7 acre parcel of land that lies between Eastern Market and
Lafayette Park bounded by Gratiot Avenue, Russell Street, and Maple Street.

The project is planned as a multi?building mixed residential-commercial development to include
retail and commercial uses such as galleries, shops and restaurants. It involves the
redevelopment of existing structures currently known as the Russell Building (4 stories, the
Gratiot Building (5 stories, 65?) and the Warehouse (2 stories, 35?) as well as the activation of
the encompassed alley way. Overall the site would host 207 dwelling units.

The building planned for Russell Street is proposed to house 71 total units: 35 studios, 28 1
bedrooms, 5? 2 bedrooms, 3 3 bedrooms. These units would be 100% LIHTC (Low Income
Housing Tax Credit) no market rate. The building planned for Gratiot is proposed to have 36
total units, 32 studios, 72 1 bedrooms, 26 2 bedrooms, 6 - Live/Work. The site would be
supported by a parking structure to accommodate 125 parking spaces and 41 surface parking
spaces. Also included are plans for 3,400 sf of grade level recreational space and 900 sf for
community space.

rf":"m

I.



- 
PARK


 

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
Surrounding Zoning and Land Use
The zoning classification and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: B4: Discount Candles

East: B4: St. John Luke United Church

South: M3: DFL Logistics

West: B4: Behavioral Health Professionals Inc Trinity Lutheran Church, Aetna

Master Plan Consistency

The subject site is located within the Lower East Central area of Neighborhood Cluster 4 of the
Detroit Master Plan of Policies (MP). The Future Land Use map for this area shows (MRI-
Mixed Residential Industrial) for the subject property. According to the MP these areas offer
live?work opportunities for artists and trades?people to create a lively mixture of new
residential, commercial, light industrial and/or entertainment opportunities. The Planning and
Development Department determined that this proposal is in conformance with the
Master Plan of Policies.

The following community meetings were held as follows (does not include other forms of
outreach):

0 Eastern Market- October 3, 2017
0 Eastern Market- February 14, 2018
1300 Lafayette, community room? July 25, 2018

The project development team hosted a series of outreach events in order to engage the
surrounding community on the proposal. The group contacted known entities in the community

2

such as the Eastern Market Corporation, Detroit People?s Platform, the 7th Precinct Police
Community Relations Board, Holy Trinity Church and other businesses as well as individuals.
Some of the feedback that came from those engagement efforts include (but not limited to)
participants calling for:
- Making sure retail in the deve10pment served the needs of nearby residents with
affordable products
0 Requesting that the Antietam and Russell Street divide is removed to increase
access to the project site
I Preserving facades of existing buildings wherever possible
I Ensuring that public art and murals related to the project were family oriented in
subject matter
0 Inquiries about rent control and affordability strategies for units in the project
- Request for Gratiot Avenue improvements breaking up the crosswalk and installing
a median

- Support for the activated alley and proposed rooftOp terrace on Maple St

The development team has since maintained a dialogue with the community, some of which CPC
staff has participated in.

PUBLIC HEARING RESULTS

The public hearing on this request was held on Aug 2, 2018. Only one person, Mr. Grosinger of
Kap?s Wholesale Foods, provided testimony. He desired to have his statement placed on record
regarding operating hours, traffic, noise etc. He was concerned with how the new development
meshes with existing entities. He was not in opposition but wanted it to be noted that there were
existing businesses prior to this proposed residential development. Additionally, multiple
support letters were also submitted.

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS AND ANALYSIS

Sec. 61-11?15 of the Zoning Ordinance lists design criteria that projects in PD should be
evaluated by. Those criteria include:

Master Plan. The proposed development should reflect applicable policie stated in the
Detroit Master Plan. The policies relating to the geographic area in question as well as general
policies will be considered.

The Master Plan (MP) future land use designation for the site is Mixed Residential
Industrial for the subject property. The Planning and Development Department as

indicated above has submitted a letter supporting the project and attesting to its consistency with
the MP.

Scale, form, massing, and density. Scale, form, massing and density should be appropriate
to the nature of the project and relate well to surrounding development.

The current Master Plan designation allows for the proposed density that the development
suggests.

(C) Compatibility. The proposed development should be compatible with surrounding
development in terms of land use, general appearance and function, and should not adversely
a?ect the value of properties in the immediate vicinity.

3

In terms of proposed uses, it is appropriate to say that this development is compatible with the
existing built environment. It is even conceivable that the project will serve to help increase
property values as it will add highly attractive amenities along with shopping and dining
opportunities.

Circulation. Vehicular and pedestrian circulation facilities should be adequately designed to
meet expected demands. Disruption of tra??ic?ow in surrounding areas should be minimized,
and truck traffic should be carefully planned and controlled, especially to avoid use of
residential streets.

Traffic circulation has been reviewed by the City?s traffic engineering department as well as
others and the current plan has been deemed to be sufficient for the site.

Parking and loading. Where appropriate, adequate vehicular o?lstreet parking and loading
should be provided. The City Planning Commission will be guided by standards delineated in
this zoning ordinance with adjustments appropriate to each specific situation.

The proposal accommodates the parking and loading areas that will be needed to properly serve
the site. The parking structure will support the pr0posed uses on the site, and coupled with the
off?street surface parking also service additional need. If there are ever extreme instances, of
additional need, the operator has struck agreements with nearby entities that have underutilized
parking lots, to share parking for certain special circumstances.

Environmental impacts. Environmental impacts that relate to such factors as noise, air,
combustibles and explosives, gases, soil, and water pollution, toxic waste, vibration, odor. . ..

The project will likely not have any substantial environmental impacts, but rather, incoming
residents should be aware and respectful of existing Operations that have existed in the area and
understand that there might be minor noise and odor abrasions on them. The current context
should be understood and respected by newcomers. Staff believes this is what some neighboring
businesses may have conveyed.

Some of the remaining relevant PD design criteria, include the following:
(0) Preservation, Urban design, and q) Amenities

This project does a great deal to preserve and maintain some of the existing building facades on
the site such as the Busy Bee Hardware facade(s) and graphics. The Gratiot building incorporates
a significant building into its massing. So the project does a good job of retaining as much of the
current structures as possible.

The project pays special attention to creating an urban environment that fosters activity and adds
amenities for residents and patrons of retail spaces. The Space interior to the buildings on site
create an enclosed environment for pedestrians to be active and visit businesses. The plaza space
along Russell St. adds yet another asset to the site, leaving space for possible activities.
Amenities include roof top terraces and other features that make the site enticing for residents
and visitors.

In all, this project meets many of the objectives that the PD Design Criteria outline.

CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
4

The developer has complied with applicable zoning provisions and has successfully incorporated
feedback from City staff and community into elements of this project.

The CPC has reviewed the proposed development known as Eastern Market Gateway the Hive
and voted to recommend approval of the project with the following conditions:

1. The developer must work with the immediately adjacent community to minimize
disruption to the neighborhood during construction and address impacts that may arise;

and

2. All final site plans, elevations, lighting, landscape and signage plans for the development
are subject to review and approval by the City Planning Commission staff prior to the
developer?s application for applicable building or construction permits.

Attachment:
Ordinance
Plans

Cc: Maurice Cox, Director, PDD
Arthur emison, Director, HRD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Detroit Housing Commission

ReSpectfully submittedcum (.4 

Marcell R. Todd, Director
Kimani Jeffrey, City Planner

 RIIP 

 

 

 

I


i
i .



a

I



 

 

 

EASTERN MARKET MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT

PROJECT NARRATIVE



Eastern Market Gateway Development will create an intense concentration
of urban vitality in one of Detroit's most dynamic emerging dislricts.
Eastern Market. The location at the corner of Gratiot Avenue and Russell
Street will make this development a pedestrian crossroads, connecting
Eastern Marketand Lafayette Park. the Dequindre Cut. and Downtown
Detroit. Relecting Detroit?s rebirth as an urban destination that is
increasingly desirable for businesses. residents. and visitors, the project
will provide housing. working and shopping choices for the new generation
of urban entrepreneurs. A mix of apartments. live/work units. workshops.
galleries. shops and food venues will be woven into the tabric of existing
warehouses and light industrial buildings around the existing alley
network. Courtyards. corner plaza and pedestrian alleys will create a
distinctive urban vibe and will create the social space that will make this a
welcome new addition to the Eastern Market community. The project will
capture the unique creative spirit of Detroit and will preserve and highlight
existing murals by local artists. Ground floor shopping along Gratiot
Avenue will extend existing active uses toward downtown and will extend
Service Street through the site creating the unique two-sided shopping
venues that are unique to this part of Detroit.


LOCATION MAP 

 

PROJECT ADDRESS: PROJECT TEAM:

Area bounded by Gratiot Avenue, Russell Street Owner Developer: Architect of Record: Civil Engineer:
and Maple Street Develop Detroit McIntosh Poris Associates Slonefield Engineering and Design
1314?1383 Gratiot Avenue 535 Griswold St., Suite 1600 36801 Woodward Avenue. Suite 200 2845!. Woodward Avenue
2011-2105 Russell Steet Detroit. MI 48226 Birmingham. Ml 48009 Royal Oak. MI 1.8067
1301-1399 Maple Street
1350-1366 Service Street Design Architect Land5cape Architect: Parking Consultant:
Detroit. MI 1.8201 Perkins Will Rich 8: Associates
411 Chapel Hill St., Suite 200 26877 Northwestern Hwy. Suite 208
Durham. NC 27701 Southtield. MI (.8033

UPC PRESENTATION 5.172018
PRESENTATION 9 6 

719.2019 m.
E1 MBINTUSH I +w1 

CITY COUNCIL PRESENTATION - 8.26.19 Detrmt ?R's 3.252019

 

Sam 

as; mzc_._._m_zou 

{$1an

mm _._m2.z_uz 

 

I .
I


mm
:Jmm

m.
4..

2.36 ms?. Ems

mum. 
ELL Hanan?n Ema 



 

 

826 2019



.1.


PURIS 5?1 

:lop
Detroit

fi?r?l" 


EASTERN MARKET CHARACTER

 

 

 

322:6: m. 2 _u 
Dan?.0: saw .. 

nczqud. .. . .. . SEE



PERKINS

MEINTUSH
PURIS



1: f3
Detrm







2:
3



 

52 - @523 

a?
.w
.u
.m


Im-

 

 

 

"we.

095.05

.. 033:

222.32..

.535 m. 

 


33:3

 

 

7.103 3258: m. - E. 

5% 52 was: 1% :22

 

. .
.. I itr.ilitu11hul11.1li.l. .d?dd.-

Craiou 2223?: _u 
2:5 :22

Ems N. <52 3me

 

6102923
'11le1 

. 

HSUEHIEH

llo?a?

.-

Limp-i. 

ll ?l

.


. 

MEIIA MEIIA



I
. f; 

1"qu

 

VIEW 6 SERVICE STREET LOOKING WEST 3 333%" . 5 

8.26.2019

 

PERKIN51WILL

., . 
I
. . ..




PURIS

Detroit

 



 

 

 

 



 

VIEW 7 PLAZA AT GRATIUT AVE CORNER AND RUSSELL STREET

 

:2 :22 a: 92:85:41: 

n_ 53:52 .nwyr

 

 


. Sl??d ?one TI
1 5 3' 3 dole-meg ?g

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. .. II
fa.? ll
\ga- 
I 
ra?l
ff?? 
- 

 

NUEH EIJIAHEIS 6 MEIIA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 


    

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EB Em



 



$2.252

Hanan
23> as?;

 

h. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

zumzzu mamEE Ed,? EmEm 3.0...slul . . .
. . 


3.0. .. .. .MH 

3%
a.

1'
4
a

 

 

 

Shadow of proposed I
Shadow of Maxlmum height If: 
building allowed by zonlng (85 

 

SHADOW - 9 AM SHADOW STUDY - JUNE - 12 NOON SHADOW STUDY - JUNE - 3 PM



Develop I Ns+Wl 

SULARISHADUW STUDY - JUNE ?em? mum;

ZONING DISTRICT: BA, General Business District

DISTRICTS: Gateway Radial Thoroughfare Overlay District

 

USES:

CONDITIONAL:

-Outdoor recreation faCIlity

?Art gallery

-Office, busmess or professional
-Accessory Parking lots or
parking areas

-Parking structure

-Restaurant

?Retail

-other uses per Sec 61?9?73

?Lohs

-Multiple?farnily dwelling
?ReSIdential use combined

in structures w/ permitted
commerCIal uses

?Parking lots or parking areas
?Outdoor entertainment faCIlity
-Outdoor commerCIal recreation
?other uses per Sec 61?9-79

 

USE SETBACKS
FRONT SIDE

Multiple-family -
[combined in structures w/
commercnal use]

Other[Retail, CommerCIal, Parkingi- -

PARKING
Multiple?family dwelling: 1 25/du

Restaurant, standard: 3/5005f 1/100sf [after first 500st

Office; 1/400 sf

General Retail.- [Schedule 
less than 50,0005f: 1/200
50,001-100,00005f: 1/250
100,001?400,0005f: 1/350

Park/Open Space: Schedule [per Planning 

Development Department]

[Max Distance for all uses above: 100 I

OVERLAY DISTRICT:

HEIGHT MAX. FAR
REAR
. 2 0

- 35

LOADING

Multiple-family dwelling 12 x35


1/each additional 100,0005f, 12 x55
Retail CommerCIal: 12 x35 1/1,600?
10,0005f



[An open, adjacent alley 18 mm Width
may be credited toward 1 loading space
for retaiI/ commerical use if access for
loading into the boilding is in the rear]

ENTITLEMENT PROCESS:

The Gateway Radial Thoroughfare Overlay Areas con5ist Site Plan Review req for

of property abutting those major radial streets, Within Conditional Use and certain by?

and leading to the Central busmess district, upon which right uses Conditional use reqmres

the Master Plan of has generally proposed a speCial land use hearing

rezoning from BA to a SD zoning district FAR increase Will reqUire a variance
through board of zoning appeals

ZONING - EXISTING CONDITIONS

ZONING DISTRICT: M3, General Industrial District
DISTRICTS: Adjacent to three Local Historic Districts

 

USES:

CONDITIONAL:
?Art Gallery ?Lofts
-Assembly Hall ?Residential use combined
-Office, busmess or professional in structures w/ permitted
-Parking lots or parking areas commerCIal uses
-Parking structure -Outdoor entertainment faCIlity
?Restaurant ?Outdoor recreation facility
?Retail ?Outdoor commerCIal recreation
?more uses per Sec 61-10-53 ?more uses per Sec 61?10?59

 

USE SETBACKS HEIGHT MAX. FAR
FRONT SIDE REAR
All - - 80' -

PARKING LOADING
Multiple-family dwelling 1 25/du Multiple-family dwelling: 12'x35'
Restaurant. standard 3/5005f 1/100sf [after first 5005f] 
Office: 1/li00 sf 1/each additional 100,0005f, 12 x55
General Retail: [Schedule Retail 8. CommerCial:12'x35
less than 50,0005f 1/200sf 
50,001-100,00003f 1/2505f 
100,001-400,0005f 1/3505f [An open, adJacent alley 18'min
Park/Open Space: Schedule Iper Planning 8. Width may be credited toward 1
Development Department] loading space for retail/ commerical
[Max Distance for all uses above 100 I use if access for loading into the
budding IS in the rear]

OVERLAY DISTRICT:

lAdjacent to three Local Historic Districts

ENTITLEMENT PROCESS:

Site Plan Review req for
Conditional Use and certain by-right
uses Conditional use reqUIres
speCIal land use hearing Height
increase Will reqUire a variance
through board of zoning appeals



hm DEVHIOD MEINTOSH
Is:
825 

air" Detroit PURIS i 1.9-: . 

 

ZONING DISTRICT: Rezoning Request from Eli/M3 to PD

DISTRICTS: Gateway Radial Thoroughfare Overlay District
Adjacent to three Local Historic Districts

OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS AI
Based on October 14, 2018 Detroit Zoning Ordinance Ch 61

?rdinaoce requires termLeIILnaiinits {HimalSdec-Iiinu out!
Eli? dwelling I 0.115 155 parking spaces required
tor Oiticecismi $130. 5f 2: 

25.?81] at Office space it H.751actor 50 parking spaces required

eminence reoulcestcE-etaii: 1 space 1.23.0.5! at. 0.?5 Ea :th
menu of Retail space 1 U200 13.15 IIactor 39 parking spaces required

Urimreqyjree for 32MB. 3. spaceLersthE sf . 
2.25.10 sI' Restaurant A space 3 0.?5 factor 15 parking spaces required
2.20:] at Restaurant 8 space 3 I 0.?5 factor 15 parking spaces required

Total parking spaces required by Use 275 parking spaces

Waivecocr?ec? 4-1. Iii-3.15 ee?etuw] 1:5 pathogenesis
2. Bit?Street reduction per Sec Hon-109' - 15 parking spaces required
50% reduction for shared Off-Street

parking between Restaurant and Office
Total Off-Street Parking Spaces required by Ordinance 215 parking spaces

Off-Street Parking Provided

Parking Garage 125 parking spaces
Corner Parking Area 41 parking spaces
Service Alley Parking 10 parking spaces
Russell Buidling Podium 30 parking spaces
Maple owned Uri-Street Backing 2 parking spaces
Total Off-Street Parking Provided 215 parking spaces

REDUCTIONS AND WAIVERS

Sec. 61-14-103. Waiver of off-street parking requirements for uses or buildings minimally deficient.

The Gratiot Corridor offers bus transportation options, nearby access to bicycle lanes and is pedestrian friendly -
similar to other corridors directly connected to the CED. For that reason we find that pedestrian-oriented retail,
service or commercial use waivers similar to those found in SD1 and 502 zoned properties, applies to the multiple
buildings proposed in this project. The ordinance does not allow more than a 45 spaces per development waiver
This would account for the maximum (.5 ace reduction

 

ZONING MAP AND PARKING SUMMARY

- -

   

   
      

M3

 

 

 

 

 



PrOJect Site between Gratiot Ave Maple St Russell St



 

w? MEINTUSH 
3252019

 

-.=iop MCIHTEISH 

GURRGUNGING AREA PARKING WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE Mm? 3.25.2019

 

 392520

 

 

it,?

 

55.18 2223?: 2m +5 
Dan?.0: gem 

my? ~20

 

 

 

 

 

  
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

mama
1 HUD-H UNHUHQ
'1 El lacy?.ng ?g?q
7 - - 
anuewlouag ML .09 .95 0
1?urIsr-G) Burma; (Mira) Saved 01 
. .
3.5
?3?5 
6?3?

a?
43;} [egmeluwog 
8133:) [t
rig'Duqnaumlsm (?mamas ?upuad unsm SZL .: . 
HRH - . 3-b?b
?x Q: 
13-?
seoeds?uwed 9172 mm at?
N0 
92L aanmms 
06 aowans

wands Bumped WELL
t'nai??w? LL WEE 
{menus as auswo

[3001:] UNFIOHEJI 

sum zoz 11VJ.O.L 

 

 

 

 

 

'iVlOi
999 LOL 

0017'17 

Sian 
Ele]
389 W101

EISHOHEIHVM
991:19 TIEISSHH
2189 9119 9171 


 

 

ammuna HSHOHEHVM 7; . 
3].an A1v101
SB EBZL T138808

 

1133an -
sum 99L 1mm
49:: 9917 J55 9817 as omms
1011an

S'lVlOl I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 





 

449%
. . 
COMMERCIAL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Graliot Avenue

?32} own-lop 
Detroit INS $5211:

SECOND FLOOR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gratiot Avenue

0 25' 50' 100?

Develop I 
[@113 DetrOit mmsassumms I 5 Hz?:

THIRD FOURTH FLOUR

 

'Runr 449p,
. Below @8999,

 

 

Gratiot Avenue

0 25' 50' 100'

Detrolt 

FLOOR 9.26.2019

@Develop MCIHTUSH 

 ?msmw ?mad auvaw

'5 3" 3 3 cioIasnf-s'l 
3 H0703 NOlldO 80103 SNIZWD 0380103 0380103

 

8010) 80103

 

G?i?v?dOjOt?d 
8 H0103
Ill NEW 
I
I.
i'

. 


GNV 
SMOUNIM WLEW

WIHJ. 
CBHSINH WNW DO 09 SO

 

 

 

i. . 

 

 

dl?l?qz'a Sltl?d 1:01:HSULNIJN 



WELSAS WEIW

 

- 7: i

 

n. 's-b'w Wur- vr .a 

kw mn' 5"


(EWVEH 

 

 

 

THEM 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HWEVO 13315 



aw ammo uamnsm mou?ams 03mm wnulwnw 9mm: amo 13319 ssamms swans uamnsm 

GEIWVHJ 

 

 

8 80103


 

80103
USEH 



SMOCIN1M 

WIHJ. 
GEHSINH WNAH 00 09 50

El 
WEN CEIJNDFIHHOO

 
 

SUMMARY
An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zorzirzg,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map 2 to establish a
PD (Planned Development) zoning classi?cation where B4 (General Business District) and M3
(General Industrial District) zoning classi?cations currently exist on land generally bounded by
Gratiot Avenue, Russell Street, and Maple Street to allow for mixed?use buildings with residential
units, retail, commercial and institutional space. Additionally, to allow for a parking structure and

Off-street parking spaces.

-
i 2:313 Holt; 

IxCOUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map 2 to establish a
PD (Planned Development) zoning classi?cation where B4 (General Business District) and M3
(General Industrial District) zoning classi?cations currently exist on land generally bounded by
Gratiot Avenue, Russell Street, and Maple Street to allow for mixed-use buildings with residential
units, retail, commercial and institutional space. Additionally, to allow for a parking structure and
off?street parking spaces.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Article XVII of Chapter 61 01" the 1984 Detroit City Code is amended as
follows:

District Map No. 2 is ai'uentletl tn slim-t a PD (Planned Dex-elnnmentl zoning
inssilietuion where B4 {General Business District: and MR {General Industrial District} zoning
classifications eurrenth exist on land generullr hounded by (jh'alitit Avenue on the north. Russell
Street on the east. and .I?s'lnnle Street on the west and more sneeit'icallv described as:

PARCEL l:

LOTS I99 AND Itltl. Glistl?ltfl" AS WIDENIZD. OF CASS
SUBDIVISION Ul-i PART [Li i?leLLETl lie-\RM- ACCORDING TO THE 

?l'l lElilEOF AS IN [.lBliR OF PliA'l'S. PAGE 6A- WAYNE 
RECORDSTAJ lTEl?vl NO. 05. AS TO PARCEL IPROPERTY ADDRESS:

U88 AVENUE. Ml 4820?

PA RC EL 2:

LOT 198. EXCEPT AS WIDENED. OF CASS SUBDIVISION 01" PART
OF THE MULLETT FARM. ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF AS RECORDED IN
LIBER 1 OF PLATS. PAGE 6A. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

TAX ITEM NO. 05. AS TO PARCEL 2

PROPERTY ADDRESS: 1384 GRATIOT AVENUE- DETROIT. MI 48207

PARCEL 3:

LOT 197. EXCEPT GRATIOT AS CASS SUBDIVISION OF PART OF 
MULLETT FARM. ACCORDING TO THE PI .AT THEREOF AS RECORDED IN LIBER 1
OF PLATS. PAGE 6A. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

TAX FIEIVI NU. 05. AS TO PARCEL 3

ADDRESS: 1380 AVIENLIIE. hill-1331}?

PARCEL 4:

WEST 1/2 OF LOT 191. EXCEPT GRATIOT AVENUE AS WIDENED. OF CASS
SUBDIVISION OF PART OF THE MULLE FARM. II 11?. I
THEREOF AS RECORDED IN LIBER 1 OF PLATS. PAGE 6A. WAYNE COUNTY
RECORDS.

TAX ITEM NO. 05. AS TO PARCEL 4

PROPERTY ADDRESS: 1336 GRATIOT AVENUE. DETROIT. MI 48207

PARCEL 5:
EAST If: LOT 190. EXCEPT GRATIOT AVENUE AS WIDENEI). CASS

SI IBDIVISION OF PART OF THE FARM. ACCORDING TO IE 

Ix.)





16

17

18

19

2?




Ix.)
IQ

THEREOF AS RECORDED IN LIBER I OF FLATS. PAGE 6A. WAYNE COUNTY
RECORDS.
TAX ITEM NO. 1J5. AS TO 5

PROPERTY ADDRESS: 1334 GRATIOT AVENUE. DETROIT, MI 48207

PARCEL 6:

LOT 171 AND WEST 1/2 OF LOT 170. EXCEPT GRATIOT AVENUE AS WIDENED. OF
OF THAT PART OF CLAIM 181 NORTH OF JEFFERSON AVE. FOR THE HEIRS OF
ANT RIVARD AS SLIBDIVIIJED INTI) LOTS MARCH 1841. TO THE
PLAT THEREOF AS RECORDED IN LIBER 12 OF CITY RECORDS. PAGES 350 AND 
REU 

AND SOUTH 51.86 FEET OF LOT 189, OF SUBDIVISION OF PART OF THE
EATER-I. ACCORDING Tl AS IN LIBER I
OF PLATS. PAGE 6A. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

AND THAT PART OF LOT 169 OF THE RIVARD FARM BOUNDED AND DESCRIBED
AS FOLLOWS:

BEGINNING AT THE CORNER OF LOT 169; THENCE NORTH 26
DEGREES WEST 140.46 FEET TO THE NORTHEASTERLY CORNER OF SAID LOT 169;
THENCE SOUTH 29 DEGREES . 56 MINUTES WEST 21.15 FEET MORE OR LESS TO
THE WESTERLY LINE OF A BRICK BUILDING ON SAID LOT 169 THENCE SOUTH 60
DEGREES 21 FEET: TI 111) FEET UR

TO TI IE POINT OF BEGINNING: EXCEPTING- IE PORTION

DJ

IQ

L1SAID PARCELS TAKEN IN THE WIDENING OF GRATIOT AVENUE. OF PLAT OF
THAT PART OF CLAIEVI 181 NORTH OF AVE. FUR TI IE IIEIRS 
ANTOINE RIVARD AS SUBDIVIDED INTO LOTS MARCH 1841. ACCORDING TO THE
PLAT THEREOF AS RECORDED IN LIBER 12 OF

CITY RECORDS. PAGES 351] AND 351. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.



EAST 1/2 OF LOT 170. AND PART OF LOT Hill DESCRIBED AS:
AT TI IE NORTI CORNER SAID RI 
NORTH 29 DEGREES 56 MINUTES EAST 20.90 THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 4
MINUTES EAST 21 THENCE SOUTI IICRLY I FEETLMORE OR LESS. TO THE
SOUTHEASTERLY CORNER OF SAID LOT: SUI ITII (:11 DEGREES WEST 35.60
FEET TO TI IE CORNER C114 SAII) 1.0T: TI IICNCE 215.
I 18.55 FEET TO THE PLACE OF BEGINNING. OF PLAT TI 
PART OF CLAIM 181 NORTH OF AVE. TI-IE HEIRS OF ANTOINE
RIVARD AS SUBDIVIDED INTO LOTS INIARCI-I 1841. ACCORDING TO THE PLAT
THEREOF AS RECORDED IN LIBER 12 OF CITY RECORDS. PAGES 350 AND 351.
WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS. ALSO ALL THE LANDS. PREMISES AND RIGHTS
AND DESCRIBED IN WARRANTY IJEEI) TO 
RECORDED 1N LIBER I41 OF DEEDS. PAGE 330 IN TI IE OFFICE OF TI 
REGISTER FOR WAYNE COUNTY. TAX ITEM NO. (IS. AS
TO PARCEL 6

PROPERTY ADDRESS: 1314 GRATIOT AVENUE. DETROIT. MI 48207



L1PARCEL 7:

LOTS ll?ah. 167. AND 168. OF PLAT OF PART OF 181 NORTH OF
JEFFERSON AVE. FOR THE HEIRS OF RIVARD AS SUBDIVIDED IND
1841- ACCORDING T0 FLAT THEREOF AS RECORDED 1N LIBER
12 OF CITY RECORDS. PAGES 350 AND 351- WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS. TAX ITEM
NO. 05. AS TO PARCEL 7 MAPLE

STREET. MI 48207

PARCEL 8:

LOT 171. AND THE WEST 6 FEET OF LOT 172. OF CASS SUBDIVISION OF PART OF
THE FARM. ACCORDING TO THE HAT TI IIERILOF AS RECORDED IN
LIBER 1 OF PLATS. PAGE 6A. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS. TAX ITEM NO.
05- AS TO PARCEL 8 PROPERTY ADDRESS: 1325 MAPLE STREET.

DETROIT. MI 48207

PARCEL 9:

EAST 34 FEET OF LOT I72. ALL OF 173. AND I74. OF CASS SUBDIVISION PART
OF THE FARM. TO T1 AS IN
LIBER 1 OF PLATS. PAGE 6A, WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS. TAX ITEM NO.
05. AS TO PARCEL 9 PROPERTY ADDRESS: 1337 MAPLE STREET.

DETROIT. MI 48207

PARCEL 10:





01? LAFAYETTE PARK SUBDIVISION OF PARTS OF PRIVATE CLAIFVIS (J. 181. 7.
132. 12. 13. 8 AND 17. CITY OF DETROIT. WAYNE COUNTY. MICHIGAN. ACCORDING
TO TI PLAT THEREOF AS RECORDED LIBER 80 Ol" PLATS. PAGES 87. 88. 
AND 91. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

TAX NO. {15- AS TO PARCEL 10 ADDRESS: 130"?)

MAPLE STREET. DETROIT. MI 48207

PARCEL 11:

LOTS I79 AND 180. OF CASS SUBDIVISION OF PART OF THE MULLETT FARM-
TO THE PLAT THEREOF AS IN LIBER 1 OF PLATS. 
6A. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

NO. 05. AS TO PARCEL 1 1 PROPERTY ADDRESS: 2011

RUSSELL STREET. DETROIT. MI 48207

PARCEL 12:

LOTS 181 AND 182. OF CASS SUBDIVISION OF PART OF THE MULLETT FARM.
ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF AS RECORDED IN LIBER 1 OF PLATS. PAGE
(IA. COUNTY RECORDS.

TAX ITEM NO. 003461 05. AS TO PARCEL 12 PROPERTY ADDRESS: 2033

RUSSELL STREET. DETROIT. MI 48207

PARCEL 13:

LOTS 183. AND SUBDIVISION OF THE MU 1.11.1'i'1T1' FARM.
ACCORDING TO PLAT T1 AS RECORDED IN LIBER 1 01" PAGE
(1A. WAYNE RECORDS.

TAX ITEM NO. 05. AS TO PARCEL 13 PROPERTY ADDRESS: 2105

MI 483,117

PARCEL 14:

L??l 311315511) 133. SI 01: 1111111 OF 
1'1 11': 11111111111111) '1'1 111111-1111: .15 LIBER 1
OF PLATSLPAGE 6. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

TAX PARCEL INDENTIFICATION N0.: 05; 05

COMMONLY KNOWN AS: 13511 AND 131% SIRIHIJT. DETROIT. 

PARCEL 15:

LOTS 192 AND 193. EXCEPT GRATIOT AVENUE. AS WIDENED. OF CASS
SUBDIVISION OF PART OF THE M1 FARM. ACCORDING TO THE RECORDED
PLAT AS RECORDED 1N 1-1131311. 1 OF PAGE (1. WAYNE COUNTY
RECORDS.

TAX PARCEL INDENTIFICATION NO.: 115: 115

KNOWN AS: 13?16 AND 1352 AVENI..3E. 

PARCEL 16:

LOTS 194. 195 AND 196. EXCEPT GRATIOT AVENUE. AS WIDENED. OF CASS
SUBDIVISION OF PART OF THE MULLETT FARM. ACCORDING TO THE RECORDED
THEREOF AS RECORDED Lil-Hill 1 OF PLATS. PAGE 6- WAYNE COUNTY
[{liCO R1354. TAX PARCEL INDENTIFICATION (111063 EIWARI) (.15: UtltlonWARD US

COMMONLY KNOWN AS: 1358 AND 1364 AVENUE. DETROIT. MI 48207

To approve site plans. elevations. and other components ot?the development proposals For The
Eastern Market Gateway-The I-live proiect depicted in the drawings prepared by Perkins Will
and McIntosh Poris Associates. dated August 1. 2019.

site plans. elevations. and other components of the development proposals

identi?ed in Subsection (A) of this Section are subiect to the following conditions:

(1) The develop_er must work with the immediately adjacent eommunitv to minimize
disruption to the durine construction and address impacts that man
arise: and

(2) All ?nal site plans. elevations. lighting. landscape and signage plans for the
development are subiect to review and i-tpproval by the City Plannina Commission
staff prior to the developer?s application for applicable building or construction
permits.

Section 2. All ordinances or parts ofordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,

health, safety and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after publication
in accordance with Section 401(6) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, M.C.L. 

and Section 4-118, paragraph 3 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to Form:

Lawrence T. Garcia,
Corporation Counsel

 

?3

  

DBRA

llowurluoRtulvuarulurhmuouw

DETROIT
500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit. MI 48226

  
   

August 15, 2019

Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: 40 Hague Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Dear Honorable Council Members:

The enclosed Brownfield Plan for the 40 Hague Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan") (Exhibit A), was
submitted by the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority Board (the and to the Community
Advisory Committee (the The Plan was considered and reviewed by the CAC at its July 10, 2019
meeting and a public hearing was held by the DBRA on July 18, 2019 to solicit public comments. The
Committee?s communication to the City Council and the DBRA, dated July 10, 2019 (Exhibit B),
recommending approval of the Plan, including the minutes of the public hearing held by the DBRA, are
enclosed for the City Council?s consideration.

On July 24, 2019, the DBRA adOpted a resolution (Exhibit C) approving the Plan and authorizing the
submission of a copy of its resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the Detroit
City Council call a public hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions to approve the Plan in
accordance with Act 381.

The Plan is now presented to the City Council for approval. The Detroit City Council will, after publication
of the notices, hold a public hearing on the Plan. After the public hearing, the City Council shall determine
whether the Plan constitutes a public purpose and, if so, may approve or reject the Plan or approve it with
modifications.

Project Introduction
RainCheck Development, LLC is the project developer (the ?Developer") for the Plan which entails the

renovation of a two-story, 37,000 square-foot building into 38 residential apartments. Two studios, 32 one-
bedroom units, and four two-bedroom units will be offered. Twenty percent of the residential units will be
available at 60% of the Area Median Income (AMI). Building amenities will include an interior courtyard and
rooftop garden space. In addition, the parcel located to the west of the building will be curated into a private
park for residents and a dog park. As for parking, the 40 Hague Development will provide on?site parking
south of the building, at 59 East Philadelphia Street, at an already established lot, reconfigured to include
a more efficient parking layout.

The total investment is estimated to be $8.05 million. The Developer is requesting $731,906.00 in TIF
reimbursement.

Honorable City Council
August 15, 2019
2

There will be 18 temporary construction jobs and 1 FTE job. The 18 temporary construction jobs are
expected to be created over an eighteen-month period once construction begins. The 1 FTE job will be
related to property management.

Property Subiect to the Plan

The eligible property (the ?Property") will consist of three (3) parcels roughly bounded by Hague Street to
the north, residential properties to the east, Philadelphia Street to the south, and Woodward Avenue to the
west, in Detroit?s North End neighborhood.

 

Basis of Eligibility

The Property is considered ?eligible property? as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because the Property
was previously utilized for industrial and commercial purposes; it is located within the City of Detroit, a
qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and the Property is determined to be a ?facility" as
defined by Act 381 and/or adjacent and contiguous to a ?facility."

Eligible Activities and Prciected Costs

The ?eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered "eligible activities?
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include environmental assessments, Department specific
activities related to remediation, demolition, asbestos abatement, infrastructure improvements, site
preparation and preparation and implementation of Brownfield Plan and/or 381 Work Plan. The eligible
activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed
solely by the Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no
debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence in fall 2019 and be completed within 18 months.

Tax Increment Financinc Capture

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.

COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Environmental Assessments $23,693.00
2. Department Speci?c Activities (EGLE) $114,500.00
3. Demolition $298,900.00
4. Asbestos Abatement $22,000.00
5. Infrastructure Improvements $68,000.00
6. Site Preparation $86,350.00
7. Brownfield Plan Work Plan Preparation $20,000.00
8. Brownfield Plan Work Plan Implementation $10,000.00
9. Contingency $88,463.00
Total Reimbursement to Developer $731,906.00

10. Authority Administrative Costs $189,903.00
11. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund $41,917.00
12. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund $294,549.00
TOTAL Estimated Costs $1,258,275.00

 

 

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.

Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation PA 146 Tax Abatement.

Honorable City Council
August 15, 2019
3

DBRA's Reguest
The DBRA is respectfully requesting the following actions from the City Council:

Septembers 2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution (Exhibit D), setting the 40 Hague Brownfield

Redevelopment Plan public hearing, as approved by the Planning and Economic Development
Standing Committee Chair and the City of Detroit Clerk, for September 5, 2019 at 10:10 AM in
the Council Chambers, 13th Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, located at 2
Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan.

September 5, 2019, 10:05 AM
Discussion with taxing jurisdictions regarding the fiscal impact of the Plan.

September 5, 2019, 10:10 AM
Public Hearing at City Council?s Planning and Economic Development Standing Committee
concerning the 40 Hague Brownfield Redevelopment Plan.

September 10, 2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution approving the 40 Hague Brown?eld Redevelopment
Plan (Exhibit E).

Sinc I 
are}; 
/Irnn?lf IQ

Jenr?fer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

City Clerk
Marcel Todd
Irvin Corley, Jr.
David Whitaker
Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt
DeAndree Watson
Kevin Johnson
Malinda Jensen
Matthew Walters
Allen Rawls
Brian Vosburg
Stephanie Washington

And WillslArts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council packet cover letters\2019 Cover Letters\40 Hague
Brownfield Plan CC Transmittal Letter.docx

EXHIBIT A

CITY OF DETROIT
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

BROWNFIELD PLAN FOR THE
PROPOSED 4O HAGUE REDEVELOPNIENT PROJECT

Prepared by:

RainCheck Development, LLC
28715 Green?eld Road
Detroit, Michigan 48076
Contact Person: Neal Check
Phone: 248-866-7900

I It .L'mn

 

PM Environmental

4080 West Eleven Mile Road

Berkley, Michigan 48072

Contact Person: Ginny Dougherty or Jessica Debone
Phone: 248-414-4136 or 616?328-5297
.com or pmem .com

July 2, 2019

II.



CITY OF DETROIT
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

BROWN FIELD PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

GENERAL PROVISIONS

A. Description of Eligible Property

B. Basis of Eligibility

C. Summary of Eligible Activities

D. Estimate of Captured Taxable Value and Tax

Increment Revenues; Impact of Tax Increment

Financing on Taxing Jurisdictions

E. Plan of Financing; Maximum Amount
Of Indebtedness

F. Duration of Plan
G. Effective Date of Inclusion

H. Displacement/Relocation of Individuals
On Eligible Property

I. Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (LBRF)

J. Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund

K. Developer?s Obligations, Representations and Warrants
ATTACHMENTS

A. Site Map

B. Legal Description(s)

C. Project Description



. Supportive Letters

1-1

11-2

11-3

11-3

11-5

11-6

11-6

11-7

11-7

11?7

11?7

11-7

B-l

C-l

D-l

E. Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities E-l
F. TIF Tables F-l
G. Acknowledgement and Other Environmental Documents G?l

H. Incentive Chart H?l

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

I. INTRODUCTION

 

In order to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed and blighted areas
within the boundaries of the City of Detroit, Michigan (the ?City?), the City has established
the City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (the pursuant to
Michigan Public Act 381 of 1996, as amended (?Act 381?).

The primary purpose of this Brown?eld Plan (?Plan?) is to promote the redevelopment of
and private investment in certain ?brown?eld? properties within the City. Inclusion of
property within this Plan will facilitate ?nancing of environmental response and other
eligible activities at eligible properties, and will also provide tax incentives to eligible
taxpayers willing to invest in revitalization of eligible sites, commonly referred to as
?brown?elds.? By facilitating redevelopment of brown?eld properties, this Plan is
intended to promote economic growth for the bene?t of the residents of the City and all
taxing units located within and bene?ted by the DBRA.

This Plan is intended to apply to the eligible property identi?ed in this Plan and, if tax
increment revenues are proposed to be captured from that eligible property, to identify and
authorize the eligible activities to be funded by such tax increment revenues.

This Plan is intended to be a living document, which may be modi?ed or amended in
accordance with the requirements of Act 381, as necessary to achieve the purposes of Act
381. The identi?cation or designation of a developer or proposed use of the eligible
property shall not necessitate an amendment to this Plan, affect the application of this Plan
to the eligible property or impair the rights available to the DBRA under this Plan. The
applicable sections of Act 381 are noted throughout the Plan for reference purposes.

This Plan describes the project to be completed (see Attachment C) and contains all the
information required by Section 13(2) of Act 381.

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

II. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 

A. Description ofthe Eligible Propertr (Section 13 (2mm and the I?roieet

The property comprising the eligible property consists of three (3) parcels. The parcel
identi?ed as 40 Hague Street is considered a ?facility? and ?functionally obsolete? and the
parcels identi?ed as 8524 Woodward Avenue and 59 Philadelphia Street are adjacent
and contiguous to 40 Hague Street. The parcels and all tangible personal property located
thereon will comprise the eligible property and is collectively referred to herein as the
?Property.?

Attachment A includes a site map of the Property. The Property is located in the North
End neighborhood north of North End Detroit and is roughly bounded by Hague Street to
the north, residential properties to the east, Philadelphia Street to the south, and Woodward
Avenue to the west.

Attachment provides the individual legal descriptions for the eligible property.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Tax ID Owner

40 Hague Street 0100266?0 RainCheck Development, LLC
8524 Woodward Avenue 01004332 RainCheck Development, LLC
59 Philadelphia Street 01002605-7 RainCheck Development, LLC

 

RainCheck Development, LLC is the project developer (?Developer?) and owner of the
Property. The project entails renovation of the 2-story building located at 40 Hague Street.
The building, at approximately 37,000 square feet, will be converted into 38 residential
apartments. Approximately two studios, 32 one-bedroom units, and four two-bedroom
layouts will be offered. Building amenities will include an interior courtyard and rooftop
garden space. In addition, the parcel located to the west of the building will be curated into
a private park for residents and a dog park. As for parking, the 40 Hague Development will
provide on-site parking south of the building, at 59 East Philadelphia Street, at an already
established lot, recon?gured to include a more ef?cient parking layout. It is currently
anticipated construction will begin in fall of 2019 and eligible activities will be completed
in 18 months of commencement, which is the estimated construction period. The project
description provided herein is a summary of the proposed development at the time of the
adoption of the Plan. The actual development may vary from the project description
provided herein, without necessitating an amendment to this Plan, so long as such
variations arise as a result of changes in market and/or financing conditions affecting the
project and/or are related to the addition or immaterial removal of amenities to the
project. All material changes, as determined by DBRA in its sole discretion, to the project
description are subject to the approval of the DBRA staff and shall be consistent with the
overall nature of the proposed development, its proposed public purpose, and the purposes
of Act 381.

Attachment provides a description of the project to be completed at the Property (the
?Project?) and Attachment includes letters of support for the Project.

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

B. Basis of Eligibility [Section 13 (2)01] and Section 2 

The Property is considered ?eligible property? as de?ned by Act 381, Section 2 because
the Property was previously utilized for industrial and commercial purposes; it is
located within the City of Detroit, a quali?ed local governmental unit under Act 381; and
the Property is determined to be a ?facility? as de?ned by Act 381 and in accordance
with Part 201 of Act 45 1; and/or the Property is adjacent and contiguous to a ?facility?
and the development of the adjacent and contiguous parcels is estimated to increase the
captured taxable value of that eligible property.

On March 14, 2018, PM Environmental completed subsurface investigation activities at
the Property that consisted of conducting a geophysical survey investigation, advancing
eight soil borings, and the collection of 13 soil samples. The soil samples were submitted
to Merit Laboratories, Inc. (Merit) in East Lansing, Michigan for laboratory analysis of
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PNAs),
biphenyls (PCBs), cadmium, chromium, and lead, or some combination
thereof.

A concentration of benzo(a)pyrene was detected in the soil sample collected at SB-7 (1 .5-
2.5 feet bgs) above the Part 201 Residential Direct Contact (DC) cleanup criteria.
Concentrations of various PNAs were detected in the soil samples collected from SB-4
(3.0-4.0 feet bgs), SB-7 (1.5-2.5 feet bgs), and SB-12 (2.0?3.0 feet bgs) above the
laboratory MDLs, but below the most restrictive Part 201 Residential cleanup criteria. A
location where a hazardous substance is present in excess of the concentrations, which
satisfy the requirements of subsection 20120a(1)(a) or (17), is a facility pursuant to Part
201. Section 20120a(1)(a) requirements are the Cleanup Criteria for unrestricted
residential usage. Current soil concentrations identi?ed at the Property exceed the
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy Part 201
Residential DC cleanup criteria established under section 20120a(1)(a) and 
as revised by the Michigan Department of Envrionmental Quality, predecessor to EGLE,
on December 30, 2013. Therefore, the subject property is a ?facility" in accordance with
Part 201 of PA. 451, as amended.

C. ngmarv of Eligible Activities and Description of Costs {Section 13 
The ?eligible activities? that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered
?eligible activities? as de?ned by Section 2 of Act 381, because they include Pro?Approved
Activities, Department Speci?c Activities, Demolition, Asbestos Activities, Infrastructure
Improvements, Site Preparation and preparation and implementation of Brown?eld Plan
and/or 381 Work Plan.

A summary of the eligible activities and the estimated cost of each eligible activity intended
to be paid for with tax increment revenues from the Property are shown in the table attached
hereto as Attachment E. The eligible activities described in Attachment are not
exhaustive. Subject to the approval of DBRA staff in writing, additional eligible activities
may be carried out at the Property, without requiring an amendment to this Plan, so long
as such eligible activities are permitted by Act 381 and the cost of such eligible activities
does not exceed the total costs stated in Attachment E.

3

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the DBRA, all eligible activities shall commence
within eighteen (18) months after the date the governing body approves this Plan and be
completed within three (3) years after approval of the Michigan Strategic Fund 
work plan, if applicable, or three (3) years after execution of the Reimbursement
Agreement (as that term is de?ned below). Any long-term monitoring or operation and
maintenance activities or obligations that may be required will be performed in compliance
with the terms of this Plan and any documents prepared pursuant to this Plan.

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities incurred by it.
Some eligible activities may commence prior to the adoption of this Plan and to the extent
permitted by Act 381 shall be reimbursable pursuant to the Reimbursement Agreement.
Tax increment revenue generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used
to reimburse the cost of the eligible activities completed on the Property pursuant to the
terms of a Reimbursement Agreement to be executed by the DBRA and the Developer after
approval of this Plan (the ?Reimbursement Agreement?), to the extent permitted by Act
381. In the event this Plan contemplates the capture of tax increment revenue derived from
?taxes levied for school operating purposes? (as de?ned by Section 2(uu) of Act 381 and
hereinafter referred to as ?School Taxes?), the Developer acknowledges and agrees that
obligation to reimburse the Developer for the cost of eligible activities with tax
increment revenue derived from Local Taxes, or Speci?c Taxes that are considered Local
Taxes, (as these capitalized terms are de?ned by Act 381) is contingent upon: the
Developer receiving at least the initial applicable work plan approvals by the MSF and the
EGLE, as may be required pursuant to Act 381, or (ii) the Developer providing the DBRA
with evidence, satisfactory to DBRA, that the Developer has the ?nancial means to
complete the project without the capture of, and subsequent reimbursement with, the
contemplated School Taxes.

The costs listed in Attachment are estimated costs and may increase or decrease
depending on the nature and extent of environmental contamination and other unknown
conditions encountered on the Property. The actual cost of those eligible activities
encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from tax increment revenues
of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the Reimbursement
Agreement. No costs of eligible activities will be quali?ed for reimbursement except to
the extent permitted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Reimbursement
Agreement and Act 381. The Reimbursement Agreement and this Plan will dictate the
total cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement, provided that the total
cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement under the Reimbursement
Agreement shall not exceed the estimated costs set forth in Attachment E. As long as the
total costs are not exceeded, line item costs of eligible activities may be adjusted after the
date this Plan is approved by the governing body, to the extent the adjustments do not
violate the terms of the approved EGLE or MSF work plan.

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Estimate of Captured Taxable Value and Tax Increment Reve?es (Section
Beginning Date of Capture of Tax Increment Revenues (Section 
Impact of Tax Increment Financing on Taxing Jurisdictions (Section 

This Plan anticipates the capture of tax increment revenues to reimburse the Developer for
the costs of eligible activities under this Plan in accordance with the Reimbursement
Agreement. Subject to Section 13(b)(16) of Act 381, a table of estimated tax increment
revenues to be captured is attached to this Plan as Attachment F.

Tax increments are projected to be captured and applied to reimbursement of eligible
activity costs and payment of DBRA administrative and operating expenses, (ii) make
deposits into the State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund, and make deposits into the
Local Brownfield Revolving Fund, as follows:

 

 

Reimbursement Atl min. Local
Costs Costs Brownfield Revolving
Fund 
School Operating Tax $192,776 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
State Education Tax $64,259 $0.00 $37,459 $0.00
City Operating $224,549 $88,137 $0.00 $130,446
Library $52,116 $20,456 $0.00 $30,276
County (Summer) $63,569 $24,951 $0.00 $36,929
County (Winter) $1 1,139 $4,372 $6,471
County Public Safety $10,558 $4,144 $0.00 $6,133
Wayne County Parks $2,767 $1,086 $0.00 $1,608
HCMA $2,396 $940 $0.00 $1,392
RESA Enhancement $0 $0 $0.00 $0
RESA ISD $38,989 $15,303 $0.00 $22,650
Wayne County Community $36,473 $14,316 $21,188
$0.00
College
TOTALS $669,591 $173,707 $37,549 $257,092

In addition, the following taxes are projected to be generated but shall not be captured during
the life of this Plan:

City Debt $152,802
School Debt and Judgment $283,776
Wayne County DIA $4,366
Wayne County Zoo $2,183
Total $443,127

The Developer anticipates approval of a tax abatement under the Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Tax Act (OPRA), PA 146 of 2000, as amended, for up to 12 years. If the
OPRA is approved, this tax abatement will reduce the property tax obligations of the
Property for the period applicable under the approved abatement certi?cate, thereby

5

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

reducing the amount of tax increment revenues available under this Plan. Assumption of
this reduction is included in the tax capture projections provided with this Plan.

In no event shall the duration of this Plan exceed thirty-?ve (35) years following the date
of the governing body?s resolution approving this Plan, nor shall the duration of the tax
capture exceed the lesser of the period authorized under subsection (3) and (5) of Section
13 of Act 381 or 30 years. Further, in no event shall the beginning date of the capture of
tax increment revenues be later than ?ve (5) years after the date of the governing body?s
resolution approving this Plan.

E. Plan of Financing (Section Maximum Amount ul?lndebtedness (Section
13?2uen

The eligible activities are to be ?nanced solely by the Developer. The DBRA will
reimburse the Developer for the cost of approved eligible activities, but only from tax
increment revenues generated from the Property. No advances have been or shall be made
by the City or the DBRA for the costs of eligible activities under this Plan.

All reimbursements authorized under this Plan shall be governed by the Reimbursement
Agreement. The inclusion of eligible activities and estimates of costs to be reimbursed in
this Plan are intended to authorize the DBRA to fund such reimbursements and does not
obligate the DBRA or the City to fund any reimbursement or to enter into the
Reimbursement Agreement providing for the reimbursement of any costs for which tax
increment revenues may be captured under this Plan, or which are permitted to be
reimbursed under this Plan. The amount and source of any tax increment revenues that
will be used for purposes authorized by this Plan, and the terms and conditions for such
use and upon any reimbursement of the expenses permitted by this Plan, will be provided
solely under the Reimbursement Agreement contemplated by this Plan.

Unless otherwise agreed upon by the Developer, the DBRA, and the State of Michigan, the
DBRA shall not incur any note or bonded indebtedness to ?nance the purposes of this Plan.

Reimbursements under the Reimbursement Agreement shall not exceed the cost of Eligible
Activities permitted under this Plan.

F. Duration of Plan (Section ?(21111)

Subject to Section 13b(l6) of Act 381, the beginning date of capture of tax increment
revenues for each eligible property shall occur in accordance with the tax increment
?nancing (TIF) table described in Exhibit F. In no event, however, shall this Plan extend
beyond the maximum term allowed by Section l3(2)(f) of Act 381 for the duration of this
Plan.

Furthermore, this Plan, or any subsequent amendment thereto, may be abolished or
terminated in accordance with Section 14(8) of Act 381 in the event of any of the following:

a. The governing body may abolish this Plan (or any subsequent amendment
thereto) when it ?nds that the purposes for which this Plan was established have been
accomplished.

6

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

b. The governing body may terminate this Plan (or any subsequent amendment
thereto) if the project for which eligible activities were identi?ed in this Plan (or any
subsequent amendment thereto) fails to occur with respect to the eligible property for at
least two (2) years following the date of the governing body resolution approving this Plan
(or any subsequent amendment thereto), provided that the governing body ?rst does both
of the following: gives 30 days? written notice to the Developer at its last known address
by certi?ed mail or other method that documents proof of delivery attempted; and (ii)
provides the Developer with an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting.

Notwithstanding anything in this subsection to the contrary, this Plan (or any subsequent
amendment thereto) shall not be abolished or terminated until the principal and interest on
bonds, if any, issued under Section 17 of Act 381 and all other obligations to which the tax
increment revenues are pledged have been paid or funds suf?cient to make the payment
have been identi?ed or segregated.

G. Effective Date of Inclusion in Brownfield Plan
The Property will become a part of this Plan on the date this Plan is approved by the
governing body.

H. Displacementi?Relocation of Individuals on Eligible Property (Section 
There are no persons or businesses residing on the Property and no occupied residences
will be acquired or cleared, therefore there will be no displacement or relocation of persons
or businesses under this Plan.

1. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund (Section 8: Section 

The DBRA has established a Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (LBRF). The LBRF will
consist of all tax increment revenues authorized to be captured and deposited in the LBRF,
as speci?ed in Section 13(5) of Act 381, under this Plan and any other plan of the DBRA.
It may also include funds appropriated or otherwise made available from public or private
sources.

The amount of tax increment revenue authorized for capture and deposit in the LBRF is
currently estimated at $257,092. All funds, if any, deposited in the LBRF shall be used in
accordance with Section 8 of Act 381.

J. Brown?eld Redevelopment Furnd (Section 8a: Section 

The DBRA shall pay to the Department of Treasury at least once annually an amount equal
to 50% of the taxes levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to
211.906, that are captured under this Plan for up to the ?rst twenty-?ve (25) years of the
duration of capture of tax increment revenues for each eligible property included in this
Plan. If the DBRA pays an amount equal to 50% of the taxes levied under the state
education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to 211.906, on a parcel of eligible property to
the Department of Treasury under Section 13b(14) of Act 381, the percentage of local taxes
levied on that parcel and used to reimburse eligible activities for the Project under this Plan
shall not exceed the percentage of local taxes levied on that parcel that would have been
used to reimburse eligible activities for the Project under this Plan if the 50% of the taxes

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 21 1.901 to 21 1.906, on that parcel
were not paid to the Department of Treasury under Section 13b(14) of Act 381.

K. Developer?s Obligations, Representations and Warrants

The Developer and its af?liates shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances,
executive orders, or other regulations imposed by the City or any other properly constituted
governmental authority with respect to the Property and shall use the Property in
accordance with this Plan.

The Developer, at its sole cost and expense, shall be solely responsible for and shall fully
comply with all applicable federal, state, and local relocation requirements in implementing
this Plan.

The Developer represents and warrants that a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
and if appropriate, a Phase II ESA, baseline environmental assessment, and due
care plan, pursuant to Part 201 of Michigan?s Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act (MCL 324.20101 et seq.), have been performed on the Property
(?Environmental Documents?). Attached hereto as Attachment is the City of Detroit?s
Department of Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental acknowledgement of its
receipt of the Phase I BSA, and if appropriate, the Phase II BSA.

The Developer further represents and warrants that the Project does not and will not include
a City of Detroit Land Bank Authority, Wayne County Land Bank Authority or State of
Michigan Land Bank financing component.

Except as otherwise agreed to by the DBRA, any breach of a representation or warranty

contained in this Plan shall render the Plan invalid, subject to the Developer?s reasonable
opportunity to cure as described in the Reimbursement Agreement.

#3708938 v9

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENTS

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT A

Site Map

I 0 Hague Street

'15

\k

- tople'a

Cmnmunliy ?1:th ?h ..-.
.H- 
3. 

Vt.? 
?3131:
.- -. 
Cd'rp? ?th 



 

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Legal Descriptions of Eligible Property to which the Plan Applies

Legal Description 40 Hague Street, Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan:

Parcel: 01002660-0

HAGUE HAIGHS L13 P29 PLATS, 1/112
ON 03/23/2017 FROM 01002600., 01004332.;

Legal Description 8524 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan:

Parcel: 01004332

WOOWARD 110 FT 20HIAGHS SUB L13 P29 PLATS, 11112 65 110 Split on
03/23/2017 with 01002660. Into 01002660?0;

Legal Description 59 East Philadelphia Street, Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan:
Parcel: 01002605-7
PHILADELPHIA 5 THRU 7BELA HUBBARDS L21 P7 PLATS, 1/111 150 125

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Project Description

Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
40 Hague Street, 8524 Woodward Avenue, and 59 Philadelphia Street

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Development Team and Company Synopsis

RainCheck Development, LLC (RainCheck) is the project developer Developer") and
owner of the Property. RainCheck is a southeast Michigan? based property development
and management firm that restores renovates and manages real estate in and around
Detroit. The group focuses on single family homes, multi- unit, and commercial buildings
in target areas of the city.

RainCheck is growing a rich portfolio of properties in various parts of Greater Detroit
such as Midtown and New Center. RainCheck seeks to identify and acquire properties
that have potential to be restored in order to enrich the community.

RainCheck is led by the Birmingham?based founder, Neal Check. Before starting
RainCheck, Mr. Check spent 25 years working in the low voltage industry. From there,
Check took a natural step into the smart-home technology industry, opening the company
SoundCheck, Inc. Check then combined his extensive tech- based knowledge with a
passion for developing construction projects. Thus TechHome Building Co., LLC. was
formed. Recent RainCheck projects have been focused on Detroit. One such
development includes a high? ?tech townhome development on 4th Street in Midtown
Another project involves renovating the historic Sander? Confectionary located at 6532
Woodward Avenue in New Center.

The development team has selected the Monahan Company as the General Contractor
and Detroit-based Christian Hurttienne Architects as the architect.

Project Synopsis

The Developer intends to
complete an adaptive reuse of the
Property which is composed of
three adjoining parcels, which are
currently occupied by two parking f.
lots and a vacant two- -story 
building. Located In Detroit?s North - . .., -
End Neighborhood, northwest downtown, the building was - 4,3 
previously occupied by the 
nonprofit World Hope, lnc.
RainCheck bought the property from World Hope, who had occupied the building since
2014. Other previous occupants include printing and engraving companies, automotive
sales and services businesses, professional offices, and training schools

   

40 Hague Street, where the building is located, was originally developed with three
residential dwellings prior to 1910. The current building totals approximately 37, 000
square feet and was constructed between 1915 and 1926 when the residential buildings

Attachment 
Page 1

were demolished. 8524 Woodward Avenue was developed prior to 1910 with two
residential dwellings. The dwellings were both demolished by 1957. The current parking
lot totals approximately 0.16 acres and was constructed by 1961. 59 East Philadelphia
Street was also developed prior to 1910 with three residential dwellings, which were
demolished between 1962 and 1963. The current parking lot totals approximately 0.86
acres and was constructed between 1967 and 1972.

 

The project includes renovating the building located at 40 Hague Street. Once the
rehabilitation is completed, the two-story building will offer 38 loft style apartments in the
North End Neighborhood. Living space totals approximately 26,900 square feet. Two
studios, 32 one?bedroom units, and four two-bedroom layouts will be made available.
Twenty percent of the residential units (8 in total) will be reserved as affordable units at
60% Area Median Income (AMI), which will consist of five (5) one bedroom units and
three (3) two bedroom units.

Greenspace will be incorporated throughout the development; a landscaped interior
courtyard will feature eating areas and a rooftop garden offers a unique place for
residents to relax and entertain. Further greenspace will be created by converting the
western parking lot (8524 Woodward Avenue) into a fenced private park for residential
use.

Additionally, improvements will be made to the eastern parking lot (59 East Philadelphia
Street) to serve as designated residential parking.

The 40 Hague Redevelopment project will reclaim the 19205 era building and render it
fully functional once again. The renovation will maintain and restore the building's
original stone masonry and large exterior windows to withhold historical accuracy.

 

Attachment 
Page 2

Upon completion, this project will bring an underutilized property back to productive use,
addressing the growing demand for residential space within the North End and will further
catalyze economic development in the area.

Project Investment Estimates

 

 

Capital Cost Total Cost
Acquisition Cost 1,275,000
Renovation/Rehabilitation 5,585,000
Soft Costs 1,199,000
Total Capital Costs 8,059,000

Additional Financing Incentives Associated with the Redevelopment

Substantial investment is necessary to rehabilitate the existing building. In efforts to
grow this project into a viable, long-term redevelopment, the Developer will also apply
for a Public Act 146 Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act (OPRA) Tax Abatement for the
project.

Cost/Benefit Analysis

Detroit?s North End Neighborhood was once an important hub of automobile production
in the early 20lh century, housing more than 50,000 workers. Additionally, several popular
Motown musicians including Aretha Franklin and Diana Ross called the neighborhood
home. The North End is just beginning its renaissance of infill housing projects to
revitalize a vibrant neighborhood. The proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment project is part
of the neighborhood's transitional area between the commercial nature of Woodward
Avenue and the residential neighborhood branching east. The 40 Hauge Redevelopment
works to transform an underutilized Property into a contemporary residential apartment
building. Investment such as the RainCheck will help create an integrated and vibrant
North End for all Detroiters.

The proposed Development will bring needed investment to a vacant area of Detroit?s
North End Neighborhood. The Development will increase residential density in an area
that is characterized by vacancy and has the perception of being unsafe. Activation of
this property will spur further growth and infill development, and act as a catalyst for
future redevelopment of numerous vacant and blighted properties along the Woodward
Avenue corridor and the surrounding neighborhoods and provide spinoff consumer
spending.

On a short-term basis, approximately 18 construction jobs will be needed each day
during the estimated construction period. On a long-term basis the proposed
redevelopment associated with the project will create approximately 2 part time jobs {1
full time equivalent (FTE) job) directly by the developer. The Monahan Company is well-
versed and has an inventory of Detroit-based subcontractors that they intend to utilize
during redevelopment activities. The Monahan team will present at a skilled trades task
force meeting should additional sub-contractors be needed.

Attachment 
Page 3

The increase in tenant-based jobs within the building will increase City collected income
tax at a 1.2% rate for non-residents and 2.4% rate for Detroiters. This is estimated at
approximately $1,080 more than what is currently collected on an annual basis if those
employed are Detroit residents. This estimate is based on an average annual salary
estimate of $45,000 for the developer created FTE job. In addition, it is anticipated the
City of Detroit will collect approximately 2.4% income tax per resident unit per year,
resulting in approximately $61,284 in tax revenue based approximately 82 residents and
the metropolitan area per capita income of $31,140.

Following the expiration of the 12?year OPRA tax abatement, the building will deliver a
significant increase in tax revenue. Over time, successful redevelopment will have a
significant impact on the North End Neighborhood

Attachment 
Page 4

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Supportive Letters

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
MICHIGAN 48226
77I




   

CITY OF DETROIT

 

June 28. 2019

Ms. Jennifer Kanalos

Authorized Agent

Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold. Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 46226

RE: 40 Hague Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan
Dear Ms. Kanalos.

The Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (DBRA) has asked that the Planning and Development
Department to review and comment on the 40 Hague Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan (the ?Plan").

RainCheck Development. LLC is the project developer (?Developer?). The property in the Plan is located on three
parcels in the North End neighborhood of Detroit and is roughly bounded by Hague Street to the north. residential
properties to the east, Philadelphia Street to the south. and Woodward Avenue to the west.

The Plan consists of the renovation of the 2-story building located at 40 Hague Street The building. at approximately
37.000 square feet. will be converted into 38 residential apartments, Two studios. 32 one-bedroom units. and four
two-bedroom layouts will be offered. Building amenities will include an interior courtyard and rooftop garden space.
In addition. the parcel located to the west of the building will be curated into a private park for residents and a dog
park. As for parking. the 4D Hague Development will provide on-site parking south of the building. at 59 East
Philadelphia Street. at an already established lot. recon?gured to include a more ef?cient parking layout.

The development will renovate and fully reactivate a signi?cant building in the North End neighborhood of Detroit
Total investment is estimated at $5.05 million.

The review for this brown?eld plan is completeand all comments have been forwarded to the developer. No adverse
comments were received. The Planning and Development Department recommends approval of the brown?eld

plan as submitted.
Sincerely.

auric Cox

Director
Planning and Development Department

 

c: B. Vosburg
C. Capler

THE HISTORIC

LITTLE

 

 

 

 

BAPTIST CHURCH

TO: The City of Detroit City Planning Commission, and
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority

FROM: Rev. Jim Holley, 

DATE: July 23, 2019

Mr. Neal Check of RainCheck Development LLC, met with me and my staff
today to discuss his redevelopment plans for 40 Hague Street, 59 Philadelphia
Street, and 8524 Woodward Avenue.

The (38) units loft apartment plans bring important new Opportunities for
housing in the North End, including affordable housing. In addition, this will
restore a beautiful Albert Khan building in the city, bring revenue to local
businesses, and improve the appearance of the building and surrounding
landscapes.

On behalf of the Historic Little Rock Baptist Church, I would like to express my
full support for RainCheck Development, and the proposed renovation; and ask
that you consider approving his Brownfield and OPRA requests.

As a neighboring business/ property owner, we appreciate the inclusion of the
community in the planning processes, and are excited to see the economic and

community benefits of this renovation.

Respectfully,

   
 
  
 

.. 

Rev. Jim Holley, 

Senior Pastor Rev. Dr. Jim Holley

Senior Pastor

WW w?e?w ?ag/race afgadmmf?egyyaw.?
9000 Woodward Avenue 0 Detroit. Michigan 48202 0 Telephone (313) 872-2900 Fax (313) 972-1115

email: 

- LU 33477 Woodward Avenue, Ste. 800
I I BARBAT Birmingham, MI 48009
- UFIBANIZATIUN Of?ce: (248) 914-0444

Fax: (248) 282-1314
barbatorganization.com

June 17*, 2019

To Whom it May Concern,

On behalf of The Barbat Organization who owns and manages two mixed use buildings on
Woodward, 6505 Woodward Ave. and 6080 Woodward Ave., in the New Center area, -please
accept this letter of support for the proposed 40 Hague Loft Conversion located in the North end
of downtown Detroit. This project seems to be a major improvement to the neighborhood and
certainly should spur additional development in the area. I know Neal Check and his other
business ventures; he will certainly do a ?rst-class development and be an asset to the
neighborhood. For these reasons, myself and my organization are in ?ill support of the proposed
project.

Sincerely,

yaw/4%!

Duane Barbat

President The Barbat Organization



FIEAL
INVEST

300 South 0ld Woodward
Birmingham. MI 48009

248.432.3200
248.432.3201

lutzinvestmentsoom

 

June 17, 2019

City of Detroit

City Planning Commission

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite #202
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: 40 Hague Street Re-development and support of OPRA Tax Abatement

To Whom It May Concern:

On behalf of AK Developers LLC and Lutz Real Estate Investments LLC, I would like to
express my full support for Raincheck Development, redevelopment of 8524
Woodward Avenue, 40 Hague Street and 59 East Philadelphia Street in Detroit?s North
End Neighborhood. I fully support the plan to convent the current building at 40 Hague
Street, a beautiful, historic building back to its original glory and converting its use into
38 residential apartments.

As a neighboring business owner, the prospect of this building coming back to life is
exciting both for personal and professional reasons. The new 38 apartment units will
bring additional residents, energy, and consumer dollars to an area that will bene?t from
the increased foot traf?c. In addition, the restoration of the greenspace including a
landscaped courtyard and a rooftop garden brings aesthetic vibrancy and energy to the
neighborhood.

The reactivation of this development will build upon other revitalization efforts taking
place in Detroit?s North End Neighborhood and will continue to push the City of Detroit
forward.

It is for the reasons above that AK Developers and Lutz Real Estate Investments LLC
supports this project and the OPRA 12-year real property tax abatement required to make
this redevelopment a reality. Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
me at 248-432-3200.

 

Manager of AK Developers LLC
Managing Member of Lutz Real Estate Investments LLC

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities Table

 

Tattle 1: Eliglbte Activities Cost Estimates

 

ItemiActivitv

Total Request

MSF Act 381 Eligible
Activities

MDEQ Act 381 Eligible
Activities

 

Pro-Approved Activities

 

Elyse I ESA

2.200

2.200

 

Phase ll 

16.935

16.935

 

Hazardous Materi?i Survey

4.558

4.558

 

Pro-Approved Activities Sub-Total

0'

23,693

?0

23.693

 

Department Speci?c Activities

 

Contaminated Soil Excavation. Transport and Disposal

68.000

68.000

 

Vapor Intrusion Pathway Con?mialion MonitoringiSamp?ig

25.500

25.500

 

Oversight. Sampling and Reporting by Environmental Professional

21 .000

21.000

 

Department Speci?c Activities Sub-Total

69699} at

114,500

0901969 0

114.500

 

Demolition

 

Building Demolition Activities

9?

260.900

260.900

 

Site Demolition Activities

10.000

10.000

 

Hoist Removal

6.500

6.500

 

UiliWeler Separator Removal

6.500

6.500

 

Removal of Under Ground Storage Tanks {non environmental costs}

15.000

15.000

 

Demolition Sub-Total

99699969 a

298,900

298,900

 

Asbestos and Lead Activities

 

Asbestos Abatement

69

22,000

If?

22.000

 

Asbestos and Lead Activities Sub-Total



22.000



22.000

 

Infrastructure improvements

 

Curtis and Gutters

5.000

5.000

 

Side Well: Improvements

5.000

5.000

 

Landscaping in ROW

15.000

15.000

 

Public Ailey improvements

35.000

35.000

 

Public Re airs

 

8.000

8.000

 

infrastructure Sub-Total

?699$? 

68.000



68.000

 

Site Preparation

 

Temporary Site Control tfeno'LrIigetes, signage andlor lighting}

10.000

10.000

 

Temporary Facilitv

26.350

26.350

 

Relocation of Active Utilities [Electric]

50.000

50.000

 

 

Site Preparation Sub-Total

011369 a

86.350

696509 0

86.350

 

Preparation and Implementation of Brown?eld Plan and Act 381 Workplan

 

Brown?eld Plan and Act 331 Work Plan Preparation

99

20.000



10.000

69

10.000

 

Brown?eld Fien and Act 381 Wort: Plan 1m lementalion



10.000



5.000

5.000

 

 

 

Brown?eld Plan and Act 381 Workplen Sub-Total

15% Conti eno 

TIF Capture for Loo-.3! Brown?eld Revolving Fund

 

30.000

60.453

294.549

 

1 5.000

T1383

 

15.000

17.175

 

Administrative Fee

1 89.903

 

 

State Brown?eld Fund

 

41.91?

'15?i'a Contingency excludes preparation of Brown?eld Plem'Bat Work Plan and Fire-Approved Activities

 

 

 

 

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

TIF Tables

zptuu

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Man 5 sm?out tau'as 5 059's: 5 sst'ss 5 39's: 5 ut'se 3 5 uzz?rs en's: time 5 men we?re 691: 
a?mumm
ozn'z: 5 1:91: 5 mm 9 25m 5 none-oz 
. . mm mm: mr?lml?lm
5 07.9 an 5 mo more 
5 0000?s: moot: Humps
m1 m1 ma?a:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

'3 ark Lzzs-n woman
gqi??ears 1 i 5 i 5 mar 13.3weuuavsgu
27E mto won
25'73? 3 saw 55er wndgunonauhm
3515?? "3 55?? I lift ?inT suerlqummu:
"51: 5 ?551 Lmo LGIEO (JamjuogludouunogmM
vars Tugto"; buqn
75m 05551: anss: modem

mun I

as?; 1.91: tst: 5 059's: 5 ssrs: en's: Wis?E anGift: an:- - woo-n anon-n lacuna-arenew: 3. turn-r -: 1:11: 1; ?rm 5 unoo?a': moon 
511115?: 5 We: 5 man my nan-alumnus



ztl?ns?t 3 Man 3 oat?as?t EWsos?t radar: 5 arm?: aa'sn?: sn'sn't m?sa? m?m?r 5 Matt 5 Lil-Tm nos'ae?r 5 Watt: 5 [Mm-Mumnwamulww-DUI

?our: 5 Lts?su'z W2 5 59mm?: mt m?sso?z (H's-n Mrzusum Brian us'ms"! 5 0mm 5 when 5 Aim-"mm

mz?ass caress 5 notes: 5 oaz'ass noz'ass miss 002555 1 notes; 5 ooz'ass nuns: caress ooz?ass 1: Inlualqmla-a?

sen: no: m: ten: new an: an: m: cm zzw. mu: an; J-AJIPIHD
?ink-3375i 
"amount-mm

manna mind-3 mum mmulxuz 3'qu

 2T3: herein-n: ?annua 0mm Em
In Hue-u Dinah



 

5615?111 #0 _n 15 .. 2! _1u-ru.

Cal-murmur 2056 2057 2055 2040 21141 2042 2043 2044 2045
555,200 5 555,200 5 555,200 5 555,200 5 555,200 5 559,290 5 555,200 5 555,200 5 555.200 5 555.2110
sum-lumw 5 5,151,712 5 1.154545 5 5.155.555 5 115.15: 5 #351,755 5 1,504,513 Lulu! i 1.1m 5 2.31440: 5 1,355,143
Immunlm?mmuw-amm 1.55.52 5 1,655,445 5 1,577,556 5 1.555.554 5 1,122,555 5 1,145,315 5 1.1a,415 1.151.555 5 1,515,114 5 1.555.545

 

 

 

 

 

 

1995?? 1.3.92. 5. Jam s_ 54954.5 
1.5.54. 5 JELFMS WI. 5
56?? 5 5 521.5 guns?m5" 5-95.? -5.. 91?! 5
WmCountvOpon?oM-rinter1.335 I

0.9351. 0.9351 3 L511 3 
?1-5


 

 

urn-noun01455 02455 5 41:1 3 
1:144 02125 0.213 5 y. 1 ?3 5
IBAEnIIanumum: 2.0000 0.0000 5 . 5 . 5,
3.4543 3.5543 5 .5515. 5 5m
3.2405 51.405 5 5 5m 5 

41.1527_ M. 

 

?and-ml?

. a


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?loath-h 11:00::

0m 031:1

Emma-:25: 0.1000 mad103.455 5 104m 5 106.250 5 107,646 5 105.077 5 110,522 5 111,551 5 113,455 5 114.544 5 115,447 

mezalz

Table 3: Tax Increment Revenue Capture Estimates
40 Hague - Detroit

 

Developer
Maximum
Reimbursement

Total
Proportionality

School a Local

Taxes

Local-Only
Taxes

Total

 

State
loal

36.74% 5
63.26% 

268,907
462,993

1011}

263,907
462,998

 

TOTAL

 

 

MDEQ
MSF

 

23.28%
76.72%

mm

170.368
561.538

 

10m

 

170,368
551.538

 

 

31,908
3,989
27,920

Total State Incremental Revenue 5
State Brown?eld Revolving Fund (50% of SET) 5
State TIR Available for Reimbursement 

31,459 
3,932
27,527




Total Local Incremental Revenue

BRA Administrative Fee [15% oftotal TIFI

Developer paid amount to reimburse DBRA admin fees
Deferred DBRA Admin Fees"

Payback ofdeferred DBRA Admin Fees

Local 11F Available for Reimbursement

4,786
1,595
3,191

4,719
1,573
3,146


mw?ln-??


Total State Local TlRAv-ilable 5
Beginning

27,527 5 27.920 

32,361 5
4,045 3-
23,316 5


4,354 5
1,619 5
3,236 
- 



28,316 5

1.00101-







55.
l-l

28,717 5

 

 

 

Estimated Total
Years of Plan:

 

 

 

33,262
4,160
29,121

?all?

4,992
1,664
3,328

?swell-mm?

29,121 5

33,749 5
4,219
29,530

with

5,062
1,687
3,375



23,530 

34,220
4,278
29,943

1-1-11-

5,133
1,711
3,422

10145?me

29,943 5

34,697
4,337
30,360



5,204
1,735
3,470

?mung-mm

30,360 



35,179
4,397
30,791

5,277
1,759
3,513

30,781

Wm?

01-15?me

Estimated Capture

Administrative Fees

189,903

 

State Revolving Fund

LBRF


5

41,917
294,549

35,664
4,458 
31,206



100$?:

IA

60,870
9,131

5,350
1,783
3.566 .

- 33,534
18,206



man-wanna

31.106 5 

in

10



 

DEVELOPER

05175ther 5'

Balance IDPRA abatement

331,906 704,379 I 5 676,459 I 5

648,143 

619,426 5

590,305 I 

560,775 I 5

530.932 I 



 

5 561,538 I
State Talc Reimbursemea-ti_ . 5 21.119 I 
LocalTax Reimbursement 5 . 5
Total Reimbursement Balance I 540,418 . 5

21,421 i 
- 5
518,998! 5

 

 

. . 170,368 
State Tax Reimhumim?nt . 5 6,403 I 5 6,499 5
Loc 01 Tax Flembursement 5 - 5 - 5
Total MDEQ Reimbursement Balm-me 5 163.960 I 5 151m 5

 

 

Total Annual Developer Reimbursement I 5 27,52? I 

27.530 . 5

LOCAL BROWNFIELD REVOLVING FUNE

neposlts . 5 
State Tax Capture - - 5 - 
meal Tax Capture - 5
Total 



 

 

Up to ?ve yearso?i for LBFIF Deposits alter Elial'ble asthma: are reimbursed May be taken from DEQ 81 Local TIR only.

21.725 5
- 5
497,273 I 5

6.591 5
- 5
150.870 5

24ml 5



.


i
1'

I
22.032 5
- 
475.240] 5



6,634 I 5

- 
144-13515

14ml:

 

I
22,343 5
- 5
452,898 I 5

6,779 5
5
137,407 

Ennis

Page 1 of 2

I
2.656 
3 5
430.242 . 5


6_874 5
- 5
130,533 5

25,530 I 5

22,973 5
- 5
407,269 I 5

6.970 5
- 5
123,564 5

19.543 I 5

500,473 I 5

I
23,293 I 
- 5
333,976 I 

I
7.067 I 


116,497 5

meals

469,692 I

23,616 .

360.360 

7,165

109,332 

30,731 462.998IS 462,999Is 452995;: 444,792 5


5,136 . 13.955 5
355,224 I 355.24 I 5 355,224 5 341.256] 5

I .

1,558 I 5

- - 5 4,236 5

107,774 5 107,774? 5_ _107,7_74_5_

 

6.594}: -.s 14:06.:





61,699
9,255

52,444

52,444

352,345:



40.236
301,020 

12.203

103,536 i 5

91,325 

52,444 5

Total State Incremental Revenue 5 - 5
State Brown?eld Revolving Fund {50% of 5 5
State 11R Available for Reimbursement - 5

Total Local Incremental Revenue 3
BRA Administrative Fee {15% of total TIF) 5
Developer paid amount to reimburse DBRA adn -
Deferred Fees? 5
Payback of deferred DBRA Admin Fees 5
Local TIF Available for Reimbursement 

Total State 8 local Annable 5

DEVELOPER
ma?a}! Momentum 

 

53,874

53.874

285,320

5


5

55

Table 3: Tax Increment Revenue Capture Estimates
4D Hague - Detroit

5
"f

VII-T10


I
11101-
I

64,234
5,535

65,847
10,027

67,736
10,160

54,559 55,332 56,820 57,575

54,599 5 55,332 5 56,820 57,575 5

13472035

175,3le 5 115,315; 5

52,555 I 5 1,521? 5

?unit-I'l-

68, 63 3

117-1-111-0me
I

69,539
10,431

59,108

59.108



?mu-1mm?
- .

59,886

59,886 5

25

WWI-VI

71,379
10,707

50,672



60,672 

 

3 TOTAL

335,336
5 41,917
293,419

72,312

5 930,684
10,347 5



5

189,903
16,767
33,534

61,466 739,342

61,466 5 1,050,967

 

 

State Tax Reimbursement . 5
LocalTax Reimbursement 5
Total MSF Reimbursement salami: 5

40.75: 
255,353 . 5

41.355
215.505

5


5 - l5 - :5
13.555 5 44,575 5
unis 

4155 5
5

47452 5
13(562 5

. ,5
3,775 5


295.313
355.224

?Vi-m?
I

 

[EEQ?Envh-onm?l? 01g
StateTax Helmbuisement 3
Local Tax Reimbursement 

. 5

Total MDEQ ltelmhm?sement Balance

 

is
11,373 5
75.555! 5

55:55! 5

Total Annual Developer Reimbursement 5

LOCAL BROWNFIELD REVOLVING FUNI
LBRF Deposlts 

1.2.550
65,415

5,574

13,225 5
nasal;

55ml: 55,5205;

5 5 
12.500 5
maxi 5

13,402 5
1.145 5

55,332 5 57.575 5

 

535613 5

59,103

5

 

55,835 5

60.672 5

61591
107. TH


.



I
731.506 1



 

State Tax Capture

local Ta: Captui'e

Uh
?Vb?

 

In 


 

15..
53,415 5



55.105: 5

_i 
55.555 5

5

55,572 5

5?
I
ri'
l0





294,549
I



25:,559 .

 

_Tntal LBRF Capture

 



 

 

 

 

Up to ?ve years of capture for Deposits

Page 2 of 2

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Acknowledgement and Other Environmental Documents

- COLEMAN A, YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
IR 2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or: DETROIT, MICI 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND (3 I3) 224?0484 - 


  
  

July 2, 2019

Jennifer Kanalos

Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (DBRA)
500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: DBRA Document Review and Invoice Notice
Attached please ?nd Exhibit B, approving the environmental documents submitted to the
Buildings, Safety Engineering, and Environmental Department for review on the 40 Hague

Project located at 40 Hague, 59 E. Philadelphia, and 8524 Woodward for RainCheck
Realty LLC.

The review of a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment (ESA), Phase II ESA, Baseline
Environmental Assessment and Documentation of Due Care Compliance was completed
on July 1, 2019 and Invoice #5683022 in the amount of $1,500.00 for these services was
submitted to your of?ce for payment. Please remit a check payable to the Treasurer, City
of Detroit by the due date to complete this activity.

If you have any questions, please contact my of?ce at (313) 471 -51 15.

Sincerely,

M3.

Paul T. Max
General Manager

PTM
Enclosure

cc: Brian Vosburg

Attachment 

TO: THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

FROM: DETROIT, BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING, AND
ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT

PROJECT: 40 Hague Street Project, RainCheck Realty LLC
DATE: July 2, 2019

The undersigned, from the City of Detroit, Buildings, Safety Engineering, and
Environmental Department acknowledges the receipt of the environmental documents listed
below, which have been submitted by PM Environmental on behalf of RainCheck Realty, LLC,
as developer, as part of its Brown?eld Plan submittal to the Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment

Authority (DBRA), for the 40 Hague Street Project.

1 Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, pursuant to All
Appropriate Inquiry using American Society of Testing Materials (ASTM)
Standard 1527-13

1 Phase II Environmental Site Assessment, pursuant to ASTM Standard
1903 (if appropriate)

1 Baseline Environmental Assessment, pursuant to Part 201 of Michigan ?s
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, MCL 32420101 et
seq. (if appropriate).

1 Due Care Plan, pursuant to Part 201 of Michigan?s Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act, MCL 324.2010] et seq. (if 
Based upon its review of the above environmental documents and the
representations of the developer, the City of Detroit, Buildings, Safety Engineering, and
Environmental Department agrees with the environmental consultant that the site is a facility and

has determined that the documents received for this project satisfy the DBRA Guidelines.

City of Detroit, Buildings, Safety
Engineering, and Environmental
Department 

By: m9 3 

Its: General Manager

Exhibit A
Proposed 40 Hague Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Incentive Information Chart

 

Incentive Information Chart: 40 Haoue Street, 8254 Woodward Avenue. and 59 East Philadelphia Street. Detroit

 

Project Type Incentive Type Investment Amount District

Residential Brown?eld/Obsolete $5.5 Million Hard Cost General Business
Property Rehabilitation Investment District (B4) and

Tax Abatement $8.05 Million Total Low Density
Investment Residential District
(R3)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jobs Available

 

Construction Post Construction

 

ProfessionalNon-Professional Skilled Labor Non-Skilled Labor Professional Non-ProfessionalSkilled Labor Non-Skilled Labor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

The Monahan Company, as the project?s general contractor, is well-versed and has an inventory of Detroit-based
subcontractors that they intend to utilize during redevelopment activities. The Monahan team will present at a skilled trades
task force meeting and utilize the DZD program, if available, should any additional sub-contractors be needed.

2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e: job type, job
qualifications, etc.

Available construction jobs are anticipated to include site supervision, demolition, asbestos abatement, concrete, masonry,
carpentry, framing, roofing, window glass and glazing, framing, painting, ?ooring, tiling plumbing and HVAC and electrical.

The Developer anticipates the creation of one full time equivalent permanent job related to preperty management and
maintenance.

3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents?

The development will not cause any relocation and is anticipated to create an estimated 38 new residential units to the City
of Detroit.

4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential jobs?

Members of the Development team are in process of reaching out to members of the North End community and neighboring
property owners regarding the anticipated improvements and garnering meaningful feedback.

5. When is construction slated to begin?
Construction is slated to commence fall of 2019
6. What is the expected completion date of construction?

Approximately 18 months following project commencement.

Exhibit 

 
  
 

  

DBRA - CAC


Couulrtu

      

(UTOI .
Demon

   

500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

July 10, 2019

The Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1340
Detroit, Michigan 48226

City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
Board of Directors

500 Griswold Street. Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Recommendation for Approval of the 40 Hague Brownfield Redevelopment Plan

Honorable Members of the Detroit City Council and the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority Board of Directors: -

In accordance with the resolution of the Detroit City Council creating the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the "Authority"), the Community Advisory Committee, at its meeting of
July 10, 2019, adopted a resolution approving the proposed Brown?eld Plan for the 40 Hague
Redevelopment and recommending adoption of this Brown?eld Plan by the Authority and City
Council.

Please accept this letter of recommendation for approval from the Community Advisory
Committee on the Brownfield Plan for the 40 Hague Redevelopment.

Very truly yours.

All?e?'na'wls. chairb?efsorf
Community Advisory Committee to the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority

Exhibit 

    

DBRA




500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

 

CODE DBRA 19-07?271-02

 

4D HAGUE BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

WHEREAS. pursuant to 381 PA 1996. as amended (?Act 381"). the City of Detroit Brown?eld
Redevelopment Authority (the has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Detroit (the "City Council") for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed
areas in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and

in accordance with the policies, procedures and bylaws governing the DBRA. the
DBRA has submitted a proposed Brown?eld Plan for the 4D Hague Redevelopment Project (the "Plan"}
to the Community Advisory Committee for its consideration and comment and has solicited comments by
the public by publication of notice stating that the proposed Plan has been submitted to the Community
Advisory Committee and by conducting a public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan applies;
and

WHEREAS. the Community Advisory Committee has considered the proposed Plan and approved
a resolution recommending the approval of the proposed Plan by the DBRA and the City Council as
presented by the and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Board of Directors of the DBRA has
considered the proposed Plan and desires to approve the proposed Plan and to request that City Council
call a public hearing to consider and adopt a resolution approving the proposed Plan.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE lT RESOLVED:

1. The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the adoption of the Brownfield
Plan for the 4D Hague Redevelopment Project is in keeping with the purposes of Act 381 and recommends
submittal of the Plan to City Council for approval.

2. The Board of Directors of the DBRA approves the Plan substantially in the form attached
hereto and on file with the Secretary of the DBRA.

3. Any Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized and directed to submit a certified copy of
this Resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk. together with a request that the City Council call a public
hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions required to approve the Plan in accordance with
Act 331.

4. That any one of the of?cers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA or any two
of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all
documents contracts. or other papers. and take such other actions, necessary or appropriate to implement
the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.

5. That all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent of the DBRA. in the
name and on behalf of the DBRA. relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts
would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution
of these resolutions are hereby in all respects con?rmed. approved and ratified.

6. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this
resolution are rescinded.

July 24, 2019

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION CALLING A PUBLIC HEARING REGARDING
APPROVAL OF THE BROWNFIELD PLAN OF THE
CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE 40 HAGUE REDEVELOPMENT

 

The following preamble and resolution were offered by Member
and supported by Member 

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, Michigan (the ?City?) is
authorized by the provisions of Act 381, Public Acts of Michigan, 1996 (?Act 381?), to
create a brownfield redevelopment authority; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Act 381, the City Council of the City duly established the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the ?Authority?): and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Authority has
prepared a Brownfield Plan for the 4D Hague Redevelopment (the ?Pian?) and submitted
the Plan to the Community Advisory Committee for review and comment; and

WHEREAS, after receipt of the recommendation of the Community Advisory
Committee to approve the, the Authority has approved the Plan and fonNarded it to City
Council with a request for its approval; and

WHEREAS, prior to approval of the Plan, the City Council is required to hold a
public hearing in connection with consideration of the Plan pursuant to Act 381.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1. The City Council hereby acknowledges receipt of the Plan from the
Authority.

2. A public hearing is hereby called on Thursday, the 5h day of September,
2019 at 10:10 AM, prevailing Eastern Time, in the Council Chambers, 13th Floor of the
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center in the City to consider adoption by the City Council
of a resolution approving the Plan.

3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the
provisions of this resolution are rescinded.

4. The City Clerk is requested to submit three (3) certified copies of this
resolution to the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, Ml 48226.

AYES: Members


NAYS: Members


RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.
WAIVER OF 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

and wills\arts dbra backuplcorrespondence\city council public hearing notices\2019 public hearing notices\40 Hague cc reso
setting hearing.docx

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION APPROVING BROWNFIELD PLAN
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE 40 HAGUE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended ("Act 381?), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (?Authority") has been established by resolution of
the City Council of the City of Detroit (the "City") for the purpose of promoting the
revitalization of eligible properties in the City; and

WHEREAS, under Act 381 the Authority is authorized to develop and propose for
adoption by City Council a brownfield plan for one (1) or more parcels of eligible property;
and

WHEREAS. pursuant to the resolution establishing the Authority and the bylaws
of the Authority, the Authority has submitted a proposed Brownfield Plan for the 40 Hague
Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan"}; and

WHEREAS, the Authority submitted the Plan to the Community Advisory
Committee for consideration on July 10, 2019, per the provisions of the resolution

18, 2019 to solicit comments on the proposed Plan; and

WHEREAS. the Community Advisory Committee recommended approval of the
Plan on July 10, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the Authority approved the Plan on July 24, 2019 and fonivarded it to
the City Council with a request for its approval of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, the required notice of the public hearing on the Plan was given in
accordance with Section 13 of Act 381; and

WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing on the proposed Plan on
September 5, 2019.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT:

1. Definitions. Where used in this Resolution the terms set forth below shall
have the following meaning unless the context clearly requires otherwise:

?Eligible Activities? or ?eligible activity" shall have the meaning described in Act
381.

?Eligible Property" means the property designated in the Plan as the Eligible
Property, as described in Act 381.

"Plan? means the Plan prepared by the Authority, as transmitted to the City Council
by the Authority for approval, copies of which Plan are on file in the office of the City Clerk.

?Taxing Jurisdiction" shall mean each unit of government levying an ad valorem
property tax on the Eligible Property.

2. Public Purpose. The City Council hereby determines that the Plan
constitutes a public purpose.

3. Best Interest of the Public. The City Council hereby determines that it is in
the best interests of the public to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed
areas in the City to proceed with the Plan.

4. Review Considerations. As required by Act 381, the City Council has in
reviewing the Plan taken into account the following considerations:

Portions of the property designated in the Plan meets the definition
of Eligible Property, as described in Act 381, including consideration of the criteria of
?facility" as defined in Act 381;

The Plan meets the requirements set forth in section 13 of Act 381.

The proposed method of financing the costs of eligible activities is
feasible and the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.

The costs of eligible activities proposed are reasonable and
necessary to carry out the purposes of Act 381.

The amount of captured taxable value estimated to result from
adoption of the Plan is reasonable.

5. Approval and Adoption of Plan. The Plan as submitted by the Authority is
hereby approved and adopted. A copy of the Plan and all amendments thereto shall be
maintained on file in the City Clerk?s office.

6. Preparation of Base Year Assessment Roll for the Eligible Property.
Within 60 days of the adoption of this Resolution, the City Assessor

-2-

derived by each Taxing Jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on the Eligible Property,
excluding millage specifically levied for the payment of principal and interest of obligations
approved by the electors or obligations pledging the unlimited taxing power of the local
governmental unit.

this Resolution and the Plan approved by this Resolution.

7. Preparation of Annual Base Year Assessment Roll. Each year within 15
days following the final equalization of the Eligible Property, the City Assessor shall
prepare an updated Base Year Assessment Roll. The updated Base Year Assessment
Roll shall show the information required in the initial Base Year Assessment Roll and, in
addition, the Tax Increment Revenues for each Eligible Property for that year. Copies of
the annual Base Year Assessment Roll shall be transmitted by the Assessor to the same
persons as the initial Base Year Assessment Roll, together with a notice that it has been
prepared in accordance with the Plan.

8. Establishment of Project Fund: Approval of Depositary. The Authority shall
establish a separate fund for the Eligible Property subject to this Plan, which shall be kept

in the Project Fund for the Eligible Property. All moneys in the Project Fund and earnings
thereon shall be used only in accordance with the Plan and Act 381.

agreement governing such payments and then to the Local Brownfield Revolving Fund,
as authorized by Act 381:

10. ,R_eturn of Surplus Funds to Taxing Jurisdictions. The Authority shall return
all surplus funds not deposited in the Local Brownfield Revolving Fund proportionately to
the Taxing Jurisdictions.

11. P_ayment of Tax increment Revenues to Authority. The municipal and the
county treasurers shall, as ad valorem and specific local taxes are collected on the Eligible
Property, pay the Tax Increment Revenues to the Authority for deposit in the Project Fund.

are collected.
12. Disclaimer. By adoption of this Resolution and approval of the Plan, the

City assumes no obligation or liability to the owner, developer, lessee or lessor of the
Eligible Property for any loss or damage that may result to such persons from the adoption

ability of the Authority to capture tax increment revenues from the State and local school
district taxes for the Plan.

13. Repealer. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict
with the provisions of this resolution be and the same hereby are rescinded.

14. The City Clerk is requested to submit four (4) certified copies of this
Resolution to the DBRA. 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, Ml 48226

AYES: Members
NAYS: Members



RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

WAIVER OF IS REQUESTED

 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the City Council of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, at
a regular meeting held on 2019, and that said meeting was conducted
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, being Act 267. Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended, and that
the minutes of said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required by said Act.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

And Wills\Arts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council Resolutionsl2019 City Council Resolutionst40 Hague TIF CC resolution.docx

[It]

Qtitp at Eetruit
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336
Email: historic@detroitmi. gov

MEMORANDUM
TO: David Bell, Director, Building, Safety, Engineering Environmental
Department
FROM: anese Chapman, Deputy Director
Jennifer Reinhardt, Historic Preservation Planner
DATE: July 25, 2019
RE: Proposed Interim Designation of the Blue Bird Inn Historic District (5021

Tireman Avenue, Detroit MI 48204)

By a resolution dated July 16, 2019, City Council charged the Historic Designation Advisory
Board with the of?cial study of the Blue Bird Inn as a proposed interim historic district. I am
forwarding this to you for your information and processing, consistent with Sections 
25-2-19 and 25-2-27 of the City Code. Please forward any permit applications for any work on
these premises within the proposed district to the Historic District Commission for review.

The proposed Blue Bird Inn Historic District is located at 5021 Tireman Avenue, generally
bounded on the north, the centerline of Tireman Avenue; on the east, the east line, as
extended north and south, of lot 32 of the Beech Hurst William L. Holmes Subdivision, Liber
17, Page 40, Wayne County Records; on the south, the centerline of the east-west alley south
of Tireman Avenue; and on the west, the west line, as extended north and south, of lot 32 of
the Beech Hurst William L. Holmes Subdivision, Liber 17, Page 40, Wayne County Records.

We will inform you of the outcome of the designation process.

Attachment

cc: Clerk Of?ce 
Brenda Jones, Council President
Mary Shef?eld, Council President Pro Tem
Raquel Castaneda-Lopez, Council Member District 6
Maurice Cox, Director, Flaming Development Department
David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division
Marcell Todd, Director, City Flaming Commission

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, the City Council has received a petition for an interim study to designate
the property located at 5021 Tireman Avenue (commonly known as the Blue Bird Inn) as a

historic district; and

WHEREAS, the boundaries of the proposed district are as follows: on the north, the
centerline of Tireman Avenue; on the east, the east line, as extended north and south, of lot 32 of
the Beech Hurst William L. Holmes Subdivision, Liber 17, Page 40, Wayne County Records; on
the south, the centerline of the east-west alley south of Tireman Avenue; and on the west, the
west line, as extended north and south, of lot 32 of the Beech Hurst William L. Holmes

Subdivision, Liber 17, Page 40, Wayne County Records; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is in receipt of evidence demonstrating de?nite historical

and architectural value regarding the prOposed historic district,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the City Council here by directs the
Historic Designation Advisory board to conduct an interim study committee to determine
whether the Blue Bird Inn meets the criteria for historic designation and to issue appropriate
reports in accordance with the Michigan Local Historic District Act and Chapter 25, Article II of

the 1984 Detroit City Code.

115'

COLEMAN A. YOLINO MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

 

 

 

August 19, 2019
Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Response Concerning Petition N0. 1035
Abundance of Truth Outreach Ministries
Request to Purchase 13331 Puritan, Detroit, MI 48227

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department is hereby responding to Petition No. 1035, a request
by Abundance of Truth Outreach Ministries (?Church?) to purchase the building located at
13331 Puritan (?Property?). In correspondence received by the Of?ce of the City Clerk on
August 6, 2019 from Pastor Jeffrey L. Knight Sr., the Church stated their understanding that the
Property was now owned by the City due to tax foreclosure and their wish to obtain it from the

City.

Not all tax foreclosed property is acquired by the City from Wayne County. As part of the Right
of First Refusal process, the City identi?es certain tax foreclosed properties that we wish to
purchase. These properties are located in key areas that are determined to be essential for
development. For 2019, this listing was furnished to Wayne County on August 2, 2019 and the
purchase has been completed.

The judgment of tax foreclosure on 13331 Puritan was recorded by Wayne County in July 2019;
however, it was not among those listed properties to be purchased by the City from Wayne
County.

We have contacted Pastor Knight and informed him that the Property is not owned by the City.
He has been advised that he may apply to purchase the Property during the Wayne County 2019
tax foreclosure auction and provided contact information from Wayne County to assist the

Church in this process.

Should your Honorable Body have any additional questions and/or concerns regarding this
matter, I can be reached at (313) 224 - 1104.

Respectfully submitted,



Donald chcher
Director

Rfajm

CCIlStephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

any at ?Bert-cit

Janice M. Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City Clerk Deputy City Cte-rk/ChiefofStaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Tuesday, August 6, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From. Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body?s directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

1035 Abundance of Truth Outreach Ministries, request to purchase the property
located at 13333 Puritan, Detroit, MI 4822 7.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center . Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

The Honorable City Council
ATTN: Of?ce of the City Clerk
2 Woodward Ave.

200 CAYMC

Detroit. MI 48226

August 4. 2019
RE: To obtain Property 13331 Puritan. Detroit, MI 48227

Greetings Honorable City Council;

We are writing requesting to purchase a building that is adjacent to our Church; Abundance of
Truth Outreach Ministries. The address of the building is listed above. The address of our
church is 13333 Puritan. Detroit. MI 48227. It is our understanding that the building in question
is now owned by the City due to foreclosure, and is possibly on the demolition list. We would like
to obtain this property to renovate it and repurpose it to serve the community where our church
is located. Also, we would like to join the two addresses as one complete facility address. If you
were to consider this request it would forego the City's cost of demolishing the property and to
allow it to be repurposed for the use of the community.

We also have included a letter whiCh provides evidence of the buildings foreclosure status. This
document also includes a brief description of the property. along with any other pertinent
information that might help you in making an assessment of this property. If you have any
additional questions or concerns. please feel free to contact me directly at (313) 461-5673.
Thank you for your time and attention concerning this matter and we look fonlvard to hearing

from you soon. . 

Since y. 

     

z/ 
Eld. Jefiiey L- Knight Sr. 
Pastor'8i Founder
Abundance of Truth Outreach Ministries



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-6380 - TTY2711

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

 

August 28, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for Public Hearing for Petition #902 to Establish a Commercial
Rehabilitation District for Broder Sachse Lafayette Park, LLC in the area of
1100 Saint Aubin, Detroit, Michigan, in accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005.

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department has reviewed the request of Broder Sachse
Lafayette Park, LLC to establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District, and find that it
satisfies the criteria set forth by Public Act 210 of 2005 and that it would be consistent with
the development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Per Public Act 210 of 2005, prior to acting upon the resolution to approve a district, a public
hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of the public hearing to
the assessor and to the governing body Of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem tax
within the eligible district, said notice to be made not less than 10 days or more than 30
days prior to your Honorable Body?s adoption Of said resolution.

We request that a public hearing be scheduled on the issue of adopting a resolution to
establish a new commercial rehabilitation district. Attached for your consideration, please
?nd a resolution establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Donald Rang

Director

DR/ml

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, PDD
D. Rencher, HRD
M. Langston, HRD

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 210 of 2005 (?the Act?) this City Council may
adopt resolution which approves the request to establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District
within the boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, Broder Sachse Lafayette Park, LLC, has requested that a Commercial
Rehabilitation District be established as particularly described in the legal description and
illustrated in the map attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a
Public Hearing, at which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax
exemption, at which Public Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad
valorem taxes within the City, or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may
appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on 2019 in the City Council Committee
Room, 13th ?oor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the
above described application and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public
and shall give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities
levying an ad valorem tax within the City of Detroit, such notices to be provided not less
than 10 days or more than 30 days before the date of the hearing.

(titty of Eetrm?t

Janice ?5'1me OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Gavan West
City Clerk Deputy City 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, June 3, 20] 9

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From; Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

HOUSING AND REVITALIZAION LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT LAW DEPARTMENT

902 Broder Sachse Lafayette Park, LLC, request for the Establishment of a
Commercial Rehabilitation District under PA 210 of 2005 for he Renato at

Pullman Pare 

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 . Fax (313) 224-1466

LAFAYETTE PARK LAND OWNER LLC
e/o Broder Saschse Real Estate
1528 Woodward Avenue, Suite 300
Detroit, MI 48226

April 2, 2019

Detroit City Council
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation District under
PA 210 of 2005 for ?The Renato at Pullman Pare? (Parcel ID 09004424.003)

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District for
the development of the ?Renato at Pullman Pare? on Tax Parcel No. 09004424003 (the
?Prope1ty?), as more particularly described in Attachment A. Lafayette Park Land
Owner LLC (?Petitioner?) is the owner of the Prope1ty.

General Description of acllig:

This Petition re-submits a petition initially submitted in 2018 now that the parcel
combination and split has been completed and a Parcel ID assigned to the Property.
Petitioner intends to redevelop the subject Property into a commercial housing
development (?The Renato At Pullman Pare?) consisting of 180 multi-family residential
rental units on approximately 1.5 acres, 20% of which will be affordable housing units.
The estimated cost of the redevelopment is $56.23 million. Construction is expected to
commence in the second half of 201 9.

The Renato at Pullman Pare is situated along St. Aubin Street as shown at the bottom of
the site plan below. Please note that the overall Pullman Pare redevelopment includes a
for-sale condominium component, which is NOT pan of this Petition.

Figure 1: Site Plan

    

 

 

 

 




 

 

Figu re 2: Rendering of the Renato at Pullman Pare
1



 

The Renato at Pullman Pare appears in lheforegi ound along St. Aubin Street. The
condominium product depicted in the interior is NOT part of this Petition.

Basis for Quali?cation

Pursuant to Section 3(1) of the Commercial Rehabilitation Act (the 2005 PA
2010, MCL 207.843, a quali?ed local government unit may establish a Commercial
Rehabilitation District consisting of one or more parcels of land if the proposed district
contains one or more ?quali?ed facilities.? The proposed Commercial Rehabilitation
District is a ?quali?ed facilit[y as de?ned in Section 2(h) of the Act, MCL 207.842, as
it contains ?buildings of commercial property that [are] 15 years old or older.?

Speci?cally, the Property was home to The Friends School, which was constructed in
1969 and operated on a private, commercial basis until 2015 when it closed due to
?nancial difficulties. As part of this redevelopment, The Friends School structure is being
demolished to allow for the productive redevelopment of the Property. The Friends
School (1100 St. Aubin St.) is depicted in the context map below.

FL re 1. Context Ma - Showing The Friends School

 

Under the Act, ?rehabilitation? is de?ned to include ?new construction on vacant
property from which a previous structure has been demolished,? if the ?new construction
is an economic bene?t to the local community as determined by the quali?ed local
governmental unit.? Accordingly, subject to the determination by this Honorable Body
that the proposed investment and resulting growth in population, tax base, and economic
activity is an ?economic benefit to the local community,? the proposed redevelopment
quali?es as a ?rehabilitation? as defined and contemplated under the Act.

Subsequent Application for the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Please note the property will subsequently be conveyed to Broder Sachse Lafayette Park,
LLC, which will be the applicant for the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption

Certi?cate (CREC).

Contact Information

 

If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Richard Broder, CEO, Broder
Sachse Real Estate, at rbroder-fcilbgoiicrsaclisenmn or (313) 765-1480.

Respectfully submitted,

Lafayette Park Land Owner LLC

a MichigVited liability company

lEli-(giant Broder
Its: Authorized Representative

ATTACHMENT A: PARCEL ID AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Owner: Lafayette Park Land Owner LLC
(Please note the property will subsequently be conveyed to Broder
Sachse Lafayette Park, LLC, which will be the applicant for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate).

Parcel ID: 09004424.003

Legal Description: See below

 

EXHIBIT 0
LEGAL DESCRIPTION THE RENATO AT PULLMAN PARC

LEGAL DESCRIFHUN THE RENATO AT 
(Per PEA)

Lande situated in the City of Detroit. Wayne County, Michigan described as part
of Lot 12 and Lot 15. Elmwaod Park Urban Renewal Plot No. 1. as recorded In
leer 89. Pages 47, 4-8 and 49 at Plate. Wayne County Records. more partlcularly

described as:

BEGINNING at the Southwesteriy corner of said Late 12 and 15. also being the
lnteraectlan at the Easterly line at St Aubln Avenue (120 foot wide public) and
the Nartherly line at Lafayette Avenue (120 foot wide public): thence along
said Easterly line at St Aubln Mantle. 578.05 feet to the Southerly
llne at a 50 feat walkway and public easement. as platted In said Elmwood Park
Urban Renewal Plot No. 1: thence along said Sautherly llne 10010
feet: thence 64.59 feet: thence 22.28 feet: thence
353.42 feet: thence 51.58 feet along the arc of a curve to the
left, having a radius of 162.00 feet. a central angle of and a chord
bearlng 31.53 feet: thence 15.81 feet along the arc of a curve to
the left. having a males of 62.00 feet. a central angle of 14?56'32?, and a
chord bearing 15.77 feet: thence 100.95 I'eet; thence
2.72 feet along the an: at a curve to the left. having a radius of 62.00 feet. a
central angle of and a chard bearing 2.72 feet; thence
10.?7 feet la the aforementioned Northerly line of Lafayette Avenua;
thence along said Nartharly Ilne. 114.15 feet to the POINT OF

BEGINNING.
$1.552 acres of land.

 

 

 

 

 



N25 ?55 5393'

 

 

SKETCH OF PARCEL 
THE RENATO AT PULLMAN PARC


- so WIDE EWALK Ewmr

  
 

Humps 51.
m' WIEE WALK

EXHIBIT 
[15.11: 31594





5: PUBLIC EASEMENT
ID 0900.1434- :3



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PARCEL 
I
riszcammu Hm I
Eta-swam) mm: unamu I
. PLAT Ho. 
?W?gg-I Lunar ?li. f'a?(Huh: I 3
E: PULLHAN PARC 
i .
an H.240 ACRES I 
llI'00:
3 mm 4?90 I I:
E: C. 51muncH I I
bum m.
mun. Badm' N11: an. arm Chord
31.50' [3200' 11?10?03" 307*25'00'5 53.5.9
1551' mm mama" 11m?
132' smuu? raves" 2.12'

530m 
MKYETTE AVE.

 

I ran"? 
5595:1901?
may

CORNER
LOTS 12 13

 

GRAHIG SOME
I

   

LEEND

qun Pam ar- 
mumps mum

cum-m: umuumr mum
CONCRETE SET





PEA, Inc.

 

 

LAND om LLB

 

 

EBZE 309'
Mi 43226

 

 

mar: nu' .ma Na :01ku Him-i=9 312'?
mm. o-aa-m own. No: 6 a ia?g,

105D srma-?en PL.
MEI: saw-IRE 

ma PunLIt: 
mun? manual?5



r.

(PRIVATE)

 

'3 Willi-131W?? 

HY mm d:

 

 

LAFAYETTE PARK LAND OWNER LLC
c/o Broder Saschse Real Estate
1528 Woodward Avenue, Suite 300
Detroit, MI 48226

April 2, 2019

Detroit City Council
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation District under
PA 210 of 2005 for ?The Renato at Pullman Pare? (Parcel ID 09004424003)

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District for
the development of the ?Renato at Pullman Pare? on Tax Parcel No. 090044424003 (the
?Property?), as more particularly described in Attachment A. Lafayette Park Land
Owner LLC (?Petitioner?) is the owner of the Property.

General Description of Facility

This Petition re-submits a petition initially submitted in 2018 now that the parcel
combination and split has been completed and a Parcel ID assigned to the Property.
Petitioner intends to redevelop the subject Property into a commercial housing
development (?The Renato At Pullman Parc?) consisting of 180 multi-family residential
rental units on approximately 1.5 acres, 20% of which will be affordable housing units.
The estimated cost of the redevelopment is $56.23 million. Construction is expected to
commence in the second half of 2019.

The Renato at Pullman Parc is situated along St. Aubin Street as shown at the bottom of
the site plan below. Please note that the overall Pullman Parc redevelopment includes a
for?sale condominium component, which is NOT part of this Petition.

Figure l: 'Site Plan

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

um Inn-r

   

The Renato at Pullman Part: appears in the foreground along St. Aubin Street. The
condominium product depicted in the interior is NOT part of this Petition.

Basis for Qualification

Pursuant to Section 3(1) of the Commercial Rehabilitation Act (the 2005 PA
2010, MCL 207.843, a quali?ed local government unit may establish a Commercial
Rehabilitation District consisting of one or more parcels of land if the proposed district
contains one or more ?quali?ed facilities.? The proposed Commercial Rehabilitation
District is a ?quali?ed facilit[y]? as de?ned in Section 2(h) of the Act, MCL 207.842, as
it contains ?buildings of commercial property that [are] 15 years old or older.?

Speci?cally, the Property was home to The Friends School, which was constructed in
1969 and operated on a private, commercial basis until 2015 when it closed due to
?nancial di??iculties. As part of this redevelopment, The Friends School structure is being
demolished to allow for the productive redevelopment of the Property. The Friends
School (1100 St. Aubin St.) is depicted in the context map below.

Fl_ re 1. Context Ma Showingg?lre Friends School



 

Under the Act, ?rehabilitation? is de?ned to include ?new construction on vacant
property from which a previous structure has been demolished,? if the ?new construction
is an economic bene?t to the local community as determined by the quali?ed local
governmental unit.? Accordingly, subject to the determination by this Honorable Body
that the proposed investment and resulting growth in population, tax base, and economic
activity is an ?economic bene?t to the local community,? the proposed redevelopment
quali?es as a ?rehabilitation? as de?ned and contemplated under the Act.

Subsequent Application for the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Please note the property will subsequently be conveyed to Broder Sachse Lafayette Park,
LLC, which will be the applicant for the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption

Certi?cate (CREC).

Contact Information

If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Richard Broder, CEO, Broder
Sachse Real Estate, at or (313) 765-1480.

Respectfully submitted,

Lafayette Park Land Owner LLC

a Michigr/wited liability company
By: 

?l?cliard Broder
Its: Authorized Representative

ATTACHMENT A: PARCEL ID AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Owner: Lafayette Park Land Owner LLC
(Please note the property will subsequently be conveyed to Broder
Sachse Lafayette Park, LLC, which will be the applicant for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate).

Parcel ID: 09004424.003

Legal Description: See below

 

EXHIBIT 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION - THE RENATO AT PULLMAN PARC

LEGAL DESCRIPTION - THE RENATO AT PULLMAN PARC:
(Per PEA)

Lands situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County. Michlgan described as part
of Lot 12 and Lat 13, Elmwaad Park Urban Renewal Plot No. 1. as recorded In
Liber F'agea 47. 48 and 49 of Plate. Wayne County Records, more particularly

described as:

BEGINNING at the Southwesterly corner of said Lots 12 and 13. also being the
Intersection of the Easterly line of St Auhln Avenue (120 foot wide public) and
the Nartherly line of Lafayette Avenue (120 foot wide public); thence along
said Easterly line of St Auhln Avenua. nzenae'45"w. 573.08 feet to the Sautherly
line of a 50 foot walkway and public easement. as platted In said Elmwocd Park
Urban Renewal Plal No. 1: thence along eald Soulherly llne 100.10
feet; thence 64.39 feet; thence 22.28 feet: thence
353.42 feet; thence 51.58 feet along the arc of a curve to the
left, having a radius of 162.00 feet. a central angle of and a chord
bearing 31.53 feet: thence 15.81 feet along the are of a curve to
the left. having a radius of 62.00 feel. a central angle at 14?36'52?. and a
chord bearing 15.77 teat; thence 100.95 feet; thence
2.72 lent along the are at a curve to the tall, having a radiue of 62.00 feet. a
central angle of 2?Jl'05?. and a chord hearing 2.72 feet; thence
10.77 feel to the aforementioned Northerly line at Lafayette Avenue;
thence along said Northerly line, 114.15 feet to the POINT OF

BEGINNING.
Containing $1.552 acres of land.

 

 

 

 

EXHBIT 
SKETCH 0F PARCEL -
THE RENATO AT FULLMAN PARC

PL. 

 

 

 

 

   

HEATED rams 
59' 

L'I?llil, Ii
IJ 011001134-5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EMT '9
WDE 5! 3
50I 09004434-. 5 
PARCEL 
FCH usu'?'l?'f I

?5.?wa 1m 12 I 
Hammer] HA1 1
El?'fa'lml'} mm: mm.? I
. . ngwm. FLAT HU. I u,
5n. remE'lule53.240 mass I 
. a 5
I 1?15 1-
:3 55' . 9133

?o a $33?NilPARIS. up woman?0am Til!
Gum moth mu Hell: cH. um. Chord
u. 31.1511" sorza?no?c mag-1'
'3 mar 6mm Max:352" sac-1mg": 1531'
135 2.72' 5105? mm" sid'?a'bif'E 2.72?
m? ??15 -
sun-135'} Mm or 
mn' 
Wen-w ('20 Ell
li::l 
CORNER
LOTS 12 '13

mun 1/2? mm mm
r9 munn mm PPE -
o- rm mun (mam: uauwm 
m" mm
a m: mumil?mgammr
a man 
33? 3* mg amass: 
I SET .
. PEA. Inc.
c'?hm PARK mm Lu: a? 
Egg: 50? lam: B-R?vlu DWI. No: II- af 6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

:wmumIImIr-H mum at mA-nm? numvr mun-a dc'

 

 

it 

LAFAYETTE PARK LAND OWNER LLC
c/o Broder Saschse Real Estate
1528 Woodward Avenue, Suite 300
Detroit, MI 48226

April 2, 2019

Detroit City Council
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation District under
PA 210 of 2005 for ?The Renato at Pullman Pare? (Parcel ID 09004424.003)

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District for
the development of the ?Renato at Pullman Pare? on Tax Parcel No. 09004424003 (the
?Property?), as more particularly described in Attachment A. Lafayette Park Land
Owner LLC (?Petitioner?) is the owner of the Property.

General Description of Facilig

This Petition re-submits a petition initially submitted in 2018 now that the parcel
combination and Split has been completed and a Parcel ID assigned to the Property.
Petitioner intends to redevelop the subject Property into a commercial housing
development (?The Renato At Pullman Pare?) consisting of 180 multi-family residential
rental units on approximately 1.5 acres, 20% of which will be affordable housing units.
The estimated cost of the redevelopment is $56.23 million. Construction is expected to
commence in the second half of 2019.

The Renato at Pullman Pare is situated along St. Aubin Street as shown at the bottom of
the site plan below. Please note that the overall Pullman Parc redevelopment includes a
for-sale condominium component, which is NOT part of this Petition.

Figure 1: Site Plan

    

 

 

 

 

Pullman Parc

Ah?

  
  

 

Figure 2: Rendering of the Renato at
. - 

 

it I
The Renato at Pullman Pore cmpeors in the foreground along St. Aubin Street. The
condominium product depicted in the interior is NOT part of this Petition.

Basis for Quali?cation

Pursuant to Section 3(1) of the Commercial Rehabilitation Act (the 2005 PA
2010, MCL 207.843, a quali?ed local government unit may establish a Commercial
Rehabilitation District consisting of one or more parcels of land if the proposed district
contains one or more ?quali?ed facilities.? The proposed Commercial Rehabilitation
District is a ?quali?ed facilit[y]? as de?ned in Section 2(h) of the Act, MCL 207.842, as
it contains ?buildings of commercial property that [are] 15 years old or older.?

Speci?cally, the Property was home to The Friends School, which was constructed in
1969 and operated on a private, commercial basis until 2015 when it closed due to
?nancial dif?culties. As part of this redevelopment, The Friends School structure is being
demolished to allow for the productive redevelopment of the Property. The Friends
School (1100 St. Aubin St.) is depicted in the context map below.

Fi_ ure 1. Context Ma Showing 'The Friends School

 

Under the Act, ?rehabilitation? is de?ned to include ?new construction on vacant
property from which a previous structure has been demolished,? if the ?new construction
is an economic bene?t to the local community as determined by the quali?ed local
governmental unit.? Accordingly, subject to the determination by this Honorable Body
that the proposed investment and resulting growth in population, tax base, and economic
activity is an ?economic bene?t to the local community,? the proposed redevelopment
quali?es as a ?rehabilitation? as de?ned and contemplated under the Act.

_S_uLbsequent Application for the Commemial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Please note the property will subsequently be conveyed to Broder Sachse Lafayette Park,
LLC, which will be the applicant for the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption

Certi?cate (CREC).

Contact Information

If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Richard Broder, CEO, Broder
Sachse Real Estate, at rhrodcr?iibrodersarhsc.com or (313) 765-1480.

Respectfully submitted,

Lafayette Park Land Owner LLC

a Michigynited liability company

Max-d Broder
Its: Authorized Representative

ATTACHMENT A: PARCEL ID AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Owner: Lafayette Park Land Owner LLC
(Please note the property will subsequently be conveyed to Broder
Sachse Lafayette Park, LLC, which will be the applicant for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate).

Parcel ID: 09004424.003

Legal Description: See below

 

EXHIBIT 0
LEGAL DESCRIPTION THE RENATO AT PULLMAN PARC

LEGAL DESCRIPTION THE RENATO AT PULLMAN PARC:
(Per PEA)

Lands eitUated In the City of Detroit, Wayne County. Michigan described as part
of Lot 12 and Lot 13. Elmwood Park Urban Renewal Plot No. 1. as recorded In
leer 89. Pages 47. 48 and 49 of Plats. Wayne County Records. more particularly

described as:

BEGINNING at the Seuthweeterly corner of said Lots 12 and 13. also belng the
intersection of the Easterly llne of St Aubln Avenue (120 foot wide public) and
the Nartherly line of Lafayette AVenue (120 foot wide public): thence along
said Easterly line of St Aubln AVenue. 578.08 feet to the Southerly
llne of a 50 foot walkway and public easement. as platted in said Elmwaod Park
Urban Renewal Plot No. 1: thence along said Seutherly llne 100.10
feet: thence 64.59 feet; thence 22.28 feet: thence
553.42 feet; thence 51.58 feet along the are at a curve to the
left. having a radlus of 152.00 feet. a central angle of and a chord
bearing 31.53 I'eel; thence 15.81 feet along the arc of a curve to
the left. having a radius of ?52.00 leel. a central angle of and a
chord bearing 15.77 lent: thence 100.95 feet; thence
2.72 laat along the arc of a curve to the left. a radius of 62.00 feel. a
central angle of 75?51?05". and a chord bearing 2.72 feet: thence
10.77 feet to the aforementioned Northerly "no of Lafayette Avenue;
thence along eald Nartherly line, 114.15 feet to the POINT OF

BEGINNING.
$1.552 acres of land.

 

 

 



-50' WIDE 

 

 

SKETCH DF PARCEL 
THE RENATO AT PULLMAN PARC

pL ULRIVAILIJ

EXHIBIT 

a: puma: EASEMENT
0900:4311 5

 
  

MACONH 51'.
5-0" HIDE 

WJ PUBLIC LASUJENI
1.15337. 13.554

IIJ WWII-I 3-1-5



 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

PARCEL 
I HIT
?m'qa?aa'r 1m 12 'm
54-? nacurumu Fun 1
lam-gamut} mm: URBAN I
. . BMW. PLAT HO. 5 
Liam anHuh: 1 
4:1: PuLan PAH: 1 

c? 53.240 mass Mme?J

9 ?=55 I: 
I
2 an 5.91 a lg 
3 PARIS. nu mama?01mm I
C4 0 I
a 91m 'l'ehlu
.1 unnu- madam" Mu cu. Hm. Chord
L. 31.521' 1mm 1mm" 307'za'oo?i 31.53'
1581' emu! 
ca 5109' 2?M'od" Bill'??'?TE 2.72'
sm-wma?l Ham?IrrigL?i_ um; u? 
-- - A 
asmww E'Ugg WEUF- 
mg] 

LOTS 12 a 13
LEGEND
mun non
r9 Fauna mm PPE
a ram mum calcium HONWNENT
rags?7: mm
a mm cw ?lumumem
0 map: NE:
:9 22.13:: mars: 
n: 557 PEA 
no.
CLINT . I Manama: alman-
whim PARK LAND om Lu: I a? mm" 
'mm?f?h was: n?za??an 91"? g:

 

 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, May 2019

The Department or Commission Listed Below

From' Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE DIV.

848 Barney McCoskey Baseball/Basketball League, request to hold ?Barney
McCoskey Baseball Kick-Off Parade at 19321 West Chicago on 6/1/19 at
10AM- 4PM, Set up 6/1/19 at 8AM - 9AM, Tear down following event, with
multiple street closures.

Mwb?b.

848

201 9?05?01

848 Petition of Barney McCoskey
Baseball/Basketball League, request
to hold "Barney McCoskey Baseball
Kick-0]]T Parade at 1932] West
Chicago on 6/1/19 at 10AM 4PM
Set up 6/1/19 at 8AM - 9AM Tear
down following event, with multiple
street closures.

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING DEPARTMENTIS)

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE DEPTIASSESSMENTS
DIV.

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE DEPTIASSESSMENTS
DIV.

201 9?06-03

902

902 Petition of Broder Sachse Lafayette
Park, LLC, request for the
Establishment of a Commercial
Rehabilitation District under PA 210
of 2005 for "The Renato at Pallman
Para?

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING DEPARTMENTS)

HOUSING AND REVITAUZAION LEGISLATIVE POLICY
DIVISION
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT LAW
DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224?3011 - 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
a, OF THE ASSESSOR 

 

June 24, 2019

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Rehabilitation District Lafayette Land Owner LLC (on behalf of Broder Sachse Lafayette Park LLC)
Property Address: 1100 St. Aubin
Parcels Number: 09004424003

Dear Mr. Cox:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Assessors Office, has reviewed the proposed Commercial Rehabilitation District located at
1100 St. Aubin in the Elmwood Park area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for creating Commercial Rehabilitation Districts under PA 210 of 2005, as amended, is based on the anticipation of
increased market value upon completion of new construction and/or significant rehabilitation of commercial and former industrial
property where the primary purpose and use is the operation of a commercial business enterprise or multifamily residential use.
Commercial property also includes facilities related to a commercial business enterprise under the same ownership at that location,
including, but not limited to, office, engineering, research and development, warehousing, parts distribution, retail sales, and other
commercial activities. Commercial property also includes a building or group of contiguous buildings previously used for industrial
purposes that will be converted to the Operation of a commercial business enterprise.

The district, as proposed by the Lafayette Land Owner LLC, consists of the vacant land on 1.522 acres that formerly contained The
Friends School buildings prior to the division of land in 2019. The developer, Broder Sachse Lafayette Park LLC, plans to construct
new 180 multi-family residential rental units, 20% of which will be affordable housing.

This area meets the criteria set forth under PA 210 of 2005, as amended. It applies to blighted, functionally obsolete and contaminated
properties. "Commercial rehabilitation district? or "district" means an area not less than 3 acres in size ofa qualified local governmental
unit established as provided in section 3. However, ifthe commercial rehabilitation district is located in a downtown or business area
or contains a qualified retail food establishment as determined by the legislative body of the qualified local governmental unit, the
district may be less than 3 acres in size. The local government unit may establish by resolution a district that contains 1 or more parcels
or tracts of land if at the time the resolution is adopted the parcel or tract of land or portion of a parcel or tract of land within the
district is a qualified facility.

A field investigation and application review indicated that the proposed Commercial Rehabilitation District located at 1100 St. Aubin
in the Elmwood Park area is eligible as it pertains to the Commercial Rehabilitation Act under PA 210 of 2005, as amended.

Sincere y,

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

 

Commercial Rehabilitation District

Lafayette Land Owner LLC (on behalf of Broder Sachse Lafayette Park LLC)

Page 2

Property Owner: Lafayette Land Owner LLC
Property Address: 1100 St. Au bin
Parcel Number: 09004424003

Legal Description: ST AUBIN PART OF 12 AND 13 FLIVIWOOD PARK URBAN RENEWAL PLAT NO. 1 L89 P47 PLATS WCR, BEGINNING
AT THE SOUTHWESTERLY CORNER OF SAID LOTS 12 AND 13 ALSO BEING THE INTERSECTION OF THE EASTERLY LINE OF ST AUBIN AVE
(120 FT WD) AND THE NORTHERLY LINE OF LAFAYETTE AVE (120 FT WD), THENCE 114.15 FT THENCE 
THENCE 2.72 FT ALONG THE ARC OF A CURVE TO THE RIGHT, HAVING A RADIOUS OF 62 FT, CENTRAL ANGLE OF
CHORD BEARING 2.72 FT, THENCE 100.95 FT, THENCE 15.81 FT ALON A ARC OF A CURVE
AND CHORD BEARING 1577 FT, THENCE 31.58 FT
ALONG A CURVE TO THE RIGHT, RADIOUS OF 162 FT, CENTRAL ANGLE OF AND CHORD BEARING 31.53 FT,
22.28 FT, THENCE 64.39 FT, THENCE 100.10

TO THE RIGHT, RADIOUS OF 62 FT, CENTRAL ANGLE OF

THENCE 353.42 FT, THENCE 

FT, THENCE 578.08 FT TO POB 1.552 ACRES

ON 09/28/2018 FROIVI 09004424.;
ON 02/07/2019 FROM 09004424001;

The legal description on the petition matches the above


,0

0mg 5-434



1? 

oruoaszs. 9

4  .
00400-99

\f?941033345937?" -. -

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

TO: Matthew Langston, Housing and Revitalization

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Commercial Rehabilitation District (PA 210) at 1100 St. Aubin
[Petition #902]

DATE: June 7, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

Kevin Schronce, Central Region, Planning and Development

In order to ensure that establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation District is consistent with the City?s
Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial activity; create,
retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase the number of residents in a
community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 210 of 2005 (section 207.843), the Planning and
Development Department?s Planning Division submits the following interpretation. The Petitioner is
Broder Sachse Lafayette Park, LLC.

 

Location and Project Proposal: 1100 St. Aubin; Project seeks to develop 180 multi-family residential
rental units on approximately 1.5 acres. Note, the overall Pullman Parc redevelopment includes a for-
sale condominium component, but is NOT part of this Petition (See Petition #792)

Master Plan Interpretation: 
The subject site area is designated Institutional (INST). Institutional status applies to areas of
approximately 10 acres or more with educational, religious, health or public uses, including: churches,
libraries, museums, public or private schools, hospitals, or government building, structure or land used
for public purposes.
The following policy of the Lower East Central neighborhood describe the following recommendation
that support this application?s proposal:

0 Policy 1.1: Continue medium and high-density residential development in the area south of

Vernor

Medium-high residential is a land-use permissible in areas classified as ?Institutional? in the Master Plan
of Policies as it can contain land uses in low to high density zoning districts Additionally, the
subject site is currently zoned R6 and the proposed use is permissible as-of-right. Due to the expired
INST use on the former school site, the Planning Department understands the Master Plan Classification
may also be expired and will need to be amended in the near future to align with its current context.

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 4, Lower East Central, Map 4-4B

 

Map 4'43 Neighborhood Cluster 4

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Lower East Central

Future Land Use

Low Density (RL) Thoroughlare Commercial (CT) :2 Mixed - Town Center (MTC)
Low 1 Medium Density Residential (RLM) Special Commercial (CS) Re?r'aallan (PRC)

- Medium Density RESIanllal (RM) 7? General industrial (IG) 3 Regional Par): (1-38}

High DunSily ReSIdenlial (RH) - Light indusirial (IL) a Wish lel'l'll 

Mmor CommerCial (CM) Dislribution Port industrial l: Airport MP1

321 Retail CerilL-r (CRC) Mixed Residential (Commercial (MRC) CamleryilCEM]

Neighborhood CommerCial (Ci-i) Mixed Residcniiai i Industrial (MRI) Immiiunal 

 

 
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIP CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224?6380 TTY271 1

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

 

 

 

August 28, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI. 48226

RE: Request for Public Hearing to Establish an Industrial DeveIOpment District on behalf of the
City of Detroit in the general area bounded by Van Dyke, Edsel Ford Freeway East,
Townsend, Medbury, Field, and Hendrie Street, Detroit, Michigan, in accordance with
Public Act 198 of 1974. (Petition #986)

The Housing and Revitalization Department has reviewed the application of The City of
Detroit and finds that it satis?es the criteria set forth by PA. 198 of 1974 and would be consistent
with development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Prior to acting upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and
the City Clerk must provide written notice of the public hearing to the owners of all real property
within the proposed industrial development district at which time those owners and other residents or
taxpayers of the local governmental unit shall have a right to appear and be heard.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of establishing an Industrial
Development District Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution establishing a date
and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

iionald Rencher

Director

DR/ml

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, PDD
D. Rencher, HRD
M. Langston, HRD

 

BY COUNCILMEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Act No. 198 of the Public Acts of 1974, as amended 198"), this
City Council has the authority to establish "Industrial Development Districts" and ?Plant
Rehabilitation Districts? within the boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, The City of Detroit has ?led an application for an Industrial Development
District whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached
hereto; and

WHEREAS, Act 198 requires that prior to the adoption of an Industrial Development District
City Council shall provide an written notice to the owners of all real property within the
proposed industrial development district and shall hold a public hearing on the establishment of
the industrial development district at which time those owners and other residents or taxpayer of
the City of Detroit shall have a right to appear and be heard on the matter;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the day of 2019, at am, in the City Council
Committee Room, 13th ?oor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on
the approval of an Industrial Development District on the property referred to above and more
fully described in the application attached hereto; and be it ?nally,

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk will provide notice of the Public Hearing to the general public
by publication, and shall give written notice by certi?ed mail to the taxing authorities and to the
owners of all real property within the proposed Industrial Development District.

(lift); of Detroit

Janice threv OFFICE OF TH E2 CITY CLERK Vivian A Hudson
City Cterk Deputy City Clerk

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Friday, July 12, 2019

To: he Department or Commission Listed Below

From; Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION FINANCE 
LAW DEPARTMENT

986 City ofDetroit, request to establish an Industrial Development District for the
area generally bounded by Van Dyke, Edsel Ford Freeway East, Townsend,
Medbury, Field, and Hendrie Street.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 . Fax (313) 2221-1466

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN. 48226

(3l3) 2244339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

il?i

   

July 9, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 1340
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Petition to ESTABLISH an Industrial Development District on behalf of the City of
Detroit, for the area generally bounded by Van Dyke, Edsel Ford Freeway East,
Townsend, Medbury, Field, Hendry Street, more speci?cally described in the
attached Exhibit A.

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit (?City?) is requesting the establishment of an Industrial Development
District pursuant to Michigan Public Act 198 of 1974, the Plant Rehabilitation and
Industrial Development Districts Act (?the Act?). The request encompasses the area described in

Exhibit A.

The City?s intent is to create an incentive district supporting investment and development in this
area. It is expected that investment within the IDD would create new operations spurring
employment opportunities for Detroit residents and competitively positioning the City to take
advantage of future advanced manufacturing and/or industrial related investments in this area.
The capital investment is approximately Fifty Million Dollars 

Development activities are expected to create more than 600,000 sq ft of additional
manufacturing space. It is expected that the investment for the site will occur between 2019 and

2020. The proposed project is expected to create a minimum of 625 jobs.

The City has recognized that property tax abatements are necessary to attract and support
competitive projects of this nature. To that end, it should be noted that the IDD does not in itself
create a tax abatement. The investor[s] will need to apply to the City of Detroit for an Industrial
Facilities Exemption Certi?cate under the Act which provides for the actual abatement. All
Industrial Facilities Exemption Certi?cates would be subject to approval by the Detroit City

Council and the Michigan State Tax Commission.

I. The City is committed to working with the investor[s s] on an engagement strategy that
encompasses lucul wLuLInIcc the community urnup in its it} Council District, and the
City Ul DLtroiI it-il Rights and lIILIusionary UllicL to cnsLIrL that DetInit based Iiims are

. represented on the development of the facility and that quali?ed DetIoit residents have access to





 

 

employment opportunities. Additionally, all future projects seeking approval to utilize this tool
would be subject to the same standards.

This area quali?es for the Industrial Facilities Exemption per statute as follows:

MCL 207.554. Sec. 4. (1) A local governmental unit, by resolution of its legislative body,
may establish plant rehabilitation districts and industrial development districts that
consist of 1 or more parcels or tracts of land or a portion of a parcel or tract of land.

MCL 207.554. Sec. 4. (2) The legislative body of a local governmental unit may establish
a plant rehabilitation district or an industrial development district on its own initiative or
upon a written request ?led by the owner or owners of 75% of the state equalized value
of the industrial property located within a proposed plant rehabilitation district or
industrial development district. This request shall be ?led with the clerk of the local

governmental unit.

The proposed new facility that will be developed in conneCtion with this petition is expected to
be completed by 2021. The construction, alteration, and installation of the new facility has not

commenced prior to this request.

In the interim, should you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact me
directly.

Thank you for your consideration of this petition.

Sincerely. -. 
747R .. -Maurlce Cox 

Director, Planning Development Department

cc: Veronica Farley, City of Detroit, HRD
Kenyetta Bridges, Detroit Economic Growth Corporation

 

 

EXHIBIT 

The area generally bounded by Van Dyke, Edsel Ford Freeway East, Townsend, Medbury, Field,
Hendry Street

 

EXHIBIT A-l

[see next page]

 

 

Ir"-
$117 an; 
- -. u? 1?11.? mu . wl
UncanAVe I :5 nor: m: 
Duncan Ave
slfpu 
"0s1_03_ um ma I I I
1m 1'11 _I_l_777 Lambert

5117 00191.3.) w" m!
Lanterns5997 1: I Conger 5141 I 
7 57:3 . m: I 5?1.moW-?N 1
id, it? n; ulMadbury Ave
. . - ?rl .Ql: 
. EWI Jr. 1 
?615
dbl] St m-v'IIHis-)? .m .H -
5555 illHand: 
In! in: nu -u an ?mum. 5796 
5775764 3161 [756
Air-n; $711 Granger St 5716 I98 District Kattermg High 
-. . -
. . . - 
I Proposed lndustnal Development DIS
1 
?dd-I-
3 '5 acres, more Or less L.-

 

 

 



201 9-07-12

986

986 Petition of City of Detroit, request to
establish an Industrial Development
District for the area generally
bounded by Van Dyke, Edsel Ford
Freeway East, Townsend, Medbwy,
Field, and Hendrie Street.

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION FINANCE
DEPARTMENTIASSESSOR

LAW DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 71]

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization
FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Industrial Development District Plant Rehabilitation

District (PA 198) in area bounded by Van Dyke, Edsel Ford Freeway East, Townsend,
Medbury, Field, and Hendry Street

DATE: August 9, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development
Alexa Bush, PDD East Design Director, Planning and Development

In order to ensure consistency with the City's Master Plan of Policies, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public
Act 198 of 1974 (section 207.554), the Planning and Development Department?s Planning Division submits
the following interpretation for the establishment of an Industrial Development District (IDD). The
Petitioner is the City of Detroit.

Project PropOsal: Petitioner seeks the establishment of an Industrial Development District (IDD) to
support the creation of new operations spurring employment opportunities for Detroit residents and
competitively positioning the City to take advantage of future advanced manufacturing and/or industrial
related investments in this area. The capital investment is approximately Fifty Million Dollars
Development activities are expected to create more than 600,000 square feet of additional
manufacturing space and create a minimum of 625 jobs.

Master Plan Interpretation

The larger eastern portion, the former high school site, is designated as Institutional (INST). Institutional
status applies to areas of approximately 10 acres or more with educational, religious, health or public
uses, including: churches, libraries, museums, public or private schools, hospitals, or government
building, structure or land used for public purposes.

The smaller, former elementary school portion of the subject site area is designated as Low Density
Residential (RL). Low Density Residential areas should have an overall density of up to 8 dwelling units
per net residential acre. The areas are often characterized by single family homes with front yard set-
backs and driveways with garage or off street parking. The residential classifications allow for
neighborhood-scale commercial development.

While the Master Plan Future Land Use map shows the prior residential and institutional uses for the
subject areas, the closing ofthe schools makes these future uses very unlikely.

This proposed development does not conform to the current Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area and will trigger a future amendment of the Master Plan of Policies.

Attachment: Future General Land Use Maps: Neighborhood Cluster 3, Kettering; Map 3-83

 Subject Site
rm

. \t Kettering High School .
?ag/erase -



t.

i 9? lie
i 33$
32?

 

 

3'83 Neighborhood Cluster 3
City of DetrOIt Kettering

Master Plan of
Policies

 

 

 

 

 

 

Future Land Use

 

 

Low Resrdential (RL) Thoroughfare Commercial (CT) Mixed Town Center(MTC)
Low I Medium Density Residential (RLM) Specral Commercral (CS) Recreation (PRC)

I Medium Density Residential (RM) General Industrial (IG) Regional Park (PR)

- High Density Restdentiai (RH) 1. Light Industrial (IL) E2 Private Marina (PRM)

Major Commercial (CM) Distribution I Port Industrial (IDP) Airport (AP)

:77} Retail Center (CRC) Mixed - Restdential {Commercial (MRC) Cemetery (CEM)

Neighborhood Commercial (CN) 5354 Mixed - Residential 1? Industrial (MRI) Institutional (INST)

 

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

OFEICE OF THE 

    

7?1

August 19, 2019

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, Ml 48226

Re: industrial Development District Request Generally Bounded by Van Dyke, Edsel Ford Freeway East, Townsend,
Medbury, Field and Hendry Street
Planning Development Department Kettering High School Area
Parcel Numbers: See attached list

Dear Mr. Cox

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the request for the creation of an Industrial
Development District for the area generally bound by Van Dyke, Edsel Ford Freeway East, Townsend, Medbury, Field and
Hendry Street in the Gratiot Town/Kettering Neighborhood.

The rationale for creating industrial Facilities Exemptions under PA 198 of 1974, as amended, is based upon the anticipation
that granting the exemption is a benefit to the city and that expansion, retention, or location of an eligible business will not
occur without this exemption. PA 198 of 1974, as amended, also provides a tax incentive to manufacturers in order to enable
renovation and expansion of aging facilities, building of new facilities, and to promote establishment of high tech facilities.

207.554 Sec. 4 (2) states "The legislative body of a local governmental unit may establish a plant rehabilitation district
or an industrial development district on its own initiative or upon a written request filed by the owner or owners of 75% of
the state equalized value of the industrial property located within a proposed plant rehabilitation district or industrial
development district. This request shall be filed with the clerk Of the local governmental unit.?

Development activities are expected to create more than 600,000 square feet of additional manufacturing space after the
schools are razed and the expected total investment for the site will be approximately $50,000,000. The proposed project is
expected to create a minimum of 625 jobs.

A field investigation indicated that the proposed Kettering High School Area Industrial Development District located in the
GratiotTown/Kettering Neighborhood area as described above is eligible as outlined under PA 198 of 1974, as amended.

WM

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



Industrial Development District - Kettering High School Area 1 a 

 

 

 

Parcel Number

Property
Class

Property
Address

Owner Name

Legal Description

Acreage

 

17000848.

201

7701 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 128 GEO 
MARTZS SUB L14 P5 LATS,
177103 35.07 100



 

17000849.

402

7707 HENDRIE

DETROFFPUBUCSCHOOLS

HENDRIE 129 GEO 
MARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 30 100

0.069

 

17000850.

402

7713 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 130 GEO 
IVIARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 30 100

0.069

 

17000851.

402

7719 HENDRIE

 



HENDRIE 131 GEO 
MARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 30 100

0.069

 

 

17000852.

402

7725 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 132 GEO 
IVIARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 30 100

0.069

 

17000853.

402

7731 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 133 GEO 
MARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 30 100

0.069

 

 

17000854.

402

7737 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 134 GEO 
MARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 35.07 100

0.080

 

?17000855.

402

7747 HENDRIE



HENDRIE 123 POTTERS
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 24.25 100

0.055

 

 

17000856.

402

7749 HEN DRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 122 POTTERS
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 30 100

0.069

 

17000857.

402

7755 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 121 
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
177102 30 100

0.069

 

 

17000858.

202

7761 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 120 
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 30 100

0.069

 

17000859.

402

7767 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 119 POWERS
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 30 100

0.069

 

17000860.

402

7773 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 118 
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 30 100

0.069

 

17000861.

402

7779 HENDRIE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

HENDRIE 117 POTTERS
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 30 100

 

 

17000886.

 

402

 

7766 MEDBURY

 

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

MEDBURY 111 
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 30 IRREG

 

 

0.069



 

 

Industrial Development District -

Kettering High School Area

2  F) 

 

 

 

 

17000887.

402

7760 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 110 POTTERS
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
_17/102 30 100

0.069

 

17000888.

402

7754 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 109 1036 FT
108 POTTERS SUB L13 P92
PLATS, 17/102 40.36
100

0.092

 

17000889.

402

7744 MEDBURY

DETROIT LAND BANK
AUTHORITY

MEDBURY 19.64 FT
108 107 POTTERS SUB L13
P92 PLATS, 17/102
40 100

0.092

 

 

17000890.

402

7736 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 121 GEO 
MARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 26.64 100

0.062

 

77000891.

402

7734 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 122 GEO 
IVIARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 26.50 100

0.062

 

17000892.

402

7730 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 123 GEO 
IVIARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 26.50 100

0.062

 

17000893.

402

7724 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 124 GEO 
MARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 26.50 100

0.062

 

17000894.

402

5904 MEDBURY

DETROIT LAND BANK
AUTHORITY

MEDBURY 5408639 WIVI
TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 60 100

0.138

 

 

17000895.

402

7617 MEDBURY

DETROIT-PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 538 WIVI TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 100

0.069

 

17000896.

402

7623 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 537 WIVI TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 100

0.069

 

17000897.

402

7629 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

MEDBURY 536 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 100

0.069

 

17000898.

402

7635 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 535 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 100

0.069

 

 

17000899.

402

7641 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

 

170009 00-7

 

402

 

7647 MEDBURY

 

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

MEDBURY 534 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 

__17_/104 30 100

0.069

 

MEDBURY 533 532WIVI
TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,

 

17/104 66.09 IRREG

 

0.153

 

Industrial Development District - Kettering High School Area

al.92390-

 

 

 

 

17010007-35

6101 VAN DYKE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

VAN DYKE 35 THRU 64
72 THRU 75 POTTERS SUB
L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 46 THRU 90 GEO 
MARTZ SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 460 THRU
511 WM TAITS SUB L16 P87
PLATS, 17/104 AND
VAC BALDWIN, LAMBERT,
LADUE ALLEYS ADJ EXC
PT DEEDED FOR VAN DYKE
WDNG EXC FORD
FREEWAY AS OP 
11,151 AC Split on
08/10/2018 with
17010036-7, 17010038.,
17010039., 17010040.,
17010041-2 into 17010007-
42;

11.317

 

17010007-42

201

6101 VAN DYKE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

VAN DYKE 35 THRU 75
OTTERS SUB L13 P92 PLATS,
17/102 46 THRU 90
GEO MARTZ SUB L14 P5
PLATS, 17/103 460
THRU 511 WM TAITS SUB
L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 AND VAC BALDWIN,
LAMBERT, LADUE St ALLEYS
ADJ EXC PT DEEDED FOR
VAN DYKE WDNG 84. EXC
FORD FREEWAY AS OP 
11854 AC
ON
08/10/2018 FROM
17010007-35, 17010036-7,
17010038., 17010039.,
17010040., 17010041-2,?

11.854

 

17010041-2

6001 VAN DYKE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

VAN DYKE 70&71 AND 
7.5 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ
SUB L13 P92
PLATS, 17/102 66.15
IRREG Split on 08/10/2018
with 17010007-35,
17010036?7, 17010038.,
17010039., 17010040. into
17010007-42;

0.159

 

 

17010043.

 

402

 

5941 VAN DYKE

 

 

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

VAN DYKE 80 EXC 1 1/2
FT POTTERS SUB L13 P92
PLATS, 17/102 28.5
IRREG

 

0.070

 

Industrial Development District - Kettering High School Area

4 Page

 

 

 

 

W010044.

402

5931 VAN DYKE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

VAN DYKE 1 1/2 FT 80
81 POTTERS SUB L13 P92
PLATS, 17/102 31.5 
100.07

0.073

 

17010045.

402

5925 VAN DYKE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

VAN DYKE 82 POWERS
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 30 100.07

0.069

 

17010046?52

402

5905 VAN DYKE

DETROIT LAND BANK
AUTHORITY

VAN DYKE 83 THRU
86POTTERS SUB L13 P92
PLATS. 217/102
126.15 IRREG

 

17010053.

402

5837 VAN DYKE

0.286

 

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

VAN DYKE 112 POTTERS
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 40 IRREG

0.097

 

17010054.

402

5831 VAN DYKE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

VAN DYKE 113 POTTERS
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 30 100.07

0.069

 

17010055.

402

5825 VAN DYKE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

VAN DYKE 114 POTTERS
SUB L13 P92 PLATS, 
17/102 30.07 IRREG

0.065

 

17010056.

402

5805 VAN DYKE

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

VAN DYKE 11681115
POTTERS SUB L13 P92
PLATS, 17/102
100.07 IRREG

 

17011352.

402

5824 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 127 GEO 
MARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,
17/103 30 100

0.133

0.069

 

77011353.

402

5830 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 126 GEO 
IVIARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,

17/103 35 100

0.080

 

17011355-428

202

5850 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

BALDWIN 91 THRU
12OGEO IVIARTZS SUB L14
P5 PLATS, 17/103 76
THRU 79 87 THRU
106POTTERS SUB L13 P92
PLATS, AND VAC
PHELPS AVE AND VAC
ALLEYS ADJ 17/102 432
IRREG

4.393

 

 

17011429.

202

5977 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 512 WIVI TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 

. 17/104 32 142.2A

0.104

 

17011430.

202

5973 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 515 WIVI TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 142.04A

0.098

 

17011431.

 

 

202

 

5969 BALDWIN

 

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

BALDWIN 516 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 141.88A

0.098

 

Industrial Development District -

Kettering High Schooi Area

 

5 Pnge

 

 

 

17011432.

202

5963 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 519 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 141.73A

0.098

 

17011433.

402

5957 BALDWIN

DETROIT 

BALDWIN 520 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 141.57A

0.098

 

17011434.

402

5951 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 523 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 141.42A

0.097

 

17011435.

402

5945 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 524 TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATs, 
17/104 30 

0.097

 

17011436.

402

5935 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

17011437.

402

5929 BALDWIN

BALDWIN 527 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 141.11A

0.097

 

DETROITPUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 528 TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 140.95A

0.097

 

17011438.

402

5921 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 531 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 32 140.79A

 

17011439001

402

5859 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 672 EXC 66

FT THEREOF WM TAITS SUB
L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 73.70 AV

0.104

 

0.051

 

T7011439.00ZL

402

5853 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 671 EXC 66
FT THEREOF TAITS SUB
L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104_30 73.55 Av

0.051

 

17011440001

402

7638 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN TAITS SUB L16
P87 PLATS, 17/104
60 39

0.054

 

17011440.002L

402

7630 MEDBURY

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN TAITS SUB
L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 60 27

0.037

 

17011441.

402

5849 BALDWIN

 

DETROIT PUBLIESCHOOLS

BALDWIN 670 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 139.39A

0.096

 

17011442.

402

5843 BALDWIN

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

BALDWIN 669 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 139.24A

0.096

 

17011443.

402

5835 BALDWIN

DETROIT LAND BANK
AUTHORITY

BALDWIN 668 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 139.08A

 

 

17011444.

 

402

 

5829 BALDWIN

 

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

0.096

 

BALDWIN 667 WM TAITS
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 138.93A

 

Industrial Development District - Kettering High School Area

 

0.096

 

Slibage

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17011445. 402 5823 BALDWIN DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS BALDWIN 666 WM TAITS 0.096
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 138.77A
17011446. 402 5817 BALDWIN DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS BALDWIN 665 WM TAITS 0.096
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 138.61A
17011447. 402 5811 BALDWIN DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS BALDWIN 664 WM TAITS 0.095
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 30 138.46A
17011448. 402 5803 BALDWIN DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS BALDWIN 663 WM TAITS 0.139
SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 44.11 138.27A
17012131. 402 5802 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS ETOWNSEND 550 WM 0.119
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 44.11 118
17012132. 402 5810 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS TOWNSEND 549 WM 0.081
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118
17012133. 402 5816 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS TOWNSEND 548 WM 0.081
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118
17012134. 402 5822 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS TOWNSEND 547 WM 0.081
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118
17012135. 402 5828 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS ETOWNSEND546 WM 0.081
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118
17012136. 402 5834 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS TOWNSEND 545 WM 0.081?
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118
17012137. 402 5840 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS TOWNSEND 544 WM 0.081
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118
17012138. 402 5846 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS TOWNSEND 543 WM 0.081
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118
17012139 402 5852 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS ETOWNSEND542 WM 0.081
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
. 17/104 30 118
17012140. 402 5858 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS TOWNSEND 541 WM 0.081
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118
17012141. 402 5922 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS TOWNSEND 530 WM 0.087
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 32 118
17012142. 402 5930 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS TOWNSEND 529 WM 0.081
TOWNSEND TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,

 

 

 

 

17/104 30 118

 

 

 

 

Industrial Development District Kettering High School Area

7 Page

 

 

 

17012143.

402

5936
TOWNSEND

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TOWNSEND 526 WM
TAITS sue L16 P87 PLATS,
517/104 30 118

0.081

 

17012144.

402

5942
TOWNSEND

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TOWNSEND 525 WIVI
TAITS SUB L16 P87 FLATS,
17/104 30 118

0.081

 

17012145.

402

5948
TOWNSEND

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TOWNSEND 522 WM
TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118

0.081

 

17012146.

402

5954
TOWNSEND

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TOWNSEND 521 WM
TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118

0.081

 

17012147.

202

5960
TOWNSEND

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TOWNSEND 518 WIVI
TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
177104 30 118

0.081

 

17012148.

202

5966
TOWNSEND

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

TOWNSEND 517 WM
TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104 30 118

0.081

 

17012149-71

202

5976
TOWNSEND

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

ETOWNSEND 5148513
WM TAITS SUB L16 P87
PLATS, 17/104 62 
118

0.168

 

 

17013777-86

 

201

 

5830 FIELD

 

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

FIELD 62 THRU 81 WM
TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS,
17/104; 204 THRU
213 349 THRU 340 AND 
0.89 FT 341 WIVI TAITS SUB
L16 P87 PLATS, 
17/104 ALSO VAC ADJ
ALLEYS AND VAC SHERIDAN
ADJ 550.94 314.11
ON
08/10/2018 FROIVI
17012229., 17012230.,
17012231.,17012232.,
17012233.,17012234.,
17012235., 17012236001,
17012236.002L, 17013022.,
17013023., 17013024.,
17013025., 17013026.,
17013027., 17013028.,
17013029., 17013030.,
17013031.,17013146.,
17013147., 17013148.,
17013149., 17013150.,
17013151.,17013152.,
17013153., 17013154.,
17013155., 17013777.,
17013778., 17013779.,
17013780., 17013781..

 

3.965

 

 

Industrial Development District - Kettering High School Area

BlPage

 

 

 

17013782., 17013783.,
17013784., 17013785 . 
17013786.;

 

17011354. 202 5842 BALDWIN

 

 

 

 

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS

 

BALDWIN 125 GEO 0.080
MARTZS SUB L14 P5 PLATS,

17/103 35 100

 

 

 


.1799 353-1;
43:3 911791717

7015055 1421141223. -.
190129443 17919130.
791597.. 4 
.9-- .. 
East Edsel Ford Freeway (I 9

1'7 01042-99

a#2519175 .
97-1117}.

775 
1799 719



17471- 11.5.

011379

 

 

 

- 5.5.5
"1'41'47719377?5'5? 179m - -- 17.977151
{77216. "7 1701-17341'5127'21'5-

997977. ??7551? 517-17717
1507777 9L ?1330,7799 -. I 715595.555 1577717719

1791-7999 

 

'1 so 2 79171-1770.

progwa?-UDLHNA


717771 

54;. . 1733mm
9' - 7117747171 I

1' 01- 3

1701574151.?

771-571..
171771-14.

 

I 
- ?57 719
.4797. .
217017191247 5

    

0613170

19915161 

?-741 77777: 917914-174

 

Industrial Development District - Kettering High School Area

1791144? -
x179 445

179114471?.
P017194 .

14777979

'9
79317967 79

5.7?173: ..
. ?i 7017 959-177. (77 15.
*4 1.9.0935

:53 ?3

?4 

A. 1'7'300913'1

2.2921925 ?x . 22.716932 
r700954451'1200099 -
17909'4 .

1757?s}

is



17911-351471

.. gamma. . 17009442 23'1'1
- 1777907797 ?1995' :27.
I 1709-440
{14' 11 017.9
- 9979 1797.177ng 3'5 $7999? '3
1717770754 {if (1. ?7?09"

?7 7
0000549 . - 70170.5

11777 097515 
{17.919957

- . 157mm 0'4. 5 a
1707799077 .-
7' - 
I 1 1790995:
17099719
1700979

7_ 17.77 792.173}. 1797..

17000737!
2' 17771-11197:

 

901151-65

ILYRII 

9 Page

l/S?

COLEMAN A. Yoonc Mtimcn-JAL CENTER
3 Avenue, Surrs 908

Deruorr, MICHIGAN 48225
(3 l3} 224?6380 - I
CITY or DETROIT (313) 224-1629
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

August 28, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for a Public Hearing to Establish an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District
on behalf of Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Partnership in the area of 750 Chene,
Detroit, Michigan, in accordance with Public Act I46 of 2000 (Petition 8W).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department has reviewed the application of Elmwood Park
Plaza Limited Partnership and find that it satis?es the criteria set forth by RA. I46 of 2000 and
would be consistent with development and economic goals ot? the Master Plan.

Prior to acting upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and
the City Clerk must provide written notice ol?the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing
body ofeach taxing unit that levies an ad valorem tax within the eligible district. said notice is to be

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of establishing an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation District. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

@251

Donald Rencher
Director



cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, 
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD

 

 

 

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. I46 of 2000 ("the Act?) this City Council may adopt a
resolution which approves the application of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District within the
boundaries of the City of Detroit: and

WHEREAS, Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Partnership has ?led an application for an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation District whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal
description attached hereto; and

which Public l-learing representatives of any taxing authority levying at! vat?orem taxes within the
City. or any other resident or taxpayer ofthe City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described
application and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public l-learing to the general public and
shalt give written notice ol?the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an un?
rotor-em tax within the ity ol? Detroit.

Qtitp of ?etrnit

Janice M- OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Cave? West
?ty DE?putyCify Clerk/Chiefafstaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Tuesday, May 14, 2019

o: he Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Win?ey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT
FINANCE DIV. PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

877 Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Parternersliip, request for the of
art Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Dirtrict - Eimwood Club Plaza.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
[313) 224 3260 0 Fax {313) 224-1466

ii 87?

Richard A. Barr
I I 0 N1 GLIAN Of?ce: 313.465.7308
Mobile: 248.701.2025

rbarr@honigman.com

 

April 25, 2019

Of?ce of Detroit City Clerk

2 Woodward Avenue

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Suite 200

Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Petition to Establish Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District Elmwaod Club Plaza

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Enclosed please ?nd a Petition to Establish Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District from
Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Partnership, the owner of the preperty known as the Elmwood Club
Plaza, 750 Citene, pursuant to PA. 146 of 2000. A separate request will be ?led for the approval
of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate for an investment proposed to be
made by the owner at this property.

Thank you for your assistance.
Very truly yours,
HONIGMAN LLP 1
\XlCiMl-u. I 
Richard A. Barr

Encs.
cc: Kenyetta Hairston?Bridges, DEGC
Veronica Farley, HRD

 

 

 

 

Honigman LLP - 2290 First National Building - 660 Woodward Avenue - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3506

 

 

30883241. I

PETITION TO ESTABLISH
OBSOLETE PROPERTY REHABILITATION DISTRICT
Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Partnership
April 24, 2019

I. Introduction

Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership, the current
owner (the ?0wner?) of the property known as the Elmwood Club Plaza, 150 Chane, Detroit, MI
48207 (the ?Property?), requests the cstablishrnent of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
District pursuant to MCL1252783 to support the Purchaser?s planned rehabilitation of the
apartment units and other components of the Property. The proposed district consists of tax
parcel identi?cation number Ward 11, Item No. 001 25-3 4.

Please see Attachment A for the tax parcel?s legal descriptions and Attachment for a
depiction of the proposed district.

II. Eligibility of Property

The Property consists of one parcel of ?obsolete property" in an area characterized by
obsolete commercial preperty and commercial housing property within the meaning of
section 2(1) of the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act, PA 146 of 2000, as amended,
MCL The Property is ?obsolete property? because it is functionally obsolete within
the meaning of MCL 125.2732(fj due to being unable to be used to adequately perform the
function for which it was intended, a multi-family apartment building and related improvements,
resulting from factors such as the following conditions described in State Tax Commission
Bulletin No. 9 of 2000: heating and cooling systems that are inadequate for the highest and
best use of the Property; and (ii) electrical, plumbing, mechanical, and interior features that are
inef?cient and inconsistent with the highest and best use of the Property. The area surrounding
the Property is comprised of obsolete commercial property and commercial housing property
(MCL 

306981292

 Ownership of Property

The parcel is owned by Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited
partnership, whose address is 31700 Middlebelt Road, Suite 140, Farmington Hills, Michigan

48334, Attn: Jonathan Holtzman.

306981291

Respectfully submitted:
ELMWOOD PARK PLAZA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
a Michigan limited partnership

 

     

By: Holtzman Elmwood LLC
Its: General Partner
By: Holtzman Equities #23 LLC 
Its: Manager 
I 

By: 47/;
Name: Jonathan-$1931 an
Its: Mane er




ATTACHMENT A
Legal Description of Proposed OPRA Districts

Land situated in the City of Detroit in the County of Wayne in the state of Michigan.

Parts of Lots 18 and 19, of ELMWOOD PARK URBAN RENEWAL PLAT NO. 2, according to
the plat thereof as recorded in Liber 92 of Plats, pages 77 through 82, both inclusive, Wayne
County Records, described as: Beginning at the Southwesterly corner of said Lot 19, being also
the intersection of the Northerly line of Lamed Street, 120.00 feet wide, with the Easterly line of
Chene Street, 120.00 feet wide; thence along the Westerly line of said Lot 19, North 26 degrees
07 minutes 10 seconds West, 264.88 feet; thence North 63 degrees 53 minutes 19 seconds East,
133.55 feet; thence North 26 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds West, 180.49 feet; thence North 63
degrees 52 minutes 50 seconds East, 424.29 feet; thence along the Southerly line of said Lot 19,
South 59 degrees 51 minutes 21 seconds West, 300.00 feet to the Point of Beginning.

Commonly known as: 750 Chene, Detroit, Michigan 48207.

Tax ID Number: Ward 1 1, Item No. 00125-34.

306981292

ATTACHMENT 
Depiction of Proposed OPRA District

See the attached ALTA survey.

306981292

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 
33 35.: 3:11 3 ., 1
is" 5:9 -5322": 133 :5
35%? ESE 5-53..3333 E- 3? 1E: El LE
. 15131533 . 115 EJEIE 53:52 {:1:11' 1 - 111 llmil?.
3 135 E3 3 E5 E1. 11:3
{1-11 E5 13.311533: IE 15311: 11; 11:wit. 3 1? {117; I
. I Elia-151'} I ., ?3 all. :5 5112;! a ?1 l; Eii? 
1311,}: 1 . 9 1E: 1. E1 135551-? 1 . :3 1 
1 E211 :1 jfE I: 11E 1.: 111151: 1:3 1 131531133EE: {it ??13 El! lg
allilErEuE .I'Elig? Sag-L 3443:.19 It] :15 

-. 5-5 
. E15 5513-51qu
3 131:: 1,1 1,1}5511: 
3.5: 
111: E33 1 .31: E321 1321:1111:
12111 1; 1 $1331: 3311-1111511

1' 5 My 5 
E1IEE5E 51;? 15

521111 151.: E313531331131. 

  
     

 

 

 

II II
1:51 1

 


i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-





 

i
I 

 

 

2019-05-14 877

877 Petition of Elmwoad Park Plaza
Limited Partemership, request for the
Establishment of an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation District - Elmwood
Club Plaza.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT

FINANCE DEPTIASSESSMENTS DIV. PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Obsolete Property District (PA 146) at 750 Chene
DATE: June 6, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

Kevin Schronce, Central Region, Planning and Development

In order to ensure that the creation of an Obsolete Property District is in conformance with the City's
Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial activity; create,
retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase the number of residents in
a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 146 of 2000 (section 125.2788), the Planning and
Development Department submits the following interpretation. The Petitioner of this project is
Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Partnership

Location and Project Proposal: 750 Chene; Project seeks to rehabilitate a 40-unit multifamily structure
for residential purposes.

Master Plan Interpretation

The subject site area is designated Medium Density Residential (RM). Medium Density Residential areas
should have an overall density of 16 to 24 dwelling units per net residential acre. The areas are often
characterized by multi-unit apartment buildings with a common entrance and shared parking. The
residential classifications allow for neighborhood-scale commercial development. For instance, in a
Low/Medium Density Residential area, small scale commerce convenience stores) should exist to
serve residents day-to-day needs.

The following policies of the Lower East Central neighborhood describe the following recommendations:
Policy 1.1 Continue medium and high-density residential development in the area of south of

Vernor
I Policy 3.2 Develop mixed-use medium and high density housing along Gratiot and Mack, and in

area southwest of Gratiot and McDougall

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 4, Lower East Central; Map 4-4B

I 

H1
. . .
.

Im?i



Mum" mp

Fm; 5.1"


4T:

Em Suhjcc

?lap 4?43 Neighborhood Cluster 4
City of DetrOIt East Central

Master Plan of
Policies

Future Land Use

i: Low Density Residential (RL) Thoroughfare Commercial (CT) :1 Mixed - Town Center (MTC)
Low I Medium Resudenllal (RLM) Specral Commereial (CS) Recreation (PRC)
- Medium Densily RESIdenlial (RM) '2 General Industrial (IG) Regional Park (PR)
High Densny Residential (RH) Light Industrial (IL) Prlvale Manna (PRM)
Major Commermal (CM) Distribution! Port lnduslrlal (IDP) [Wood (AP)

'52: Retail Cenler(CRC) 5:11] Mixed - Residential 1 Commercial (MRC) Cemetery (CEM)

Neighborhood E53: Mixed-Residentiaillnduslrlal (MRI) InstilulionCIIUNST)

 

 A. Yours-o MUNICIPM, CENTER
2 Woonu-mm AvisNi IE, :524
3? DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224?3011 - TTY2711
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313)224-9400
(Eli OF THE 

 
 
 

June 4, 2019

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, Mi 48226

Re: Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District - Elm wood Park Plaza Limited Partnership
Property Address: 750 Chene (aka 670 Chene)
Parcel Numbers: 11000125?34

Dear Mr. Cox:

The Office of the Chief Financial Of?cer, Of?ce of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Elmwood Park Plaza Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation District located at 750 Chene (aka i570 Chene) in the Elmwood Park district in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for creating Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Districts under PA 146 of 2000, as amended, is based on the
anticipation of increased market value upon completion of new construction and [or significant rehabilitation of existing
commercial property and commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not
necessarily generate additional market value.

Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Partnership is proposing to rehabilitate the 18?story apartment building with 156,634 square
feet of total floor area, built in 1974, on 2.424 acres of land. The multi?family apartment building is unable to be used to
adequately perform the function is was intended because of inadequate heating and cooling systems along electrical,
plumbing, mechanical and interior features inefficient and inconsistent with the highest and best use of the property.

The properties meet the criteria set forth under PA 146 of 2000, as amended. It applies to blighted, functionally obsolete
and contaminated properties. "Rehabilitation," meaning that changes to quali?ed facilities that are required to restore or
modify the property, together with all appurtenances, to an economically ef?cient condition. Rehabilitation also includes
deficient or excessive height, new or improved fixed building equipment, including heating, ventilation, and lighting,
reducing multistory facilities to 1 or 2 stories, adding additional stories to a facility or adding additional space on the same
floor level not to exceed 100% of the existing floor space on that floor level, improved structural support including
foundations, improved roof structure and cover, floor replacement, improved wall placement, improved exterior and
interior appearance of buildings, and other physical changes required to restore or change the obsolete property to an
economically efficient condition.

A field investigation indicated that the proposed Elmwood Park Plaza Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District located at 750
Chene (aka 610 Chene) is eligible as it pertains to the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act under P.A. 146 of 2000, as
amended.

Since

Charles Ericson, MMAO

Assessor, Board of Assessors



IL

 

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District
Elmwood Park Plaza Limited Partnership
Page 2

Property Address: 670 CHENE

ParcelNumber: 11000125-34

Property Owner: ELMWODD PARK PLAZA

Legal Description: LARNED PT OF 18 19ELMWOOD PARK URBAN REN PLAT NO 2 SUB L92 P77-82 PLATS, DES AS
FOLS EEG SWLY COR LOT 19 TH ZEDOTM 105 264.88 FT TH 63D 53M 195 133.55 FT TH 26D 07M 105 180.49 FT
TH 63D 52M 505 165.71 FT TH ALONG THE LINE OF SD LOTS 18 19 26D 07M 105 424.29 FT TH ALONG THE 5 LINE
THE POB 11/112 104955 SQ FT

The legal description matches the OPRA district request.

 

799

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

    

August 26, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Public Hearing on the Establishment of a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone as requested by
Baglcy Development Group, LLC in the area of150 Bagley. Detroit. MI in accordance

with Public Act 01? 1992 (W il?jm)
Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department. Planning and Development Department and the
Finance Department have reviewed the Master Plan and the neighborhood preservation and
development goals of the City, and ?nd that establishment of the Bagley Development Group,
LLC Neighborhood Enterprise Zone would be consistent with all of the aforementioned.

Public Act 147 of 1992, commonly referred to as the Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) Act.
in Section 3t!) states ?the governing body of a local governmental unit by resolution may
designate one I) or more neighborhood enterprise zones". Prior to acting upon the resolution
establishing an NEZ. a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written
notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that
levies an ad valorem tax within the proposed NEZ, said notice to be made not later than 45 days
prior to your Honorable Body?s passage ofa resolution designating an NEZ.

The boundaries of the proposed NEZ are described in Exhibit A (legal description) and illustrated
in the map also attached.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of establishing this NEZ, as required

by the NEZ Act.

Respectfully submitted,

LII/?gar

Donald Ren' her
Director



cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

M. Cox, PDD

D. Rencher, HRD
M. Langston, HRD

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 147 of the Public Acts of 1992 (?the Act?), this
City Council has the authority to establish ?Neighborhood Enterprise Zones 
within the boundaries of the City of Detroit,

WHEREAS, Bagley Development Group, LLC has requested establishment of The
Bagley Development NEZ whose boundaries are particularly described in Exhibit A
(legal description) and illustrated in the map attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, The Act 147 requires that, prior to establishing an NEZ, the City Council
shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing on such establishment, at which Public
Hearing, any representative of a taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the
City, or any resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the
matter;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the day of 2019, at in the City Council
Committee Room, 13th ?oor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be
held on the above described application for establishment of an NEZ within the
boundaries described in Exhibit A (legal description) as illustrated in the map attached
hereto; and be it ?nally,

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk will provide notice of the Public Hearing to the general
public by publication, and shall give written notice by certi?ed mail to the taxing
authorities and to the owners of all real property within the NEZ.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

 

TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (PA 147) at 150 Bagley Street
(Floors 2-18)

DATE: April 25, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

In order to ensure consistency with the City?s Master Plan of Policies, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public
Act 147 of 1992 (section 207.773), the Planning and Development Department?s Planning Division submits
the following interpretation for the proposed establishment of Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ).

Location and Project Proposal: Subject site is located at 150 Bagley Street. The project proposes to
renovate and repurpose the existing eighteen story, 217,300 square feet building, commonly known as
the United Artist Building, into 148 one and two?bedroom market rate apartment units (20% affordable)
totaling approximately 206,800 square feet on floors 2-18 (applies to this application) and 10,500 square
feet of commercia /retai /restaurant space on the ground floor (does not apply to this application)

Existing Site Information: The existing structure is vacant and requires significant rehabilitation. The
proposed rehabilitation includes renovation of the building to standards required for historic structures
on the National Register of Historic Places.

Master Plan Interpretation

The subject site area is designated Mixed Residential-Commercial (MRC). Mixed Residential-
Commercial areas consist primarily of high density housing developed compatibly with commercial
and/or institutional uses. This classification is well suited to areas proximal to existing centers of major
commercial activity, major thoroughfares, transportation nodes, or gateways into the city."

The following policies of the Central Business District neighborhood describe the following
recommendations:
I Policy 11.1 Give high priority to the preservation of historic buildings, especially the
restoration, rehabilitation, and reuse of building facades
Policy 11.2 Ensure aesthetic compatibility between new and existing structures and sites
. Policy 15.1 Develop design guidelines to promote linkages among and to the various Central
Business District business and entertainment districts

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 4, Central Business District, Map 4-lB

 


?in

.
\V?t


95 
?'13
Av?

0?

'22"





1" 
-.- ?4

urn} a 
Ngqbi Q3 5:59Map 4-1B

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Neighborhood Cluster 4
Central Business District

 

 

 

Future Land Use

Low Density Residential (RL)
Low I Medium Density Residential (RLM)
Medium Density Residential (RM)
- High Density Residential (RH)
Major Commercial (CM)
9?4 Retail Center (CRC)
Neighborhood Commercial (CN)
Thoroughfare Commercial (CT)
. Special Commercial (CS)
?is General Industrial (IG)
Light Induslrial (IL)

a Distribulion I Port Industrial (IDP)

Mixed Residential I Commercial (MRC)
232$ Mixed Residential I Industrial (MRI)
if Mixed - Town Center (MTC)

Recreation (PRC)

 

Regional Park (PR)
Private Marina (PRM)
Airport (AP)
Cemetery (CEM)

Institutional (INST)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d?

 

 

 

  
  

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

June 24, 2019

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Bagley Development Group LLC
Property Address: 150 Bagley
Parcel Number: 02000327.

Mr. Cox:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office ofthe Assessor, has reviewed the request from Bagley Development
Group LLC proposed United Artist Neighborhood Enterprise Zone, generally located at 150 Bagley in the Downtown
area in the City of Detroit The developer, Bagley Development Group, is a ground lessee for the property located
at 150 Bagley. Bagley Development Group proposed plan is to renovate and repurposed the United Artist
building to include 148 apartments and 10,500 square feet of commercial/retail/restaurant on the floor

The rationale for creating NEZ projects under PA 147 of 1992, as amended, must be based on the anticipation of
market value added to the neighborhood upon completion Of new construction and/or significant rehabilitation of
existing housing stock

The proposed area consists of the vacant United Artist 18-story office/theater building contains 226,008 square feet
of building area and was built in 1927 on 690 acres of land. The developer plans to create approximately 148 one
and two bedroom units at market rate (20% of which will be affordable) on floors 2 to 18 and 10,500 square feet of
commercial/retail/restaurant on the first ground floor. The developer is requesting an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation district for the ground floor and basement, in a separate request, and a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone district for the apartment units The current True Cash Value of the proposed area (81 19%) is $10,397,191
and contains .690 acres of land The True Cash Value of this area would be expected to increase due to the
rehabilitation and construction.

MCL 207 772 Sec 2(k) "Qualified downtown revitalization district" means an area located within 1 or more of the
following: The boundaries of a downtown district as defined in section 1 of 1975 PA 197, Will 125 1651 (ii) The
boundaries of a principal shopping district or a business improvement district as defined in section 1 Of 1961 PA 120,
MCL 125.981 The boundaries of the local governmental unit in an area that is zoned and primarily used for
business as determined by the local governmental unit

MCL 207 772 Sec 2 "Rehabilitated facility" means an existing structure or a portion of an existing structure with
a current true cash value of $80,000 00 or less per unit that has or will have as its primary purpose residential
housing, consisting of 1 to 8 units, the owner of which proposes improvements that if done by a licensed
contractor would cost in excess of $5,000.00 per owner?occupied unit or 50% ofthe true cash value, whichever is
less, or $7,500.00 per nonowner-occupied unit or 50% of the true cash value, whichever is less, or the owner
proposes improvements that would be done by the owner and not a licensed contractor and the cost of the
materials would be in excess of $3,000.00 per owner-occupied unit or $4,500.00 per nonowner-occupied unit and

 

Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
Bagley Development Group LLC
Page 2

will bring the structure into conformance with minimum local building code standards for occupancy or improve
the livability of the units while meeting minimum local building code standards Rehabilitated facility also includes
an individual condominium unit, in a structure with 1 or more condominium units that has as its primary purpose
residential housing, the owner of which proposes the above described improvements. Rehabilitated facility also
includes existing or proposed condominium units in a qualified historic building with 1 or more existing or
proposed condominium units. Rehabilitated facility does not include a facility rehabilitated with the proceeds of an
insurance policy for property or casualty loss. A qualified historic building may contain multiple rehabilitated
facilities.

Upon review, it has been determined that this proposed district located at 150 Bagley in the Downtown area as a
qualified historic building is eligible for designation as a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone per PA 147 of 1992, as
amended.

.-.

 

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
Bagley Development Group LLC

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3
Parcel Number Property Owner Name Current Use 2019 TCV Taxable Acres
Address Value
02000327 150 Bagley Olympia Vacant 18 Story $12,806,000 $241,874 .690
Development of Office Theater $10,397,191 $196,377
Ml LLC Building (81.19%) (8119%)

 

 

 

 

 

?lling of Eetrnit

Janice M. \N'InFrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West

Deputy City Clerk/driefofStaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

To:

ram:

Thursday, May 16, 2019

The Department or Commission Listed Below

Janice Win?ey, Detroit City Clerk

 

AMENDMENT

Herewith, the following referral is a copy of Petition 769

 

769

NOTE:

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT LAW DEPARTMENT
FINANCE DEPARTMENT

Bogley Development Group, LL C, request to establish a Neighborhood
Enterprise Zone for the property located 150 BagIey.

Attached please ?nd additional documentation for the above mentioned
petition.

PETITIONER IS AMENDING PETITION DUE TO:

-Jorrected.own ership -Seeattached. 

Please provide the City Council with a report relative to this petition within
four (4) weeks. Thanking you in advance.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
[313) 224 3260 Fax (313) 224-1466

DEPARTMENTAL REFE REN CE COMMUNICATION

Thursday, May 16, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

AMENDMENT

Herewith, the following referral is a copy of Petition 162

 

(?Litp of Eetruit

Janice M- Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk/ChiefofStaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Thursday, March 21, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From' Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT LAW DEPARTMENT
FINANCE DEPARTMENT

769 Bagley DeveZOpment Group, LLC, request to establish a Neighborhood
Enterprise Zonefor the property located 150 Bagley.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 Fax (313) 224-1466

it 76Q
1 .
an OFFICE or THE

DETROIT CLERK
an on 4  2: In:

Warner Norcross Judd LLP

February 27, 2019

Janice M. Winfrey

City Clerk

City of Detroit

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Designation Request for the
Proposed Eagley Development Group Residential NEZ District and Act 146
Request for Establishment of Obsolete Property Rehabilitation 
District? Baglcy Development Group Project

Dear Ms. Winfrey:

On behalf of my client, Baglcy Development Group, LLC, a Michigan limited
liability company, enclosed are copies of the NEZ and OPRA district requests. Included with the
requests are site maps of the requested district botmdaries of the subject property, the Accounts
Receivable Clearance Application and the Request for Income Tax Clearance form.

Thank you for your time and consideration of these requests. If I can provide any
additional information or be of assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me directly at (616)752-

2447.
Very truly yours,
Jared T. Belka

TB/ckm

Enclosure

c: Emmett Moten via e-mail
Nevan Shokar (DEGC) via e?mail

18196484

Jared T. Belka Partner

616.752.2447

J?bclkat?lwmcom

900 Fi?h 'l'lurd Center, 1 ll Lyon Street, 
Grand Rapids, MI 49503-2487



February 20, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment ofa Neighborhood EnterpriseZonc District at
150 Bagley Street

Honorable City Council:

On behalf of Bagley Development Group, LLC (?Bagley?), please accept this letter as a
request to establish a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone District for the property
located at 150 Bagley Street, generally located between W. Adams, Clifford Street, Park
Avenue and Bagley Street and described on the map on Attachment A.

Bagley intends to renovate and repurpose the existing eighteen story, 217,300 st" building.
commonly known as the United Artists Building, into one hundred forty-eight (148) one
and two bedroom market rate apartment units (20% will be affordable) totaling
approximately 206,800 sf on floors 2-18 and 10,500 
space on the ground ?oor (the ?Project?). The Project will include signi?cant interior
renovations including all new mechanicals, windows. ?ooring, countertops, cabinetry,
appliances, and wall coverings. The Project includes anticipated total capital investment
of approximately $55.88 million and the rehabilitation will commence in mid?201 9 and is
expected to be completed by mid-2020.

The Project would not be ?nancially viable without the sup port of incentives, including
the requested NEZ abatement. The NEZ will attract new residents to the Project and to
the City of Detroit while reactivating a vacant building in the downtown.

At this time, the building sits vacant and in need ol'signi?cant rehabilitation. The
proposed rehabilitation includes renovation of the building to standards required for
historic structures on the National Register of Historic Places.

Bagley is requesting the NEZ be applicable for the residential component of the Project
(?oors 2-18] for a period offifteen (15) years. The property is eligible for NEZ
designation pursuant to section 3(1) of the Neighborhood Zone Act, 1992 PA
147, MCL Following completion ot?thc Project, ten (10) or more facilities
will be included in the district, which is located within a ?quali?ed downtown

revitalization district? as de?ned in MCL 207.772Ck). The uestcd district is compact
and contiguous.

The City will bene?t From the proposed rehabilitation project by bringing new residents
into the City that will generate new income taxes and long-term property tax growth. The
presence of permanent residents will also support the various retailers in the surrounding
area. Therefore, Bagley respectfully requests your consideration ofthe NEZ for this
Project.

Respectfully submitted,
min 

?Emmett S. Motcn J-r.
Bagley Development Group, LLC

Attachment A: Site Map

cc: K. Bridges, DEGC
N. Marsh, DEGC
D. Bolton, Flaming
J. Belka, Warncr Norcross Judd LLP

 

Address: 150 Bagley Street
Detroit, MI 48226

Parcel 02000327

Legal:

PART OF LOTS LOTS 25. 26. AND 27 OF GOVERNOR AND JUDGES PLAN OF SECTION 12 ACCORDING
TO THE PLAT THEREOF RECORDED IN LIBER 34 OF DEEDS. PAGE 555 OF WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.
MORE PARTTCULARLY DESCRIBED AS: BEGINNING AT THE NORTHEASTERLY CORNER OF SAID LOT 25:
THENCE ALONG THE WESTERLY LINE OF BAGLEY AVENUE. I20 FEET WIDE. SOUTH 28 DEGREES 47
MINUTES 17 SECONDS WEST. 181.41 THENCE ALONG THE NORTHERLY LINE OF CUFFORD AVENUE
(60 FEET WIDE). NORTH 51 DEGREES 14 MINUTES 43 SECONDS WEST. 79.84- FEET: THENCE NORTH 28
DEGREES 47 MINUTES 17 SECONDS EAST. 50.27 THENCE SOUTH 61 DEGREES 11 MINUTES 33
SECONDS EAST. 21.94 THENCE NORTH 25 DEGREES 47 MINUTES 17 SECONDS EAST. 82.10
FEET: THENCE SOUTH 61 DEGREES 11 MINUTES .33 SECONDS EAST. 3.35 THENCE NORTH 28
DEGREES 47 MINUTES 17 SECONDS EAST. 49.10 FEET TO A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF LOT 25:
THENCE ALONG SAID NORTH LINE SOUTH 61 DEGREES 11 MINUTES 33 SECONDS EAST. 54.55 FEET TO
THE POINT OF BEGINNING AND CONTAINING 11.443 SQUARE FEET.

April 16. 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit. Ml 48226

RE. Amended Request for the Establishment of an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Act District and Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Act District for
the 150 Bugle}; Street Redevelopment Project

Honorable City Council:

Bugle; Development Group. 1.1.C the proposed clexeloper and ground lessee
For the property located at 150 Battle} $treet. generall} located between Adams.
Clifford Street. Part-t Avenue and Eagle; Street and described on the map on 
A (the "Property"i. herebi submits request to establish an t'ibsolete Propert}
Rehabilitation Act District For the basement and ground-Hoot retail portion of
the Building {de?ned belon) and a Neighborhood Enterprise {Zone Act 17.2") Dinner
for floors 2-18 that will house the proposed Mil-unit residential portion of the Property
identi?ed in Attachment A.

Baglcy intends to innovate and repurpose the existing eighteen story. 317.300 square-tool
building commonly known as the llnited Artists Building (the "Building"i. into one
hundred l'ortyeigltt one and two bedroom market rate apartment units liti'i'u hieh
will be affordable] totaling approximately ZUGJltil-l square feet on Floors Z-lli and 10.501)
square feet space on the ground Floor {the "Pi-eject") The
Project include significant interior renovations ot? the Building. including all new
mechanical systems. windows. ?ooring. countertops, cabinetry. appliances. and wall
coverings. Bagley anticipates that the Project still require a total capital investment of
approximately $56 million. and that construction of the Projeet will commence in mid-
2019. Eagle}; anticipates the Project will be completed by mid-2020.

Bugle} has indicated that the Project would not lie table without the support
01' incentiies. including the requested OPRA tutti Nita?. abatements l'he and 
u-t-ll allow Bugley to redevelop the Building to attract new commute-.211 ground floor retail
tenants and residents to the Project and the it_r o-l' Detroit. while re-purposing a l'liSIDl?ltll'll-
Vacant huiidingin Grand Circus Park.

A1 this time. the Building Sits Vacant .incl is in need oi" rehabiliialion. The
relmbilltalion mil address and meet all local- Still-?2 and federal Standards required
irir hiamrie an aim: identified an the Natmnul Regiswr m? lisumc Places,

liilglL?) 1.1 llic Ui?ll;\ he I'm the tunipmient the l?rnjeu
(ground timer and bum-.irieni- for 21 perind nt'iuclw ?21 yearn lhe l'l'ilplil?l) Ci?n?zth'i'liLl
amulet: us de?ne-J in the Mining-Lin (yeneisil l?ruperi} Act In :idcliimri. Bugle} 
requesting the NLTZ he :ipi?ilzeahlu tor the rewiLlcnuul :nri?nponent of tin.- l?rnieul luv :1 period
?lteen 15} gears i'ni: Property is eligible liar NEZ dessgnation pursuant in section 3i. li
ul' llie Nciglil?uwrliijud [irilerprise Zone AU. 147. MEL. 2L7 ii i-nilmxing
unn?plctiun ml" the Prniccl. lei? :lf'ri or more facilities mil he include-:1 the 
dutrici .xliich :s lucutcd within a 'qimlilied dim vex italizzitiun districi" as Llelhiczl ll".
?73:13.. The frequented district and contiguous

[he Cit} ii :11 bene?t l'r-mi ilic prunosed i'ui'qieei by bringing wrnmeruul
tenants and rem-Jenni] residences min inc il?im mil generme nuv. munme iax'mz Ell'll'.
lung-icrm prtipisl?l} m. in Little? LU liieilnsile the ml the
Building. Bugle} resii-Juillillj. requests. 3min. the and this?

 

 

Project
Respectliill} 
821ng Dexclopineni Group. LLC.
a h-lichigiin limited liability enmpuni
-1 '1
Br 
Nan-re; Fir; g1 Fil? - i? Elaijn
its ??13311 la 1: (C 
and agreed to this clan of .-\pr1l. 2019. by Ol) mpia DC\Cl0pi?l?l?ni of

Michigan. the current imner ol? record and ground lessor to Bugle}
Olympia Dexelnpmunl of Michigan. 
a Michigan limited compan;

e.
Name 
l?is: 52f 

cc. K. Bridges. DECKS
N. Marsh. DEGC
D. Bolton. Planning
.1. Belka. Warner i Judd 

PROPOSED NEZ Andi OPRA DISTRICT

Address: 150 Bagley Street
Detroit. 48226

Parcel 02000327

Legal:

PART OF LOTS LOTS 25. 25. AND 2? OF GOVERNOR AND JUDGES PLAN OF SECTION I2 ACCORDIND
TO THE PLAT THEREOF RECORDED IN LIOER SA OF DEEDS. RAGE 555 OF WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.
MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS. SEGINNING AT THE CORNER OF SAID LOT 25.
THENCE ALONG THE LINE OF SAGLET AVENUE. 12{} FEET WIDE. SOUTH 23 DEGREES 
MINUTES SECONDS NEST. ISI AI FEET. THENCE AUONC THE LINE OF CLIFFORD AHENUE
{60 FEET WIDE). NORTH SI DEGREES IA MINUTES 43 SECONDS NEST. TO SI FEET. THENCE NORTH 25
DEGREES MINUTES IT SECONDS EAST. 5O 27 FEET. THENCE SOUTH SI DEGREES II MINUTES 35
SECONDS EAST. ELSA FEET. THENCE NORTH 25 DEGREES MINUTES 17 SECONDS EAST. 82.10
FEET, THENCE SOUTH 61 DEGREES II MINUTES 33 SECONDS EAST. 3.35 FEET. THENCE NORTH 23
DEGREES 47 MINUTES IT SECONDS EAST. 49 IO TO A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF LOT 25:
THENCE ALONG SAID NORTH LINE SOUTH 61 DEGREES II MINUTES 33 SECONDS EAST. 54 55 FEET To
THE POINT OF BEGINNING AND CONTAINING ILAAS SOUARE FEET

2019-03?21 7 69

769 Permian ofBagley Development
Group, LLC, request to establish a
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone for the
preperry [neared 350 Bagiey.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION LEGISLATIVE POLICY
-

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT LAW
DEPARTMENT

FINANCE DEPARTMENT

IZO

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

   

 

 

August 27, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Public Hearing on the Establishment of a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone as requested by
Corktown Lofts, LLC in the area of 1702 West Port Street, Detroit, MI in accordance
with Public Act 147 of 1992 (Petition #699)

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning and Development Department and the
Finance Department have reviewed the Master Plan and the neighborhood preservation and
development goals Of the City, and ?nd that establishment of the Corktown Lofts, LLC
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone would be consistent with all of the aforementioned.

Public Act 147 of 1992, commonly referred to as the Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) Act,
in Section 3(1) states ?the governing body of a local governmental unit by resolution may
designate one (1) or more neighborhood enterprise zones?. Prior to acting upon the resolution
establishing an NEZ, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written
notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that
levies an ad valorem tax within the proposed NEZ, said notice to be made not later than 45 days
prior to your Honorable Body?s passage of a resolution designating an NEZ.

The boundaries of the proposed NEZ are described in Exhibit A (legal description) and illustrated
in the map also attached.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of establishing this NEZ, as required

  

by the NEZ Act.
Res tactfully submitted,
Donald Rencher
Director
DR/ml
cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
M. Cox, PDD

D. Rencher, HRD
M. Langston, HRD

 

 

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 147 of the Public Acts of 1992 (?the Act?), this
City Council has the authority to establish ?Neighborhood Enterprise Zones 
within the boundaries of the City of Detroit,

WHEREAS, Corktown Lofts, LLC has requested establishment of The 1702 Fort
Street NEZ whose boundaries are particularly described in Exhibit A (legal description)
and illustrated in the map attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, The Act 147 requires that, prior to establishing an NEZ, the City Council
shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing on such establishment, at which Public
Hearing, any representative of a taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the
City, or any resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the
matter;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the day of . 2019, at in the City Council
Committee Room, 13th floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be
held on the above described application for establishment of an NEZ within the
boundaries described in Exhibit A (legal description) as illustrated in the map attached
hereto; and be it ?nally,

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk will provide notice of the Public Hearing to the general
public by publication, and shall give written notice by certi?ed mail to the taxing
authorities and to the owners of all real property within the NEZ.

Corktown Lofts LLC

3H1 331:1.le

an a?iliate of
. 
Bedrock DetrottJanuary 14, 2019 23 
Detrort C1ty Counc? 
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 1:1
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 1340 8 3%

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for Establishment of a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) at 1702 W.
Fort Street, Detroit, MI the Issuance of a NEZ Certi?cate

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone for the property
located at 1702 Fort St (?Corktown Lofts?). Corktown Lofts LLC, an af?liate of Bedrock
Detroit LLC, is the owner of the property, which is located in the Corktown Historic District.

The overall project will rehabilitate the historic building and transform it into a mixed-use
development. This petition applies solely to the rehabilitation of the ?fth floor of the historic
structure to create 22 residential apartment units and the associated parking in the basement of the
rehabilitated structure. In addition, the overall project includes of?ce and retail space on the lower
?oors, and an addition atop the historic structure to create additional apartment units, all of which

are outside the scope of this petition.

Corktown Lofts LLC initially submitted this petition in July 2018. After initial review, the
Assessor?s Of?ce denied the petition on the basis that construction had commenced prior to
establishment of the NEZ Zone. Bedrock subsequently conferred with the Assessor?s Of?ce and
State Tax Commission to review this initial determination. The State Tax Commission ultimately
con?rmed that the petition is timely as no such timing requirement is applicable in the case of an
NEZ for the rehabilitation of a quali?ed historic building. See Section of the NEZ Act,
MCL 207.774.

In order to facilitate completion of the NEZ. process at this point in time. this petition respectfully
requests approval of the N152. Certi?cate to tbllow immediately Upon this llonorahle Body's
establishment of the NEZ. Zone. The NEZ Certi?cate is being requested solelt' for the residential
portion at the rehabilitated structure (the aforementioned 22 units and associated oarkinni as
further described below.

For questions about this request, please contact Jared Fleisher at aredFleisher@quickenloans.com
or (617) 460-0266. .

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely yours,



5" 3 

Steve Bentley

Authorized Agent

Corktown Lofts LLC

(313) 373-8755

630 Woodward Ave

Detroit MI 48226

 

 

 

 

General Description of Project

Located on Fort Street just west of the Central Business District, just south of Corktown, and just
north of the West Riverfront, Corktown Lofts will connect multiple districts by creating a vibrant
live-work?play destination. Speci?cally, the project will rehabilitate the historic Edson, Moore and
Company Building into a mixed-use development. The rehabilitation will create retail and
restaurant/cafe Space on the ?rst two ?oors and one subgrade floor; of?ce space on the middle two
?oors, and 33 residential units on the upper two ?oors, consisting of rehabilitated facilities on the
?fth ?oor (22 units) which are the subject of this petition; and a new addition above it (11 units).
The rehabilitation also includes 13,908 SF of parking in the basement level to support the
residential units. Two-thirds of that parking will serve the 22 rehabilitated facilities that are the
subject of this petition (with the remainder serving the I new facilities that are outside the scope
of this petition). As stated above. the NEZ Certi?cate is beinn requested solelv for the residential
portion of the rehabilitated structure {the aforementioned 22 units and associated parking).

Corktown Lofts: Pre-Rehabilitation

 

PARKING i
CIRCULATION I 30H
12*.

15.909 SF 1 
21415 SP

 

1 80,573 3

SF 


[u 

.



ants EF 
62.773 5F my

   

   

.-
3119: Laser mm? 

Corktown Lofts: Basement Parking for Residential Units

FLOOR PLAN

Willi?

NOTES

 

Located om Iwol balow grud- Furl Sin-cl

- Dim 5mm Iron Furl Street am: rn SW

AT

con-Hr ?punts lobby . .
GRADE

0 Hall of ?oor occupied by puk'rg 
- Al grad: parking garage "ten from alley 
I Cel?lrg Height 9' a"

 

124'

 

 

 

 



26,671 .
SF 185?
I


"51 cmcuumourlou 0
In)

. .

 

 




The historic facade of the building is being restored to repair deteriorated masonry, and original
window Openings that had been ?lled with cinderblock are being re-created to return the facade to
its original grandeur. Historically accurate windows are being installed. Brand new mechanical,
electrical, and plumbing systems are being installed throughout the building, as the previous
systems were fully deteriorated. Three new elevators are being installed to serve the building, as
the existing ones have become deteriorated and unusable. Original hardwood ?oors are being
refurbished where possible and replicated in the remaining areas. New interior space, including
residential units, are being built out. As noted, an addition is being built on top of the building to
deliver additional residential units and house the residential amenities.

Basis for Qualification

Location in a Quali?ed Downtown Revitalization District: A quali?ed downtown
revitalization district includes an area ?located within the boundaries of the local governmental
unit in an area that is zoned and primarily used for business as determined by the local
government unit.? MCL The subject parcel, being zoned M4, is located in an
Intensive Industrial District, and is thereby eligible for designation as a Quali?ed Downtown
Revitalization District.

Satisfaction of Platted Parcel Minimum Number of Facilities Requirement: A
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone must contain at least 10 platted parcels of land unless located
in a quali?ed downtown revitalization district. A Neighborhood Enterprise Zone located in a
quali?ed downtown revitalization district may contain less than 10 platted parcels if the
proposed zone contains 10 or more facilities. MCL Under MCL 
each of the proposed residential apartments constitutes a ?Rehabilitated facility? as each is a
portion of an existing structure with a true cash value of less than $80,000 per unit that will
have as its primary purpose residential housing, and as the cost of the proposed improvements

4

exceed the per-unit requirements. Accordingly, the subject parcel (which contains more than
10 rehabilitated facilities) is eligible for designation as a NEZ.

- Satisfaction of Timing Requirement for Submission: A NEZ Zone petition may be
submitted after issuance of a building permit in the case of a ?quali?ed historic building,?
which is the case here. Corktown Lofts, previously known as the Edson, Moore and Company
Building, was constructed in 1913. The building is located within the Corktown Historic
District and is individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2017.1 After
review, State Tax Commission staff concurred that there are no other timing requirements
under the NEZ Act applicable to the rehabilitation of a quali?ed historic structure, and that the
submission of this petition is thus timely. For reference, Attachment contains the analysis
Bedrock presented to the State Tax Commission on this timing question.

Project Schedule
Construction of the project is anticipated to be complete in the second quarter of 2019.

 

1 See I 

ATTACHMENT A: PARCEL ID AN LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 

Parcel Tax ID Number Address Owner

 

08000048 1702 W. Fort Street Corktown Lofts LLC

 

 

 

 

 

Legal Description:

FORT 19.56 FT ON LINE BG 124.32 FT ON LINE LOGNON FARM L137 P69-70 DEEDS, 8/ 10 2&1 2&1 PLAT OF SPECHTS SUB OF
LOTS 6L65 P142 DEEDS, 8/15 33,587 SQ FT

Cm! factory lofts
85if!




ATTACHMENT B: INVESTMENT COST BREAKDOWN

  
   

it! Millions l?crc'cnl of Buil?ucl

   



Pre?Development $1,537,563 14.2%

Hard Construction Costs $8,295,485 76.5%
Soft Construction Costs $1,012,767 9.3%
Estimated Total $10,845,815 100.0%

ATTACHMENT C: TIMING REQUIREMENTS FOR REHABILITAITON OF
QUALIFIED HISTORIC BUILDINGS UNDER THE NEZ ACT

Is a building owner required to secure the establishment of a NEZ Zone prior to commencing rehabilitation
of a quali?ed historic building?

SUMMARY OF RESPONSE

No. By its plain terms, the NEZ Act expressly exempts the rehabilitation of a quali?ed historic building
from the only timing requirement under the Act.

ANALYSIS

0 The NEZ Act imposes a timing requirement only with respect to the application for the NEZ
Certificate.

0 Section 4(1) addresses the implication for the NEZ, Certi?cate and states that ?Except as
provided in subsection (2) or as otherwise provided by the local governmental unit by
resolution if the application is ?led not later than 6 months following the date the building
permit is issued, the application shall be ?led before a building permit is issued for the new
construction or rehabilitation of the facility.? There is no other timing requirement in the Act.

in The of?cial FAQs for the NEZ program re-af?rm that the only ?provision in the application process?
that is ?time sensitive? is the application for the Certi?cate.?

0 Question 6 of the FAQs reads as follows: ?Are there provisions in the application process
which are time sensitive? Yes. An application for a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ)
Certificate must be ?led with the clerk of the LGU for a facility located in an established NEZ
before a building permit is issued for the new construction or rehabilitation of the facility

(emphasis added).?

0 Section of the Act then sets forth the statutory exception to this timing requirement with respect
to a quali?ed historic building. It provides that, ?An application may be ?led after a building permit is
issued only if 1 or more of the following apply. . For a rehabilitated facility if all or a portion of the
rehabilitated facility is a quali?ed historic building.?

- The plain meaning of the Act provides that the rehabilitation of a quali?ed historic building is not
subject to the requirement that the Certi?cate application be submitted prior to issuance of the building
permit. Because there are no other statutory timing requirements, there is no timing requirement
applicable either to the Zone or Certi?cate process for the rehabilitation of a quali?ed historic

building} 3

 

2It is a fundamental principle of statutory interpretation that ?nothing is to be added to what the text states
or reasonably implies? that a ?matter not covered is to be treated as not covered.? See Scalia and Garner,

Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts (2002), at p.93.

3Section 4(1) of the Act requires a NEZ Zone to be established prior to submitting the Certi?cate
application. This creates a de facto timing requirement relative to the Zone where there is a timing
requirement applicable to the Certi?cate. But in the absence of a requirement applicable to the Certi?cate,
there is no requirement applicable to the Zone as a matter of law or fact.

2019-02-19 69 9

699 Petition of Corktown Lo?s, LLC,
request to establish a Neighborhood
Enterprise Zone for the property
located at I 702 W. ort Street,
Detroit, MI.

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

FINANCE DEPARTMENTIASSESSMENTS HOUSING
AND REVITALIZATION

LEGISLATIVE POUCY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 . 

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224?9400

OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

  
  

February 11, 2019

Mr. Maurice Cox

Director, Planning Development
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Corktown Lofts LLC
Property Address: 1720 W. Fort Street
Parcel ID: 08000048.

Mr. Cox:

The Office ofthe Chief Financial Officer, Office ofthe Assessor, has reviewed the request for the proposed Corktown
Lofts LLC Neighborhood Enterprise Zone, located in the West Side Industrial area in the City of Detroit. The owner?s
proposed plan is to rehabilitate the fourth floor and construct an additional floor to create 33 residential units in the

building the vacant historic building.

The rationale for creating NEZ projects under PA 147 of 1992, as amended, must be based on the anticipation of
market value added to the neighborhood upon completion of new construction and/or significant rehabilitation of

existing housing stock.

Corktown Lofts LLC overall project will be to rehabilitate the historic building and transform it into a mixed-use
development with an anticipated 2 floors (33 units) of residential apartments, 2 floors of office space, 2 floors of
retail space and below grade parking. The total building consists of a 4-story vacant retail building with 111,046
square feet of total above ground floor area. Corktown Lofts LLC proposes that the fourth floor of the building will
be rehabilitated to create 22 residential units and a new fifth floor has been built above it with a plan to add 11
residential units. The current True Cash Value of the whole building is $2,054,600 and contains approximately .751
acres of land. The True Cash Value of this area would be expected to increase due to the rehabilitation and new

construction.

Per MCL 207.772 Sec.2 "Rehabilitated facility" means an existing structure or a portion of an existing structure
with a current true cash value of $80,000.00 or less per unit that has or will have as its primary purpose residential
housing, consisting of 1 to 8 units, the owner of which proposes improvements that if done by a licensed contractor
would cost in excess of $5,000.00 per owner-occupied unit or 50% of the true cash value, whichever is less, or
$7,500.00 per nonowner-occupied unit or 50% of the true cash value, whichever is less, or the owner proposes
improvements that would be done by the owner and not a licensed contractor and the cost of the materials would
be in excess of $3,000.00 per owner-occupied unit or $4,500.00 per nonowner-occupied unit and will bring the
structure into conformance with minimum local building code standards for occupancy or improve the livability of
the units while meeting minimum local building code standards. Rehabilitated facility also includes an individual
condominium unit, in a structure with 1 or more condominium units that has as its primary purpose residential
housing, the owner of which proposes the above described improvements. Rehabilitated facility also includes
existing or proposed condominium units in a qualified historic building with 1 or more existing or proposed
condominium units. Rehabilitated facility does not include a facility rehabilitated with the proceeds of an insurance
policy for property or casualty loss. A qualified historic building may contain multiple rehabilitated facilities.

  
  

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

.1 1 2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - TTY2711

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
Corktown Lofts LLC
Page 2

Per MCL 207.773 Sec. 3. (1) The governing body of a local governmental unit by resolution may designate 1 or
more neighborhood enterprise zones within that local governmental unit. Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, a neighborhood enterprise zone shall contain not less than 10 platted parcels of land. A neighborhood
enterprise zone located in a quali?ed downtown revitalization district may contain less than 10 platted parcels if
the platted parcels together contain 10 or more facilities. All the land within a neighborhood enterprise zone shall
also be compact and contiguous. Contiguity is not broken by a road, right-of?way, or property purchased or taken
under condemnation if the purchased or condemned prOperty was a single parcel prior to the sale or

condemnation.

Upon review, it has been determined that this proposed district located in the West Side Industrial area is eligible
for designation as a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone per PA 147 of1992, as amended.

Sincerely f.
Charles Ericson, MMAO

Assessor, Board of Assessors



CITY OF DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OEICE OF THE 

 

Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
Corktown Lofts LLC

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224?3011 - 

(313) 224?9400



 

 

Page 3
Parcel Property Owner Name Current Use 2019 TCV Taxable Acres
Number Address Value
08000048. 1702 W. Fort Corktown Lofts LLC Vacant 4 $2,054,600 $205,926 .751
Street story
building

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The legal description matches the NEZ district request.

. I.
- 
.. w" 

t-T'ul'd-IF. nib?

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 



 

TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (PA 147) at 1702 W. Fort
Street

DATE: March 11,2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

In order to ensure consistency with the City's Master Plan of Policies, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public
Act 147 of 1992 (section 207.773), the Planning and Development Department?s Planning Division submits
the following interpretation for the proposed establishment of Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ). The

Petitioner is Corktown Loft, LLC

Location and Project Proposal: This specific petition (Petition 699) applies solely to the rehabilitation of the
fifth floor of the historic structure, located at 1702 Fort Street, to create 22 residential apartment units and
the associated parking in the basement of the rehabilitation structure; Two-thirds of the 13,908 square feet
parking in the basement level will support the 22 residential units.

The overall project seeks to rehabilitate a historic building and transform it into a mixed-use development
with office and retail space on the lower floors and an addition atop the historic structure to create
additional apartment units (11 units). The project will create retail and restaurant/cafe space on the first two
floors and one subgrade floor; office space on the middle two floors, 33 residential units on the upper two
floors, and 22 residential units on the fifth floor. The rehabilitation includes 13,908 square feet of parking in
the basement level to support the residential units and the 11 new facilities outside the scope of this

particular NEZ petition.

Existing Site Information: The current site is the home of the historic Edson, Moore and Company Building.
The building was construction in 1913, is located within the Corktown Historic District, and is listed on the

National Register of Historic Places in 2017.

interpretation: The project will add to the stock of emerging businesses and strengthen residential loft
conversions already observed in the Corktown area. Additionally, the project is served by two bus lines and
the project could encourage additional bus stops and increased ridership along Fort Street.

Master Plan Interpretation
The subject site area is designated Mixed Residential-Commercial (MRC). Mixed Residential-Commercial

areas consist primarily of high density housing deVeloped compatibly with commercial and/or institutional
uses. This classification is well suited to areas proximal to existing centers of major commercial activity, major
thoroughfares, transportation nodes, or gateways into the city."
The following policies of the Corktown neighborhood describe the following recommendations:

. Policy 4.3: ?Encourage high-density mixed used development to replace obsolete industrial and

commercial properties along Fort"

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the area.

Attachments: Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 4, Corktown; Map 4-28

 

 

MRO.

 



?wrwm 

 

. 

   

-

RLM

r? Bagte?l

'13

?9
.13


0?

IL





Subject hilt

rm 

RLM

 

      


item? i 


\xes?mu?g*?
vx?_sraster:
rip-1?

 

 

Map 4-23

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies 
Neighborhood Cluster 4
Corktown

Low Density Residential (RL)

Low! Medium Density Residential (RLM)
Medium Density Residential (RM)

High Density Residential (RH)

Major Commercial (CM)

Retail Center (C RC)

Neighborhood Commercial (CN)
Thoroughfare Commercial (CT)

Special Commercial (C8)

General Industrial (IG)

 

Light Industrial (IL)

 

 



?r
r4

1


EQLI 

Distribution I Port Industrial (IDP)

Mixed - Residential I Commercial (MRC)
Mixed - Residential Induslrial (MRI)
Mixed - Town Center (MTC)

Recreation (PRC)

Regional Park (PR)

Private Marina (PRM)

Airport (AP)

Cemetery (C EM)

Institutional (INST)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



1 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-6380 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

 

August 27, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Public Hearing on the Establishment of a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone as requested by
Hunter Pasteur Homes Lafayette Park, LLC in the area of 1 100 Saint Aubin, Detroit,
MI in accordance with Public Act 147 of 1992 (Petition #792)

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning and Development Department and the
Finance Department have reviewed the Master Plan and the neighborhood preservation and
development goals of the City, and ?nd that establishment of the Hunter Pasteur Homes
Lafayette Park, LLC Neighborhood Enterprise Zone would be consistent with all of the
aforementioned.

Public Act 147 of 1992, commonly referred to as the Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) Act,
in Section 3(1) states ?the governing body of a local governmental unit by resolution may
designate one (1) or more neighborhood enterprise zones?. Prior to acting upon the resolution
establishing an NEZ, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written
notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that
levies an ad valorem tax within the proposed NEZ, said notice to be made not later than 45 days
prior to your Honorable Body?s passage of a resolution designating an NEZ.

The boundaries of the proposed NEZ are described in Exhibit A (legal description) and illustrated
in the map also attached.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of establishing this NEZ, as required
by the NEZ Act.

Respectfully submitted,

Donald Rencher
Director
DR/ml
cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
M. Cox, PDD
D. Rencher, HRD
M. Langston, HRD

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 147 of the Public Acts of 1992 (?the Act?), this
City Council has the authority to establish ?Neighborhood Enterprise Zones 
within the boundaries of the City of Detroit,

WHEREAS, Hunter Pasteur Homes Lafayette Park, LLC has requested establishment of
?Pullman Parc? NEZ whose boundaries are particularly described in Exhibit A (legal
description) and illustrated in the map attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, The Act 147 requires that, prior to establishing an NEZ, the City Council
shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing on such establishment, at which Public
Hearing, any representative of a taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the
City, or any resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the
matter;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the day of 2019, at am, in the City Council
Committee Room, 13th floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be
held on the above described application for establishment of an NEZ within the
boundaries described in Exhibit A (legal description) as illustrated in the map attached
hereto; and be it ?nally,

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk will provide notice of the Public Hearing to the general
public by publication, and shall give written notice by certi?ed mail to the taxing
authorities and to the owners of all real property within the NEZ.

Hunter Pasteur Homes Lafayette Park, LLC 

32300 Northwestern Highway, Suite 230
Farmington Hills, MI 48334

April 2, 2019

Detroit City Council
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) for
the Pullman Pare Development (Parcel No. 09004224.002)

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone for the
Pullman Pare redevelopment project on Tax Parcel No. 09004224.002 (the ?Property?),
as more particularly described in Attachment A. Hunter Pasteur Homes Lafayette Park
LLC (?Petitioner?) will be the developer of the condominium units subject to this
petition. Lafayette Park Land Owner LLC is currently the fee holder for Property, which
will subsequently be conveyed to Hunter Pasteur Homes Lafayette Park, LLC.

General Description of Facilig

This petition re-submits an application initially submitted in 2018 now that the parcel
combination and split has been completed and a Parcel ID assigned to the Property.
Petitioner intends to redevelop the subject Property into a condominium development
with 81 for-sale units on 3.24 acres. The Condominium Project is formally known as
Pullman Pare, Wayne County Condominium Subdivision Plan No. 1115. Figure 1
provides a context map and depicts the previous site conditions. Figure 2 provides a
rendering of the Pullman Pare redevelopment, with the condominium units in the rear.

itions



   
  
     

Fi_nre l. Context: Map and Pre?gus Site Cond

.. -. . 

 

5vg?.
The structure at 1100 Saint Aubin Street is the former Friends School, which closed in
2015 and is being demolished to make way for the productive redevelopment of the site.

1

-o
(A I

Contact: seth?u or (248) 539-5511

 

 

Figure 2: Rendering of the Pullman Pare Development

Condominium
Development

  

. . m"

The for-role condominiums appear in the background ofthe rendering. The overall
Pullman Pore redevelopment project includes a rentoi component. which is
depicted in the foreground of this rendering. The rental? component is Mport ofthis
petition. but rather is the Subject of a separate petition under PA210.

Basis for Quali?cation

The Pullman Pare project will develop ?new facilit[ies]? as de?ned under Section 
of the Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Act (the 1992 PA 147, MCL 207.772, as
the project will construct ?new individual condominium unit[s], in a structure with 1 or
more condominium units? that will have as their ?primary purpose residential housing?
and that will be ?occupied by an owner as his or her principal residence.?

Section 3(1) of the Act, MCL provides that a ?a neighborhood enterprise
zone shall contain not less than 10 platted parcels of land.? The Pullman Pare NEZ will
contain 81 parcels, corresponding to the number of condominium units. The
Condominium Master Deed was executed on March 27, 2019 and was recorded on April
2, 2019. The site plan set forth in Exhibit to the Master Deed is included here as
Attachment and depicts the 81 condominium units. Accordingly, the proposed zone
will ?contain [more than] 10 platted parcels of land? and thus is eligible for designation

as a NEZ under Section 3(1) of the Act.
Timeline for Rehabilitation

Construction of the Pullman Parc residential project is expected to commence in the
second half of 2019.

Contact Information

 

If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Seth Herkowtiz with Hunter
Pasteur Homes at seth@hunteroasteurhomes.com or (248) 539-5511.

 

Respectfully submitted,

Hunter Pasteur Homes Lafayette Park LLC,
a limited liability compaTy


By: ?n .

Its: Authorized Representative

 

ATTACHMENT A: PARCEL ID AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Lafayette Park Land Owner, LLC is currently the fee holder for

Owner:
Property, which will subsequently be conveyed to Hunter Pasteur
Homes Lafayette Park, LLC.

Parcel ID: 09004424.002

Legal Description: See below

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

The land which Is to the Condominium Project established by thle Master Deed ta
as follows:

Lands situated In the Clty of Detrolt. Wayne County. Mlohlgan as part of Lots 12
and 13. Elmwood Park Urban Renewal Plat No. 1. as recorded In leer 89. Pages 47, 48
and 49 of Plate. Wayne County Records. more particularly described as:

COMMENCING at the .Southweeterly corner of eald Lots 12 and 13. also belng the
Intersectton of the Easterly line of St Aubln Avenue (120 toolwlde - publlc) and the Northerly
line of Lafayette Avenue (120 foot wide - publlc]; thence along said Northerly line of
Lafayette Avenue, 114.15 feet to the POINT OF thence
10.77 feet; thence 2.72 teat along the arc of a curve to the right. having a
radius of 62.00 feet. a central angle of and a chord bearing 2.72
feet: thence 100.95 feet: thence 15.81 feet along the arc of a curve to the
right. having a radlua of 82.00 feet. a central angle of and a chord bearing
15.77 feet; thence 31.58 feet along the are of a curve to the right. having a
radius of 162.00 feet. a central angle of 1 and a chord bearlng 31.53
feet; thence 353.42 feet; thence 22.28 feet: thence
64.39 feet to the Southerly line of a 50 foot walkway and publlc easement. as
platted in eald Elmwocd Park Urban Renewal Plat No. 1; thence along said Southarly llne,
428.05 feet; thence 317.61 feet; thence 297.14
feet; thence 20.68 feet; thence 158.15 feet; thence
129.65 feet to the aforementtoned Northerly line of Lafayette Avenue; thence
along said Northerly line. 21.08 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

?3242 acres of land.
- .. ..- . la 
l?L? ?60 ?9 CITY OF DETROIT
PER ASSESSORS

 

ATTACHMENT B: EXHIBIT TO THE CONDOMINIUM MASTER DEED

 

 

Bernard J. Youngblood
Hoyno County Register of Beads

19 2 :35 2015112149 L: 54958 P: 1291
03:34 on mac Total Pages: 102



MASTER DEED
PULLMAN PARC

This Master Dead is made and executed on the 27th day of March, 2019. by Hunter Pasteur
Homes Lafayette Park. LLC, a Michigan limited liability company. hereinafter referred to as
"Developer," whose post of?ce address is 32300 Northwestern Highway, Suite 230. Farmington
Hills. Michigan 48334. in pursuance of the provisions of the Michigan Condominium Act (being Act
59 of the Public Acts of 1978. as amended). hereinafter referred to as the "Act."

WHEREAS. the Developer desires by recording this Master Deed. together with the Bylaws
attached hereto as Exhibit A and together with the Condominium Subdivision Plan attached hereto
as Exhibit (both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof). to
establish the real property described in Article II below. together with the improvements located and
to be located thereon. and the appurtenances thereto. as a residential Condominium Project under

the provisions of the Act.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Developer does. upon the recording hereof, establish Pullman
Parc as a Condominium Project under the Act and does declare that Pullman Parc (hereinafter
referred to as the "Condominium," "Project" or the "Condominium Project") shall, after such
establishment. be held, conveyed. hypothecatad, encumbered. leased, rented. occupied, improved.
or in any other manner utilized. subject to the provisions of the Act. and to the covenants, conditions
restrictions, uses. limitations and af?rmative obligations set forth in this Master Deed and ExhibitsA
and 3 hereto. all of which shall be deemed to run with the land and shall be a burden and a benefit
to the Developer. its successors and assigns. In furtherance of the establishment of the
Condominium Project. it is provided as follows:

-
.J?ogngna snowfog

er aim raga/r1 
AMY L. muss-wt;intimation
PLAT 

 

 

 

AMY I
FIAT ENGHEER

 

 

?gnaw-lama?;
.

Of-me'u .-
WAYNE COUNTY CONDOMINIUM 
SUBDIVISION PLAN NO. sic-:2" mof?iim 
EXHIBIT TO THE MASTER DEED OF wagon jg}?

1% .. 59791 E's-h


(Per PEA. Inc.)

Lands situated in the City of Detroit. Wayne County. Michigan Described as part of Lots
12 and 13. EImvmod Park Urban Renewal Fiat NO. I. as recorded In Lit-er 39, Pages 
4B and ?9 at Plots. Wayne County Records. mare aar?tlculany asunhca as:

CMENCING at the corner of said Lots 12 and 1.3. also being the
Intel-Section at the Eosto?y ?no of SI. Aubin Avcnua (I20 foot wItIa public) and the
Northern: ?ne at Lafayette Avenue [120 tool. with public}: thence atang said Nodhe?y
llna at Lafayette Avenue. 114.15 font to the POINT OF BEGINNING: Ihcnca
103?? feat: thence feet atong the arc of a can: to Lha right. having
a radius of 62.013 Feat. a Central ongIe of and a chord bearing 
2.?2 fact; lhancc 100.95 feet: thence 15.81 Iaet along the arc Of a curve
to the right. having a radius OI EZDU teat. a angle aI and a chord

bearing 15.7? fact: thence 51.58 feet along the arc Of a curve to n?gI-It,

having a radius of IEZDD fact. a control anglc af 11?10'05?. and a chord bearing
31.53 fact: thancn n25?05?4s"w. 353.42 feet: thence 22.28
feet; thence 54.39 feet to the line at a 50 Toot Iwalkway and
pub?c casement. as platted In said Pork Urban Renewal Plot No. 1; thence
along said Southerty line. 428.05 feet: thence 317.61 feet:
thence 297.14- Icct: thence EDGE fact; lhanCc 
ISBJS {cc-t: IhenCe 129.55 feet to the afaruncntioned Marthe-1y line Of
Lafayette Avmue; thence along said line. 21.08 feet to the POINT
OF BEGINNING. Containing 15.242 acres of land.

OPER

HUNTER PASTEUR HOMES
LAFAYETTE PARK LLC

32300 NORTHWESTERN HWY
SUITE 230

FARMINGTON HILLS, MI 48334

SUR OR 3: PREPARER

PEA. INC.

24-30 ROCHESTER COURT. SUITE 100
TROY. MI 48085-1872

THIS CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN IS NOT REQUIRED TO CONTAIN
DETAILED PROECT DESIGN PLANS PREPARED BY THE APPROPRIATE
LICENSED DESIGN SUCH PRDLECT DESIGN PLANS ARE
FILED. AS PART OF THE CONSTRUCTION PERMIT APPUCATION. THE
ENFORCING AGENCY FOR THE STATE CONSTRUCTION. CODE IN THE
RELEVANT SUEDMSION THE ENFORCING AGENCY MAY BE
A LOCAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT OR THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF
LICENSING AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS.

INDEX OF DRAWINGS

 



ATTENTION: COUNTY REGISTER OF DEEDS

THE CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN NUMBER MUST BE ASSIGNED IN
CONSECUTIVE SEQUENCE. WHEN A NUMBER HAS BEEN ASSIGNED TO
THIS IT MUST BE SHOW IN THE TITLE LIN 
SHEET AND IN THE CERTIFICATE SHOWN ON SHEET NO. 2.

 

COVER SHEET 25 UNIT PLAN 
SURVEY 26 "onz' unrr PLAN AND SECTION
SITE PLAN 27 "an" UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
unUT'r PLAN 28 "ens? UNIT AND sacnon
EASBIENT PLAN 29 PLAN AND ECHDN
EASEMENT DESCRIPTIONS SO UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
UNIT PLAN AND 53mm 31 UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
unrr FUN AND SECTION 32 UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
"Tat" UNIT PLAN AND 5-2ch 3:5 UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
"132" UNIT PLAN AND SECTION 34 PLAN AND 
UNIT PLAN AND SECTION 35 UNIT HAN AND secnon
UNIT PLAN AND sacnon 35 UNIT PLAN AND 
UNIT PLAN AND ECIION 37 "Cl-15" UNIT PLAN AND secnon
UNIT PLAN AND salmon 38 UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
UNIT PLAN AND SECTION 39 UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
UNIT PLAN AND SECTION 40 "ens" UNIT PLAN SECTION
"an" UNIT PLAN AND Sicnon 41 UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
?Mal" UNIT PLAN AND SECTION 42 UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
UNIT scnons 43 "ens" unrr PLAN AND SECTION

        

 

UNIT PLAN AND SECTION
UNIT PLAN AND SCTION
UNIT PLAN AND 

PARC
UNIT PLAN AND SECTION 
UNIT PLAN AND SECTION COVER SHEET nag-[m


DATE 11' an" ?mm?m-

 



 

 

 

noamamlmni .35
z?a< hm

           

 

 

 

 

I111

E. LAFAYETTE AVE.
(120 WEBB-PUBLIC.)

35
5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[awn-1H4)
?Id 

 

 



 

 

 

 

a


3235
nag

 

 

as:
Ra?:

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

a;
55

223
5

 

 




2019-04?12

792

792 Petition of Hunter Pasteur Homes
Lafayette Park, LLC, request for
Establishment of Neighborhood
Enterprise Zone for the Pullman Pare
Dvelopment

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT LAW
DEPARTMENT
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION FINANCE
DEPTIASSESSMENTS DIV.

  
 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

OFFICIQF THE ASSESSOR .

June 4, 2019

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Hunter Pasteur Homes Lafayette Park LLC
Property Address: 1900 Pembridge
Parcel ID: 09004424.002

Mr. Cox:

The Of?ce of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Pullman Parc
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone, located in the Elmwood Park area of Detroit.

The rationale for creating NEZ projects under PA 147 of 1992, as amended, must be based on the anticipation of
market value added to the neighborhood upon completion of new construction and/or significant rehabilitation of
existing housing stock.

The proposed area consists of vacant land on 3.240 acres with the buildings being demolished in 2019. The
developer proposes to new construction of 81 for-sale condominium units under the Pullman Parc Wayne County
Condominium Subdivision Plan No. 1115. The current True Cash Value of the proposed area is $1,553,200 and
contains approximately 3.240 acres of land. The True Cash Value of this area would be expected to increase due to
the new construction of this project.

Per MCL 207.772 Sec 2 "New facility" means 1 or both of the following: (i)A new structure or a portion of a new
structure that has as its primary purpose residential housing consisting of 1 or 2 units, 1 ofwhich is or will be occupied
by an owner as his or her principal residence. New facility includes a model home or a model condominium unit.
New facility includes a new individual condominium unit, in a structure with 1 or more condominium units, that has
as its primary purpose residential housing and that is or will be occupied by an owner as his or her principal residence.

Per MCL 207.773 Sec. 3. (1) The governing body of a local governmental unit by resolution may designate 1 or
moreneighborhood enterprise zones within that local governmental unit. Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, a neighborhood enterprise zone shall contain not less than 10 platted parcels of land. A neighborhood
enterprise zone located in a quali?ed downtown revitalization district may contain less than 10 platted parcels if
the platted parcels together contain 10 or more facilities. All the land within a neighborhood enterprise zone shall
also be compact and Contiguous. Contiguity is not broken by a road, right-of?way, or property purchased or taken
under condemnation if the purchased or condemned property was a single parcel prior to the sale or
condemnation.

 

Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
Hunter Pasteur Homes Lafayette Park LLC
Page 2

Upon review, it has been determined that this proposed district located in the Elmwood Park area is?eligible for
designation as a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone per PA 147 of 1992, as amended.
Sincere]



Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
Hunter Pasteur Homes Lafayette Park LLC

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3
Parcel Number Property Address Owner Name TCV Acres
09004424002 1900 Pembridge Lafayette Park Land Owner LLC $1,553,200 3.240

 

 

 

Legal Description: ST AUBIN PART OF 12 AND 13 ELMWOOD PARK URBAN RENEWAL PLAT NO. 1 L89 P47 PLATS
WCR, COMMENCING AT THE SOUTHWESTERLY CORNER OF SAID LOTS 12 AND 13 ALSO BEING THE INTERSECTION
OF THE EASTERLY LINE OF ST AUBIN AVE (120 FT WD) AND THE NORTHERLY LINE OF LAFAYETTE AVE (120 FT WD),
THENCE 114.15 FT TO POB, THENCE THENCE 2.72 FT ALONG THE ARC OF A
CURVE TO THE RIGHT, HAVING A RADIOUS OF 62 FT, CENTRAL ANGLE OF CHORD BEARING 
2.72 FT, THENCE 100.95 FT, THENCE 15.81 FT ALONG A ARC OF A CURVE TO THE
RIGHT, RADIOUS OF 62 FT, CENTRAL ANGLE OF AND CHORD BEARING 15.77 FT, THENCE
31.58 FT ALONG A CURVE TO THE RIGHT, RADIOUS OF 162 FT, CENTRAL ANGLE OF AND CHORD
BEARING 31.53 FT, THENCE 353.42 FT, THENCE 22.28 FT, THENCE 
64.39 FT, THENCE FT, THENCE 317.61 FT, THENCE 
297.14 FT, THENCE 20.66 FT, THENCE 158.15 FT, THENCE 129.65 FT,
THENCE 21.08 FT TO POB 3.240 ACRES

The legal description matches the NEZ district request0900040?? 
3 . "i

05" 04194-314

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE Sons 808
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 . m2??

CITY or DETROIT (313) 224-13")
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
T0: Veronica Farleyr Housing and Revitalization
FROM: John Baran, Flaming and Development
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Neighborhood Enterprise Zone located at 1100 St.

Aubin and 1.961 E. Lafayette
DATE: June 1, 2018
CC: Maurice Cox, Director

In order to ensure consistency with the City?s Master Plan of Policies. pursuant to State of
Michigan, Public Act 147 of 1992 (section 207.773), the Planning and Development
Department?s Planning Division submits the following interpretation for the proposed
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ).

Petitioner:
Lafayette Park Land Owner, LLC

Proiect Description:
Redevelop the subject property into a development consisting of 125-150 multi-family

residential units and approximately 82 for-sale condominium units.

Proiect Location:
1100 St. Aubin and 1961 E. Lafayette

lntemretalion:
The Master Plan Future Land Use designation for the site is Institutional (INST). The site was

formerly a private school (the former Friends School). The portion of the Institutional area to the
south is St. John?s Presbyterian Church. The Master Plan Future General Land Use designation
for the immediate surrounding area is Medium Density Residential (RM). Medium - Density
Residential areas should have an overall density of 16 to 24 dwelling units per net residential
acre. The areas are often characterized by multi-unit apartment buildings with a common
entrance and shared parking.

The overall density of the proposed development exceeds the density for RM areas. The
development is in proximity to along a Major Street (Lafayette) and a Secondary Street (St.
Aubin). The area adjacent to the existing medium density residential neighborhoods to the north
and cast are to be developed with lower density units; the higher density is to be on the west and
south sides of the site. The developers and City agencies, with input from area residents, should
coordinate efforts to design the sight to insure lower density development along the existing
medium density neighborhoods.

3 Amhlve'J?LNiPlumm nit-?90 - Mule! leUntemwiomk?E?iPa 141131100 

 

The Master Plan Future General Land use categories used on all the maps are generalized.
Boundaries are not meant to be precise as to blocks or preperty lines. Categories are descriptive
of general development recognizing that some interrnixtures are permissible or desirable.

The proposed development does not change the Future General Land Use characteristics of
the area and conforms to the policies of the City?s Master Plan.

JLEBDUWNT. Mchirc?i?LMlenhn DiriDO - Mater mo 51 Alibi-1.6m

 Qtity at Detroit

Irvin Corley, Jr.

Executive Policy Manager CITY COUNCIL
2:23:25; ?3,113" LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Deputy Director Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

 
 
 
 
  

TO: COUNCIL MEMBERS

Izz

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashley A. Wilson

FROM: David Whitaker, Direct
Legislative Policy Divi 10
DATE: August 6, 2019
RE: REVISED RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A

SECONDARY STREET NAME IN HONOR OF EMANUEL STEWARD
AT THE INTERSECTION OF EAST JEFFERSON AVENUE AND ST.

AUBIN STREET

The Detroit City Council requested that the Legislative Policy Division (LPD) draft a RE 
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SECONDARY STREET
NAME IN HONOR OF EMANUEL STEWARD AT THE INTERSECTION OF EAST

JEFFERSON AVENUE AND ST. AUBIN STREET.
Attached, please ?nd our draft of the aforementioned resolution.

Please contact us if we can be of any further assistance.

 

This resolution previously approved by City Council, has now been revised to more accurately re?ect the
accomplishments of Mr. Emanuel Stewart. The ceremony to put into place the secondary street sign at the

intersection of East Jefferson Avenue and St. Aubin, is scheduled for August 18, 2019.

1

RESOLUTION BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
SECONDARY STREET NAME 1N HONOR OF EMANUEL AT THE
INTERSECTION OF EAST JEFFERSON AVENUE AND ST. AUBIN STREET

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

The Detroit City Council has received a request from Council President Jones, on
behalf of Marie Steward (wife), Sylvia Steward-Williams (daughter and Kronk
Boxing, CEO), Diane Steward-J ones {sister and President of the Emanuel Steward
Foundation), LaVeme Steward-Hester (sister), Hilmer Kenty: World Boxing
Association-Kronk?s 1St World Champion, Thomas Heams: World Boxing Council,
World Boxing Association, World Boxing Organization and lnternational Boxing
Federation World Champion, Milton McCrory: World Boxing Council and North
American Boxing Federation World Champion, and Jimmie Paul: The
?Ringmaster? International Boxing Federation and United States Boxing
Association World Champion, to assign a secondary street name in honor of
Emanuel Steward, to be located at the intersection of East Jefferson Avenue and St.
Aubin Street; and

Emanuel Steward, celebrated as being the greatest boxing trainer of all time
took a small basement in Detroit named Kronkthe place where boxing champions were made; and

by the 1980?s, Emanuel Steward and his associates had built the Kronk Boxing
Team into a world powerhouse, mystifying boxing experts the world over who
marveled at his Detroit club?s accomplishments. Mr, Steward trained a total ot?43
world champions and 9 Olympic Gold Medalists all at the 1984 Olympics. He
also trained countless amateur national and regional champions; and

Emanuel Steward was himself a ?erce amateur boxing champion, who as a member
of the 1963 Detroit Golden Gloves Championship Team, won the 1963 Golden
Gloves Bantamweight Championship Title at the 1963 National Golden Gloves
Tournament of the US, making it the ?rst Detroit boxing team to bring the National
Championship Trophy back to Detroit since Joe Louis; and

In 1981, Steward was pro?led in People Magazine, in connection with the
September 16, 1981 Beams-Leonard ti ght. In 1987, Steward appeared on the cover
of the Wall Street Journal, as the personi?cation ot'Detroit in sports; and in 19%,
he was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame. A year later in 1997,
Mr. Steward was featured in the September 15'h issue of Sports Illustrated, in an
article entitled: ?Mr. Fix-it Emanuel Steward, Boxing Guru, Has Created a Mecca
For Fighters In Need of Repair;? and

WHEREAS, In addition to being recognized as a boxing guru and trainer of champions, Mr.
Steward was also an entrepreneur and venture capitalist. In 1993 he purchased and
refurbished the 1940 Chop House, an iconic restaurant on East Jefferson and St.
Aubin and a Detroit landmark. During the reopening of this mainstay restaurant,
Mr. Steward vowed to hire Detroiters to operate and manage the facility, a vow that
he kept; and

WHEREAS, Emanuel Steward became a boxing commentator for the HBO Network, until his
passing on October 25, 2012; NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, The Detroit City Council ?nds the above mentioned individual and the proposed
location meets the criteria for Secondary Naming of a Street, in accordance with
Article VII, Sections 50- 7- 31 through Sections 50- 7- 50 of the 1984 Detroit City
Code; BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the intersection of East Jefferson Avenue and St. Aubin Street be assigned the
secondary street name ?Emanuel Steward? in celebration of his noteworthy
achievements, BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the pro_] ect cost of designing, producing, erecting, replacing and removing the
necessary signs and markers shall be paid, in advance, to the Street Fund by the
petitioner requesting the secondary name, AND BE IT FINALLY

RESOLVED, That a certi?ed copy of the resolution shall be transmitted by the City Clerk to the
Fire Department, Police Department, the Department of Public Works and its City
Engineering and Traf?c Engineering Divisions, the Department of Transportation
and the United States Postal Service.

David Whitaker, Esq.

Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.Executive
Policy Manager

Marcell R. Todd, Jr.SeniorCity
Planner

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Timothy Boscarino, AICP
Kemba Braynon

Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

TO: The Honorable City (30me

Qtitp of Eetrutt
CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

  
 

f, 
FROM: David Whitaker, Directg?
Legislative Policy Divi ion Staff
DATE: July 24, 2019
RE: ESTABLISHMENT OF A CEMETERY IN DISTRICT 3



anese Chapman
Richard Drumb
George Etheridge
Derrick Headd

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Analine Powers, 
Sabrina Shockley
Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas
Underwood
Ashley Wilson

The Legislative Policy Division was asked by City Council Member Benson to write a report on
the rules, regulations, and process of establishing a cemeteryl.

State Regulations

According to the Cemetery Regulation Act of 1968, a cemetery is de?ned as 1 or a combination of
more than 1 of the following:

A burial ground for earth interments

A mausoleum for entombments

0 A crematory for the cremation for human remains

a A columbarium for the inurnment of cremated remains

A cemetery engaged in any of the activities listed above, that are not owned and operated by a
municipality, church, or a religious institution will be subject to Cemetery Regulation Act of

19682. Cemeteries owned and operated by a municipality, church, or religious institution are
exempt from Act 251 0f1968.

 

1 This Report attempts to summarize the statutory and regulatory scheme found under Michigan law relative to the
establishment of cemeteries, however anyone that is attempting to establish a cemetery should seek advice from
counsel having expertise in the area of cemetery establishment, before acting on anything recorded here.

2 Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs? website: michigan.gov/lara/

I Proof of Health Department approval?), if applicable
0 Copy of permit1 1, if applicable

The commissioner will investigate all owners, directors, partners, members, etc. to determine
their experience, ?nancial security, responsibility, and stability, as well as, the source, nature,
and the amount of ?lnding needed?. A person or group is ineligible to be a cemetery owner or
have a controlling interest, if they were convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor involving fraud,
theft, or dishonesty; submitted false information on the application; or fails the commissioner?s
investigation?. It is at the discretion of the commissioner to use arrests, bankruptcy ?lings,
delinquent taxes, or any non-compliance with regulatory requirements of any kind in any state to
evaluate an applicant?s ability to establish and maintain a cemetery?.

A Prepaid Funeral and Cemetery Sales

The owner of the cemetery will also need to apply for a certi?cate of registration, which if
approved is valid for 3 years from the cemetery commissioner for $120?. This certi?cate allows
a cemetery to accept payment in advance of someone?s death for funeral or cemetery services
and/or merchandise?.

A Prepaid Funeral and Cemetery Sales Registration Application Requires:

0 Name and business address of the person registering

The names and addresses of persons owning 10% or more interest

a The business address where books and records pertaining to prepaid contracts will be
maintained for inspection by the department

0 A list of the names and addresses of any escrow agents in which funds have or will be
deposited17

I Copies of all escrow and trust fund agreements between the registrant and an escrow
agent18

0 A statement made under oath that the registrant has an agreement with each escrow agent

The Licensing Division may deny an application if the person was previously registered, and the
registration was revoked or suspended within 2 years before the date of the current application;
or the person was or is presently an owner with a substantial interest in an entity, partner, or
employee of a person whose registration was revoked or suspended within 2 years before the

 

'0 The Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, Cemetery Regulation, General Rules 456.1201

Required under the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, PA 451 of 1994 MCL 324.5542.

?2 Cemetery Regulation Act, MCL 456.528

?3 Cemetery Regulation Act, MCL 456.533a

?4 Act 251 of1968, MCL 456.533a

15Prepaid Funeral and Cemetery Sales Act, PA 255 of 1986, MCL 328.216

'6 MCL 328.214 de?nes merchandise as cemetery vaults, other outside containers, grave memorials, caskets,
catafalques, etc. It does not include land, mausoleums, or columbariums.

'7 Prepaid Funeral and Cemetery Sales Act, MCL 328.216

?8 MCL 328217-218 and MCL 328.222, describes rules and regulations a registrant and escrow agent must follow.

The group of people that wishes to incorporate must have a meeting with the municipality that
the proposed cemetery will be located in?. If they are granted the right to incorporate, then they
must elect a board of no less than 9 and no more than 12 trustees?. The members of the board of
trustees can vote to make by-laws, rules, and regulations for the of?cers to follow in order to
ensure proper operation of the corporation?. The Board of Trustees must ?le with the cemetery
commissioner and the clerk of the corporation maps that describe the speci?cs related to land,
location, and layout of the cemetery31 for a non-refundable fee of $50.

City Regulations
The City?s Zoning Ordinance regulates the location and appearance of cemeteries within the city.
These regulations detail which zoning districts the cemeteries may locate. Our Zoning Code
states that a cemetery can only exist as a conditional-use in R1, R2, and R3 zoning districts or the
owner would need to get legislative approval if its construction was a part of a planned
development project?. Section 61-12-132 states that cemeteries that abuts or is across the street
from R1, R2, and R3 Districts are subject to a 20 foot yard between street and burial plots, land
must be landscaped, and any warehouses, mausoleums, crematories, etc. cannot be located
within 150 feet from the nearest residential property line.

The Detroit Parks and Recreation Department handles the preservation of local public cemeteries
that are owned by the city. Currently, individual owners of cemeteries set by-laws within the
con?nes of state law that they?ve deemed necessary to keep their grounds clean and organized.

Conclusion
The most critical requirements for opening a cemetery are compliance with local zoning
property-related regulations, and ful?lling the requirements contained in the Cemetery
Regulations Act, which articulates that owner?s level of experience and ?nancial aptitude. The
community?s need for a cemetery of the type sought, must also be examined, as well as, its
physical location within the community. Determining the location of a cemetery requires
consideration of public welfare, the prosperity of the surrounding community, in addition to the
number and the capacity of existing cemeteries. There?s a perception that cemeteries lower the
property value of surrounding homes and businesses. Therefore, taking into account the
perSpective of local communities and involving local community groups in the process is
extremely important.

If we can be of any further assistance, please call upon us.

 

23 MCL 456.6

29 MCL 456.8

30 MCL 456.15

31 MCL 456.17

32 Chapter 61 Zoning Ordinance, section 61?12-27

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - TTY2711

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-!310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   
 

 

August 19, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
2551 Hammond St, Detroit, MI 48209

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
Ms. Alejandra Morales, to purchase certain City-owned real property at 2551 Hammond (the
?Property?) for the purchase price of Three Thousand Five Hundred Ninety Two and 001100
Dollars 

Ms. Morales proposes to utilize the property as a green space adjacent to her home at 2557
Hammond. Currently, the property is within a M4 zoning district (Intensive Industrial District).
Ms. Morales? proposed use of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which
the Property is zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Ms. Alejandra Morales

Respectfully submitted,

   

Maurice D. COX
Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale ofcertain real property at 2551 Hammond. Detroit. M1 (the as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Alejandra Morales for the purchase
price of Three Thousand Five Hundred Ninety Two and 00/100 Dollars 

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Alejandra Morales consistent with this resolution; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees he paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two I lundred Fifteen Dollars and 51/100 Dollars ($215.52) shall be paid to the DBA
from the sale proceeds, 2) One Hundred Seventy Nine and 60;? 100 Dollars {$179.60} shall be paid
to the real estate brokerage firm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up
to Two Hundred and 00f100 Dollars [$200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it
further

RESOLVED. that the Director. or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or confirmations of legal descriptions. 0r timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property. provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered confirmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designce, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

HAMMOND LOT 112 LEAVITTS SUB L2 P29 PLATS, 16/ 165 30 150

a/k/a 2551 Hammond
Tax Parcel ID 16015800.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By:

 

Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - TTYz7ll
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

August 19, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
314 Philadelphia, Detroit, MI 48202

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
Develop Detroit Inc., a Michigan Non-Pro?t Corporation to purchase certain City-owned real
property at 314 Philadelphia (the ?Property?) for the purchase price of Thirty Two Thousand
and 00/100 Dollars 

The Property consists of a two-family residential dwelling, located on an area of land measuring
approximately 6,200 square feet and zoned R3 (Low Density Residential District). DevelOp Detroit
Inc. proposes to rehabilitate the property and continue its use as a residential dwelling. This use is
pemiitted by right in a R3 zone.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer Of the Property by the City to Develop Detroit Inc..

Respectfully submitted, .

. - 
Maurie D. Cox
Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Office

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 314 Philadelphia, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more
particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Develop Detroit Inc. for
the purchase price of Thirty Two Thousand and 00/ 100 Dollars 

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Develop Detroit Inc. consistent with this resolution; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) One Thousand Six Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars shall
be paid to the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing
costs up to Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)


LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:
PHILADELPHIA LOT 81 BELA HUBBARDS L21 P7 PLATS, 1/111 50 125

a/k/a 314 PHILADELPHIA
Tax Parcel ID 01002586.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By:

 

Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

[1?9

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY or DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

August 19, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
14905, 14907, 14931 W. Grand River

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
Benkari Properties LLC, a Michigan Limited Liability Corporation to purchase certain City-owned
real property at 14905, 14907 and 1493] W. Grand River (the "Property"'} For the purchase price
ofTwelve Thousand One Hundred Fifty and ODHOO Dollars 

The Property consists of two adjacent attached vacant structures at 14905 and 14907 W. Grand
River totaling 3,090 sq. feet and a 2,000 square feet vacant corner lot at 14931. Grand River.
The Principal of Benkari Properties LLC is Adrienne Bennett. She proposes to renovate the
Property for use as headquarters oftheir full service plumbing contracting company, Benkari LLC.
The property is within a B4 zoning district (General Business District). Benkari Properties LLC
proposed use of the Property is permitted by right in a B4 zone.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Benkari Properties LLC.

Respectfully submitted

Maurice D. COX 

Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 14905, 14907 and 14931 W. Grand River, Detroit, M1 (the
?Property?). as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to
Benkari Properties LLC for the purchase price of Twelve Thousand One Hundred Fifty and 00/ 1 00
Dollars 

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee. is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Develop Detroit Inc. consistent with this resolution; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services l-?ees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
l) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00! 100 Dollars ($1500.00) shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Six Hundred Seven and 50/100 Dollars ($607.50) shall be paid to
the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to

Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (inciuding but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

Parcel 1

GRAND RIVER LOT 23 STRATHMOOR SUB NO 3 L32 P61 PLATS, 22/79 20 100

a/k/a 14905 GRAND RIVER
Tax Parcel ID 22007036.002L

Parcel 2

GRAND RIVER LOT 22 STRATHMOOR SUB NO 3 L32 P61 PLATS, 22/79 20 100

a/k/a 14907 GRAND RIVER
Tax Parcel ID 22007037.

Parcel 3

GRAND RIVER LOT 17 STRATHMOOR SUB NO 3 L32 P61 PLATS, 22/79 20 100

a/k/a 14931 GRAND RIVER
Tax Parcel ID 22007041.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By:

 

Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

IZ7

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
- 2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - TTY2711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

August 12, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
1629 and 1635 Waterman, Detroit, MI 48209

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from Robert
Garcia (the ?Purchaser), whose address is 1623 Waterman, Detroit, MI 48209 to purchase certain
City-owned real property at 1629 and 1635 Waterman, Detroit, M1 (the ?Properties?). The 
entered into a purchase agreement, dated July 2, 2019, with the Purchaser. Under the terms of the
proposed Purchase Agreement, the property will be conveyed to the purchaser for the purchase
price of Two Thousand Seven Hundred and 00/100 Dollars 

The Purchaser?s primary residence is located at 1623 Waterman. They have expressed interest in
purchasing the properties to expand their own yard. Currently, the properties are located within a
M4 zoning district (Intensive Industrial District). Purchaser?s use of the Property shall be
consistent with the allowable uses for which the property is zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of

to execute a deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect a
transfer of the property by the City to Robert Garcia.

Respectfully submitted, 

aurice D. Cox
Director

Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 1629 and 1635 Waterman, Detroit, M1 (the ?Properties?), as more
particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Robert Garcia (the
?Purchaser) for the purchase price of Two Thousand Seven Hundred and 00/100 Dollars
and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) One Hundred Sixty Two and 00/ 100 Dollars ($162.00) shall be paid to the DBA
from the sale proceeds, 2) One Hundred Thirty Five and 00/ 100 Dollars ($135.00) shall be paid to
the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to
Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:
Parcel 1

WATERMAN LOT 1 CUNNINGHAM BRIGHAMS SUB L10 P3 PLATS, 18/162
30 141.72

a/k/a 1629 Waterman
Tax Parcel ID 18008186

Parcel 2

WATERMAN LOT 4 THOMAS BROS SUB L24 P88 PLATS, 18/163 45 138.72

a/k/a 1635 Waterman .
Tax Parcel ID18008185 C,

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys



Basil Sarim, P. S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

 

CITY OF DETROIT (3l3) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
July 31, 2019

Detroit City Council

2 Woodward Avenue

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Southwest Housing Solutions Corporation
Development: Newberry Pocket Park; generally bounded by Junction St.,
Jackson Ave., 33rd St. and Buchanan St.

Honorable City Council:

Pursuant to the First Amended and Restated Memorandum of Understanding 
between the City of Detroit and the Detroit Land Bank Authority approved by
your Honorable Body on May 5, 2015, the DLBA may not transfer ten (10) or more
parcels of property received from the City to the same transferee within any rolling 12
month period without the prior approval of the Mayor and City Council.

The DLBA is now in receipt of an offer from Southwest Housing Solutions Corporation,
a Michigan Nonpro?t Corporation (?Southwest Housing?) to enter into an option to
purchase ?fteen (15) properties (?the Property?) acquired by the DLBA from the City (as
described in the attached Exhibit A). The Property is located within the boundaries of
Junction St., Jackson Ave., 33rd St. and Buchanan St.

The total area of land measures approximately 40,600 square feet. Southwest Housing
proposes to transform the Property into a pocket park. This would beautify the
neighborhood and help support the Newberry Homes scattered site development. The
area is zoned R2 (Two Family Residential District). Any uses of the Property shall be
consistent with and subject to the guidelines and approval processes for R2 zoned areas.

 

Honorable City Council
July 3 1, 2019
Page 2

The Flaming Development Department, therefore, requests that your Honorable Body
authorize the Detroit Land Bank Authority to enter into an Option Agreement with
Southwest Housing Solutions Corporation, a Michigan Nonprofit Corporation, to sell the
Property as more particularly referenced in the attached Exhibit A for $1,500; and, upon
exercise of the option by the optionee, to sell such property in accordance with the terms
set forth in the Option Agreement.

Respcc fully submitted,

 
  

 

'ce Cox, Direc
Planning Development Department

 

MC/am

Attachments

Cc: Donald Rencher, HRD
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, the Detroit Land Bank Authority was created to assemble and
dispose of publicly owned properties in a coordinated manner to foster the development
of that property and to promote economic growth in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the First Amended and Restated Memorandum of
Understanding between the City of Detroit and the DLBA, approved by the
Detroit City Council on May 5, 2015, the DLBA may not transfer ten (10) or more
parcels of property received from the City of Detroit to the same transferee within any
rolling twelve (12) month period without the prior approval of the Mayor and City
Council; and

WHEREAS, the DLBA is now in receipt of an offer from Southwest Housing Solutions
Corporation, a Michigan Nonpro?t Corporation (?Southwest Housing?) to enter into an
option to purchase fifteen (15) properties ("the Property?) acquired from the City by the 
(as described in the attached Exhibit A). The Property is located within the boundaries of
Junction St., Jackson Ave, 33rd St. and Buchanan St; and

WHEREAS, Southwest Housing proposes to transformthe Property into a pocket park.
The total area of land measures approximately 40,600 square feet and is zoned R2

(Two Family Residential District). Any uses of the Property shall be consistent with and
subject to the guidelines and approval processes for R2 zoned areas.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that in accordance with the foregoing
communication, the Detroit Land Bank Authority, be and is hereby authorized to enter
into an Option Agreement with Southwest Housing Solutions Corporation, a Michigan
Nonprofit Corporation, to sell the Property as more particularly referenced in the attached
Exhibit A for $1,500; and, upon exercise of the option by the optionee, to sell such
property in accordance with the terms set forth in the Option Agreement.

{qumt?hU-INH

ha hi hi hi bile
UI-D cu bald :3

EXHIBIT A

Address Street
4017 33RD
4037 33RD
4033 33RD
4027 33RD
4023 33RD
4013 33RD
4007 33RD
4003 33RD
4000 Junction
4006 Junction
4012 Junction
4018 Junction
4024 Junction
4030 Junction
4036 Junction

Ward

Item

16 012562
16 012558
16 012559
16 012560
16 012561
16 012563
16 012564
16 012565
16 012994
16 012995
16 012996
16 012997
16 012998
16 012999
16 013000

Sales Price

100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
5 100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
5 100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
1,500.00

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNIZAL CENTER

- 2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
August 22, 2019
Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
4411 and 4419 Lemay, Detroit, MI 48214

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from Canfield
Consortium (the ?Purchaser), a Michigan nonpro?t corporation, to purchase certain City-owned
real property at 4411 and 4419 Lemay, Detroit, M1 (the ?Properties?). The entered into a
purchase agreement, dated July 29, 2019, with the Purchaser. Under the terms of the proposed
Purchase Agreement, the property will be conveyed to the purchaser for the purchase price of Four
Hundred and 00/100 Dollars 

The Purchaser is a nonpro?t organization focused on saving at?risk areas from blight. They intend
to purchase the properties with the intent of maintaining them as green space for individuals in the
community. Currently, the Properties are within an R2 zoning district (Two-Family Residential
District). Purchaser?s use of the Properties shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which

the Properties are zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
to execute a deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect a
transfer of the Properties by the City to Can?eld Consortium.

Respectfully submitted,

Maurice D. Cox 5: 

Director
4

coin. Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 4411 and 4419 Lemay, Detroit, M1 (the ?Properties?), as more
particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Can?eld Consortium (the
?Purchaser) for the purchase price of Four Hundred and 00/100 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds 1)
customary closing costs up to Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the
sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS

Parcel 1

LEMAY LOT 194 WM WALNUT HILL ADD TO DETROIT L19 P19 PLATS, 
21/535 30 154.49A

a/k/a 441 1 Lemay
Tax Parcel ID 21041702

Parcel 2

LEMAY LOT 195 WM WALNUT HILL ADD TO DETROIT L19 P19 PLATS, 
21/535 30 154.99A

a/k/a 4419 Lemay
Tax Parcel ID 21041701

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

  

 

Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   
 

 

August 7, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
10200 Dexter, Detroit, MI 48209

Honorable City Council:

The City Of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from The Benkel
Company, LLC (the ?Purchaser), a Michigan limited liability company, whose address is 269
Walker, Suite 504, Detroit, MI 48207, to purchase certain City-owned real property at 10200
Dexter, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?). The entered into a purchase agreement, dated July 5,
2019, with the Purchaser. Under the terms of the proposed Purchase Agreement, the property will
be conveyed to the purchaser for the purchase price of Six Thousand and 00/100 Dollars


The Purchaser owns the adjacent two parcels located at 10216 and 10230 Dexter. Together, with
these two adjacent parcels, Purchaser proposes to develop the property a green space and a
functional gathering space for the citizens of the neighborhood. Currently, 10200 Dexter is located
within a B4 zoning district (General Business District). Purchaser?s use of the Property shall be
consistent with the allowable uses for which the Properties are zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
to execute a deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect a
transfer of the Property by the City to The Benkel Company, LLC.

Respectfully submitte 

Maurice D. Cox
Director
'2 1

Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 10200 Dexter, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to The Benkel Company, LLC (the
?Purchaser) for the purchase price of Six Thousand and 00/100 Dollars and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and

be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Three Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($300.00) shall be paid to the
real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to Two
Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)


LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

Parcel 1

DEXTER LOTS 3 2 1 COURT GARDENS SUB L32 P86 PLATS, 12/180 75
120

a/k/a 10200 Dexter
Tax Parcel ID 12010485

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

yr"? y!

rift?J. 72:, kg

By: ?Etm
Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

(J,

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   

 

 

 

 

August 28, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
3970 Marlborough, Detroit, MI

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
3970 Marlborough LLC (?Purchaser?), a Michigan limited liability company, to purchase certain
City-owned real property at 3970 Marlborough (the ?Property?) for the purchase price of Seventy
Five Thousand and 00/100 Dollars 

The Purchaser proposes to utilize the Property for a mixed-use development. Currently, the
Property is within an R2 zoning district (Two-Family Residential District). The Purchaser?s
proposed use of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is
zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of

to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Purchaser.

Respectfully submitted,

 
   
 

aurice Cox
Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the sale
of certain real property at 3970 Marlborough, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to 3970 Marlborough LLC, a Michigan
limited liability company, for the purchase price of Seventy Five Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department or his
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may
be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of the Property to 3970 Marlborough LLC
consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed for transfer of the Property to 3970 Marlborough LLC shall
include a condition subsequent such that if 3970 Marlborough LLC does not clean and secure the
Property within six (6) months of closing and does not obtain a certi?cate of occupancy for the
Property with thirty six (3 6) months of closing, then title to the Property may, at the sole discretion
of the Director, revert back to City of Detroit; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Properties, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

MARLBOROUGH LOTS 102 THRU 81 AND REAR LOTS 60 THRU 39 AND VAC ALLEYS
LYG BETWEEN SAID LOTS 19.79 FT ON LINE BG 18.75 FT ON LINE OF
VACATED WAVENEY AVE LYG OF ADJ LOT 60 HUTTON NALLS BRUSSELS
HEIGHTS SUB L28 P66 PLATS, 21/432 660 IRREG

a/k/a 3970 Marlborough
Tax Parcel ID 21059335.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

33/71: .. 

Basil Sarim, 1" S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 0 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   

August 28, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
4365 Newport, Detroit, MI

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
4365 Newport LLC (?Purchaser?), a Michigan limited liability company, to purchase certain City-
owned real property at 43 65 Newport (the ?Property?) for the purchase price of Seventy Thousand
and 00/100 Dollars 

The Purchaser proposes to utilize the Property for a mixed-use development. Currently, the
Property is within an R2 zoning district (Two-Family Residential District). The Purchaser?s
proposed use of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is
zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Purchaser.

Respectfully submitted,

   
    

Maurice Cox
Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the sale
of certain real property at 4365 Newport, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to 43 65 Newport LLC, a Michigan limited
liability company, for the purchase price of Seventy Thousand and 00/100 Dollars 
and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department or his
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may
be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of the Property to 4365 NeWport LLC consistent
with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed for transfer of the Property to 4365 Newport LLC shall
include a condition subsequent such that if 4365 Newport LLC does not clean and secure the
Property within six (6) months of closing and does not obtain a certificate of occupancy for the
Property with thirty six (3 6) months of closing, then title to the Property may, at the sole discretion
of the Director, revert back to City of Detroit; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Properties, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it tina?y

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered confirmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:
EASTLAWN LOTS 133 THRU 141 AND REAR LOTS 62 THRU 69 NEWPORT HEIGHTS

SUB L32 P78 FLATS, 21/442 668.26 231

alk/a 43 65 Newport
Tax Parcel ID 21053026.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

X6

Basil Sarim, P. S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

 A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 SUITE 303
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
August 6, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
10015 Chalmers, Detroit, MI 48213

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
Thomas Associates, LLC (the ?Purchaser"), a Michigan limited liability company, whose
address is 8430 ii. Outer Drive, Detroit, MI 48213, to purchase certain City~owned real preperty
at l00l 5 Chalmers, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property"). The entered into a purchase agreement.
dated July 17, 2019, with the Purchaser. Underthe terms of the preposed Purchase Agreement, the
property will be conveyed to the Purchaser for the purchase price of Seven Thousand and 001100
Dollars 

The Purchaser intends to utilize the current existing structure located on the property as a rental
hall and community center. Currently, the property is within a B4 zoning district (General Business
District). Purchaser?s use OF the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the
Properties are zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of

to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Thomas Associates, LLC.

Respectfully submitted,

  

 

  

. Maurice D. Cox
Director

. cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale l' certain real property at 10015 Chalmers, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Thomas Associates, LLC (the
?Purchaser?) for the purchase price of Seven Thousand and 00/100 Dollars and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
l) 'l?wo Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 Dollars shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds. 2} Three l-Iundred Fifty and 00/ 100 Dollars ($350.00) shall be paid
to the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up
to Two Ilundred and 00! 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or confirmations of legal descriptions. or timing
of tender ol?possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property. provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:
Parcel 1

CHALMERS LOTS 595 596 STEVENS EST SUB NO 2 L48 P43 PLATS, 21/719
40 100

a/k/a 10015 Chalmers 6 A
Tax Parcel ID 21055845-6

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

,1 7 Ml
Biz--1 .

Basil Sarirn, P. S.
Professional Surveyor

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   

 

August 28, 2019

Detroit City Council

2 Woodward Avenue

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Correction of Sales Resolution
Wholesale Distribution No. 3 Project
Development: Parcel 572 (part of 3500 Riopelle): generally bound by Hale, Orleans,
Erskine and Riopelle

Honorable City Council:

On July 18, 2017, your Honorable Body adopted a resolution authorizing the sale by development
agreement of Parcel 572 (the ?Property?), which is part of 3500 Riopelle, to Ventra Group, LLC (the
?Purchaser?) to convert the former DWSD Old Central Yard warehouse into a mixed-use development
that includes certain food related facilities (the I?Oject?). The City anticipates that sale Of the
Property will close this Fall.

In anticipation of the closing, the Purchaser has requested that conveyance of the Property be to a
single-purpose entity created speci?cally for the Project. The name of this entity is Riopelle Market
Development LP.

We hereby request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution that amends the above
referenced sales resolution to re?ect a name change in the Purchaser from Ventra Group, LLC to
Riopelle Market Development LP.

Respectfully submitted,

 
 
 

 
 

Maurice Cox, DirectOr
Planning Development Department

 

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, on July 18, 2017, your Honorable Body adopted that certain resolution that approved
the sale by development agreement of certain City of Detroit property (the ?Resolution?) known as
Parcel 572 as further described in the attached Exhibit A (the ?Property?) to Ventra Group, LLC
(?Purchaser?), a Michigan limited liability company; and

WHEREAS, the Purchaser has requested that the Property now be conveyed to a single-purpose entity
created for the Project named Riopelle Market Development LP, a Delaware limited partnership
registered to transact business in Michigan; and now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that the Resolution is hereby amended such that the Purchaser? 5 name be amended from
Ventra Group, LLC to Riopelle Market Development and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department or his
authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to execute a Development Agreement, issue a quit
claim deed to the Property and execute such other documents as may be necessary to convey the
Property from the City to Riopelle Market Development LP for the purchase price of Seven Hundred
Thousand and 00/100 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of or his authorized designee is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the development
agreement and/or quit claim deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal
descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are
required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical
matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not
materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the development agreement and quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when
executed by the Director of or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation
Counsel as to form.

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

(See attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Land in the. City GI Dclrail, Counry ofWaym and State of L?ic W551 250 fat: of the South 3 I7 In: oflhe anh 377
[an of Lot 6. vacated Pierce and vacand Public Alley adieccni and whining saic Lot, "Subdivision of th: Rcar of th: Anloinc
thuwdr: me for :11: Adminisimrrix of Ihc Esmz of?nic-In: Rivard_" R:c'd IS. Eli-18.349 Deeds, Cir, Also, Lois
561. SE. 59, 50. 54. [:21 5h 55. 65. 75, 1115? F9. 30. named Scan Suacr. and vacated Public All=y adjacwl and adminmg said
"Pm. arm: Sutdamion anm 5 pi In: Subdivisial?l arm: Rear of the Ocquindrc Farm Nanh crNonh SI Detroit, Michigan
?cc'd L. 53. P. 1% Band; WI: and the mum: public .Jiicy a-jjninmg said "Farrand's Subn Uflhc
Norah Fri:- fl. of?ul Ln: Ei cl U1: Subn cFquumdrc Farm", 13:qu Wayne Cu Mich II. F. 6-1 Plat; Fl. also. Lu: 5,
6, $11.15. IT, '23 2'9, 113.11. 11.3 with all 111.]: pan of Scan Strut, Picruc 5016!. and ?16
Public My: arjpming and Lou. Crane'i Siihdwisicn?or0u  Lots No 53, 54? 57, 53_ Farm. i352, Rcc?d 53 
145 Duds. W.C.R.

DESCRIPTION CORRECT
ENGINEER 0F SURVEYS

?etl-e?j 0/24?

Same/as. Inc.
Mr.

Parcel 
1500 Riopcil: (pan 
Ward 071tcm I975-8'i {pm of]

 

/35

.25 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   

 

August 28, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Additional Land Transfers by City of Detroit and Detroit Land Bank Authority
In Support of Mack 1 Plant, Mack 2 Plant, Jefferson North Assembly Plant Projects

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority and FCA US
LLC have entered that certain Development Agreement relating to the investment of
approximately $2.5 billion in Mack l, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively
the ?Projects?) to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City. It is anticipated that the
Projects will result in the creation of approximately 4,950 additional FCA jobs in the City, as well as
increase business and economic opportunities for related supplier and support industries.

 

As part of due diligence for the Project, certain additional City?owned and Detroit Land Bank
Authority owned properties have been identi?ed as necessary for operations at its Mack
1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants, as well as a planned leased facility in the 1-94 Industrial
Park (the ?Additional Properties?). Attached hereto are two (2) separate resolutions approving the
conveyance of the Additional Properties by and through the City?s Planning and Development Department
and the DLBA, as applicable, to the DBRA, FCA, and /or designee, which are
summarized as follows:

0 Resolution 1 Land Transfer - DLBA to DBRA

The DLBA wishes to transfer certain parcels to the DBRA by land transfer agreement in furtherance
of the Projects and as further described in the attached Resolution 1.

0 Resolution 2 Amendment to CitvaBRA Land Transfer Agreement

The City and the DBRA wish to amend that certain Land Transfer Agreement relating to the
Projects in order to provide for the conveyance of the City-owned Additional Properties as further
described in the attached Resolution 2 to the DBRA, or, as agreed by the DBRA and FCA, directly
to FCA or designee. For properties intended to be transferred for use in the operation of
leased facility in the 1-94 Industrial Park, the City will receive a consideration in the amount
of $87,120 per acre or a purchase price to be determined based on a land value assigned to each
parcel by the City of Detroit Assessor and payable pursuant to the promissory note contemplated
by the Land Transfer Agreement, in the form of cash or a property exchange credit at the time of
the conveyance to designee.

The City is hereby requesting that your Honorable Body adopt the attached two (2) resolutions that approve
the conveyance of the Additional Properties in shpport of the Projects.

RESOLUTION 1

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority 
and FCA US have been in discussions to bring about the investment of approximately $2.5
billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the ?Projects?] to
expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City; and

WHEREAS, in support of the Projects, the Detroit Land Bank Authority wishes to transfer
certain DLBA parcels as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A Parcels?); now
therefore be it

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the sale of the DLBA Parcels to the DBRA for
the purchase price of One and 00/100 Dollar 

(See Attached Exhibit A)

RESOLUTION 1 - EXHIBIT A

DLBA PARCELS

 

CONCORD 36 GIRARDIN EST SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 36 92
7858 Concord, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15011025.

 

CONCORD 43 GIRARDIN EST SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 36.30 92
7908 Concord, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15011032.

 

CONCORD 41 GIRARDIN EST SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 36 92
7892 Concord, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15011030.

 

CONCORD 37 GIRARDIN EST SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 36 92
7864 Concord, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15011026.

 

CONCORD 35 GIRARDIN EST SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 36 92
7848 Concord, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15011024.

 

CONCORD 40 GIRARDIN EST SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 36 92
7886 Concord, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15011029.

 

 

HELEN 50 GIRARDIN EST SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 36.3 IRREG
7909 Helen, Detroit, Michigan 48221

Parcel ID: 15009516.

 

 

 

CONCORD 38 GIRARDIN EST SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 36 92
7870 Concord, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15011027.

 

 

HELENN 18 FT OF 51 GIRARDIN EST SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 92
7901 Helen, Detroit, Michigan 48221

Parcel ID: 15009517.

 

 

RESOLUTION 2
BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority 
and FCA US LLC have executed that certain Development Agreement regarding the investment
of approximately $2.5 billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively
the ?Projects?) to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City; and

WHEREAS, in support of the Projects, the City and the DBRA executed that certain Land Transfer
Agreement regarding the transfer of certain City-owned parcels to the DBRA in connection with the
Projects (the ?Land Trans fer Agreement?) approved by Detroit City Council on May 21, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the City-owned parcels to be transferred to the DBRA pursuant to the Land Transfer
Agreement shall be known herein as the ?City Parcels?; and

WHEREAS, as part of due diligence for the Project, certain additional City Parcels have been
identi?ed as necessary for operations at its Mack l, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants,
as well as a planned leased facility in the 1-94 Industrial Park (as described in the attached Exhibit A, the
?Additional City Parcels?); and, now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves an amendment to the Land Transfer Agreement
to provide for the conveyance of the Additional City Parcels to DBRA, or, as agreed by the DBRA and
FCA, directly to FCA or designee; and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the sale of the Additional City Parcels to the
DBRA for a purchase price to be determined based on a land value assigned to each parcel by the City of
Detroit Assessor and payable pursuant to the promissory note contemplated by the Land Transfer
Agreement, or, with reSpect to the parcels intended to support leased facility in the 1-94 Industrial
Park, a purchase price of $87,120 per acre, in the form of cash or a property exchange credit at the time of
the conveyance to designee, (the ?Purchase Price?); and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Planning and Development Department Director, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute the amendment to the Land Transfer Agreement and issue quit claim
deeds for the sale of the Additional City Parcels, as well as execute such other documents as may be
necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of the Additional City Parcels consistent with this resolution;
and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee is authorized to execute any required
instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the Land Transfer Agreement (as
amended) and quit claim deeds (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal
descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required
to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may
arise prior to the conveyance of the City Parcels, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

RESOLUTIOE A

 

MILLER 49&48 GIRARDIN ESTATE SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 69 108
7931 Helen, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15001325.

 

MILLER 47 GIRARDIN ESTATE SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 31 108
6920 Miller, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel 1D: 15001326.

 

MILLER 46 GIRARDIN ESTATE SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 31 108
6816 Miller, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15001327.

 

MILLER 45 ESTATE SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 31 108
6810 Miller, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15001328.

 

MILLER 45 GIRARDIN ESTATE SUB L29 P65 PLATS, 15/157 31 108
6800 Miller, Detroit, Michigan 48211

Parcel ID: 15001329.

 

 

Land situated in the City of Detroit in the County of Wayne in the State of MI

A part of Lot 2 of American Motors Subdivision No. 1 of parts of private claims 385, 386 and 388
according to the plat thereof recorded in Liber 87 of Plats, Page 48 Wayne County Records and
described as:

A parcel of land situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, being part of Private Claim
386, and part of the Outlot 18 for the heirs of the late H. Connor of Grosse Pointe, according to the plat
thereof, recorded in Liber 49, Page 494 of deeds, Wayne County Records, more particularly described
as: beginning at the intersection of the Northerly line of vacated Charlevoix Avenue (60 ft. wide right
of

way) with the Westerly line of Conner Avenue (109 ft. wide right of way); thence along the Westerly
line

of said Conner Avenue. South 26?47'15? East 60.00 feet to the Soulherly line of vacated Charlevoix

 

 

 

 

Avenue (60 ft. wide right of way), as disclosed in Liber 25517, Page 241 of Wayne County Records;
thence along the Southerly line of said vacated Charlevoix Avenue (60 ft. wide right of way), South
62?

3759? West 1394.50 feet to the point of beginning thence South 03?27?50? East 55.89 feet;
thence parallel with said South right of way line of vacated Charlevoix Avenue, South 62?37?59? West
80.07 feet to a point on the Westerly line of Lot 2 of American Motors Subdivision No. 1, Card No.
46358; thence along the West line of said Lot 2, North 26?43?08? West 51.10 feet to said South right of
way line cf vacated Charlevoix Avenue; thence along said South right of way line, North 62?37?59?
East

102.14 feet to the point of beginning.

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
a PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

August 28, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Additional Land Transfers by City of Detroit and Detroit Land Bank Authority
In Support of Mack 1 Plant, Mack 2 Plant, Jefferson North Assembly Plant Projects

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority and CA US
LLC have entered that certain Development Agreement relating to the investment of
approximately $2.5 billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively
the ?Projects?) to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City. It is anticipated that the
Projects will result in the creation of approximately 4,950 additional FCA jobs in the City, as well as
increase business and economic opportunities for related supplier and support industries.

As part of due diligence for the Project, certain additional City-owned and Detroit Land Bank
Authority owned properties have been identi?ed as necessary for operations at its Mack
1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants, as well as a planned leased facility in the Industrial
Park (the ?Additional Properties?). Attached hereto are two (2) separate resolutions approving the
conveyance of the Additional Properties by and through the City?s Planning and Development Department
and the DLBA, as applicable, to the and /Or designee, which are
summarized as follows:

0 Resolution 1 Land Transfer - DLBA to DBRA

The DLBA wishes to transfer certain parcels to the DBRA by land transfer agreement in furtherance
of the Projects and as further described in the attached Resolution 1-.

0 Resolution 2 Amendment to Land Transfer Agreement

The City and the DBRA wish to amend that certain Land Transfer Agreement relating to the
Projects in order to provide for the conveyance of the City-owned Additional Properties as further
described in the attached Resolution 2 to the DBRA, or, as agreed by the DBRA and FCA, directly
to FCA or designee. For properties intended to be transferred for use?in the operation of
leased facility in the I-94 Industrial Park, the City will receive a consideration in the amount
of $87,120 per acre, in the form of cash or a property exchange credit at the time of the conveyance
to designee.

The City is hereby requesting that your Honorable Body adopt the attached two (2) resolutions that approve
the conveyance of the Additional Properties in support of the Projects.

 

Respectfully submitted,

    

Maurice Cox, Director
Planning and Development Department

cc: S. Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

 

?City of Detroit 

COUNCILMAN R. BENSON

MEMORANDUM

TO: Marcell Todd, Director, CPC
John Prymack, Director, GDRA
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Ron Brundidge, Director, DPW

FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 3%

CC: Hon. Mary Shef?eld, Pro Tem, District 5
Hon. James Tate, Chair, Flaming Economic Development
Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 28 Aug 2018
RE: ZONING DISTRICT TEXT MODIFICATION

After receiving several inquiries from members of the Detroit Green Task Force and
community residents, my of?ce is requesting CPC begin the process of preparing a text
amendment to the Detroit Zoning Ordinance for the M4 District to remove ?incinerator
plant? as a conditional use. The section and language are below.

See. 61-10-103. Conditional manufacturing and industrial uses.

[?gmemar?lam

If you have any questions do not hesitate to contact my of?ce at, 313-224?1198

SRB/ctm

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

:City of Detroit /57

COUNCILMAN SCOTT R. BENSON

 

EMORAN DUM
TO: Marcel] Todd, Director, CPC

FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District3 

CC: Hon. James Tate, Chair, Flaming Economic Development
Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 27 Aug 2018
RE: ZONING DISTRICT MODIFICATION

After receiving several inquiries from community residents my of?ce is requesting the
CPC begin the process of downzoning the Bel-Air Shopping Center, 8500 8 Mile Rd,
to B-3, Shopping District. This will ensure the character of this Eight Mile corridor
shopping center is maintained as community servicing retail and not industrial.

If you have any questions do not hesitate to contact my of?ce at, 313-224-1198

SRB/ctm

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

