COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 30, 2019

 

Employee Recognition

Recently, the Cook County Health C.A.R.E. (Connecting Adolescents to Resources, Education 
Employment) Interns celebrated the completion of their summer program. This program was designed
to introduce and provide opportunities in health care careers to area youth living on the south and west
sides of Chicago. College interns worked in various hospital departments gaining on-t?he-job experience,
while our high school interns participated in a summer enrichment course, which combined classroom
activities with hands-on experience and a research project identifying an issue within their communities
and discussing how they could make an impact. Thank you to CCH staff who helped mentor our interns
this summer and provided them with an enriching experience, including Alecia Boyd, Lezah Brown-
Ellington, John Daley, Maureen Froncek, Juandalynn Johnson, Rudolf Kumapley, Kelsey Moore,
Barbara Pryor, Karen Williams and Wayne Wright.

Thank you to our team members who volunteered at'the 90th Bud Billiken Day Parade on August 10,
making it another successful year of representation for CCH. Staff provided medical care along the
parade route?s first-aid stations and handed out information about the health system's services.
Provident Medical Director, Dr. Arnold Turner, Provident Hospital Operating Officer Tanya Seaton and
Community Outreach Worker Xandria Hair led this year's team, including: Phillip Alanis; Debra Ali; Paul
Allegretti; Heather Allen; Michelle Andrews; Kelly Baskin; Wade Bluck; Stephen Cambilak; Davine
Carter; Gregory Doss; Gail Floyd; Marcelino Garcia; Jim Gannon; Stequita Hankton; Sasha Haran; Kate
Hedlin; Ralph Jackson; Kimberly Johnson; Jing Li; Whitney Lyn; Keith Morton; Christine Newton; Amila
Nissanka; Rajae Patton; Audris Pinkerton; Silvia Oliveros Plascenia; Wayne Pollard; Kary Raines;
Melanie Ripley; Sylvester Smith; Tyahna Smith; Willie Stallworth; Pierre Wakim; Leo Watkins; Henry
White; and April Wright.

us. News World Report has recognized Stroger Hospital as a high performing hospital across three
specialties for 2019?2020: Gastroenterology and GI surgery; Heart Failure; and Neurology and
Neurosurgery. Being designated as a high performing hospital puts CCH in the top 10 percent of health
care organizations nationally with almost 5,000 medical centers evaluated nationwide. Rankings were
determined by several factors including patient outcomes, patient experience, physician expertise and
quality of care. A hospital must excel in caring for the sickest, most medically complex patients to
receive a national specialty ranking. Thank you to our Gastroenterology team led by Dr. Bashar Attar,
Chair of Gastroenterology and Hepatology; our Cardiology team led by Dr. Rami Doukky, Chair of
Cardiology, Dr. Tareq Alyousef, Dr. Arlet Nedeltcheva, Sarah Voll and Criselda Yulo; our Neurology
team led by Dr. Lakshmi Warrior, Chair of Neurology, Dr. lzabela Biesiada and Dr. James Dorman; and
our Neurosurgery team led by Dr. Yogesh Gandhi, Chair of Neurosurgery, and Dr. Diane Sierens.

Activities and Announcements

On July 29th, CCH filed a Certificate of Need (CON) application with the Illinois Health Facilities
Services Review Board If approved, CCH plans to build a modern and efficient
inpatient and outpatient facility on a vacant parcel next to the current Provident Hospital. The
facility will include expanded outpatient'services and downsized inpatient facilities. Additionally,
the new building is expected to reduce the number of Provident patients needing to travel to
the Stroger campus for services not currently provided at Provident. In keeping with CCH's
mission, the modern replacement facility will help ensure the provision of state-of?the?art care
to individuals in the communities surrounding Provident regardless of their ability to pay.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 2.1

On August 21?, Dr. Shannon, Christine Haley, Director of Housing and Leticia Reyes-Nash,
Director of Programmatic Services and Innovation presented at the National Academy for State
Health Policy's Health and Housing Institute. The team shared CCH housing initiatives. With
support from the U. S. Health Resources and Services Administration, NASHP convenes a 
Health and Housing Institute to address the challenges of sustainably financing health and
housing initiatives. Multi-agency teams from state Medicaid, housing, and partner agencies in
Illinois, Louisiana, New York, Oregon, and Texas work to break down state agency siloes, control
costs, and improve vulnerable populations? health through housing.

 

IMPACT 2020 Objective 6.1, 6.3

On August CCH participated in the Chicago and Cook County Flexible Housing Pool press
conference announcing more than $1.8 million in new investments, including the first private
investments in the program. Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Illinois and Advocate Aurora Health
are investing a combined $1.5 million over the next three years to support the City and its
partners? collaborative efforts to align housing, tenancy and wraparound support services for
those most at-risk for homelessness. Also, UI Health has pledged a $281,000 contribution this
year and $350,000 for FY 2020 for the FHP. The FHP pairs wraparound health and social services
with a housing subsidy to support residents experiencing homelessness with a focus on super?
users of local crisis response systems such as hospital emergency rooms, police stations,
paramedic calls, jails and shelters. Since the implementation of the program began in March of
2019, the FHP has housed 26 residents who were previously experiencing homelessness. CCH
previously pledged $1 million to the program.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 6.1, 6.3

CCH empioyees will be participating in the 36th Annual UNCF Chicago Walk for Education on
Saturday, September 14. The walk is a community fundraising event, which provides students
with financial assistance for college.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 6.3

2 Page

On Wednesday, September 18, CCH will host its third Research and Innovation Summit,
Connecting Care for the Justice-Involved. The summit will provide a forum for discussing how to
improve care for those impacted by the criminal justice system. Specifically, the summit will give
participants the opportunity to learn about justice initiatives and innovative solutions to
link patients to resources. It will also include a session for people to collaborate in order to
develop actionable plans to address this critical issue.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.6, 7.1

Cook County Health Foundation?s Annual Gala and Awards Event will be held on Wednesday,
September 25, at the Hilton Chicago. The gala will raise funds for CCH cardiology and
endocrinology services. Funds will be invested in expanding lifestyle centers to help patients
manage their health. Invitation is attached.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 3.2, 6.3

On Friday, September 27, CCH will host a graduation ceremony for the latest cohort of Navy
corpsmen who participated in Hospital Corpsman Trauma Training, a partnership between
Navy Medicine, the Capt. James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, and Stroger Hospital. The
corpsmen assist surgeons as they treat patients with life-threatening injuries, allowing them to
experience trauma care before treating injuries sustained on the battlefield.

Food As Medicine

Through August 19, Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository
(GCFD) has resulted in 205 visits to 13 CCH health centers Arlington Heights, Austin, Cicero,
the CORE Center, Cottage Grove, Englewood, Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest,
Provident/Sengstacke, Prieto, Robbins, and Woodlawn.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and
vegetables to 26,990 individuals, representing 89,491 household members, totaling more than
550,000 pounds of fresh produce. Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck
screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health center visit.

CCH Fresh Markets are offered in the south suburbs. Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks
Center, a nonprofit that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food system through education,
entrepreneurship, and access to healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with Experimental
Station?s Link Up Illinois Link Match program to offer SNAP users with a match on all purchases
at CCH Fresh Markets, up to $20/market/week. The Fresh Market schedule is:

0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, Qam-me

0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am-3pm

0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

3 Page

Legislative Update

Local

State

On July 17 the Cook County Finance Committee conducted a FY2019 Mid-year Budget Hearing.
Departments across the County appeared to discuss their respective anticipated year-end
budget gaps and strategies to address. CCH was represented by Debra Carey, Deputy CEO for
Operations and Ekerete Akpan, CFO who spoke to a projected deficit as of May 31, 2019.
Since that time CCH received in GME funding from the state, which was included in the
FY2019 budget but had not been received by May 31. To close the remaining CCH will be
delaying hiring of a number of unfilled positions and reviewing contracts to realize savings. CCH
anticipates ending FY2019 balanced.

On July 18 the Cook County Audit Committee met to review the FY2018 Comprehensive Annuai
Financial Report (CAFR). CCH CFO Ekerete Akpan, along with representatives from RSM, 
Auditor, appeared before the committee to address material findings and corrective
action plan.

At the July 25 Cook County Board President Preckwinkle and members of the Board of
Commissioners introduced a Lead Poisoning Prevention Ordinance which was referred to the
Cook County Board?s Health 8: Hospitals committee. The proposed ordinance was drafted by
the Cook County Department of Public Health and allows to bring
noncom pliant homeowners to administrative hearings when they fail to fulfill their legal
obligations to mitigate lead paint found in homes of exposed children. It also provides a process
by which can write rules to intervene at lower blood lead levels should the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommend changes to intervention levels in the future.
The proposed ordinance aligns with state law, regional ordinances, local plans, and research on
lead poisoning prevention best practice. It will apply throughout suburban Cook
Countyjurisdiction. A hearing on the proposed ordinance is anticipated in September

Also on July 25 the Cook County Board's Health and Hospitals committee met to discuss the
Office of the Independent inspector Genera I?s (OIIG) report on CountyCare finances. The
meeting was chaired by CCH Board Director Dennis Deer. CCH Finance Chairman Robert Reiter
and Dr. Shannon appeared before the committee and addressed Commissioner?s questions. Also
in attendance were Board Chairman Hammock, Directors Mary Driscoll, Mary Gugenheim and
Mike Koetting. An additional hearing on the matter may be scheduled in September after 
official response to the report is submitted to the OIIG.

The Illinois General Assembly is scheduled to return to Springfield October 28-30 and November
12-14 for the Fall Veto Session. The schedule for the 2020 Spring Session has yet to be
announced, but will likely start in mid-January 2020 and run through May 31.

The Governor signed 531321 on August 5. SBl321/Public Act 101-0209 is also referred to as the
Medicaid Omnibus Bill, which passed the House and Senate unanimously.

PA 101?0209 intends to address challenges with the state's eligibility system and resulting delays
in processing Medicaid applications and redeterminations. The bill also seeks to improve the

4 Page

Federal

relationship between providers and Medicaid MCOs by requiring HFS to establish a claims
dispute resolution process, establishing policies and timelines for MCOs to update provider
rosters, and ensuring stakeholder engagement in efforts to improve MCO operations and
further develop value-based payment models. Unless otherwise noted, provisions of PA 101-
0209 took effect immediately.

On August 7, 2019 Governor Pritzker appointed Kent Slater to the Health Facilities and
Services Review Board. Mr. Slater served two terms in the Illinois House of Representatives in
the 19805, is a retired appellate judge, and serves as a counsel at a law firm in Joliet. His
appointment requires Senate confirmation.

Congress is currently out on a six-week August recess, having completed two of its most critical
tasks before legislators returned to their districts.

Budget and Appropriations

Negotiations between House Speaker Nancy Pelosi Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin yielded a two-year budget agreement,
lifting the strict discretionary spending caps imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 and
suspending the public debt limit through July 2021. The leaders also committed to not include
"poison pill? policy riders in appropriations bills. The bill, HR. 3877, the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2019, increases the FY2020 and FY2021 discretionary spending limits for defense and
nondefense spending. it also sets limits for the Department of Defense Overseas Contingency
Operations funding, which is exempt from discretionary spending limits; and adjusts the FY2020
discretionary spending limits to accommodate funding for the 2020 Census.

Senate Appropriations Committee staff will be working through the recess to prepare each of
the twelve annual bills funding the federal government. Though the House has passed ten of its
FY 2020 bills, they will need to be adjusted because they assumed lower defense and higher
domestic spending levels. When Congress returns after Labor Day, it will only have three weeks
to fund the government before the end of the fiscal year. in order to speed the process, bills will
need to be packaged together into so-called ?minibuses? to take to the floor. The Defense and
Labor-HHS?Education bills are likely candidates to be paired, as they balance Democratic and
Republican priorities and comprise almost 2/3 of federal discretionary spending. In any case
Congress will almost certainly need to pass one or more continUing resolutions (CRs) to keep
money flowing and the agencies running while they finish the appropriations process.

Medicaid DSH Cuts

The House Energy and Commerce Committee marked up HR. 2328, the Community Health
Investment, Modernization, and Excellence Act of 2019 on July 17. The bill includes provisions
which would repeal the reductions to Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) payments
imposed by the ACA for FY 2020 and FY 2021 and reduce the FY 2022 cut to $4 billion. The cuts
for FY 2020 and FY 2022 would not simply be delayed, or pushed into the out years, but rather
repealed or ?bought out.?

The DSH sections include provisions which would require CMS to begin making states? upper
payment limit (UPL) hospital demonstrations data public, beginning with state FY2022. Another
would require the Comptroller General of the US. to report to Congress, within 21 months of

5 Page

enactment, on potential legislation to establish an equitable formula for determining DSH
allotments for States. The report must consider the states'
1. level of hospital uncompensated care costs;
2. expenditures for hospitals, including UPL supplemental payments, and other related
payments; and
3. policy decisions that may affect the level of uncompensated care costs ACA
Medicaid expansion).

It is not clear when the bill, and other health care measures may get floor time in the House.

Senate staff continue to indicate that the health bills, including high profile measures to address
surprise billing and prescription drug prices, may get floor time in September. The County?s
Senate delegation supports a DSH cut delay and Democratic leadership have said that it is a
priority. In addition to timing, questions on a legislative vehicle and offsets remain outstanding.

Public Charge

The US. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) published a long-awaited final public charge
rule on August 14, 2019, with a scheduled effective date of October 15, 2019.

Public charge is a test applied to immigrants who seek to enter the United states obtain a
visa) or those who seek Legal Permanent Residency (Le. a green card) and determines whether
these immigrants will be ?primarily dependent" on the government for subsistence. The new
final rule makes dramatic changes to the long-standing policy by expanding the public benefits
programs that may be counted in a public charge test and considers specific factors such as age,
health, family status, income and resources, and education and skills as part of the "totality of
circumstances? that weighs into whether someone may be likely to use public benefits in the
future.

The final rule targets key public benefits that help many meet basic needs, including:

0 Medicaid (with exceptions for emergency Medicaid; coverage for children younger than 21
years; coverage for pregnant women including during the 60 day postpartum period)

0 Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, formerly known as food stamps)

0 Housing programs including public housing, Section 8 housing vouchers, and Project-based
Section 8

0 Cash assistance including Social Security income Temporary Assistance for Needy
Families (TANF), local or tribal programs

The final rule is prospective and takes into account applicable public benefits used on or after
October 15, 2019 for green card or visa applications that are postmarked on or after October 15,
2019.

While the new test will apply to a very specific and relatively small group of immigrants, the
broader "chilling? effect may result in hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their families
who decline to apply for or dis?enroll from public benefit programs, despite the fact that the
final rule has no impact on them and that eligibility for these programs have not changed.

6 Page

The impact on Cook County Health and others will be significant. Reductions in
health insurance coverage will lead to increase utilization of emergency rooms by individuals
who do not have access to primary care, resulting in increased uncompensated care; CCH alone
is projected to lose annually. Public health is also at risk, given that insured individuals are
three times more likely to be vaccinated compared to those who are uninsured.

Several lawsuits have been filed by advocates, counties, and states in an effort to halt or further
delay the implementation of the final rule. CCH has been working with local and national
partners to review the final rule and refine communications to our staff and patients, with a
reiteration of our mission to continue to provide health ca re to everyone, regardless of
insurance status, immigration status, or ability to pay.

Attached is a copy of the comment letter submitted last December by CCH in opposition to the
Public Charge Rule as well as a white paper developed to educate public officials, staff and the

media about the impact of public charge.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for at both the State and Federal level.

7lPage

Community Outreach

September 4

September 7

September 7

September 7

September 8

September 10

September 11

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Greater New Mt. Eagle
Health Wellness Fair, hosted by the church?s nursing ministry, which is
located at 12301 S. Michigan Avenue in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Malcolm College
Service Days, which is hosted by the Wellness Center of Malcolm College at
the school, located at 1900 W. Jackson Boulevard in Chicago. This event for the
students and community will provides services such as health insurance
enrollment, counseling, mental health support services and nutrition education,
to name a few. The Austin Health Center CCHIP team will do HIV testing at the
event.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the First Ladies Health
Initiative, which seeks to provide HIV testing at African American Churches in
Chicago and Cook County. Our service providers from the CORE
Center, Provident Hospital and SSHARC will help with the testing at the event,
which will take place at Burnham Park at 39th Street and Lake Shore Drive in
Chicago. This year instead of testing at the churches, all educational and testing
activities will happen at the park.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the National Kidney
Foundation of Illinois' Living with Kidney Disease and Transplantation event,
which will take place at the Illinois institute of Technology?s Herman Hall located
at 3241 South Federal Street in Chicago. The goal of this event is provide
participants a unique forum that allows them to understand their diagnosis in a
supportive environment and lets them access whatever information they might
need about medications, insurance, diet, treatment options, and more.

Cook County Health and CountyCa re promotion at the Bellwood School District
88's Back to School Bash, which will take place at Memorial Park located at
3101 Washington Boulevard in Bellwood.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Brookins? 7th Annual
Community Health Fair, which is hosted by Brookins Life Celebrations, let
Ward Alderman Howard Brookins, Commissioner Stanley Moore and State
Representative Justin Slaughter in the grounds of the Brookins Funeral Home
located at 9321 S. Ashland in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Palatine Township
Health Happiness Fair which will take place at the Township offices located at
721 5. Quentin Road in Palatine. This annual Health and Happiness Fair offers
free screenings, educational presentations and information to keep individuals
and families continually thinking about healthier life alternatives and choices.
Staff from the CCH Arlington Heights Health Center will promote the health
services offered at their facility.

8 Page

September 12

September 13

September 13

September 18

September 18

September 21

September 24

September 28

September 29

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the City of Chicago Senior
Fest 2019 which takes place at Millennium Park located at 201 E. Randolph
Street in Chicago. More than 3000 seniors attend the yearly event where they
get their flu shots and receive other health related information.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Maywood Fest, which is
hosted by the Village of Maywood and its Board of Trustee in collaboration with
Annual Maywood Fest committee, will take place at the Veteran's Memorial
Park in Maywood.

Cook County Health and CountyCa re promotion at the Boulevard Recovery
Month Picnic, which takes place at their facility located at 3456 Franklin
Boulevard in Chicago. The Boulevard is a Garfield Park organization that helps
care for the homeless and this event marks National Recovery Month.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Cook County
Department of Homeland Security Emergency Preparedness Fair, which will
take place at Daley Center Plaza located at 50 W. Washington Street in Chicago.
At the event, attendees can take a firsthand look at the response team
equipment, meet public, private and non-profit agencies that provide disaster
relief for the community, build their own personal preparedness kit and
participate in fun activities.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Marillac St. Vincent
Family Services - Marillac Social Center Resource Fair that is sponsored by the
Ma rillac Social Center and takes place at the Center located at 2859 W. Jackson
Boulevard in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Bloom Township High
School Parent University, which will take place at Prairie State College located
at 202 S. Halsted Street in Chicago Heights. Organizers are planning seminars for
pa rents on a variety of useful life enrichment topics and will involve students in
a variety of leadership roles throughout the day.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the LEARN Health Fair which
will take place at the LEARN Charter Herro Campus located at 3021 West Carroll
Avenue in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the State Rep. Debbie
Meyers-Martin Health 8: Wellness Fair, which will take place at the Atrium
Venue located at 4151 W. 183rd Street in Country Club Hills.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Trinity United Church of

Christ Mental Health Expo, which will take place at the church located at 400
W. 95th Street in Chicago.

9 Page

The quarterly Advisory Council meetings for the following health centers will take place this month:
0 September 11 Cottage Grove Health Center 1645 Cottage Grove Avenue, Ford Heights, IL
0 September 12 Englewood Health Center? 1135 W. 69th Street, Chicago, IL

Near North Health Service Corporation is hosting a two back to school health fairs on September 14 and
they invited all MCOS to participate. CountyCare will have an informational table at these health fairs
throughout the summer. Special promotion of the CountyCare Rewards program will happen at these
events.

- Komed-Holman Health Center 4259 S. Berkley Avenue, Chicago, IL 60653

a Winfield Moody Health Center 1276 N. Clybourn Avenue, Chicago, IL 60610

The GCFD Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of September include the following ACHN Health
Centers.

- September 5 Prieto Health Center 2424 S. Pulaski Road, Chicago, IL 60623

0 September 10 Provident Hospital/Sengstacke Health Center 500 W. 51St Street, Chicago, IL

- September 17 Woodlawn Health Center 6337 S. Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago, IL 60634

a September 19 ?Arlington Heights Health Center 3250 N. Arlington Heights Rd, Arlington

Heights, IL 60004

a September 20 CORE Center 2020 W. Harrison Street, Chicago, IL 60612

0 September 24 Logan Square Health Center 2840 W. Fullerton Avenue, Chicago, IL 60647

0 September 26 Oak Forest Health Center 15900 S. Cicero Ave. Oak Forest, IL 60452

10 Page

