BUD GET, 
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

   

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

 

 

August 16, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments

Your Honorable Body, through the Budget, Finance, and Audit Standing Committee, has
forwarded a memorandum from the Legislative Policy Division (LPD) dated June 5, 2019,
regarding the above-referenced topic with a proposed ordinance attached for Corporation
Counsel?s review and approval as to form. The Law Department ?led an opinion dated June 14,
2019, setting forth the reasons for which the proposed ordinance is impermissible.1 Subsequently,
LPD ?led a supplemental memo dated June 19, 2019, maintaining its arguments that: 1) local and
state law are silent on the issue of extending hardship exemptions to parcels in a special assessment
district; II) an exemption from a special assessment based on economic hardship should be
available as a matter of public policy; special assessments should be treated similar to the
solid waste fee; and IV) an ordinance establishing that the treatment of one class of special
assessments different from all other special assessments is a valid exercise of City Council?s
legislative authority. We are now responding to the supplemental memo.

SHORT ANSWER
There is no legal support for an ordinance that would extract individual parcels located
within a special assessment district that receive the bene?t of the service or improvement that is
the premise of that special assessment district from that particular levy. The foundation of a special
assessment district is that all of the parcels within that district receive a bene?t from the special
assessment levy that is distinguishable from general property taxes or a municipality-wide special
assessment so that those parcels within the district are responsible for the levy while property
outside of that district are not. The cost of the bene?t is apportioned to every property in the
district based on the value of the improvement (or service) to that property. In fact, most properties
exempt from ad valorem or general property taxes are speci?cally not exempt from a special
assessment levy, this includes certain government property.

Absent an express statutory exemption, all parcels within a designated Special assessment
district are responsible for their portion of the levy. The basis for a challenge to the establishment
or implementation of a special assessment district are: 1) the property does not receive the bene?t
of the special service or 2) the assessment is unreasonable or out of proportion to the bene?ts
conferred by the special service.

City Council, as the legislative body, has the authority to approve the boundaries of the
special assessment district and the mode of apportionment within the district for the cost of the

 

Law Department opinion titled Economic Hardship in Special Assessment Districts, dated June 14, 2019.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 2

   

services provided to bene?tted properties within that district. The apportionment of the cost of the
bene?t within a special assessment district cannot require a parcel to pay a greater share of the
bene?t received to that parcel, nor is there any authority that would permit a bene?tted parcel to
be exempt from the assessment based on the ?nancial status of the property owner.

Therefore, the Law Department?s opinion remains unchanged. The proposed ordinance
amendment to exempt individuals from a special assessment if those individuals qualify for a
hardship exemption from general property taxes is impermissible.

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Local and state law are not silent on the issue of extending hardship exemptions to
parcels in a special assessment district and case law does not support this position. 3
The Distinction between Taxes and Special Assessments 3
Exemption from General Taxation Does Not Extend to Special Assessments 4

II. An exemption from a special assessment based on economic hardship is not available

as a matter of public policy as is it not supported by law. 7
Basic Principles of Taxation 7
Uniformity of Taxation and the Michigan Constitution 8

Treatment of solid waste fees and special assessments are not interchangeable 10

IV. An ordinance establishing that the treatment of one class of special assessments

differently is not a valid exercise of City Council?s legislative authority. 10
Creation of Special Assessment Districts 1 1
Valid Modes of Apportionment of a Special Assessment 12
Invalid Apportionment of a Special Assessment 14
Legal Challenge of a Special Assessment 17
Analysis of MCL 117.5i 18

LAW ANALYSIS

 

This opinion will individually address the four arguments re?'amed in the LPD
supplemental memo dated June 19, 20l9, provide the law applicable to special assessments in
general, then shift to an analysis of the proposed ordinance amendment regarding special
assessments levied pursuant to MCL 1175i. This will enable the reader to appreciate the full
context of this body of law and how an attempt by the City to contravene it via the proposed
ordinance amendment to extract individuals who qualify for a hardship exemption from payment
of a special assessment would likely be viewed by a court.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 3

 

I. Local and state law are not silent on the issue of extending hardship exemptions
to parcels in a special assessment district and case law does not support this
position.

The Distipc_tion between Taxes and Special Assessments

While Special assessments are collected and enforced in the same manner as property taxes
they are distinct under the law. Although it resembles a tax, a special assessment is not a tax. Knott
v. City of'Fiint, 363 Mich. 483, 497 (1961). A special assessment refers to ?a levy upon property
within a speci?ed district,? the purpose of which is ?to recover the costs of improvements that
confer local and peculiar bene?ts upon property within a de?ned area.? Karizban v. City of
Grandville, 442 Mich. 495, 500 (1993).

In Niles Twp. v. Berrien C0. Bd. of Comm ?rs, 261 Mich.App. 308 (2004), the appellate
court elaborated on the distinction between a tax and a special assessment. It reiterated the
common themes throughout these cases that: l) the purpose ofa tax is to raise revenue for a general
government-a1 purpose while the purpose of a special assessment is to defray the costs of speci?c
local improvements; and 2) the amount of a special assessment generally bears ?a reasonably
proportionate relationship to the bene?t that accrues to the property assessed."2 The court noted
that ?[t]he differences between a special assessment and a tax are that:

1) A special assessment can be levied only on land;

2) A special assessment cannot. . . be made a personal liability of the person assessed;

3) A special assessment is based wholly on bene?ts; and

4) A special assessment is exceptional both as to time and locality.?3

In Wikman v. City of Novi, 413 Mich. 617 (1982), the Michigan Supreme Court
distinguished between special assessment made under the state?s general authority to tax (such as
property taxes and under the jurisdiction ofthe Michigan Tax Tribunal) versus special assessments
levied under the state?s police powers (health and welfare and regulatory programs which are not
under the jurisdiction of the Tax Tribunal). It held that ?special assessment levied against property
owners for public improvements to realty which especially bene?t their property are special
assessments under the property tax laws for the purposes of the Tax Tribunal Act." This is
important as the structure of the proposed ordinance amendment would exempt individuals that
met a poverty threshold from a special assessment prior to the special assessment being added to
the assessment roll. Based on the court?s analysis in Wikman, an attempt to do so would result in
the application of property tax statutes and relevant case law which has consistently held that an
exemption from property taxation does not relieve a property owner from a special assessment
levy. As special assessments are directly tied to property based on location in a district and bene?t
to the property, not individuals, jurisdiction in the Tax Tribunal would be proper. (MCL


 

2 Niles Twp. at 324.
3 1d. at 323-324.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 4

 

 

In 1894,4 it was considered a ?well-established? rule that: 1) special assessments are made
based on bene?t conferred to a property5 and 2) exemption from taxation does not relieve a
property owner from a special assessment levy. It is unlikely a proposed departure from the body
of case law spanning the mid-18003 to the present would successfully be abandoned by the courts
in 2019.

The distinction between general property taxes and special assessments, as well as
treatment of each, was discussed at length in the Law Department?s prior opinions (2015 and
2019).6 The Income Tax Act of 1967, Public Act 281 of 1967; MCL 206.512a, further supports
the distinction between general property taxes assessed on an ad valorem basis and special
assessments that are not calculated on an ad valorem basis. It states property taxes levied in 2003
onward do not include special assessments unless the special assessment is levied using a uniform
millage rate on all real property not exempt by state law from the levy of the special assessment.

Exemption from General Taxation Does Not Extend to Special Assessments

Michigan courts and the Michigan Tax Tribunal have consistently held that exemption
from ad valorem or general property taxation does not relieve a property owner from special
assessment levies.

In addition to the Michigan Supreme Court?s ruling in the case of In re Petition of Auditor
General, 226 Mich. 170 (1924), which is discussed in the preceding section, the Michigan Court
of Appeals in Acacia Park Cemetery Ass ?11 v. South?eld Tp. of Oakland County, 83 Mich.App.
274 (1978), held that the cemetery, exempt from taxation, was responsible for a special assessment.
The court noted ?[g]enerally, a constitutional or statutory exemption is considered an exemption
for ordinary taxes only and not from special assessment liability for local improvements. 7O
Am.Jur.2d, Special or Local Assessments, Sec. 45; 84 0.1.8. Taxation, Sec. 229.? (Emphasis
added). In support of this general policy, the court also relies and reiterates the holding on a case
from 1894:

Other property is also exempt from taxation, such as churches, hospitals,
cemeteries, etc., but as to these is no implied exemption; It has
therefore been repeatedly held that, when these are mentioned as
exempt in general tax law, the exemption applies only to the taxes
mentioned in the general law, and not to those which are of a private
and local character, such as assessments for sewers, sidewalk and
the like, which are made according to the benefit conferred. This is
the well-established rule, to which it is unnecessary to cite
authorities. Big Rapids v. The Board of Supervisors of Mecosta
County, 99 Mich. 351 (1894).

Emphasis added.

 

4 Big Rapids v. The Board of Supervisors of'Mecosta County, 99 Mich. 351 (1894).

5 Ad valorem special assessments levied alter December 31, 1998, must be based on taxable value. (MCL 211.440).
6 Unpaid special assessments returned to the County Treasurer are a valid tax (MCL 211.55) and may be collected
under the procedures set forth under the General Property Tax Act.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 5

 

See also, Loomis v. Rogers, 197 Mich. 265 (1917) which held:
As a proposition of general application the constitutional
requirement of just and uniform taxation is met when the
assessment is within the limit of bene?ts received, is just, and

uniform throughout the created assessment district.
31? I1:

 

The element of special bene?ts is a distinguishing feature between
taxes and assessments for bene?ts. It is well settled in this state that
a general exemption from realty from taxation does not extend to
such assessments based on special benefits resulting from proximity
sometimes call taxes for special improvements.

Emphasis added.

In Doane v. Pere Marquette Ry. Co., 247 Mich. 542 (1929), a railroad, which paid a
speci?c tax rather than general taxes, was nevertheless subject to a special assessment levy. The
court noted:

?It is axiomatic that all property, unless specially exempted, shall
bear its fair share of taxation. Under the general tax law a speci?c tax
is collected from railroads. This takes the place of the general taxes
spread upon other property to pay governmental expenses. Special
assessments for local improvements in cities and villages are not
general taxes within the meaning of the term as used in our tax laws,
and no special provision therefor in a statute is necessary to support
the levy of such a tax. Blake v. Metropolitan Chain Stores (Mich.
handed down June 3, 1929) 225 NW. 587, and cases cited.?

Emphasis added.

The court found that the railroad property, which was exempt from general taxation, was
bene?ted by the improvement in the amount charged and relieve the defendant therefrom
is to exempt its property from payment of its fair share of the cost of this improvement and
thereby to increase the cost to other property benefited.? The court rejected this noting that:

Exemptions from taxation are not favored. As was said by the trial court:
While, of course, it lies within the power of the legislature to create
an exemption from such special assessment any such grant must be
thoroughly and definitely expressed. The general rule is that any
exemption from any form of taxation will be strictly construed. In 37
Cyc. 892, it is said: ?Such a privilege or immunity cannot be made out
by inference or implication, but must be conferred in terms too
clear and plain to be mistaken, and in fact admitting of no reasonable
doubt, and where it exists it should be carefully scrutinized and not
permitted to extend either in scope or duration beyond what the
terms of the concession clearly require.?

Emphasis added.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 6

 

Cooley7 also notes that although a property may be tax-exempt ?this does not preclude the
property being assessed for bene?ts.?8 The Michigan Supreme Court also cites to Cooley on the
topic of cancelling or exempting a property from an otherwise valid special assessment. Applying
the rules of statutory construction regarding tax exemptions in Detroit v. Detroit Commercial
College, 322 Mich. 142 (1948), the Court quoted the following from Cooley on Taxation:

An intention on the part of the legislature to grant an exemption
from the taxing power of the State will never be implied from
language which will admit of any other reasonable
are never presumed, the burden is on a
claimant to establish clearly his right to exemption, and an alleged grant
of exemption will be strictly construed and cannot be made out by
inference or implication but must be beyond reasonable doubt. In other
words, since taxation is the rule, and exemption the exception, the
intention to make an exemption ought to be expressed in clear and
unambiguous terms; it cannot be taken to have been intended when
the language of the statute on which it depends is doubtful or
uncertain; and the burden of establishing it is upon him who claims
it.

Emphasis added.

The Michigan Court of Appeals has also held that the Michigan Legislature ?intended, as
a general rule, for property owners who bene?t from an improvement paid for by a special
assessment to incur the ?nancial burden of that assessment.? Howard v. Clinton Charter Twp,
230 Mich.App. 692 (1998). There is no express language in MCL 117.5i allowing for the
exemption contemplated in the proposed ordinance amendment and, according to relevant case
law, it cannot be inferred.

While accommodation for poverty, disability or other factors may be taken into account
for general property taxes,9 no such accommodations can be found in regard to special
assessments. Absent speci?c statutory exemptions, such as the use of the property for
governmental purposes, property which receives the bene?t associated with a special assessment
district is properly assessed the cost of that bene?t. People v. Ingalls, 238 Mich. 423 (1927). The
following statutory exemptions from general property taxes explicitly state that the exemption does
not include a special assessment levied by the local tax collecting unit in which the property is
located: quali?ed start-up businesses10 and renaissance zone property.11 In addition to the
statutory exemptions, foreclosure under the General Property Tax Act'2 extinguishes all liens
against the property, including any lien for unpaid taxes or unpaid special assessments at the time

 

7 Cooley, Thomas M., A Treatise on the Law of Taxation Including the Law of Local Assessments. Originally
published: Chicago: Callaghan and Company, 1876.

8 Id. at 461.

9 MCL 211.7b, 211.7d and 211.7u.

'0 MCL 211.7hh.

MCL 211.7ff.

'2 MCL 

  

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 7

of foreclosae but?does not extinguish future installments of Special assessments that will be levied
on the property. 0A G, Opinion No. 7110, June 2, 2002.

II. An exemption from a special assessment based on economic hardship is not
available as a matter of public policy as is it not supported by law.

Property owners are not subject to special assessments unless the improvement speci?cally
bene?ts their land.13 The Michigan Court of Appeals cites two main policy considerations in
justifying this rule: 1) property owners should pay a special amount for extra bene?ts brought to
their land; and 2) the entire community should not pay the cost of an improvement that speci?cally
bene?ts a particular property. '4

Basic Principles of Taxation

The most appropriate place to begin our examination of the foundational issues of taxation
is A Treatise on the Law of Taxation by Thomas M. Cooley.15 Taxes are de?ned as ?the enforced
proportional contribution of persons and property, levied by the authority of the state for the
support of government, and for all public needs.?16 The Michigan Supreme Court noted in 1860
regarding the exercise of the power to tax, ?the purpose always is, that a common burden shall be
sustained by common contribution, regulated by some ?xed general rule, and apportioned by the
law according to some uniform ration of equality.? Woodbridge v. Detroit, 8 Mich. 274 (1860).
This does not mean that all taxation must be equal, as general property taxation may take into
account the status of the property owner, such as age, disability or poverty, in its formula.17

While these principles apply to taxation generally, Chapter XX, Taxation by Special
Assessment, pp. 416-473, begins by noting that the system under which special assessments are
levied have been adopted in the United States with the general features that have prevailed in
England ?for a long period of time.? It states that they are a ?peculiar species of taxation? that are
?governed by principles that do not apply generally? to taxation as they cannot be listed
exhaustively: 18

In addition to the general levy, they demand that special
contributions, in consideration of the special bene?t, shall be made by
the persons receiving it.


No decision has ever undertaken to enumerate the cases in which special
assessments are admissible. The reserve in this regard is wise, as it is

 

?3 Brill v. Grand Rapids, 383 Mich. 216 (1970).

?4 Carmichael v. Village ofBeverly Hills, 30 Mich.App. 176 (1971).

?5 Cooley, Thomas M., A Treatise on the Law of Taxation Including the Law of Local Assessments. Originally
published: Chicago: Callaghan and Company, 1876?There is no imperative requirement that taxation shall be equal. Theoretically, tax laws should be framed
with a view to apportioning the burdens of government so that each person enjoying government protection shall be
required to contribute so much as is his reasonable proportion, and no more.? Id. at 410, Chapter VI, Equality and
Uniformity in Taxation.

'3 Id. at p. 416; pp. 418-419.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 8

obviously impossible to anticipate all the cases in which it might be
equitable and proper to levy them; and it is consequently better and
safer that special cases, as they present themselves, be judged upon
their special circumstances.

Emphasis added.

Under Michigan law, ?all property, real and personal, within the jurisdiction of this state,
not expressly exempted, shall be subject to taxation.? MCL 211.1. This supports the precept that
every owner of land is chargeable with notice that a tax will be levied on the land each year. Blunt
v. Andiior Ger-rerai, 324 Mich. 675 (1949). Requirements under tax assessment and collection
statutes are for the protection of the taxpayer and therefore are mandatory. Clark v. Crane, 5 Mich.
151 (1858). Tax exemption statutes must generally be narrowly construed in favor of the taxing
authority. Werfard Merl. Group v. Cadillac, 474 Mich. 192 (2006). Exemptions to a special
assessment must be explicit, not implied. Kinder Morgan Michigan, LLC v. City of Jackson, 227
Mich.App. 159 (2007).

Uniformity of Taxation and the Michigan Constitution

Both the 1908 and 1963 Michigan Constitutions have required uniformity of assessments.
The 1963 Constitution states in pertinent part ?Every tax other than the general ad valorem
property tax shall be uniform upon the class or classes on which it operates?"J The 1908
Constitution contained the same requirement at Article X, ?4 which stated ?The legislature may
by law impose speci?c taxes, which shall be uniform upon the classes upon which they operate.?

This requirement ensures fairness among similarly situated classes within a special
assessment district. The relevant analysis to determine ?class or classes? is the property itself.
The status of an individual property owner in the class is not relevant to the categorization as
special assessments are tied to real property. Under the City?s ordinance, the eligible services of
snow removal, mosquito abatement and security services under the special assessment at-issue
would likely create one class as the properties within the district either received the
service(s)ibenefit or did not and if they did not they should not be included in the special
assessment district. The mode of apportionment of the levy within the district will determine how
the cost is allocated to benefitted properties. The character of the uniformity? and the basis on
which it is established is unique in comparison to general property taxation. In re Willis Ava, 56
Mich. 244 (1885]. Please note modes of apportionment are discussed in greater detail later in this
opinion.

 

'9 1963 Michigan Constitution, Article IX, The same section also requires uniformity in general ad valorem taxes

of real and personal property.
2? Assessors must make an assessment on all lands for the expense of an improvement in proportion to the benefit

inured to the property.

Hon. City Council
Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019
Page 9
In Crampton v. City of Royal Oak, 362 Mich. 503 (1961), the issue of uniformity was
litigated. In upholding the uniformity of assessments based on bene?t to the property, the
Michigan Supreme Court cited to 63 CJ S, Municipal Corporations, 1424, pp. 1213-1214:

Assessments to defray the cost of local improvements may be
apportioned according to the bene?ts conferred on the property
assessed; and they must be so apportioned where apportionment
according to this method is required by statute or charter; but, where a
charter is adopted under a home-rule act, a section thereof relating
to assessments is not unconstitutional and void because it does not
provide that assessments must be made in proportion to benefits.
Where this method of assessment is employed, assessments should
be imposed equally on all property equally bene?ted by the
improvement. On the other hand, a uniform assessment on lots may
be set aside or its collection enjoined where the advantages to the
!o_ts_or parcels of land mg; and the fact that lots are assessed in
various percents does not show that they have not been assessed
according to relative benefits. All of the factors and varying
circumstances which relate to and may affect the proportionate
benefits received should be taken into consideration: and the
amount wssed on the various lots may properly differ according
to their location. Where the lots on any street sewered are uniform in
size and value and are similarly improved or unimproved, the unit plan
may be a compliance with a statute requiring apportionment according
to bene?ts; but where the properties affected vary greatly in value and
area the unit plan should not be used.

Emphasis added.

How assessments are apportioned within a special assessment district cannot be arbitrary.
Cote v. Village of Highland Park, 173 Mich. 201 (1912); Auditor General v. Konwinski, 244 Mich.
384 (1928). Carmichael v. Village of Beverly Hills, 30 Mich.App. 176 (1971), is one case where
the court stressed that the method or mode of apportionment must be ?legally sanctioned? and not
made in an arbitrary fashion.21 The requirement that special assessments be levied according to
?some de?nite plan? designed to bring about ?a just distribution of the burden? adheres to the
general principles of uniformity within a class so that the total cost ?equally amount [to] those
standing in the same relation.? St. Joseph v. Municipal Finance Commission, 351 Mich. 524
(1958); Pan?l v. Detroit, 246 Mich. 149 (1929); Gingrich Sons v. City of Grand Rapids,
256 Mich. 661 (1932); Petition ofFuller, 258 Mich. 211 (1932).

Therefore, to be valid, the special assessment levy must not exceed the bene?t inured to
the property. To be just it must be equal and uniform throughout the assessment district or within
the classes of property that are similarly situated within the district. An attempt to levy varying
amounts within a class charging less or more than the value of the bene?t to that particular

 

21 City ofDetroit v. Daly, 68 Mich. 503 (1888).

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 10

 

 

 

property) is legally untenable. The law is clear that a special assessment levy must be in proportion
to the bene?t to that speci?c property.

The proposed ordinance amendment would apportion the total cost of the services within
the district differently based on the ?nancial status of the property owner - those who qualify for
a hardship exemption would pay nothing and the remaining property owners would pay more than
their share of the total cost. Stated differently, the group of property owners that received a levy
(which could ?uctuate) would be charged more than the value of the bene?t to their speci?c
property. This opinion will demonstrate numerous reasons this is impermissible. While LPD is
correct that the statute granting the City the authority to enact the special assessment district
ordinance does not contain explicit language regarding exemptions, the case law, secondary
sources and other materials contained in this opinion will demonstrate that the manner in which
special assessments are handled by governmental units implementing special assessment districts
and the correlating judicial interpretations have not signi?cantly shifted since the mid-1800s and,
under that framework, the proposed ordinance amendment would likely be determined to be
improper by a court.

Treatment of solid waste fees and special assessments are not interchangeable.

The City?s solid waste fee is a fee22 for service,23 not a tax or special assessment so it is an
improper comparison for the purpose of providing an example of an exemption to a levy. Rather
than being an exercise of the municipal power to tax, the imposition of a fee constitutes an exercise
of a municipalities? police power to regulate public health, safety, and welfare. Bolt v. City of
Lansing, 459 Mich. 152 (1998); Merrellz' v. St Clair Shores, 355 Mich. 575, 583 (1959). A more
appropriate comparison would be the special assessments levied by the City for sidewalk
replacement. The amount is calculated by the number of concrete ?ags needing replacement on a
speci?c tax parcel. City Council cannot exempt a property from a sidewalk assessment. As noted
in this opinion special assessments ?levied against property owners for public improvements to
realty which especially bene?t their property are special assessments under the property tax laws
for the purposes of the Tax Tribunal Act.?24 Therefore, the solid waste fee and SAD levies are not
similar exercises of power by a municipality25 and are handled differently.

IV. An ordinance establishing that the treatment of one class of special assessments
differently is not a valid exercise of City Council?s legislative authority.

The grant of power to local units under the Home Rule City Act, MCL 117.1, et 3961., does
not operate in a vacuum. The special assessments are levied against real property under the
statutory authority granted to the City to enact the SAD ordinance. The Law Department maintains
its position that properties within any special assessment district that receive the bene?t of the

 

22 Wolf v. Detroit, 287 Mich. App. 184 (2010) vacated by 489 Mich. 923 (2011).

23 The solid waste collection charge is a user fee. A user fee is a fee paid by those receiving speci?c services from the
government. The revenue from such fees are dedicated to the services provided and the amount of the fee is based on
the value of the service provided. Bolt v. City of Lansing, 459 Mich 152 (1998).

2" Wikman v. City ofNovi, 413 Mich. 617 (1982).

25 Some special assessments are an exercise of a local unit?s police power, but not the services or the SAD at-issue.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16,2019

Page 11

service cannot be excluded from a special assessment district levy absent speci?c statutory
authority to exempt such parcels.

Similarly, the assertion that City Council may dictate that the City Assessor not levy special
assessments on eligible parcels is unsupported. There is no legal authority to support an exemption
of a special assessment absent an express statutory authority or; this proposition ignores a well-
established body of statutory precedent and case law as set forth in this opinion.

Creation of Special Assessment Districts

The 1827 Charter of Detroit ?rst granted the power to defray the costs of public
improvements through the levy of a special assessment. A special assessment can be initiated by
a governmental unit26 or by property owners signing a petition. In either circumstance, the creation
of a special assessment district, its boundaries and apportionment of the costs of the improvement
are ultimately approved by the local legislative body. This is not an unfettered power and the
establishment of the special assessment district and its boundaries must be based on the area
improved. It is improper to levy a special assessment on a property that does not receive the bene?t
or service of that designated district.27 The following discussion and supporting cases demonstrate
it would be equally improper to not levy a special assessment on a property located within a district
that does receive the bene?t or service.

City of Detroit v. Daly, 68 Mich. 503 (1888), supports the propositions in the preceding
paragraph:

There may be a necessity of leaving consideration discretion to the
authorities who fix a taxing district, if it can be made to differ from
the ordinary municipal subdivisions; but it cannot be such an
uncontrolled discretion as to leave no public character whatever to
the district, and make a purely private charge under pretense of
setting off an assessment district. While it is quite possible that a
municipal subdivision would not be an appropriate territory to charge
with the special improvement, yet, on the other hand, if the matter
could be left to the pure caprice of the city authorities, it is evident
that there would be no equality in public burdens.


It is elementary that no one can be lawfully made to bear more than
his share of any public burden, and that share must be assessed by
some tangible process of distribution.

a: a:
If one person is charged for more benefit than another it must be
because by the rule of apportionment his share is greater in the

 

26 This Opinion will not address this process or the related apportionment mechanisms as the special assessment district
at issue is initiated by the community, not the City.

27 Bolema v. City of Norton Shores, MTT Docket No. 220781, April 2, 1998. Petitioners challenged a special
assessment levy arguing they were already connected to the sewer and therefore received no bene?t from a remote
sewer expansion. The Tribunal agreed ?nding that the special assessment was invalid and canceled the special
assessment levy on that property.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 12

assessment; but he can only be obliged to pay his share, and must
have the means furnished him by the proceedings of knowing exactly
what his share is. Otherwise the charge may be arbitrary.

Emphasis added.

 

A special assessment district is a geographic area within a service district.28 Properties
within a special assessment district are eligible for the special assessment levy because they receive
a direct, unique and measureable enhancement in their market value as a result of a public
improvement. Special assessment districts must be determined using competent, material and
substantial evidence based upon fact. ?It is the duty? of an entity ?when a special improvement is
made, the bene?ts accruing from which are regarded as local, to determine the boundaries of the
district within which the property is supposed to be specially bene?tted by the improvement
The carving out of a special assessment district in a city is a practical matter, depending wholly on
facts.? Lawrence v. City of Grand Rapids, 166 Mich. 134 (1911).

Judge Campbell noted that the court in 1860 was ?af?rming only what had many years
before been fully decided? that ?there is no restriction upon the legislature in de?ning the size of
districts. Our road districts are instances of this. And if a charge is made on a uniform rule within
any prescribed district, there can be no very good reason for objecting to it because the district is
large orgsmall, if the rest of the city is made to bear its own local burdens on a substantially similar
basis.?2

Valid Modes of Apportionment of a Special Assessment

Apportionment is the process of allocating costs that are eligible to be specially assessed,
to the individual properties to be assessed based on bene?t or other statutory requirement. For
example, municipalityiwide ad valorem special assessments must be based on the value of the
property?? For an apportionment to be made, there must be an improvement or project creating a
bene?t which is geographically disbursed.3  ?To be valid, 3 tax or special assessment shall be
levied in accordance with some de?nite plan designed to bring about a just distribution of the
burden.? Thomas v. Gain, 35 Mich. 155 (1876): Paii?i v. Ciij: of'Deii'oii, 246 Mich. 149 {1929);
Wood v. Village of Rockwood, 328 Mich. 507 (1950). Only properties receiving a measurable
(more than de minimus) direct bene?t can be specially assessed. ?An assessment cannot be
sustained where the bene?t from the improvement is merely speculative or conjectural; it must be

 

23 A service district includes all potential properties bene?tted and is where the economic analysis begins to
demonstrate a change in market value to support the levy of a special assessment. The service district analysis will
identify which properties receive direct, unique and measureable increases making them eligible for inclusion in the
special assessment district. The boundary between properties in the service district that receive some form of bene?t
to the improvement and those with none delineates between the service district and the special assessment district.
This analysis would not be performed fora SAD under MCL 1 17.5i as it is petition driven to establish the boundaries.
1" Woodhridge v. City rngeii'oii, 8 Mich. 274 

3? Citizens Research Council, xi Distinction a Di?erence: Ad Valorem Special Assessments and Property
Taxes, Report 407, June 2019.

3' Levy to be placed within the special assessment district on bene?tted property: Home Rule City Act for public
improvements 8's. boulevard lighting systems at MCL 117.4d and Board of Public Works for a project special
assessment district at MCL 123.743.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 13

actual, physical and material.? 70 Am. Jur. 2d ?21, p. 862. Cooley32 noted the following modes
of apportionment that may be selected under different circumstances:

 

1. major part of the cost of a local work is sometimes collected by a general tax,
while a smaller portion is levied upon the estates especially bene?tted.

2. major part is sometimes assesses on estates bene?tted, while the general
public is taxed a smaller portion in consideration of a smaller participation in the
bene?ts.

3. the whole cost in other cases is levied on lands in the immediate vicinity of
the work.

It is important to note, much like case law from the mid-18003 and early 19003 on this
topic, the modes of apportionment in Cooley?s Treatise are still in use. Modern modes have been
added and formulas on valuation clari?ed, but the foundational premise of a levy being based on
bene?t remain intact. Case law is consistent that an assessment must be levied in proportion to
bene?ts. Hoyt v. City of East Saginaw, 19 Mich. 39 (1869); Grand Rapids School Furniture Co.
v. City of Grand Rapids, 92 Mich. 564 (1892).

Section 3 Theory and Method of the Michigan Assessor?s Training Manual, page 13-7,?
provides that the method to calculate the bene?t in a special assessment district must be ?uniformly
and consistently applied to every property in the special assessment district.? Some common
methods to measure the bene?t/enhancement are:

1. Front foot method (noted as the most common method). Used where there are varying lot
widths but same or similar depths. Takes into account the potential for future lot splits or
divisions.

2. Area basis. Based on the physical area of a given parcel (square footage, acreage, or other
common measurement).

3. Unit bene?t. Based on the criteria that every lot in the special assessment district is a single
home site and equally assessed.

4. Frontage area combination. Districts with major variances in frontage or lot depths. Size
range from 1 acre to 40 acre. Objective is to re?ect bene?t based on current property use
and bene?t to the undeveloped acreage while maintaining uniform application.

5. Scientific approaches. Method of apportionment based on some scienti?c fact or
engineering data.

The value of the improvement or bene?t to a property must bear a reasonable relationship to
the assessment. McQuillin?s, the de?nitive treatise for municipal law matters which has been
published since 1904, states in regard to special taxation and local assessments:34

The rule that a method of assessment cannot be arbitrary, and must
have some relation to the benefits appears reasonable. It would

 

32 A Treatise on the Law ofTaxation, Thomas M. Cooley, 1876, p. 447.
33 The Michigan Assessor, Volume 54, No. 8, August 2013, p. 25-33.
34 McQuillin, Municipal Corporations (3d Volume 14, 38.02.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 14

seem that the legislature is competent to judge of bene?ts. This is
assumed by the current of authority. A public improvement having been
made, the question of determining the area bene?ted by such
improvement is generally held to be a legislative function, and such
legislative determination, unless palpably unjust, is usually conclusive,
and not subject to judicial interference unless arbitrariness, abuse or
unreasonableness be shown. The prohibition is that special taxes or
local assessments shall not be levied in excess of the bene?ts
conferred, whether by the valuation, front foot, area, or any other
method.

Emphasis added.

In Cummings v. Garner, 213 Mich. 408 (1921), the Michigan Supreme Court was
concerned with the interpretation and validity of provisions regarding the improvement of
highways under an assessment district plan. In discussing the authority granted by the statute to
establish the boundaries of the district to be affected, and the levy being proportional to the bene?ts
received by each parcel of land assessed, it was said that is a fundamental rule that an
assessment for a local improvement should be apportioned among and imposed upon all
equally standing in like relation.? This requirement is in line with the Michigan Constitution as
previously discussed in this opinion.

Invalid Apportionment Special Assessment

Case law also supports the converse, or the general proposition that a special assessment
levy not made in line with bene?ts cannot be sustained. Wood v. Village ofRockwood, 328 Mich.
507 (1950), citing Pan?l v. City ofDerrait, 246 Mich. 149 (1929), and I. H. Gingrich all: Sons v.
City of Grand Rapids, 256 Mich. 661 (1932). Generally, courts will not interfere in the amount of
assessments levied because it is a legislative act. The Michigan Supreme Court noted in Marks v.
Detroit, 246 Mich. 517 (1929) that the absence of fraud or bad faith or the following of a
plan incapable of producing reasonable equality, their judgment must be held to be conclusive.?

In the I.H. Gingrich case, the Michigan Supreme Court struck down the levy for street
grading and paving, mandating that the cost of the assessment be recalculated for the entire district.
In support of its position, the Court noted the disparity of amounts assessed between similarly
situated properties was untenable:

A piece of land with 100 feet frontage on the opening, owned by one D.
Moses, pays for the opening, $30.80, while the 100 feet opposite, owned
by the plaintiffs, pays $1,919, over 62 times as much.


Almost every special improvement tax results in some injustice, but the
scheme of assessment used in this case is so lacking in uniformity
and equality, so far removed from any plan of a levy according to
bene?ts, that it cannot be sustained. That does not mean that
plaintiffs should be relieved from paying their just share of this
assessment; it does mean that the present assessment requires them

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 15

to pay more than their just share and has not been levied according
to benefits. The cost of the entire improvement should be reassessed.
Emphasis added.

In an eloquent holding from 1876 regarding the propriety of apportionment of special
assessments the court stated:the ordinary sense, it must be assessed by valuethat sense, it must be apportioned on some other basis. But
it does not follow that it may be apportioned on any basis whatsoever
which the legislature may see ?t to prescribe.

at: 
But it is generally agreed that an assessment levied without regard to
actual or probable bene?ts is unlawful, as constituting an attempt to
appropriate private property to public uses.


It is admitted that the legislature may prescribe the rule for the
apportionment of bene?ts, but it is not conceded that its power in
this regard is unlimited. The rule must at least be one which it is
legally possible may be iust and equ_t_tl_ as between the parties
assessed; if it is not conceivable that the rule prescribed is one which
will apportion the burden or with such proximate instice as
is usually attainable in tax cases, it n_1gst fall to the ground, like 2m}:
other merely arbitrary actiourhich is supported by no principle.
The only discretion which the act in question allows to the common
council as an assessing board is in determining what lots and lands
are bene?ted by the improvement. When that determination is
made, the rule of apportionment is ?xed, and it must be made
according to the area.


Nor does it con?ne the assessment to lands upon the street in which the
sewer is laid; and in the assessment before us lots on a parallel street are
assessed. .This might not be unjust if each assessment was laid upon an
estimate of actual bene?ts; but when it is levied by an arbitrary
standard which requires the burden to be laid upon lands far from
the sewer and only bene?ted, equally with those fronting
upon it and greatly bene?ted, it is manifest that it must not only
work injustice, but that in some cases it may amount to actual
con?scation. It is not, therefore, legally possible that such an
apportionment of the cost of sewers can bejnst or equal, or in proportion
to bene?ts, and when injustice must result from its adoption, we have
no alternative but to reject the assessment as an unlawful exaction. It is
an assessment made in entire disregard of the principle upon which

 

35 Thomas v. Gain, 35 Mich. 155 (1876).

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16,2019

Page 16

 

special assessments can alone be sustained; the principle, namely,
that ?those who enjoy the bene?ts shall equally bear the burden.?-
-SHAW, C. J., in Wright v. Boston, 9 Cush., 233, 241. See Matter of
Washington Avenue, 69 Penn. St., 360; Patterson v. Society, etc., 24 N.
J., 385.

 

Emphasis added.

This 1876 holding was distinguished by a Michigan Tax Tribunal decision in 1998 due to
more advanced modes of apportionment, but it did not invalidate the mode or reasoning used in
Thomas.36 In Bolema, the Tribunal canceled the special assessment levy ?nding that the property
did not accrue any special bene?t, which is a factual determination.37

In re: Willis Ave, 56 Mich. 244 (1885), the Michigan Supreme Court outlined again how

unjustly apportioned special assessments (or taxes in general) are improper:38

But such local burdens cannot be imposed in a manner which
disregards the fundamental principles of taxation. The assessment
must be for a public purpose and affect some well-defined
community, and some proper and reasonable rule of apportionment
must be observed in all local as well as general taxation; that is to
say, the apportionment should be such that the amount paid bv one
person or piece of property shall bear some reasonable relation to
the amount paid by another in the assessment district or community
where the burden is to be borne. These principles are so elementary
as to need no citation of authorities. In this state the law allows an
assessment district to be created for the purpose of making therein local
improvements, and the property therein to be assessed in proportion to
the extent of the bene?t received by each party required to discharge the
burden.

Emphasis added.

In Carmichael v. Village of Beverly Hills, 30 Mich.App. 176 (1971), the Appellate Court
opined that property subject to a special assessment levied based on its ?distance from the end of
the road? places an unequal burden on some property owners and misjudges ?bene?ts conferred?
on the properties, as it would have owners paying for paving in front of not only their own but
other properties as well. The Court struck down this method of apportionment on uniformity
grounds citing Auditor General v. Konwinski, 244 Mich. 384 (1928) that every valid assessment
must be based on some legally ordained basis of apportionment (such as frontage-footage basis),

 

3? Bolema v. City of Norton Shores, MTT Docket No. 220781, April 2, 1998. Petitioners were already connected to
the sewer and therefore received no bene?t from a remote sewer expansion.

37 The standard of review is whether the taxpayer proved by a preponderance of the evidence that there is a substantial
or unreasonable disproportionality between the amount specially assessed and the value accrued to the land as a result
of the improvement.

38 This case dealt with not only an assessment for street paving, but also condemnation of land for such purposes.
Those legal arguments are outside of the scope of this opinion.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 17

and not arbitrarily set. Carmichael included the following 2-part test: 1) Was the method used to
determine the perimeters of the special assessment district arbitrary, capricious and unreasonable?
2) Was the formula used to determine the amount of the Special assessment arbitrary, capricious
and unreasonable?39

Another attempt to impose a creative formula to apportion a special assessment levy also
failed at the appellate level. In Axial! v. Portage, 32 Mich.App. 491 (1971), the Court rejected an
apportionment formula advanced by the plaintiffs that assessors should ?employ a ?balancing test?,
weighing special bene?ts against special detriments, to compute the amount of the
assessment.? The Court upheld Defendant Portage?s use of ?one formula for all special assessment
situations based upon the theory that any street is of about equal bene?t to the frontage owner?
which amounts to a legally sanctioned frontage-footage basis of apportionment.

Given the requirements regarding appropriation of a special assessment within a district
based on bene?t to the property coupled with the judicial rejection of alternative methods of
apportionment it is likely that the proffered apportionment mechanism based on the ?nancial status
of the property owner will likely be vieWed by the Michigan Tax Tribunal as arbitrary and lacking
in uniformity between similarly situated properties.

Legal Challenge of a Special Assessment

A petitioner seeking to challenge a special assessment bears the burden of presenting
credible evidence to rebut the presumption that the assessments are valid. Kane v. Williomsrown
Two, 301 Mich.App. 582 (2013). A special assessment will be deemed valid if it meets two
requirements: (1) the improvement subject to the special assessment must confer a bene?t on the
assessed property and not just the community as a whole and (2) the amount of the special
assessment must be reasonably proportionate to the bene?t derived from the improvement.?
When a special assessment is made, it ?stands upon the presumption of good faith, lawful action,
and considerate creation of the assessment district, although such presumption cannot withstand
established facts to the contrary.? Dix-Ferndole Taxpayer-3' Ass-?n v. City ofDeiroit, 258 Mich.
390 (1932). Speci?cally, the petitioner must demonstrate ?a substantial and unreasonable
disproportionality between the amount assessed and the value that accrues to the land as a result
of the improvements." Dixon Rd. Group v. City ofNovi. 426 Mich. 390 (1986); Storm v. City of
Wyoming, 208 Mich.App. 45 (1994).

In Davis v. City of Westlond, 45 Mich.App. 497 (1973), the Michigan Court of Appeals
clari?ed that voiding the entire assessment was not the remedy in a situation where the assessment
of one party was ?clearly out of proportion and unjust? and the errors in the varying amounts of
the assessment should be corrected before the tax roll is con?rmed. Voiding the entire assessment
roll is appropriate when ?an assessment is so arbitrary or discriminatory as to be substantially
unfair.?

 

39 The burden is on the property owner to prove that the amount of the assessment is not proportionate to the bene?t
received. Johnson v. Inksrer, 401 Mich. 263 (1977).
4? Kadzban, 442 Mich. at 500-502; Ahearn v. Bloom?eld Charter Twp, 235 Mich.App. 486 (1999).

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 18

Additionally, to protect private property rights, Michigan law also requires that the total
amount of the assessment must be no greater than what was reasonably necessary to cover the cost
of the work. Oneida Twp. v. Eaton Co. Drain Comm 198 Mich.App. 523 (1993). Therefore, it
is likely that a challenge to the proposed ordinance amendment to charge parcels that receive the
bene?t of the same service(s) differing amounts based on the ?nancial status of the property owner,
not on the value of the bene?t to the property, would fail. Particularly if the court were to
determine that the class or classes within the district were similarly situated as to bene?t of the
improvement(s) but different amounts were levied.

Therefore, a legal challenge to the Michigan Tax Tribunal or pursuit of a discontinuance
petition under Sec. 18?12-14141 of the SAD Ordinance are the proper vehicles to impact a SAD
levy once established. The City cannot forgive or exempt a special assessment. The Treasurer
may withhold a delinquent special assessment from Wayne County but it remains a lien against
the property and subject to collection action by the City.42

Analysis of MCL 117.5i
The statutory authority43 for the City?s enactment of the local ordinance creating the

particularized Special Assessment District (SAD) at issue provides:
(1) Whether or not authorized by its charter, a city with a population of
more than 600,000 may provide by ordinance a procedure to finance
by special assessments the provision by private contractors of snow
removal from streets, mosquito abatement, and security services. The
ordinance shall authorize the use of petitions to initiate the
establishment of a special assessment district. The record owners of
not less than 51% of the land comprising the actual special assessment
district must have signed the petitions.
(2) A service instituted under this section may be discontinued upon
petition by the record owners of 51% of the land comprising the special

assessment district.
Emphasis added.

Section 5i was ?rst enacted by Public Act 431 of 1994 with a population threshold of one
million. In 2001 and 2011 it was amended to lower the population threshold.44 The City of Detroit
remains the only local unit that meets the population threshold to trigger the discretionary authority
to enact such an ordinance. The statute requires a community?based petition drive to initiate the
designation of a special assessment district. Given the previous discussion of relevant case law,
the ?procedure by which to ?nance? refers to the apportionment of costs (such as unit bene?t, front
foot method, or area basis) within a designated district. This does not grant the legislative body
unfettered power relative to ?nancing. It must conform to a ?legally sanctioned? method of

 

4? This section codi?es MCL 
42 If an individual were delinquent on their property taxes or water bill then it would still be referred to Wayne County

for collection.
43 MCL ll7.5i.
44 Public Act 173 of 2001 lowered the population threshold to 750,000 and Public Act 287 of 2011 further reduced it

to the current level of 600,000.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 19

1" 

apportionment as well as due diligence based on the cost of services, number of properties
bene?tted by the service and related information from the assessor.

City Council, as the legislative body of the City, holds the responsibility to approve the
boundaries of a special assessment district to include those properties that will bene?t from the
special assessment. There is no legal authority that supports the exemption of select parcels within
a special assessment district or that receive the value of the benefit of the service based on the
?nancial status ot?the owner. This proposition would run afoul of the basic principles of taxation
and encourage a re-interpretation of law so well-settled cases from the mid-18003 to date remain
good law with precedential value. The current exemptions from a SAD levy mirror other
exemptions in state law and are based on the use of property for public purposes.45 Entities, such
as a municipal lighting authority, which are exempt from taxes and special assessments lose this
status if they are leased to private persons.46

The language regarding exemptions in the current ordinance comports with state law and
the body of case law discussed in this opinion. Because the Michigan Tax Tribunal would hold
jurisdiction over a challenge of a SAD it is prudent to anticipate the court would continue to hold
that property exempt from general taxation is nevertheless subject to a special assessment.? This
opinion outlines the apportionment guidelines to establish a valid ?procedure to finance? with the
applicable principles of uniformity among classes incorporated.

The Glenn Steil State Revenue Sharing Act of 1971, Public Act 140 of 1971; MCL
141.9046), which deals with the distribution of collection of state income tax to local units on a
per capita basis, de?nes in subpart that a special assessment43 is imposed by a city against
property in the city for any public improvement, facility, or service authorized by charter,
ordinance, or statute to be imposed on the basis of benefit to the property.

In its brevity, MCL 117.5i does not explicitly address the availability of exemptions from
a SAD levy.49 In drafting the exceptions contained within the ordinance, the Law Department
mirrored similar statutes as well as case law to establish a legally defensible list. The Law
Department has been unable to find, and LPD has not cited to any legal support that would allow
an exemption from a special assessment levy based on a characteristic of the property owner as
opposed to a calculation based on bene?t to the property itself. In the case of a SAD levy under

 

45 The Drain Code of 1956 at MCL 280.280 and Principal Shopping Districts and Business Improvement Districts at
MCL 125.990h.

45 MCL 123.1287.

Please refer to cases previously discussed in this opinion in particular Big Rapids v. The Board of Supervisors of
Mascara County, 99 Mich. 35] (1894); Loomis v. Rogers, l9? Mich. 265 hr re Petition General,
226 Mich. 170 (1924); Donna v. Pure Marquette Ry. Co, 247 Mich. 542 {1929); Acacia Park Cemetery .ttss'n v.
Souti'i?elrt 7p. County, 83 Micli.App. 274 (1978}: ll?ikmrtu v. City quovt', 413 Mich. 617 {1982): Howard
v. Clintmr Charter Twp, 230 Mich?pp. 692 (I998).

"3 This de?nition exempts special assessments where an entire local unit is the special assessment district and included
as part oflocal taxes on each parcel on an ad valorem basis. MCL l41.904(3) and (6). This type ofspecial assessment
is outside of the scope of this opinion as the proposed special assessment district under MCL 117.51? is not City-wide
but a discrete area ofthc City to be bene?tted by the services.

"9 The notice requirements for special assessments is addressed in MCL 211.741, et seq.

Hon. City Council

Re: Supplemental Opinion on Special Assessments
August 16, 2019

Page 20

  

the current ordinance it would be the cost to each parcel of the total cost of the services, using an
apportionment method (such as area basis or unit bene?t).

CONCLUSION

There is no legal authority to exclude a property within a Special assessment district that
received the bene?t of the service provided from a special assessment levy or exclude it from the
assessment roll prior to con?rmation absent a speci?c statutory exemption. General principles of
taxation and uniformity established in case law and the 1963 Michigan Constitution require that
the levy be imposed on a parcel that receives the bene?t. Constraints regarding the creation of a
special assessment district and the requirement that ?legally sanctioned? modes of apportionment
be used to distribute the cost of the improvement throughout the district also do not support the
proposed ordinance. It is well-established that exemptions from general taxation do not extend to
special assessment levies as those costs are attached to the property, not the property owner.

As Detroit is the only municipality that meets the population threshold to enact an
ordinance under MCL 117.5i, there is a lack of materials surrounding that particular special
assessment. However, the full body of materials regarding special assessments (secondary
sources, case law and related statutory comparisons) provide a complete and clear framework that
remains virtually unchanged since the mid-18005 and does not support the enactment of the
proposed ordinance amendment. Therefore, Corporation Counsel remains unable to approve the
proposed ordinance amendment as to form as its enactment or enforcement is not supported by the
Michigan Constitution, state or local law, or relevant case law.

Should you have any additional questions, please feel free to contact us.

Respect 'ully submittW

ilianne V. Pastula
Senior Assistant Corporation Counsel

  

(joncur:

hill/mama a

Supe ising Assis nt Corporation Counsel

Approved:

WJW

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

2 WOODWARD AVE., SUITE 1100
DETROIT, Ml 48226
CITY OF DETROIT PHONE 313-628-2535
(In 0. OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FAX: 313-224-2135

DETROIT _E-Mail' QCFO?detroitmi oov

  
  

August 28, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
Coleman A Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward

Detroit MI 48266

RE: Investment Agreement

Dear Honorable Detroit City Council Members:

The Office of The Chief Financial Officer submits the attached proposed Investment
Management Agreement in order to obtain services to manage the assets and render
investment advice with respect to the assets of the City of Detroit Retiree Protection
Trust Fund held with the custodian selected by the city.

Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me or my office.

Best regards

   

Jo glick, .
Chief Deputy Finance Director

CC: David Massaron
Katie Hammer
Christa McLellan
Stephanie Washington

Enc.

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

 

RESOLVED, that Agreement attached (Agincourt) referred to in the foregoing communication
dated from the week of September 3, 2019 be hereby and are approved.

2 WOODWARD AVE, SUITE 1 1UU
DETROIT, MI 48226
CITY OF DETROIT PHONE 313-628-2535
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FAX: 313-224-2135

E?Mail: 

    

 

CIYYOF
DETROIT

August 28, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
Coleman Young Municpial Center

2 Woodward Avenue
Detroit, MI 48226 

Re: Investment Agreement
Dear Honorable Detroit City Council Members:

The CFO Of?ce submits the proposed Investment Management Agreement
in order to render investment advice and manage the assets of the Client in its

Detroit Retirement Protection Trust Fund held with the custodian X?selected by the
Client and designated in writing by the Client to the manager (the ?Custodian?).

Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me or my of?ce.

Best regards,

 

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT

Investment Management Agreement between City of Detroit, Michigan, a Michigan
municipal corporation by and through its Finance Department (the ?Client?) and Agincourt
Capital Management, a Virginia limited liability company (the ?Investment Manager?) is made
as ofthis 27th day of August, 2019.

WHEREAS, the Client wishes to appoint the Investment Manager to manage and
control the investment of certain assets (the ?Assets?) held for the account ofthe Client by Bank
of New York Mellon (the ?Custodian?) in a custody account (the ?Custody Account?).

WHEREAS, the Investment Manager is willing to perform the duties and accept the
responsibilities as an investment manager with respect to the Assets to provide investment advice
and to invest the Assets as directed by the Client and consistent with the Investment Guidelines
as hereinafter de?ned.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual considerations
provided in this Agreement, and intending to be legally bound, the Client and the Investment
Manager agree as follows:

1. Appointment. The Client hereby appoints the Investment Manager to act as an
investment manager with respect to the Assets to provide investment advice and to invest the

Assets as directed by the Client and consistent with the Investment Guidelines as hereinafter

de?ned.

2. Fees. The Client will pay the Investment Manager, as compensation for its services
under this Agreement, a fee determined in accordance with Schedule A, which is attached to this
Agreement. The fee schedule (Schedule A) may be changed by the Investment Manager upon

30-days written notice to the Client. The Investment Manager will send fee invoices on a

quarterly basis directly to the Client unless otherwise directed in writing by the client (below). If

the Client directs the Investment Manager to invoice a third party, the Client also attests that it

has given written authorization to the third party, including successors or assigns, to pay the

Investment Manager directly. In this case, the Client shall receive a duplicate copy of invoice:
Send Invoice to:

Christa J. MeLellan
Deputy CFO/Treasurer

City of' Detroit

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite
1200

Detroit, MI 48226

Of?ce: 313-224-1717
mclellanc@detroitmi. gov

3. Assets Held in Trust for the Client. All Assets for which the Investment Manager
acts as an investment manager shall be held in trust by the Custodian (or by any additional or
successor custodian).

4. Authority of Investment Manager. Consistent with the Investment Guidelines, the
Investment Manager shall have the discretionary authority to manage and control the Assets in
the Custody Account, including the power to acquire and dispose.

The Client shall direct the Custodian to in form the Investment Manager of all
Assets segregated into the Custody Account. The Client, either alone or in conjunction with the
Custodian, shall also establish reporting and accounting arrangements so the Investment Manager
will be fully informed at all times as to the Assets segregated into the Custody Account.

5. Investment Guidelines and Limitations. Until contrary general Investment

Guidelines are communicated from the Client to the Investment Manager, the Custody Account

shall be managed in accordance with the guidelines contained in Schedule B, which is attached to

this Agreement (the ?Investment Guidelines"). Investment Manager hereby agrees that each
person working on behalf of the Investment Manager has received a copy of the Investment
Guidelines, has read and fully understand, and will comply with Michigan Public Act 314 of
1965, as amended, ("Act 314") and the Investment Guidelines. Investment Manager hereby
acknowledges its responsibility as an investment ?duciary under Act 314. Any investment advice
or recommendation on investments for the Client given pursuant to this Agreement shall comply
with Act 314 and the Investment Guidelines.

6. Other Activities of the Investment Manager. In addition to the investment
management services performed under this Agreement, the Investment Manager or any of its
af?liates may engage in any other business and may render investment advisory services to any
other person. The Investment Manager or any of its af?liates may render investment advisory
services to any other person, even if the Investment Manager, its af?liates, or the other person
may have investment policies similar to those followed by the Investment Manager for managing
the Custody Account. The Investment Manager may at any time buy or sell, or may direct or
recommend that another person buy or sell, securities of the same kind or class that are purchased
or sold for other investment management accounts upon the directions of the Investment
Manager.

7. Investment Adviser. The Investment Manager is an ?investment adviser? as de?ned
in the Investment Advisers Act of [940. The Investment Manager shall maintain its status for the
duration of this Agreement. In dealing with the Assets, the Investment Manager shall not be
deemed to be acting as or to make the warranties of a broker.

8. Termination. The Investment Manager may terminate this Agreement on 30 days?

written notice to the Client. The Client may terminate the Investment Manager?s appointment as

an investment manager on 5 business days? written notice. In addition, ifthe Client did not
receive the Investment Manager?s disclosure statement at least 48 hours prior to entering into this
Agreement, the Client shall have the right to terminate this Agreement without penalty on written
notice to the Investment Manager within 5 business days after signing this Agreement. Nothing
in this section shall preclude the Client from directing the Custodian to segregate additional
assets into, or remove assets from, the Custody Account for which the Investment Manager acts
as an investment manager.

9. No Assignment. The Investment Manager may not assign this Agreement without the
written consent of the Client.

10. Change in Control of Investment Manager. The Investment Manager shall
immediately notify the Client in writing of any material change in the control or ownership oFthe
Investment Manager.

I 1. Communications. The Treasurer and Deputy Treasurer of the Client shall, upon
execution of th is Agreement and from time to time thereafter, notify the Investment Manager, in
writing, of the people who are authorized to act on behalf of the Client under this Agreement (the
?Authorized Officers"), and the Investment Manager shall, upon execution of this Agreement and
from time to time thereafter, notify the Custodian and the Authorized Of?cers of the Client in
writing, of the people who are authorized to act on behalf of the Investment Manager under this
Agreement. The Investment Manager may accept and act upon instructions which the Investment
Manager reasonably and in good faith believes to be genuine from any Authorized Of?cer, given
instructions orally or by telephone, email, telegraph, facsimile or other written means of
communication. The investment Manager shall have no liability in connection with any act

reasonably taken or omitted in good faith or at the request or instruction of the Authorized

Of?cer. However, the Federal securities law imposes liabilities under certain circumstances on
persons who act in good faith, and therefore nothing herein shall in any way constitute a waiver
or limitation of any rights which the undersigned may have under any Federal securities or State
laws.

12. Modi?cation of Agreement. This Agreement may be amended only by a written
instrument signed by the Client and the Investment Manager.

13. Governing Laws. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with federal law
and the law of the State of Michigan (without regard to the legislative orjudicial conflict of laws
or rules of any state).

14. Receipt of Disclosure Statement. Prior to or simultaneously with the execution of
this Agreement, the Client has received from the Investment Manager a copy of the Investment
Manager?s written disclosure statement.

15. No Additional Duties. The Investment Manager shall not be under any duty to
institute or defend any legal proceeding on behalf of the Client. The Investment Manager is
under no duty to take any action other than herein specified unless the Investment Manager

agrees in writing to do so.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF. the Client and the Investment Manager have executed this

Agreement as of the day and year written above.

By:

 

Name:
Title:

gincou ital Malia emu .LLC
a?e?z fag

/Name: Patrick 0' Hara
Title: Managing Director

 

THIS CONTRACT WAS APPROVED APPROVED BY LAW DEPARTMENT
BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON: Pursuant to 75-206 of the Charter of the
City of Detroit

 

Date

 

 

Chief Procurement Officer Date Corporation Counsel Date

THIS CONTRACT IS NOT VALID OR AUTHORIZED UNTIL APPROVED BY
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL AND SIGNED BY THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT
OFFICER

AGINCOURT CAPITAL MANAGENIENT, LLC
SCHEDULE A

ANNUAL FEE SCHEDULE

.20% on First $25 Million
.15% on Next $75 Million
.10% on Next $100 Million

.05% on the Balance

Fees will be calculated and invoiced quarterly in arrears based on the ending market value of the
assets under management.

AGINCOURT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, LLC

SCHEDULE 
INVETSMENT GUIDELINES
CITY OF DETROIT
CFO ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER No. 2018-101-009A

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
Mi? 2 WOODWARD AVE, SUITE 1100
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
PHONE: 313?224-3203
FAX: 313-224-2135


  

CITY OF DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

CFO ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER
No. 

SUBJECT: Retiree Protection Fund Investment Advisory Committee

ISSUANCE DATE: March 29, 2018

EFFECTIVE DATE: March 29, 2018

AMENDED DATE: August 22, 2019

 

1. AUTHORITY

1.1. State of Michigan Public Act 279 of 1909, Section as amended by Public
Act 182 of 2014, states the chief financial officer shall supervise all ?nancial and
budget activities of the city and coordinate the city?s activities relating to budgets,
financial plans, ?nancial management, ?nancial reporting, financial analysis, and
compliance with the budget and ?nancial plan of the city.

12. Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code. Retirement Systems, as amended by
Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Sections 47-3-1 through 47-3-10, among
other items, authorizes the creation of an investment advisory committee to be chaired
by the Chief Financial Of?cer (the 

13. Trust assets be invested as provided by Public Employees Retirement System
Investment Act - Michigan Public Act 314 of 1965, MCL 38.1132 et seq., as
amended (Act 314).

2. OBJECTIVE

2.1. To ensure the Retiree Protection Fund Investment Advisory Committee (the
?Advisory Committee?) executes its responsibilities as established by Chapter 47 of
the 1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement Systems, as amended by Article Retiree
Protection Trust Fund, Sections 47-3?6 and 47-3-8.

22. To ensure the CFO receives investment recommendations regarding the Trust assets
in a manner that safeguards principle and maximizes the Trust?s investment returns.
3. PURPOSE
3.1. To establish the responsibilities of the Advisory Committee.
32. To designate the chair of the Advisory Committee.

4. SCOPE

4.1. This Administrative Order only applies to the investment Advisory Committee
established pursuant to Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement
Systems, as amended by Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Section 47-3-8 and
does not apply to other City investments.

5. RESPONSIBILITIES

5.1. The CF O?s Of?ce shall be responsible for the periodic review and maintenance of
this Administrative Order, as well as other related policies and or procedures that
may be deemed necessary.

52. The Advisory Committee shall review, and act in accordance with, this
Administrative Order, City Ordinance No. 21-17 and Act 314.

CFO Administrative Order No. 2018-101-009A Page 2 of 13

53. The Chief Deputy CFO Finance Director (the shall coordinate the

business of the Advisory Committee with assistance from the Office of the Treasury.
6. POLICY

6.1. The CFO hereby designates the CDCFO as the chair of the Advisory Committee.

62. The Advisory Committee shall develop and recommend a Policy Statement to the
CFO, see Exhibit A for current Policy Statement.

63. The Advisory Committee shall, at a minimum, meet annually during the month of
September to conduct its business and review the Annual Statement submitted to the
CFO by the Trustee.

6.4. The Advisory Committee, through the chair, shall submit an annual written report

(the ?Annual Advisory Committee Report?) to the CFO stating its recommendations
regarding the investment of Trust assets and any additional information deemed
relevant by the Advisory Committee or the CFO no later than the end of October each
year. The format of the Annual Advisory Committee Report will be prescribed in the
Policy Statement.

7. DEFINITIONS

7.1.

72.

73.

7.4.

rd
9:

7.6.

Annual Advisory Committee Report: the annual written report to the CFO stating the
Advisory Committee?s recommendations regarding the investment of Trust assets
and any additional information the Advisory Committee or CF 0 deems relevant.

Annual Statement: the Annual Statement submitted to the CF 0 by the Trustee in
accordance with Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement Systems, as
amended by Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Section 47-3-6, Article 
Accounts and Recordkeeping, Section 8.02 Reporting.

Advisory Committee: the RPF Investment Advisory Committee established pursuant
to Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement Systems, as amended by
Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Section 47?3-8.

Policy Statement: the Policy Statement outlines 1) speci?c guidelines for the
management of the Trust and 2) the requirement of the Annual Advisory Committee
Report.

Trust: the Retiree Protection Trust Fund established pursuant to Chapter 47 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement Systems, as amended by Article Retiree
Protection Trust Fund, Section 47-3-2.

Trustee: the Trustee as de?ned in Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Retirement Systems, as amended by Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Section
47-3-6.

APPROVED

0

'David P. Massaron
ChlefFinanclal O?icer, City ofDetrolt

CFO Administrative Order No. Page 3 of 13

EXHIBIT A: POLICY STATEMENT

 

 

 

 

CFO Administrative Order No. 2018-101-009A Page 4 of 12

CITY OF DETROIT RETIREE PROTECTION FUND

Investment Policy Statement

PURPOSE OF INVESTMENT POLICY STATEMENT

Ordinance No. 21-17 amended Chapter 47 of the Detroit City Code to establish a Trust as a mechanism to save
and invest funds and contributions of the City for later distribution to the General Retirement System and the
Police and Fire System, and to authorize the creation of an Investment Advisory Committee (IAC). Furthermore,
pursuant to CFO Administrative Order No. 2018?101-009, the IAC shall submit an Annual Advisory Committee
Report to the CFO stating its recommendations regarding the investment of the Trust assets. The purpose of
this Investment Policy Statement (Statement) is to provide 1) specific guidelines for the management of assets
of the Trust and 2) the requirements of the Annual Advisory Committee Report.

This Statement is authorized by CFO Administrative Order No. 2018-101-008, CFO Administrative Order No.
2018-101-009, City Ordinance No. 21-17 and the Public Employees Retirement System Investment Act -
Michigan Public Act 314 of 1965, IVICL 38.1132 et seq., as amended (Act 314).

Investment objectives are formulated in response to the financial needs of the Trust. Financial needs are
influenced by the City?s benefit policies, funding objectives, liabilities, and the successful management of Trust
assets. Therefore, investment objectives consider the Trust?s financial and liquidity needs and the City?s risk
tolerances and inflation expectations.

Roles and Responsibilities
A. Investment Advisory Committee

The Investment Advisory Committee (IAC) acknowledges Its responsibility as an advisor to the CFO, who is a
fiduciary to the Trust. In this regard, the IAC must provide advice prudently and for the exclusive interest of
the Trust's participants and beneficiaries.

More specifically, the IAC's responsibilities include:

1. Comply with the provisions of pertinent federal, state, and local laws and regulations,
including Act 314.

2. With the advice of the Investment Consultant, recommend qualified investment managers and
consultants to manage and advise on the Trust?s assets.

3. With the advice ofthe Investment Consultant, monitor and review the investment performance
of the Trust to determine achievement of goals and compliance with policy guidelines.

4. With the advice of the Investment Consultant, monitor and evaluate manager performance.
5. Conduct manager searches when needed for policyimplementation.

6. When the IAC is considering the engagement of a new investment manager, the IAC may perform due
diligence site visits to the offices of the interview candidates.

7. Make recommendation of return assumptions.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B.

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Policy Statement

Investment Consultant

The Investment Consultant's (Consultant) role is that of an advisor to the Trust, enabling the Investment Advisory
Committee to make well-informed and timely recommendations to the CFO regarding the investment ofthe Trust's
assets. The Consultant acknowledges its responsibilities as an advisor to the CFO, who is a fiduciary under Act 314
and must act in the exclusive interest of the Trust.

More specifically, the Consultant?s responsibilities include:

1. Assist the IAC in strategic planning for the Trust. Provide objective advice and counsel that will enable the
IAC to make well-informed and well-educated recommendations regarding the investment of the Trust?s
assets.

2. Assist the IAC in the development and periodic review of a policy statement that properly reflects the IAC's
tolerance for risk, and that best assists the IAC in meeting its rate?of-return, and overall investment policies
associated with administering and investing thisTrust.

3. Assist the IAC in the development and periodic review of the asset allocation policy and investment
manager structure that provides adequate diversification with respect to the number and types of asset
classes and investment managers to be retained.

4. Determine the Trust?s capacity to add new investments, participate in cash flow/liquidity forecasting
for the Trust?s needs, and advise on general compliance requirements.

5. Review, monitor, and advise the IAC on the current asset allocation to determine whether the Trust
complies with asset limitations under Act 314 (as amended) and the lAC?s investment objectives and

guidelines.

6. Assist the in its due diligence and search for new investment manager(s) utilizing the appropriate
data bases, both externally and proprietary.

7. Assist the IAC in the development and review of performance standards and guidelineswith which the
can measure each investment manager?s progress.

8. To provide to the IAC quarterly performance measurement reports on each of theinvestment managers
and on the Trust as a whole, and to assist the IAC in interpreting the results.

9. Monitor and review statements, review and advise the IAC on information sent by the investment
managers, review investment managers as necessary (based on the guidelines set forth in this IPS and the
consultant?s internal research policies; including but not limited to legal and financial information provided by
the managers).

10. The Consultant?s report will be the main report the IAC utilizes when evaluating the overall investment results
ofthe Trust and individual managers. The Consultant will reconcile performance, holdings, and security pricing
data with the Trust?s custodian bank and when necessary staff reports/data. In the event of a discrepancy,
the custodian?s values will be used.

11. Make recommendation of return assumptions to the IAC.

12. Provide general consulting services as requested by the IAC and as deemed appropriate by the Investment
Consultant. Attend necessary meetings as requested by the IAC. Act as a liaison between investment
managers and the Trust, and thereby facilitate the communication of important information in the
management of the Trust.

13. Shall acknowledge in writing that they are a prudent expert for the Trust with all attendant duties and
responsibilities, including without limitation, fiduciary responsibility.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Policy Statement

14. Shall conduct themselves in accordance with this Investment Policy Statement.
15. Such other duties as may be mutually agreed upon in writing.

Investment Managers

The investment managers (Managers) will acknowledge their responsibility as an investment fiduciary under Act
314. Each investment manager will have full discretion to make all investment decisions for the assets placed
under their control, while observing and operating within all policies, guidelines, constraints, and philosophies as
outlined in this statement.

More specifically, the Managers? responsibilities include:

1. Manage the Trust?s assets under its supervision in accordance with the guidelines and objectives
contained in this Investment Policy Statement.

2. Exercise investment discretion in regard to buying, managing, and selling assets held in the portfolio,
subject to any limitations contained in this Investment PolicyStatement.

3. Perform its investment management duties with respect to the assets with the same care, skill, prudence,
and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a prudent person acting in a similar capacity and
familiar with such matters would use in the conduct of a similar enterprise with similar aims.

4. Seek to obtain ?best execution" with respect to portfolio transactions.

5. Vote all proxies consistent with the guidelines contained in the Manager?s Investment Management
Agreement or similar document. Investment managers shall provide documentation regarding the
disposition of proxy solicitations to the IAC upon request.

6. Comply with the reporting requirements outlined in this Investment Policy Statement.

7. Acknowledge and agree in writing as to their fiduciary responsibility to comply fully with the entire
Investment Policy Statement set forth herein.

8. Report to the IAC and Consultant quarterly regarding the status of the portfolio and its performance for
various time periods and meet with the IAC as requested to report on their performance and compliance
with goals and objectives.

9. inform the IAC and Investment Consultant regarding all significant matters pertaining to the
investment of the Trust?s assets. The IAC shall be notified in writing of any material change in ownership,
organizational structure, financial condition, senior staffing and management, or the management of the
investment manager?s portfolio.

10. Michigan law shall apply to all investment manager contracts where individual investment manager
agreements are negotiated.

Custodian
The custodian (Custodian) will provide safekeeping and accounting services for the Trust. More
specifically, the Custodian?s responsibilities include:

1. Provide adequate safekeeping services.

2. Upon receipt of proper, executable trade instructions, custodian shall seek to settle trades in a timely
manner.

3. Collect interest and dividend income when due.

 

 

 

 

 Hunmuou 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Policy Statement

4. Notify investment managers of corporate actions, including mergers, tender offers, stock splits and
capital changes that require a decision.

5. Sweep daily cash balances into appropriate investmentfunds.
6. Accept instructions from the designated individuals.
7. Disburse funds as directed.
8. Provide statements by investment managers? accounts and a consolidated statement of all
assets.
9. To perform other services for the IAC as are customary and appropriate forcustodians.
INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES

The objectives ofthe Trust have been established in conjunction with a comprehensive review of the current
and projected financial requirements as presented in an asset allocation review performed in 2019 by the
Consultant. The objectives include:

0 To have the ability to supplement the City?s General Fund in making its annual required
contributions to the Pension Systems when due.

0 The Trust?s overall investment objective is the preservation of principal.

- To maintain the purchasing power of the current assets and all future contributions by producing positive
real rates of return on Trust assets.

0 To control costs of administering the Trust and managing the investments.
0 To meet all statutory requirements of the State ofMichigan.

The following investment objectives, in order of priority, shall be applied in the management of the Trust:

The primary objectives, in priority order, of investment activities shall be safety, yield and liquidity.

0 Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the Trust. Investments shall be undertaken in
a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The objective will
be to manage credit risk and interest rate risk.

- Return on Investment. The Trust shall be designed with the objective of attaining the maximum market
rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the lAC?s investment risk
constraints and cash flow needs and characteristics of the portfolio

0 Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to meet all budgetary
requirements that may be reasonably anticipated.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IV.

VI.

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Policy Statement

ASSET ALLOCATIONS

The asset allocation policy is developed 1) to attempt to achieve the investment objectives, 2) to achieve the
expected investment returns with a prudent amount of investment risk, and 3) in recognition that the capital
markets may behave differently over any time period, throughout the life of the Trust.

This strategic asset allocation policy is consistent with the achievement of the Trust's financial needs and overall
investment objectives. Asset classes are selected based on their expected long-term returns, individual
reward/risk characteristics, correlation with other asset classes, manager roles, and fulfillment of the Trust's
long?term financial needs. Conformance with statutory investment guidelines is also considered.

The investment Advisory Committee will recommend an allocation range for each asset class and provide
the recommendation in the IAC's Annual Advisory Committee Report. The IAC recognizes the need to vary
exposure within and among different asset classes, based on investment opportunities and changing capital
market conditions. The will take into consideration the Trust's current investments and present market
conditions. The IAC intends to review these allocation targets at least annually, focusing on changes in the
Trust's financial needs, investment objectives and asset class performance.

The lAC's attitude regarding the Trust's assets combines both the preservation of capital and minimal risk-
taking. The recognizes that risk lie, the uncertainty of future events), volatility lie, the potential for
variability of asset values), and the potential of loss in purchasing power (due to inflation) are present to some
degree with all types of investment vehicles. While high levels of risk are to be avoided, the assumption of a
limited level of risk is warranted in order to allow the opportunity to achieve satisfactory results consistent
with the objectives and character of the Trust. The policies and restrictions contained in this statement should
not impede the investment manager to attain the overall Trust objectives, nor should they exclude the
investment manager from appropriate investment opportunities.

INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES
A. Total Portfolio Performance

1. The Trust will be managed in accordance with the parameters specified in this investment Policy.
The portfolio should obtain a market average rate of return. A series of appropriate benchmarks
shall be established against which the portfolio performance shall be compared on a regular basis.
The benchmarks shall be reflective of the actual allocation of assets, securities held, and the risks
undertaken.

B. Fixed Income Performance

The overall objective of the fixed income portion of the portfolio is to add stability and liquidity to the total

portfolio.
INVESTMENT GUIDELINES
A. Overall

All investment guidelines and restrictions of the State of Michigan are incorporated by reference,
including, but not limited to Act 314.

B. Pooled Funds

Investments made by the Trust may include pooled funds. For purposes of this policy pooled funds may
include, but are not limited to, mutual funds, commingled funds, exchange-traded funds, limited

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund - Investment Policy Statement

partnerships and limited liability corporations. Pooled funds may be governed by separate documents
which may include investments not expressly permitted in this IPS. In the event of investment by the Trust
into a pooled fund, the Trust will adopt the prospectus or governing policy of that fund as that manager?s
addendum to this investment Policy Statement.

C. Alternativelnvestments

The Trust may invest in investments that would otherwise not be qualified under these Investment policies,
to the extent permitted under Section 38.1140d of Act 314 (informally referred to as the "basket clause?).

D. Collective Investment Restrictions and Correcting Excess/DeficientInvestments

All Managers are restricted individually, and collectively, by this The Managers shall coordinate
periodically with the Consultant, who shall (among other things) assure collective compliance with this IPS.
In the event any investment based on changes in the market value of the Trust assets, causes the Trust to
exceed or fall short of any range prescribed in this IPS, the assets may be reallocated in a prudent manner
to comply with Act 314 and the strategic allocation and ranges outlined in this IPS.

E. Guideline for Fixed Income Investments

1. Per Act 314, as amended guidelines, not more than 15% of the Trust?s assets may be invested in below
investment grade bonds. Investment grade is defined as securities graded in the top 4 major grades
as determined by 2 national rating services. Asset allocation guidelines may be more restrictive and
provide for a lower amount of exposure to below investment grade bonds.

2. For mutual funds and collective trusts guidelines will be outlined in their prospectus or
offering document.

VII. REPORTING
A. 

On a basis, the Custodian shall supply an accounting statement that will include a summary of all
receipts and disbursements and the cost and the market value of all assets.

B. Quarterly

On a quarterly basis the Investment Managers shall deliver a report detailing the Trust's performance,
forecast of the market and economy, portfolio analysis and current assets of their portfolio. Written reports
shall be delivered to the IAC and the CFO within 30 days of the end of the quarter. A copy of the written
report shall be submitted to the person designated by the City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund and shall
be available for public inspection. The Investment Managers will provnde immediate written and telephone
notice to the IAC of any significant market related or non?market related event impacting the portfolio and

its performance.

The Investment Consultant shall evaluate and report on a quarterly basis the rate of return and relative
performance of the Trust on a gross and net of fee basis.

C. Annually Annual Advisory Committee Report

Pursuant to CFO Administrative Order 2018-1010091 Retiree Protection Fund Investment Advisory
Committee, the Advisory Committee, through the chair, shall submit an annual written report to the
CFO stating its recommendations regarding the investment of Trust assets and any additional
information deemed relevant by the Advisory Committee of the CFO no later than the end of October

each year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Policy Statement

At minimum, the following items shall be included in the Annual Advisory Committee Report:

1. Summary of activity of the IAC since submittal of the previous Annual Advisory Committee
Report

2. Asset Allocation Recommendations and Justification (including analysis of Risk)

3. Earnings assumptions for total portfolio, as well as any portion as appropriate Fixed
Income)

4. Forecast which models Trust performance through life of the trust fund.
D. As Necessary

If an Investment Manager holds securities, that complied with section VI at the time of purchase, which
subsequently exceed the applicable limit or do not satisfy the applicable investment standard, such excess
or noncompliant investments may be continued until it is economically feasible to dispose of such
investment in accordance with the prudent person standard of care, but no additional investment may be
made unless authorized by law or ordinance. In addition, an action plan outlining the investment 'hold or
sell? strategy shall be provided to the IAC immediately.

The IAC will meet periodically to review the Investment Consultant?s performance report. The IAC will meet
with the Investment Managers and appropriate outside consultants to discuss performance results,
economic outlook, investment strategy and tactics and other pertinent matters affecting the Trust on a
periodic basis.

COMPLIANCE

It is the direction ofthe IAC that the Trust assets are held by a third-party Custodian, and that all securities
purchased by, and all collateral obtained by the Trust shall be properly designated as Trust assets. No
withdrawal of assets, in whole or in part, shall be made from safekeeping except by an authorized member
of the IAC or their designee.

At the direction of the IAC, operations of the Trust shall be reviewed by independent certified public
accountants as part of any financial audit periodically required. Compliance with the internal controls
shall be verified. These controls have been designed to prevent losses of assets that might arise from fraud,
error, or misrepresentation by third parties or imprudent actions by the IAC or employees ofthe Trust sponsor,
to the extent possible.

CRITERIA FOR. INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW

The Investment Consultant will monitor the performance for each component of the Trust on a basis
utilizing a time?weighted rate of return calculation. Certain managers, based on their individual investment
mandates, may report results using an internal rate of return calculation. The Investment Consultant will
review investment manager information and will provide updates to the IAC as necessary. No
investment manager will make a presentation to the IAC unless requested by the Investment Consultant due
to probationary status as outlined below or any other extenuating circumstance where the Investment
Consultant deems it appropriate that the IAC receives such presentation from the investment manager.

The Investment Consultant will evaluate each investment manager as outlined in this IPS and will then report
to the IAC.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Poiicy Statement

The IAC may initiate a change in investment manager at any time based upon performance results, a
change in investment needs, a lack of confidence based upon the evaluation ofthe investment manager's
results, or for any other or no reason at all.

The IAC wishes to adopt standards by which judgments of the ongoing performance of a Manager may be
made. The IAC will rely on the Investment Consultant to carefully monitor the Trust's investment managers on
several key indicators outlined below:

Style consistency or purity drift from the mandate.

Management turnover in portfolio team or senior management.

Investment process change, including varying the index or benchmark.

Failure to adhere to the Investment Policy Statement or other compliance issues.

Investigation of the firm by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or other regulatory
agency.

Significant asset flows into or out of the company or strategy.

Merger or sale of firm.

Fee increases outside of the competitive range.

Servicing issues key personnel stopservicing the account without proper notification.

Failure to attain a majority vote of confidence by the IAC.

Nothing in this section shall limit or diminish the right to terminate the Manager at any time.

REVIEW AND AMENDMENTS

The investment policy is intended to be flexible and should be reviewed and modified on an ongoing basis. The
goals, objectives and guidelines may be amended to reflect material or sustained changes in the financial condition
of the Trust. the economic environment, regulatory change or the opportunities available within the capital
markets. All changes to this document will be subject to IAC and CFO approval and will be made on an as needed

basis.

Adoption recommended by Investment Committee on July 24, 2019.

Adopted CITY OF DETROIT RETIREE PROTECTION FUND

1
.
This. 'f

I
. I

i. August 22, 2019



 

CFO Approval Date
David P. Massaron, CFO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Policy Statement

MANAGEMENT REPORT:

A. Asset Allocations - as of July 2019

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Asset Class? Target Range Benchmark Index

Global Equity 0% 0-0% MSCI World Index

Intermediate Gov/Cred 50% 35-60% BB Intermediate Gov/Credit

US AGG Fixed Income 50% 35%-60% BB US Aggregate Bond

High Yield 0 0-10% BB US High Yield Bond

Leveraged Loans 0% 0-10% LSTA Leveraged Loan Index 
I Cash* 0% 0%-30% 90-Day T?Bills

 

 

 

The IAC recognizes that from time to time the asset mix will deviate from the targeted percentages due to market
conditions. A range has been established for each asset class to control the risk and maximize the effectiveness
ofthe Trust?s asset allocation strategy, while avoiding unnecessary turnover at the security level. The Investment
Consultant will monitor the aggregate asset allocation of the portfolio and notify the Investment Advisory
Committee to rebalance to the target asset allocations based on market conditions. To minimize turnover, an
asset class that is outside of its allowable range, will be rebalanced towards its target allocation in a prudent
manner. When possible, contributions and distributions will be utilized to maintain allocations within policy
ranges and reduce transaction costs.

The IAC does not intend to exercise short-term changes to the target allocations.

B. Portfolio Performance as of July 2019

The IAC recommends, on an absolute basis, a return of the total portfolio that will equal or exceed the budgeted
earnings assumption of This absolute return objective will be evaluated in the context of the prevailing
market conditions. The core fixed income portion of the portfolio is expected to perform at a rate at least equal
to 1) the Bloomberg Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, and 2) rank in the top 50th percentile of the
total core fixed income universe over three (3) and five (5) year time periods.

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE. SUITE 1 100

 

DETROIT, MI 46226
SW 0F PHONE 313- 628-2535 5 5
or - FFICE OF THE HIEF FFICER
DETROIT 313 224 2135M

 

August 28, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
Coleman A Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward

Detroit MI 48266

RE: Investment Agreement

Dear Honorable Detroit City Council Members:

The Office of The Chief Financial Officer submits the attached proposed Investment
Management Agreement in order to obtain services to manage the assets and render
investment advice with respect to the assets of the City of Detroit Retiree Protection
Trust Fund held with the custodian selected by the city.

Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me or my office.

Best regards

  

Jo glick, Jr.
Chief Deputy Finance Director

CC: David Massaron
Katie Hammer
Christa McLellan
Stephanie Washington

Enc.

 WOODWARD AVE., SUITE 1100
DETROIT. MI 48226

CITY OF DETROIT PHONE 313?628-2535

(Irvor OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FAX: 313-224-2135

DETROIT gov

 

 

August 28, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
Coleman A. Young Municpial Center

2 Woodward Avenue
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Investment Agreement

Dear Honorable Detroit City Council Members:

The CFO Of?ce submits the proposed Investment Management Agreement
in order to render investment advice and manage the assets of the Client in its
Detroit Retirement Protection Trust Fund held with the custodian selected by the
Client and designated in writing by the Client to the manager (the ?Custodian?).



Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me or my of?ce.

 

 

 

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

RESOLVED, that Agreement attached (Garcia Hamilton Associates) referred to in the foregoing
communication dated from the week of September 3, 2019 be hereby and are approved.

 

 

 

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT

This INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT (this ?Agreement"), dated as of August
23, 2019, is made by and between Garcia Hamilton Associates, L.P., a Delaware limited liability
company (the ?Manager?), and City of Detroit, a Michigan municipal corporation (the ?Client?).

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, the Manager is engaged in business as an investment adviser and is registered
as such with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment

Advisers Act of 1940; and

WHEREAS, the Client desires to engage the Manager to render investment advice and
manage the assets of the Client in its Detroit Retirement Protection Trust Fund (the ?Account?)
held with the custodian selected by the Client (which custodian will be a ?quali?ed custodian? as
defined under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940) and designated in writing by the Client to the
Manager (the ??Custodian?).

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual covenants herein,
the parties do hereby agree as follows:

1. Engagement; Effectiveness. The Client hereby appoints the Manager as the
investment manager with respect to the Account and the Manager hereby accepts
such appointment and agrees to render the services herein set forth for the
compensation herein provided, with the engagement and this Agreement becoming
effective upon the Client?s initial transfer to the Account and the receipt by the
Manager of notification that it may begin effecting trades in the Account. The
Manager and the Client agree that Client may make additions to or withdrawals
from the Account in such amounts as Client shall determine. The Client also agrees
to use best effort to notify the Manager in writing of any additions to the
Account, including the amount thereof, and provided further, that Client agrees to
provide Manager, when feasible, with at least three (3) business days written notice
prior to such withdrawal which notice shall specify the proposed amount and date
of withdrawal.

2. Authority. The Manager shall have full power to supervise and direct the
investment of the Account and to make and implement investment decisions for
Account, with prior consultation with the Client, in accordance with such
investment guidelines set forth and attached as Exhibit A (the ?lnvetsment
Guidelines?), and subject only to such reasonable restrictions as communicated in
writing by the Client to the Manager in the future. Manager hereby acknowledges
its responsibility as an investment fiduciary under Michigan Public Act 314 of 1965, as
amended, ("Act 314") and will comply with the requirements of the Investment
Guidelines. Any investment advice or recommendation on investments for the Client
given pursuant to this Agreement shall comply with Act 314 and the Investment
Guidelines. In implementing investment decisions for the Account, the Manager

shall have full authority to place orders for the Account for the purchase or other
acquisition of such securities, prOperty or other assets for the Account as the
Manager may select or for the sale or other disposition of such securities, prOpeity
or other assets held in the Account as the Manager may select, and to select
brokers, dealers and other service providers to execute trades and/or to perform
other related services on behalf ofthe Account, at the Client?s expense. In the event
that Client requires Manager to execute transactions through a specified broker?
dealer, such request must be speci?cally made by Client in writing. Manager does
not vote client proxies except in instances where Client specifically assigns voting
authority to Manager for securities held in the account and Manager receives proxy
in a timely manner from Custodian. Manager does not use client transactions to
obtain research or other products or services. The Client agrees to instruct the
Custodian or any other broker, dealer or other service provider to execute the orders
received from the Manager and to consummate transactions executed in accordance
with the Manager?s instructions. In no event will the Manager take or retain
custody over the assets in the Account.

Services to Other Ciients. It is understood that the Manager may from time to time
give advice and take action with respect to other clients which may differ from the
advice given or the timing or the nature of action taken with respect to the Account.
It is further understood that the Manager may be engaged in purchasing or selling
for other clients positions in securities held in the Account and that the Manager
may have banking or other commercial relationships with companies whose
securities are held in the Account. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to
impose upon the Manager any obligation to purchase or sell or to recommend for
purchase or sale for the Client, any security or other property which the Manager,
its principals, affiliates, agents or employees may purchase or sell for its or their
own account or for the account of any other client.

Portfolio Management Duties The Manager shall use all reasonable
efforts available to the Manager to increase the value of the Account, however, it is
understood and agreed that the Manager does not guarantee or insure any increase
or even that there will not be a decrease. The Manager shall not be liable for any
decrease in the value of the Account, except as specifically provided in Section 11.

?gs. For its services pursuant to this Agreement the Client shall pay the Manager
compensation in accordance with the attached Schedule of Fees. Such
compensation shall be paid to Manager at the address provided in paragraph 6 of
this Agreement.

Notices. All mail and notices pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and
addressed as follows:
lfto Manager, to:

Garcia Hamilton Associates, LP.
5 Houston Center
1401 McKinney, Suite 1600

10.

Houston, Texas 77010
Attention: Managing Partner

If to Client, to:
Christa J. McLellan

Deputy CFO/Treasurer

City of Detroit

2 Woodward Avenue,

Suite 1200

Detroit, MI 48226

Of?ce: 313-224-1717

molellanc@detroitmi.gov
Federal Tax ID No. 38-6004606

or to such other address as may be ?xed by notice so given.

Manager generally expects to deliver regulatory and other client documents to
Client electronically, provided you consent to such delivery. The initials of an
authorized of?cer ofthe Client indicate Client?s consent to receive such documents
electronically and the ability to view and save/print these documents. If Client
consents, manager will deliver regulatory and other client documents to the email
above. If Cleint does not provide consent, Manager will send Client documents to
Client?s address of record by postal or overnight mail. Cleint may withdraw its
consent to receive documents electronically at any time by e?mail to
or by sending a written request by
postal mail to Garcia Hamilton Associates, L.P., ATTN: Chief Compliance
Of?cer, 1401 McKinney, Suite 1600, Houston, Texas 77010.

Invetsment Advisor. The Manager is an ?investment adviser? as defined in the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The Manager will maintain its status for the
duration of this Agreement.

Termination. This Agreement may be tenninated by either party at any time upon
30 days? advance written notice to the other party.

Assignment; Change in It is expressly agreed that this Agreement
may not be assigned (within the meaning of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
as amended)=without the written consent of the other party. in addition, the
Manager will notify the Client in the event of a material change in the partnership
of the Manager within a reasonable time after such change.

Disclosure Statement. The Client acknowledges receipt of Part 2A and 2B of the
Manager?s Form ADV or a disclosure statement containing the equivalent
information before or at the time Client enters into this Agreement. The Client also
acknowledges receipt of Privacy Policy of Manager, which notice is attached and
incorporated by reference herein.

l3.

Entire Agreement: Governing Law: Venue: This Agreement
constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to management of the
Account and supersedes all prior agreements and oral discussions. This Agreement
can only be amended by a written document signed by the parties. This Agreement
shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
Michigan, without regard to its conflicts of law rules, and the parties hereby agree
to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in Wayne
County, Michigan for any disputes relating to or in connection with this Agreement
or the services performed under this Agreement. If any provision of this
Agreement, or the application of such provision to any person or circumstance,
shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement or the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. This
Section ll shall survive the termination ofthis Agreement.

Liability. Neither the Manager nor any of its of?cers, directors or employees shall
be liable hereunder for any action performed or omitted to be performed or for any
errors ofjudgment in managing the account, or for any decrease in the value of the
account, or for any failure for the account to appreciate in value, except in the event
of Manager?s gross negligence or willful misconduct or (ii) violation of
applicable law or a breach ofa ?duciary duty under applicable law. The federal
securities laws impose liabilities under certain circumstances on persons who act in
good faith, and therefore nothing herein shall in any way constitute a waiver or
limitation of any rights which the undersigned may have under any federal
securities laws. This Section 12 shall survive the termination ofthis Agreement.

Independent Contractors. The Manager shall for all purposes of this Agreement
be deemed to be independent contractors, and neither party shall have authority to
act for or represent the other party or otherwise be deemed an agent of the other
party, except as contemplated in this Agreement.

Confidentiality. Except as described below, each party shall maintain and protect
in con?dence any and all con?dential data, information or documents, in whatever
medium, concerning the other party. By way of example, the Manager?s
con?dential information shall include. but is not limited to, its investment
strategies, portfolio holdings, buy/sell recommendations, business, operations,
?nancial information, and other affairs. No con?dential information belonging to
a party shall be given by the other party to any third party (other than as required
by applicable law or as speci?cally permitted in this Agreement), or used for any
purpose not speci?cally contemplated by this Agreement, without the CXpress
written consent ofthe party to which the information belongs. However, the Client
consents to the disclosure of the Client?s identity as a client ofthe Manager. This
Section 13 shall survive the termination ofthis Agreement.

Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement to the contrary, if Client is
requested or required (by applicable law, rule, or regulation; oral questions;
interrogatories; requests for information; documents in legal proceedings;
subpoena; civil investigative demand; or Michigan Freedom of Information Act

l4.

(FOIA) request or other similar process) to disclose any ofthe data, information or
documents, in whatever medium, concerning the Manager, the Client will provide
the Manager with prompt Written notice of any such request or requirement so that
the Manager may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy and/or waive
compliance with the provisions of this Agreement. If, in the absence ofa protective
order or other remedy or the receipt of a waiver by the Manager, the Client or its
representatives are, nonetheless, legally compelled to disclose data, information or
documents, in whatever medium, concerning the Manager, the Client or its
representatives may without liability hereunder disclose only that portion of such
information that such legal counsel advises the Client or its representatives are
legally required to be disclosed, provided that the Client or its representatives, as
the case may be, will use all reasonable efforts to preserve the confidentiality ofthe
Manager?s information, including, without limitation, by cooperating with the
efforts of the Manager (at the Manger?s expense) to obtain an appropriate protective
order or other reliable assurance that con?dential treatment will be afforded the
Manager?s information by such tribunal

Clienr Representation. The Client represents and con?rms that the Manager?s
retention as investment manager hereunder is authorized by the governing
documents relating to the Client, true and accurate copies of which have been
furnished to the Manager, and that the terms hereof do not violate any obligation
by which the Client is bound, whether arising by contract, operation of law or
otherwise, and that this Agreement has been duly authorized by appropriate
action and when executed and delivered will be binding upon the Client in
accordance with its terms, and the Client will deliver to the Manager such
evidence of such authority as the Manager may reasonably require, whether by way
of a certified resolution or otherwise.

 

(TI-IE OF THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date first written
above.

Client Name: CITY OF DETROIT

Signed By:

 

Printed Name/Title:

 

Manager: GARCIA HAMILTON 3: ASSOCIATES, L.P.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signed By: 
Printed Name/Title: Kittie/1 ?If I bwr?k'm i?r COO
THIS CONTRACT WAS APPROVED APPROVED BY LAW DEPARTMENT
BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON: Pursuant to 75-206 ofthe Charter ofthe City
of Detroit
Date
Chief Procurement Officer Date Corporation Counsel Date

THIS CONTRACT IS NOT VALID OR AUTHORIZED UNTIL APPROVED BY RESOLUTION OF THE CITY
COUNCIL AND SIGNED BY THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

EXHBIT A
INVESTMENT GUIDELINES
CITY OF DETROIT
CF 0 ADMINISTRATIVEORDER No. 2018-101-009A

SCHEDULE OF FEES

Client Name: DETROIT RETIREMENT PROTECTION TRUST FUND

Fixer! Income Care Strategy
0.20% of ?rst $50 million
0.16% on next $100 million

0.12% thereafter

Fees are payable quarterly in arrears, and will be based on the total market value of the Account
on the last business day of the quarter, as determined by the Manager. Fees will be prorated for
any partial quarters.

 

C'oiiecrion of Client information
(31-1ch collects only relevant information about our clients in order to conduet our business and properly service

our accounts or that may be required by law. The types of personal information we may collect can include non-
public information such as social security number, address, telephone number, email address, assets, income, and

investment objective.

We collect ?nancial and other personal information about our clients from the following sources:

0 investment management contracts and other forms submitted to us by our clients; and
- Forms or other correspondence from parties authorized to act on behalf of our clients such as accountants,
attorneys and investment consultants.

Keeping Information Secure
We maintain physical, electronic and procedural safeguards and procedures to protect your ?nancial and other

personal information, and we continuously strive to improve these safeguards and procedures.

Limiting Access to iiyfornmrion

All of our employees are aware of the importance of maintaining and respecting customer privacy and to recognize
the importance ofcon?dentiality. In addition, all employees are required to sign a Confidentiality Non-disclosure
Agreement as a condition of employment. Those who violate our privacy policies are subject to disciplinary action.

Accuracy of In?mnarion
We strive to keep accurate client information records, and we take immediate steps to correct errors as they are

found. if there are any inaccuracies in yOUr account statements or in any other communications from us, please
contact us immediately and we will make the necessary corrections.

Use of Personal and Financial Information by Us and Third Parties
We share information about our clients with non?af?liated third parties only to the extent necessary for us to provide
the services for which our clients have hired us, and then only to the extent permitted by law:

0 We share information with brokers and custodian banks in order to process securities transactions
accurately;

We may share information with non-affiliated third parties in order for the third party to carry out its
services for us; and

I We may share information as allowed by law in connection with a subpoena or similar legal process, an
audit, or a government or self-regulatory organization request or investigation.

We do not engage in joint marketing arrangements with non-af?liated third parties that involve the sharing of non-
public information regarding clients and we do not sell client information to non-af?liated third parties for
their own marketing purposes. Any exceptions to these practices are made only with the permission of the particular
client for the sharing of information with identified third parties or as otherwise required by law. If a client
terminates our services, we will continue to adhere to the privacy policies and procedures as described in this notice.

Maintaining Customer Privacy in Business Reiurionsuips

We do not share client information with anyone who does not agree to keep such information con?dential. If you
believe we have shared your information inappropriately, please contact the Chief Compliance Of?cer, Garcia
Hamilton Associates, 5 Houston Center, 1401 McKinney St., Suite 1600, Houston, TX 77010 or 713-853?2322

immediately and corrective steps will be taken.

May, 2019

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE, SUITE 1100
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

PHONE: 313-224-3203

FAX: 313-224-2135


   
 

CITY OF DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

CFO ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER
No. 

SUBJECT: Retiree Protection Fund Investment Advisory Committee

ISSUANCE DATE: March 29, 2018

EFFECTIVE DATE: March 29, 2018

AMENDED DATE: August 22, 2019

 

l. AUTHORITY

1.1. State of Michigan Public Act 279 of 1909, Section as amended by Public
Act 182 of 2014, states the chief ?nancial of?cer shall supervise all ?nancial and
budget activities of the city and coordinate the city?s activities relating to budgets,
?nancial plans, ?nancial management, ?nancial reporting, ?nancial analysis, and
compliance with the budget and ?nancial plan of the city.

12. Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement Systems, as amended by
Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Sections 47-3-1 through 47?3-10, among
other items, authorizes the creation of an investment advisory committee to be chaired
by the Chief Financial Of?cer (the 

13. Trust assets be invested as provided by Public Employees Retirement System
Investment Act - Michigan Public Act 314 of 1965, MCL 38.1132 et seq., as
amended (Act 314).

2. OBJECTIVE

2.1. To ensure the Retiree Protection Fund Investment Advisory Committee (the
?Advisory Committee?) executes its responsibilities as established by Chapter 47 of
the 1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement Systems, as amended by Article Retiree
Protection Trust Fund, Sections 47-3-6 and 47-3-8.

22. To ensure the CFO receives investment recommendations regarding the Trust assets
in a manner that safeguards principle and maximizes the Trust?s investment returns.

3. PURPOSE
3.1. To establish the responsibilities of the Advisory Committee.
32. To designate the chair of the Advisory Committee.

4. SCOPE

4.1. This Administrative Order only applies to the Investment Advisory Committee
established pursuant to Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement
Systems, as amended by Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Section 47-3?8 and
does not apply to other City investments.

5. 

5.1. The CF O?s Of?ce shall be responsible for the periodic review and maintenance of
this Administrative Order, as well as other related policies and or procedures that
may be deemed necessary.

52. The Advisory Committee shall review, and act in accordance with, this
Administrative Order, City Ordinance No. 21?17 and Act 314.

CFO Administrative Order No. 2018-101-009A Page 2 of 13

53. The Chief Deputy CFO Finance Director (the shall coordinate the

business of the Advisory Committee with assistance from the Office of the Treasury.
6. POLICY

6.1. The CFO hereby designates the CDCFO as the chair of the Advisory Committee.

62. The Advisory Committee shall develop and recommend a Policy Statement to the
CFO, see Exhibit A for current Policy Statement.

63. The Advisory Committee shall, at a minimum, meet annually during the month of
September to conduct its business and review the Annual Statement submitted tothe
CFO by the Trustee.

6.4. The Advisory Committee, through the chair, shall submit an annual written report

(the ?Annual Advisory Committee Report?) to the CFO stating its recommendations
regarding the investment of Trust assets and any additional information deemed
relevant by the Advisory Committee or the CFO no later than the end of October each
year. The format of the Annual Advisory Committee Report will be prescribed in the
Policy Statement.

7. DEFINITIONS

7.1.

72.

73.

7.4.
75.

7.6.

APPROVED





David P. Massaron

Annual Advisory Committee Report: the annual written report to the CFO stating the
Advisory Committee?s recommendations regarding the investment of Trust assets
and any additional information the Advisory Committee or CFO deems relevant.

Annual Statement: the Annual Statement submitted to the CFO by the Trustee in
accordance with Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement Systems, as
amended by Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Section 47?3-6, Article 
Accounts and Recordkeeping, Section 8.02 Reporting.

Advisory Committee: the RPF Investment Advisory Committee established pursuant
to Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement Systems, as amended by
Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Section 47-3?8.

Policy Statement: the Policy Statement outlines 1) speci?c guidelines for the
management of the Trust and 2) the requirement of the Annual Advisory Committee

Report.

Trust: the Retiree Protection Trust Fund established pursuant to Chapter 47 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Retirement Systems, as amended by Article Retiree
Protection Trust Fund, Section 47?3-2.

rustee: the Trustee as defined in Chapter 47 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Retirement Systems, as amended by Article Retiree Protection Trust Fund, Section

47-3-ChiefFinancial Officer, City ofDetroit

CFO Administrative Order No. Page 3 of 13

EXHIBIT A: POLICY STATEMENT

 

 

 

 

CFO Administrative Order No. 2018-101-009A Page 4 of 12

CITY OF DETROIT RETIREE PROTECTION FUND

Investment Policy Statement

PURPOSE OF INVESTMENT POLICY STATEMENT

Ordinance No. 21-17 amended Chapter 47 of the Detroit City Code to establish a Trust as a mechanism to save
and invest funds and contributions of the City for later distribution to the General Retirement System and the
Police and Fire System, and to authorize the creation of an Investment Advisory Committee (IAC). Furthermore,
pursuant to CFO Administrative Order No. 2018-101-009, the IAC shall submit an Annual Advisory Committee
Report to the CFO stating its recommendations regarding the investment of the Trust assets. The purpose of
this Investment Policy Statement (Statement) is to provide 1) specific guidelines for the management of assets
of the Trust and 2) the requirements of the Annual Advisory Committee Report.

This Statement is authorized by CFO Administrative Order No. 2018-101-008, CFO Administrative Order No.
2018-101-009, City Ordinance No. 21-17 and the Public Employees Retirement System Investment Act -

Michigan Public Act 314 of 1965, MCL 38.1132 et seq., as amended (Act 314).

Investment objectives are formulated in response to the financial needs of the Trust. Financial needs are
influenced by the City's benefit policies, funding objectives, liabilities, and the successful management of Trust
assets. Therefore, investment objectives consider the Trust's financial and liquidity needs and the City?s risk
tolerances and inflation expectations.

Roles and Responsibilities

A. Investment Advisory Committee

The Investment Advisory Committee (IAC) acknowledges its responsibility as an advisor to the CFO, who is a
fiduciary to the Trust. In this regard, the IAC must provide advice prudently and for the exclusive interest of

the Trust's participants and beneficiaries.

More specifically, the responsibilities include:

1.

Comply with the provisions of pertinent federal, state, and local laws and regulations,
including Act 314.

With the advice of the Investment Consultant, recommend qualified investment managers and
consultants to manage and advise on the Trust's assets.

With the advice of the Investment Consultant, monitor and review the investment performance
of the Trust to determine achievement of goals and compliance with policy guidelines.

With the advice of the Investment Consultant, monitor and evaluate manager performance.
Conduct manager searches when needed for policy implementation.

When the IAC is considering the engagement of a new investment manager, the IAC may perform due
diligence site visits to the offices of the interviewcandidates.

Make recommendation of return assumptions.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Policy Statement

Investment Consultant

The Investment Consultant's (Consultant) role is that of an advisor to the Trust, enabling the Investment Advisory
Committee to make well-informed and timely recommendations to the CFO regarding the investment ofthe Trust's
assets. The Consultant acknowledges its responsibilities as an advisor to the CFO, who is a fiduciary under Act 314
and must act in the exclusive interest of the Trust.

More specifically, the Consultant?s responsibilities include:

1.

11.
12.

13.

Assist the IAC in strategic planning for the Trust. Provide objective advice and counsel that will enable the
IAC to make well-informed and well-educated recommendations regarding the investment of the Trust?s
assets.

Assist the in the development and periodic review of a policy statement that properly reflects the lAC's
tolerance for risk, and that best assists the IAC in meeting its rate-of?return, and overall investment policies
associated with administering and investing thisTrust.

Assist the in the development and periodic review of the asset allocation policy and investment
manager structure that provides adequate diversification with respect to the number and types ofasset
classes and investment managers to be retained.

Determine the Trust?s capacity to add new investments, participate in cash flow/liquidity forecasting
for the Trust?s needs, and advise on general compliance requirements.

Review, monitor, and advise the on the current asset allocation to determine whether the Trust
complies with asset limitations under Act 314 (as amended) and the lAC?s investment objectives and
guidelines.

Assist the IAC in its due diligence and search for new investment manager(s) utilizingthe apprOpriate
data bases, both externally and proprietary.

Assist the IAC in the development and review of performance standards and guidelineswith which the
IAC can measure each investment manager's progress.

To provide to the IAC quarterly performance measurement reports on each of theinvestment managers
and on the Trust as a whole, and to assist the IAC in interpreting the results.

Monitor and review statements, review and advise the IAC on information sent by the investment
managers, review investment managers as necessary (based on the guidelines set forth in this and the
consultant?s internal research policies; including but not limited to legal and financial information provided by
the managers).

. The Consultant?s renort will be the main renort the utilizes when evaluatin the overall investment results


of the Trust and individual managers. The Consultant will reconcile performance, holdings, and security pricing
data with the Trust?s custodian bank and when necessary staff reports/data. In the event of a discrepancy,
the custodian?s values will be used.

Make recommendation of return assumptions to the 

Provide general consulting services as requested by the and as deemed appropriate by the Investment
Consultant. Attend necessary meetings as requested by the IAC. Act as a liaison between investment
managers and the Trust, and thereby facilitate the communication of important information in the
management of the Trust.

Shall acknowledge in writing that they are a prudent expert for the Trust with all attendant duties and
responsibilities, including without limitation, fiduciary responsibility.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Policy Statement

14. Shall conduct themselves in accordance with this Investment Policy Statement.

15. Such other duties as may be mutually agreed upon in writing.

C. Investment Managers

The investment managers (Managers) will acknowledge their responsibility as an investment fiduciary under Act

314. Each investment manager will have full discretion to make all investment decisions for the assets placed

under their control, while observing and operating within all policies, guidelines, constraints, and philosophies as

outlined in this statement.

More specifically, the Managers? responsibilities include:

1. Manage the Trust?s assets under its supervision in accordance with the guidelines and objectives
contained in this Investment Policy Statement.

2. Exercise investment discretion in regard to buying, managing, and selling assets held in the portfolio,
subject to any limitations contained in this Investment Policy Statement.

3. Perform its investment management duties with respect to the assets with the same care, skill, prudence,
and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a prudent person acting in a similar capacity and
familiar with such matters would use in the conduct of a similar enterprise with similar aims.

4. Seek to obtain ?best execution? with respect to portfolio transactions.

5. Vote all proxies consistent with the guidelines contained in the Manager?s Investment Management
Agreement or similar document. Investment managers shall provide documentation regarding the
disposition of proxy solicitations to the IAC upon request.

6. Comply with the reporting requirements outlined in this Investment Policy Statement.

7. Acknowledge and agree in writing as to their fiduciary responsibility to comply fully with the entire
Investment Policy Statement set forth herein.

8. Report to the IAC and Consultant quarterly regarding the status of the portfolio and its performance for
various time periods and meet with the IAC as requested to report on their performance and compliance
with goals and objectives.

9. inform the IAC and Investment Consultant regarding all significant matters pertaining to the
investment of the Trust?s assets. The IAC shall be notified in writing of any material change in ownership,
organizational structure, financial condition, senior staffing and management, or the management of the
investment manager?s portfolio.

10. Michigan law shall apply to all investment manager contracts where individual investment manager
agreements are negotiated.

D. Custodian

The custodian (Custodian) will provide safekeeping and accounting services for the Trust. More

specifically, the Custodian?s responsibilities include:

1. Provide adequate safekeeping services.
2. Upon receipt of proper, executable trade instructions, custodian shall seek to settle trades in a timely
manner.

3. Collect interest and dividend income when due.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund Investment Policy Statement

4. Notify investment managers of corporate actions, including mergers, tender offers, stock splits and
capital changes that require a decision.

Sweep daily cash balances into appropriate investmentfunds.
Accept instructions from the designated individuals.

Disburse funds as directed.



Provide statements by investment managers' accounts and a consolidated statement of all
assets.

9. To perform other services for the IAC as are customary and appropriate forcustodians.

INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES

The objectives of the Trust have been established in conjunction with a comprehensive review of the current
and projected financial requirements as presented in an asset allocation review performed in 2019 by the
Consultant. The objectives include:

To have the ability to supplement the City?s General Fund in making its annual required
contributions to the Pension Systems when due.

The Trust?s overall investment objective is the preservation of principal.

To maintain the purchasing power of the current assets and all future contributions by producing positive
real rates of return on Trust assets.

To control costs of administering the Trust and managing the investments.

To meet all statutory requirements of the State ofMichigan.

The following investment objectives, in order of priority, shall be applied in the management of the Trust:

The primary objectives, in priority order, of investment activities shall be safety, yield and liquidity.

- Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the Trust. investments shall be undertaken in
a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The objective will
be to manage credit risk and interest rate risk.

0 Return on investment. The Trust shall be designed with the objective of attaining the maximum market
rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk
constraints and cash flow needs and characteristics ofthe portfolio

0 Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to meet all budgetary
requirements that may be reasonably anticipated.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IV.

VI.

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund Investment Policy Statement

ASSET ALLOCATIONS

The asset allocation policy is developed 1) to attempt to achieve the investment objectives, 2) to achieve the
expected investment returns with a prudent amount of investment risk, and 3) in recognition that the capital
markets may behave differently over any time period, throughout the life of the Trust.

This strategic asset allocation policy is consistent with the achievement ofthe Trust's financial needs and overall
investment objectives. Asset classes are selected based on their expected long?term returns, individual
reward/risk characteristics, correlation with other asset classes, manager roles, and fulfillment of the Trust's
long-term financial needs. Conformance with statutory investment guidelines is also considered.

The Investment Advisory Committee will recommend an allocation range for each asset class and provide
the recommendation in the Annual Advisory Committee Report. The IAC recognizes the need to vary
exposure within and among different asset classes, based on investment opportunities and changing capital
market conditions. The IAC will take into consideration the Trust's current investments and present market
conditions. The IAC intends to review these allocation targets at least annually, focusing on changes in the
Trust's financial needs, investment objectives and asset class performance.

The IAC's attitude regarding the Trust?s assets combines both the preservation of capital and minimal risk-
taking. The IAC recognizes that risk the uncertainty of future events), volatility the potential for
variability of asset values), and the potential of loss in purchasing power (due to inflation) are present to some
degree with all types of investment vehicles. While high levels of risk are to be avoided, the assumption of a
limited level of risk is warranted in order to allow the opportunity to achieve satisfactory results consistent
with the objectives and character of the Trust. The policies and restrictions contained in this statement should
not impede the investment manager to attain the overall Trust objectives, nor should they exclude the
investment manager from appropriate investment opportunities.

INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES
A. Total Portfolio Performance

1. The Trust will be managed in accordance with the parameters specified in this Investment Policy.
The portfolio should obtain a market average rate of return. A series of appropriate benchmarks
shall be established against which the portfolio performance shall be compared on a regular basis.
The benchmarks shall be reflective of the actual allocation of assets, securities held, and the risks
undertaken.

B. Fixed Income Performance

The overall objective of the fixed income portion of the portfolio is to add stability and liquidity to the total
portfolio.

INVESTMENT GUIDELINES
A. Overall

All investment guidelines and restrictions of the State of Michigan are incorporated by reference,
including, but not limited to Act 314.

B. Pooled Funds

Investments made by the Trust may include pooled funds. For purposes of this policy pooled funds may
include, but are not limited to, mutual funds, commingled funds, exchange-traded funds, limited

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund Investment Policy Statement

partnerships and limited liability corporations. Pooled funds may be governed by separate documents
which may include investments not expressly permitted in this IPS. In the event of investment by the Trust
into a pooled fund, the Trust will adopt the prospectus or governing policy of that fund as that manager?s
addendum to this Investment Policy Statement.

C. Alternativelnvestments

The Trust may invest in investments that would otherwise not be qualified under these Investment policies,
to the extent permitted under Section 38.1140d of Act 314 (informally referred to as the ?basket clause").

D. Collective Investment Restrictions and Correcting Excess/DeficientInvestments

All Managers are restricted individually, and collectively, by this IPS. The Managers shall coordinate
periodically with the Consultant, who shall [among other things) assure collective compliance with this IPS.
In the event any investment based on changes in the market value of the Trust assets, causes the Trust to
exceed or fall short of any range prescribed in this IPS, the assets may be reallocated in a prudent manner
to comply with Act 314 and the strategic allocation and ranges outlined in this IPS.

E. Guideline for Fixed Income Investments

1. Per Act 314, as amended guidelines, not more than 15% of the Trust?s assets may be invested in below
investment grade bonds. Investment grade is defined as securities graded in the top 4 major grades
as determined by 2 national rating services. Asset allocation guidelines may be more restrictive and
provide for a lower amount of exposure to below investment grade bonds.

2. For mutual funds and collective trusts guidelines will be outlined in their prospectus or
offering document.

VII. REPORTING
A. 

On a basis, the Custodian shall supply an accounting statement that will include a summary of all
receipts and disbursements and the cost and the market value of all assets.

B. Quarterly

On a quarterly basis the Investment Managers shall deliver a report detailing the Trust's performance,
forecast ofthe market and economy, portfolio analysis and current assets oftheir portfolio. Written reports
shall be delivered to the IAC and the CFO within 30 days of the end of the quarter. A copy of the written
report shall be submitted to the person designated by the City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund and shall
be available for public inspection. The Investment Managers will provide immediate written and telephone
notice to the IAC of any significant market related or non-market related event impacting the portfolio and
its performance.

The Investment Consultant shall evaluate and report on a quarterly basis the rate of return and relative
performance of the Trust on a gross and net of fee basis.

C. Annually - Annual Advisory Committee Report

Pursuant to CFO Administrative Order 2018-101-009: Retiree Protection Fund Investment Advisory
Committee, the Advisory Committee, through the chair, shall submit an annual written report to the
CFO stating its recommendations regarding the investment of Trust assets and any additional
information deemed relevant by the Advisory Committee of the CFO no later than the end of October
each year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund - investment Policy Statement

At minimum, the following items shall be included in the Annual Advisory Committee Report:

1. Summary of activity of the IAC since submittal of the previous Annual Advisory Committee
Report

2. Asset Allocation Recommendations and Justification (including analysis of Risk)

3. Earnings assumptions for total portfolio, as well as any portion as appropriate Fixed
Income)

4. Forecast which models Trust performance through life of the trust fund.

D. As Necessary

If an Investment Manager holds securities, that complied with section VI at the time of purchase, which
subsequently exceed the applicable limit or do not satisfy the applicable investment standard, such excess
or noncompliant investments may be continued until it is economically feasible to dispose of such
investment in accordance with the prudent person standard of care, but no additional investment may be
made unless authorized by law or ordinance. In addition, an action plan outlining the investment ?hold or
sell? strategy shall be provided to the IAC immediately.

The IAC will meet periodically to review the Investment Consultant?s performance report. The IAC will meet
with the Investment Managers and appropriate outside consultants to discuss performance results,
economic outlook, investment strategy and tactics and other pertinent matters affecting the Trust on a
periodic basis.

COMPLIANCE

It is the direction of the IAC that the Trust assets are held by a third?party Custodian, and that all securities
purchased by, and all collateral obtained by the Trust shall be properly designated as Trust assets. No
withdrawal of assets, in whole or in part, shall be made from safekeeping except by an authorized member
of the IAC or their designee.

At the direction of the IAC, operations of the Trust shall be reviewed by independent certified public
accountants as part of any financial audit periodically required. Compliance with the internal controls
shall be verified. These controls have been designed to prevent losses of assets that might arise from fraud,
error, or misrepresentation by third parties or imprudent actions by the IAC or employees of the Trust sponsor,

to the extent possible.

CRITERIA FOR INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW

The Investment Consultant will monitor the performance for each component of the Trust on a basis
utilizing a time-weighted rate of return calculation. Certain managers, based on their individual investment
mandates, may report results using an internal rate of return calculation. The Investment Consultant will
review investment manager information and will provide updates to the IAC as necessary. No
investment manager will make a presentation to the IAC unless requested by the Investment Consultant due
to probationary status as outlined below or any other extenuating circumstance where the Investment
Consultant deems it appropriate that the IAC receives such presentation from the investment manager.

The Investment Consultant will evaluate each investment manager as outlined in this IPS and will then report
to the IAC.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund investment Policy Statement

The IAC may initiate a change in investment manager at any time based upon performance results, a
change in investment needs, a lack of confidence based upon the evaluation of the investment manager's
results, or for any other or no reason at all.

The wishes to adopt standards by which judgments of the ongoing performance of a Manager may be
made. The IAC will rely on the Investment Consultant to carefully monitor the Trust?s investment managers on
several key indicators outlined below:

Style consistency or purity drift from the mandate.

. Management turnover in portfolio team or senior management.

I Investment process change, including varying the index or benchmark.

. Failure to adhere to the Investment Policy Statement or other compliance issues.

- Investigation of the firm by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or other regulatory
agency.

Significant asset flows into or out of the company or strategy.

- Merger or sale offirm.

Fee increases outside of the competitive range.

- Servicing issues key personnel stopservicing the account without proper notification.
. Failure to attain a majority vote of confidence by the IAC.

Nothing in this section shall limit or diminish the right to terminate the Manager at any time.

REVIEW AND AMENDMENTS

The investment policy is intended to be flexible and should be reviewed and modified on an ongoing basis. The
goals, objectives and guidelines may be amended to reflect material or sustained changes in the financial condition
of the Trust, the economic environment, regulatory change or the opportunities available within the capital
markets. All changes to this document will be subject to IAC and CFO approval and will be made on an as needed
basis.

Adoption recommended by Investment Committee on July 24,2019.

 

Adopted CITY OF DETROIT RETIREE PROTECTION FUND

l. .. August 22, 2019
CFO Approval Date

David P. Massaron, CFO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit Retiree Protection Fund Investment Policy Statement

MANAGEMENT REPORT:

A. Asset Allocations as of July 2019

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Asset Class? Target Range Benchmark Index

Global Equity 0% 0-0% MSCI World index
Tntermediate Gov/Cred 50% 35?60% BB Intermediate Gov/Credit

US AGG Fixed Income 50% 35%-50% BB US Aggregate Bond

High Yield 0 0-10% BB us High Yield Bond

Leveraged Loans 0% 0-10% LSTA Leveraged Loan index

Cash* 0% 0%-30% 90-Day T-Bills

 

 

 

 

 

The IAC recognizes that from time to time the asset mix will deviate from the targeted percentages due to market
conditions. A range has been established for each asset class to control the risk and maximize the effectiveness
of the Trust?s asset allocation strategy, while avoiding unnecessary turnover at the security level. The Investment
Consultant will monitor the aggregate asset allocation of the portfolio and notify the Investment Advisory
Committee to rebalance to the target asset allocations based on market conditions. To minimize turnover, an
asset class that is outside of its allowable range, will be rebalanced towards its target allocation in a prudent
manner. When possible, contributions and distributions will be utilized to maintain allocations within policy
ranges and reduce transaction costs.

The does not intend to exercise short-term changes to the target allocations.

B. Portfolio Performance as of July 2019

The IAC recommends, on an absolute basis, a return of the total portfolio that will equal or exceed the budgeted
earnings assumption of This absolute return objective will be evaluated in the context of the prevailing
market conditions. The core fixed income portion of the portfolio is expected to perform at a rate at least equal
to 1) the Bloomberg Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, and 2) rank in the top 50th percentile of the
total core fiXed income universe over three (3) and five (5) year time periods.

 

 

 

 

 

 (EEitp at Eettnit

Irvin Corley, Jr.

Executive Policy Manager CITY OUNC IL

glam?" .R- T?d? LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
emo; City Plarmei . .

Jane? Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Mun1c1pal Center

Deputy Director Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313)224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

John Alexander
LaKisha Barclift, Esq.
M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.
Tasha Cowen
Richard Drumb
George Etheridge
Deborah Goldstein
'1

TO: COUNCIL MEMBERS 

FROM: Dav1d Whitaker, D1recttw/ 
Legislative Policy Divi51on Staff

DATE: July 29, 2019

567

Christopher Gulock, AICP 
Derrick Headd 

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey .

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashley A. Wilson

RE: Benchmark Comparison of the City of Detroit?s 2018 Comprehensive Annual

Financial Report (CAF R) With Other Cities

Executive Summary

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) compared the City?s ?scal year 2018 Government Wide
Statement of Net Position balance sheet) and Statement of Activities for Governmental
Activities income statement) with other Cities including: Flint, Michigan; Memphis,
Tennessee; Louisville, Kentucky; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Boston, Massachusetts; Portland,
Oregon; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Kansas City, Missouri. Most of the cities chosen were
comparable in size to Detroit. Grand Rapids was chosen because it is the State of Michigan?s
second largest City and in good ?nancial condition. Flint was chosen because it has similar
challenges as Detroit. We also chose a mix of cities that were either in good or poor ?scal health
for comparative purposes.

The City of Detroit?s ?scal health, has improved since the exit from bankruptcy on December 10,
2014. However, even with the bene?ts from the bankruptcy exit, the City has a way to go to match
?scally healthy cities such as Grand Rapids. The City has a high Pension and Debt burden 
Legacy Costs) that will mostly be paid out of future General Fund revenues lessening amounts
available to provide essential services such as public safety. In addition, the City is among the
lowest in total assessed property value (taxable value) and this combined with the low median
income for the City?s population adversely impacts the City?s collection of tax revenue to provide
funding to pay for both the large debt burden and provide satisfactory services. While the
bankruptcy eliminated the City?s retiree health care obligations, the City still has a signi?cant
obligation for retiree pensions, which for the City?s civilian retirement system (General Retirement

System) is of great concern because it has the highest turnover ratios among the cities compared
and is in risk of exhausting its assets and becoming a greater burden on the City?s General Fund'.
Furthermore, the City of Detroit?s infrastructure (Capital Assets) is aged and depreciated and the
City will need funds to replace itz. Also, the City has the highest amount of tax abatements of the
cities compared.

The results of our comparison of the City of Detroit?s FY 2018 Governmental Activities ?nancial
statements with other cities are detailed below.

 

Asset Pension Debt Tax Taxable Pension Taxes
City Liquidity Solve ncy aint. urde urde urde Value Tumove Abate (1

Detroit 344.5% 85.5% 64. 6% 1,894.4 2,514.2 999. 6 9,140.4 13.2% 19.6%
Flint 371.7% 40.5% 79.9% 2,697.7 312.8 356.6 7,535.8 

Memphis 236.4% 113.4% 48.794; 398.0 2,526.5 1,119.6 19,313.6 8.4% 3.8%
Louisville 399.0% 111.7% 72.7916 1,260.5 926.0 753.8 95,2854 7.3%
Grand Rapids 689.2% 131.3% 70.4% 785.7 539.6 696.4 23,2836 8.4% 58%
Boston 279.2% 69.9% 50.4% 2,01 1.2 2,565.4 3,724.1 A 9.39/5 0.4%
Portland 362. 8% 62.4% 76. 7943 5,618.2 1,744.0 1,054. 6 90,4275 1.9%
Charlotte 715.3% 283.5% 40.9% 451.9 1,754.5 865. 1 1095341 

Kansas City 184.7% 177.1% 40.2% 1,498.1 3,561.6 1,454.8 16,328.7 6.3% 7.79/6

0 Detroit?s liquidity has improved and it has the ability to pay all its current obligations.
However, most of the City?s cash and investments at Line 30, 2018 are either obligated,
restricted or assigned to a speci?c purpose.

0 Detroit was essentially insolvent in FY 2018 as the City?s Governmental Activities unrestricted net
position on June 30, 2018 was a $1.756 billion de?cit and the net position was a $341.9 million
de?cit. The de?cit was primarily due to the net pension liability total of $1.275 billion and the
$1.112 billion of debt that will have to be paid from the General Fund.3 Other cities such as Boston

 

1 It is important to note, however, that City Council approved the establishment of the retirement protection trust fund to help
?nance a huge looming pension obligation in 2024 and help stabilize pension obligations thereafter In March 2017, Moody's
investors Service considered the establishment of this trust fund a ?credit positive?.

1 In FY 2019 the City was able to issue $135.0 million of Unlimited Tax General Obligation (UTGO) bonds to ?nance capital
projects and improve the City?s infrastructure. This was a huge aeemnplislunent considering the Plan of Adjustment (Pill?"1]
assumed the City would be unable to issue general obligation bonds to ?nance capilnl projects for quite some time. [t is also
important to note that the City in recent years has allocated sigmlieant (ieneral Fund surpius dollars for capital projeCIs in
accordance with the POA.. The City?s FY 2019 budget included $52.2 million for capital projects from General Fund surplus
dollars, and the FY 2020 budget included $32.5 million for capital projects from surplus dollars.

3 While the City eliminated a substantial amount of its obligations with the bankruptcy settlements, it did incur additional debt to
provide for some of the settlements and restructuring/Quality of Life projects. Much of the new debt such as the 2014 EU) and
3(2) bonds was limited tax general obligation (LTGO) debt and will have to be paid from the general revenues of the City. This
along with other ?secured? LTGO bond debt issued before the bankruptcy will divert the City?s General Fund?s revenues, which
could have been used for core City services such as police and ?re, to pay offthe debt service. Ofthe City's governmental activity?s
$1.380 billion of General Obligation bond debt at June 30, 2018, a total of$ .1 12 billion is LTGO debt which will ultimately have

4w. Ln ?an I fr?r?lli?r? 1' hf?lnL?l Qn nFF-h: ni: F?l?f 20 II :11:qu n'p l'l'ID inollnr?l

unirl wnunnm 
LU Uh PullJ uu. EMIIUILLI lUVL-lluv (auu-uu. pie-5v en; u: anr UL ?lulu, . um L lv 
for the bankruptcy settlements was structured to defer principal payments for several years and will have a greater adverse impact
on the General Fund in the years (2025-2030) the principal becomes due. For example, the City is not required to make a payment
on the 2014 (1) bonds principal totaling $616.6 million until June 30, 2025 when the ?rst principal payment will be $30.8 million.
The OCFO has taken commendable steps to reduce the LTGO debt and gross debt service for ?scal years 2025-2030 by redeeming
certain bond obligations. In FY 2018, the OCFO redeemed $52.3 million Ofthe 2014 bonds with surplus funds. Recently (FY
2019), on December 13, 2018, the City purchased and canceled, at a discount from par, $197,652,356 of its Financial Recovery
bonds, Series 2014 ($192,227,454 Series 2014 at a purchase price of $87 per $100 in principal amount and $5,424,902
Series 20 14 (2) at a purchase price of$85 per $100 in principal amount) in exchange for the proceeds from the 2018 DSA Bonds.
The OCFO estimates the debt service for FY 2025-2030 will be reduced by $155 million because of these redemptions. Debt

,1

and Portland reported a negative net position in their governmental activities for FY 2018, primarily
due to their pension and OPEB (Other Postemployment Bene?t) liabilities.

- Detroit?s capital assets (infrastructure) are older (more depreciated) and likely in need of
replacement.

I Detroit?s pension burden is lower due to reductions achieved in the bankruptcy. However,
the pension obligations are still high and a challenge, as the City has been setting aside
funding ($105.0 million as of June 30, 2018) to meet them.

0 Detroit?s debt burden is higher than most other cities.

0 Detroit?s tax revenue collected per population decreased in FY 2018 as collections of
property taxes were down due to reductions in tax assessments and UTGO debt service.

0 Detroit?s taxable value per population is signi?cantly lower than cities of similar size
because of the low assessed value of its property.

0 Detroit?s civilian retirement system?s payout of bene?ts is a higher percentage of its
available assets than most other cities that we compared.4

0 Detroit?s property taxes abated are higher than any other City that we comparedS.

This comparative analysis reveals the City of Detroit has a long way to go in matching the ?scal
health of other comparable cities. Detroit will be paying for its legacy costs (pension and debt)
long into the future. Detroit needs to: increase its tax and revenue base; improve and maintain its
revenue collections and liquidity; reduce its debt burden on the General Fund; raise its property
value; attract new residents and businesses without incentivizing them abatement programs;
improve its infrastructure; and ensure that pension system assets are properly managed and
maintained.

Background
The Legislative Policy Division made a comparative study of the City of Detroit?s 2018 CAFR

Government Wide Statement of Net Position income statement) and Statement of Activities
for Governmental Activities income statement) with other Cities including: Flint, Michigan;
Memphis, Tennessee; Louisville, Kentucky; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Boston, Massachusetts;
Portland, Oregon; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Kansas City, Missouri. Most of the cities chosen
were comparable in size to Detroit. Grand Rapids was chosen because it is the State of Michigan?s
second largest City and in good ?nancial condition. Flint was chosen because it has similar
challenges as Detroit. We also chose a mix of cities that were either in good or poor ?scal health.

 

service beginning in ?scal year 2025 would have increased by approximately $31 million per year through ?scal year 2030 in
absence of this transaction. In addition, to the reduced debt service, the City will also save approximately $21.7 million ($11.7
million interest savings on 2014 Bonds and $10 million on 2014 3(1) and 2014 Bonds) as a result of these transactions
(source: pages 1 17-118 of City?s FY 2018 

Many other cities pension plans were combined with their State pension plans or with an independent retirement services
company who administers the retirement plan for local units of government on a not?for-pro?t basis and we cannot fairly
compare them to Detroit?s pension plan.

5 Charlotte and Flint did not report any tax abatements. Charlotte did footnote large amounts of direct expenditures for sports
arena and other public projects that it owned.

Many cities that we would have liked to include in the analysis had not completed or posted their
FY 2018 CAP at the time we prepared this report.6

Not all the cities we reviewed are truly comparable to the City of Detroit. Portland and Louisville
don?t have pension systems that are comparable to Detroit?s. We also found that many cities had
vibrant tourism and businesses that contributed signi?cant revenue to the City which boosted their
revenue per population totals. Some of these cities were allowed to have other taxing sources such
as sales tax. We tried to select measures that we could fairly compare and draw reliable conclusions

from.

Detailed below are the measures and formula (Ratio Equation) we used to compare Detroit and the
other cities.

 

 

Measure Ratio Equation
Liquidity Cash investments/current liabilities
Liquidity/ Solvency Total assets/total liabilities
Asset Maintenance Accum. depreciation/capital assets
Pension Burden Net pension liability/population
Debt Burden Long?term debt/population
Tax Burden Taxes/population
Community Well Being Taxable value/populatiou
Pension Turnover GRS Total expenses/net position
Taxes Abated Tax abatements/property tax revenues

We also analyzed the City of Detroit data from 2011 to 2018 for these measures to show the
performance trend over the past 8 years. Listed below is the City of Detroit trend data for the ?scal

years 2011 to 2018.
Fiscal Year

 

Measure 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Liquidity 40.6% 25.8% 40.1% 59.6% 222.3% 268.4% 359. 8% 344.5%
Solvency 85.7% 83.0% 79.3% 99.1% 65.9% 88.4% 82.1% 85.5%
Asset Maintenance 62.7% 63.3% 64.6% 64.7% 65.8% 61.5% 63.4% 64.6%
Debt Burden 4,369.0 4,370.6 4,616.5 3,524.5 2,796.8 2,687.6 2,578.7 2,514.2
Tax Burden 995.8 969.7 941.7 936.3 990.3 1,048.3 1,140.9 999.6
Taxable Value 15,168.1 14,182.4 13,221.8 12,583.1 10,800.8 9,608.0 8,974.6 9,140.4
Pension Turnover 14.0% 18.3% 18.2% 20.3% 14.3% 15.3% 13.8% 13.2%
Tax Abatement 12.7% 19.6%

Comparative An alvsis

I ,inllidifv

Liquidity measures the City?s cash and investments and ability to meet its current obligations. In
the past (pre-bankruptcy) when the City?s liquidity was poor it had insufficient cash to meet its
current obligations such as pension annual required contributions and payments to vendors. The

 

6 Detroit produced its 2018 CAFR before the December 315  deadline, which creates benchmarking issues when other cities
haven?t finished or posted their CAFRs.

4

graph below shows that Detroit?s liquidity is in the middle of the cities we compared. The City
has the ability to more than meet its current obligations.

800.0%

700.0%

600.0%

500.0%

400.0%

300.0%

200.0%

100.0%

Cash 81 Investments/Current Liabilities

0.0%

Liq uid ity
589 2% 715.3%
[xii
i
- 

r. 
I 
I 2?
371.7% 
399.0%
344.5% 362.8%
279.2%
235.4% 
134.The graph below shows Detroit?s liquidity trend over the past eight years and shows signi?cant
improvement. The City?s liquidity was lowest during the period before it entered bankruptcy. The
liquidity improvement was mainly due to the elimination of obligations and receipt of bond
proceeds for Quality of Life projects through the Plan of Adjustment.

400.0%

350.0%

300.0%

250.0%

200.0%

150.0%

100.0%

50.0%

Cash 81 Investments/Current Liabilities

0.0%

Liquidity
3.593% 340.5%
253.4%
222.3%.

1
59.633?
40.6% 40.1% 
- 25.0%- - - 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Fiscal Year

The City needs to maintain its liquidity over 200% to ensure it has suf?cient cash and investments
to meet its current obligations. Although the City?s liquidity position has signi?cantly improved
coming out of bankruptcy, cautionary notes are warranted. First, the City still has looming
increases in pension and debt obligations, as will be discussed below. Secondly, although $643.4
million in General Fund cash and investments as of June 30, 2018 is sizable, the lion share of it is
either obligated, restricted or assigned to a speci?c purpose.

5

Solvency

Solvency measures all the City?s assets available to meet all its obligations. A ratio of less than
100.0% is unsatisfactory and means the City has a net position de?cit and is insolvent. The graph
below shows that even with Detroit?s exit from bankruptcy it is insolvent. Flint, Boston and
Portland had lower ratios than Detroit. All the insolvent cities have large pension and debt burdens
and a net position de?cit. Many cities are having dif?culty with solvency due to the
implementation of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement (GASB) No. 68,
Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions and GASB No. 75, Accounting and Financial

Reportingfor Postemployment Bene?ts Other than Pensions 7.

300.0% Solvency 73.5%
x,
250.0% 
200.0%
.2 
150 0% 177.1%
.5 . a 131.3%
7, 100.0% DJ
35.5.30 ?919%
13,- 50.0% - 62.4%

3 40.5%
2 0.0%
3 SP. 5 2 8 3.171' a a- 3

The graph below details Detroit?s solvency over the past eight years and shows improvement in
2014 but a sharp decline in FY 2015. This was primarily due to the implementation of GASB 68
which added the net pension liability to the Governmental Activities Statement of Net Position in
FY 2015 and the large amount had an adverse impact on the City?s net position. The improvement
in FY 2016? FY 2018 was due to the pension settlements in bankruptcy which reduced the net
pension liability by $1.1 billion. Detroit still needs signi?cant reductions in its long-term debt and
net pension liability to be solvent ?nancially on a long?term basis.

100.0% Solvency .
3 95.0% it 99.1%
:a 90.0% 1 88.4%
.3 85.7% 85.5%
To 85.0% 
80.0% 82.1%
79.3% 
75.0%

70.0% 
3 
12 65.0% 553%

60.0%

2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Fiscal Year

 

7 The City eliminated its retiree health care plan in bankruptcy which greatly reduced its postemployment bene?ts
other than pensions long?term obligations.

Asset Maintenance

Asset maintenance compares the City?s accumulated depreciation to depreciable capital assets. It shows
the age of assets and infrastructure. A higher percentage indicates that assets are more depreciated and
older. Detroit maintains a huge amount of infrastructure and assets for a large area that is much greater than
its population needsg. As a result, the maintenance and replacement costs are more than the City with its
depressed population and tax base can currently afford. The graph below shows a high asset maintenance
ratio for those cities that are struggling ?nancially such as Flint and Portland. Detroit?s asset maintenance
ratio is relatively high. Detroit infrastructure and assets such as streets, water pipes and mains, buildings,
and vehicles will likely need to be replaced or renovated soon or maintenance costs will increase. The
normal process is to ?nd grants or issue debt to fund such replacements. As noted above, In FY 2019 the
City was able to issue $135.0 million of Unlimited Tax General Obligation (UTGO) bonds to ?nance capital
projects and improve the City?s infrastructure. This was a huge accomplishment considering the Plan of
Adjustment assumed the City would be unable to issue general obligation bonds to ?nance capital projects
for quite some time.

90.0% Asset Maintenance
303% 305.7%
70.0% 
60.0%
50.0%
40.0%
30.0% 40.2%
20.0%
10.0%

0.0%

 

Accum. Dep/Capital Assets

nonao

run?
smdwaw

spgdea pumg
uoisog

anopeqj
[up sesuex

The following graph details Detroit?s asset maintenance percentage over the past eight years. The
ratio declined in FY 2016 because of a large write-off of fully or nearly fully depreciated capital
assets resulting from a comprehensive inventory conducted in FY 2016. The City still has a high
asset maintenance percentage and consideration needs to be given to improving the aging City
infrastructure through replacement, and renovations.

610% Asset Maintenance

66.0% 65.8%
65.0%
64.0%
63.0%

62.0%
61.0% 61.5%

 

60.0%
59.0%

Accum. Dep/Capital Assets

2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

Fiscal Year

 

3 The Cities of Boston, San Francisco and the borough of Manhattan could ?t inside the land area of Detroit. The City once had
nearly 2 million in population in 1950 and now has approximately 670,000.

7

Pension Burden
Pension Burden measures the City?s Net Pension Obligation per the population. A large Net

Pension Liability is a burden to a governmental entity as it represents legacy obligations that must
be paid out of the current resources of the government.

In FY 2015 the City and most other governments implemented the provisions of GASB No. 68,
Accounting and Financial Reporting for Pensions and GASB Statement No. 71, Pension
Transition for Contributions Made Subsequent to the Measurement Date an amendment of GASB
Statement No. 68. As a result, the government-wide statements and the proprietary funds now
include a Net Pension Liability for the City?s unfunded legacy pension costs. The City recorded a
$1.275 billion Net Pension Liability on the June 30, 2018 City?s Governmental Activities?
Statement of Net Position. Detroit?s pension burden is not as high as the other cities that are
struggling financially such as Flint and Portland in FY 2018 because the pension settlements in
bankruptcy allowed Detroit to reduce its net pension liability. However, Detroit still has a
signi?cant net pension liability that is a challenge to fund with its limited tax and other revenue



Pension Burden (Net Pension Liability per Resident)

.E
6,000.0
'3 5,613.2
5 5,000.0
3
Q.

r: a
.8 3,000? 2,697.7

2,011.2
.5 2,000.0 1,894.4
1,260.5 1,498.1
1,000.0

.
2 398.0 7857 4519
Burden

Debt burden measures the City?s long-term debt to population. A large debt burden is a concern
when there are insuf?cient assets available to cover it. It is more likely funds for debt payments
will have to come out of future revenues, which will decrease revenues to pay for essential services

such as public safety.

As detailed in the graph below, Detroit had a higher debt to population ratio than the other cities
except fOr Memphis, Boston, and Kansas City. Memphis, Boston and Kansas C1ty have higher
debt burdens, but also had higher assessed property values and the ability to raise more tax
revenues to fund the debt as it comes due.

Debt Burden

4,000.0
3,561.6
.5 3,500.0

3,000.0
2,514.2 2,525.5 2,565.4
as 2,500.0

3
8- 2,000.0
D.
1,500.0 1,744.0 1,754.5
d]
1,000.0
926.0
23 500.0 53%
En 312The following graph details Detroit?s debt burden over the past eight years. Detroit?s debt burden
decreased signi?cantly in FY 2014 mainly because of the elimination of $766.1 million of retiree
health bene?ts (OPEB) liabilities. In FY 2015 the debt burden decreased due to the elimination
of debt, mainly POCs, through the Bankruptcy?s Plan of Adjustment. The FY 2016 reduction was
due to the retirement of debt including $30 million of the bankruptcy exit financing. As noted
previously (see footnote 3), the OCFO has done its best over the past three years to lower the City?s
debt obligations by refunding and retiring certain debt.

.. 5,000.0 Debt Burden
U)
r=Ts 4,616.5

1: 4,500.0 4,369.0 4,370.6


.9 4,000.0
+5
2
3
Q.
2 3,500.0 3,524.5

4..
.D
3

3,000.0
2,796.3
2,687.6 2,573.7 25142
2,500.0 



2,000.0

2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

Detroit?s debt burden will continue to be a drain on General Fund revenues well into the future.
Most of the City?s debt lacks a dedicated revenue source like the property tax millage that pays for
the debt service on the unlimited tax general obligation bonds. The newer Limited Tax General
Obligation bond debt issued per the Plan of Adjustment was secured and will be paid off with
revenues from income tax and State revenue sharing. Such debt will always impair a City?s ?scal
health.

Tax Burden
Tax burden measures the tax revenues per the population. A high tax burden can mean many

things. The obvious is that the citizen taxpayers may be paying a high rate of taxes. On the positive
side it may mean that tourists, businesses and other sources are providing tax revenue and the rate
is high because it is only spread over the City?s population. The graph below shows Detroit?s tax
burden is in the middle range of the cities we benchmarked. Detroit has a high millage property
tax rate and other taxes such as income, utility and casino taxes. The tax burden would be even
higher if the City?s assessed property values and the median income level wasn?t so low. Also,
other cities derive more tax revenues from non-citizens such as tourists and businesses.

.. 4,000.0 Tax Burden 3,724.1
In
3,500.0

'u 3,000.0
.E
2,500.0
.2
2,000.0
3
g- 1,500.0 1 119 6 1?454'8
9- 999.6 -
1,000.0 1,054.6
S?il
5000 753-3 696.4
356Detroit needs to increase its tax base and revenues. The following graph shows Detroit?s tax
burden over the past eight years.

Tax Burden

1,200.0

1,1503 1,140.9
1,100.0 1,048.3
1,050.0

1,000.0 53353-3 969.7 990.3 .
950 941-7 999.6
900 0 936.3

850.0

Talxes/ Population (in dollars)

800.0

750.0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

Fiscal Year

10

The Tax Burden increased in FY 2016 and FY 2017, mainly because prOperty, income and
wagering taxes were much higher than the prior years and the City?s population continued to
decline per the Census Bureau estimate on July 1, 2017. Detroit?s property tax revenue collected
decreased in FY 2018 as collections of property taxes were down due to reductions in tax
assessments and UTGO debt service.

Detroit?s tax burden declined from 2010 to 2014 due to reduced tax revenue collections, primarily
property and wagering taxes. Also, assessed property values have fallen in the City contributing
to the decline in property tax revenues. The Headlee amendment of 1978, which restricts property
tax revenues a city can collect, has adversely impacted tax revenues to Michigan cities. This
contributes to the low tax burdens for cities in Michigan.

Taxable Value

Taxable Value measures the taxable property values including residential, commercial, industrial
and personal property, per the population. The graph below shows that the ?scally healthy cities
have higher taxable values per their population than Detroit. As a result, they are able to generate
higher tax revenues.

120.0000 Taxable Value Per Population
109,534.1
'5
n:
3 100,0000 9535-? 90427.5
3 - I
.E
30,0000
0 
'5 
a 60,0000 '40,0000 
EU 
I
2 - 
'3 20,0000 9,140.4 7 535 3 19'31-3'6 23,2816 
31% 16,328The graph below shows Detroit?s taxable value trend over the past eight years. Detroit?s taxable
value increased in FY 2018, for the ?rst time in eight years. The City still has a low taxable value
because of the poverty, foreclosures, and reductions in assessed values due to the city-wide
reappraisal of residential and commercial properties and improvements in the City?s assessors
division.

11

Taxable Value Per Population

16,000.0
15,0000
14,0000
13,0000
12,0000 .
11,0000 10,3003
10,0000 - 5,50%

9,000.0

8,000.0

7,000.0

6,000.0

15.168.1
14,132.4

13,221.3

. 12,5311

5.14M
8,974.6

Taxable Value/Population (in dollars)

2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

Fiscal Year

Detroit?s property values and tax base needs to increase in order for it to obtain tax revenues
suf?cient to provide satisfactory services and maintain infrastructure for its residents.

Pension Turnover

Pension Turnover measures the City?s General Retirement System (GRS Civilian Retirees
Legacy System Component 11) total annual expenses divided by the net position (assets less
liabilities) of the Fund. It measures the turnover/depletion of the pension fund?s assets. The graph
below shows Detroit?s GRS assets are turning over much quicker than the other cities. If the City?s
pension fund assets were depleted there would be a greater burden on the City?s general fund to
pay for retiree pensions.

14.0%
13.2% .
12 Pensnon Turnover
. a
3 10.0% 9.3%
D. gm
3.0% 3.4% 3.4%
--. 6.3%
6.0% .
2
cu 4.0%
D.

33 2.0%

,2 0.the City?s legacy general retirement pension assets ($1,953,261,347) on June 30, 2018 did not
increase and the annual payment/deductions ($258,290,329) remained the same, than the assets
would be fully depleted in 7.6 years (1,953,261,347/258,290,329 or Flint,
Louisville, Portland and Charlottes? general retirement pensions were not comparable and we did
not include them in the analysisg.

 

9 Flint, Louisville, Portland and Charlottes? general retirement pensions were not comparable to Detroit?s since their
pension plans were either combined with their State pension plans or were a part of an independent retirement
services company who administers the retirement plan for local units of government on a not-for-pro?t bases.

12

The graph below shows Detroit?s pension turnover rate over the past eight years. The rate
increased from 2012 to 2014, as the City had a larger number of retirees and bene?ts and expenses
paid out due to the bankruptcy. The rate decreased in FY 2015 due the reduction of bene?ts and
expenses and contributions made per the ?Grand Bargain? in accordance with the Plan of
Adjustment. The bankruptcy resulted in the: (1) freezing of the GRS pension plan; (2) 4.5% cut to
retiree bene?ts; (3) Annuity clawback; (4) elimination of the cost of living adjustment; and (5)
?Grand Bargain? proceeds, which will increase the GRS pension fund assets and lower the
turnover rate.

Pension Turnover


,9 22.0%
'5 20.0% ?33%
133% 18.2%
18.0%
16.0% 143% 15.3%

14.0% 14 13.3%.
E- 12_0% 13.2%
f. 10.0%
.73 8.0%
:3 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Fiscal Year
Taxes Abated

Taxes abated measures the City?s property tax revenues foregone, as a percentage of property tax
revenues?), to encourage economic development or some other special purpose that bene?ts the
City. The City of Detroit has granted a large amount of tax abatements over the years in an effort
to facilitate economic development in the City and to enhance the City?s economic well being.
Tax Abatements were reported for the ?rst time for FY 2017, as required by GASB Statement No.
77, ?Tax Abatement Disclosures?l 1. The graph below details that Detroit had the largest amount
of prOperty taxes abated of the cities we compared.

25.0% Taxes Abated

20.0% 19.6%

15.0% 
10.0%
33.3%

Taxes Abated/Total Property Taxes

7.7%

5.0% 
. 
3.8% 11.9.

0.Property tax revenues plus tax abatements
Pages 119-120 of the 2017 CAFR, Note 14 and pages 116-117 ofthe 2018 CAFR, Note 13

13

In FY 2018, Detroit had $38.7 million of tax abatements or 19.6% of the property tax revenues
and abatements combined. Detroit had $36.0 million of tax abatements per the 2017 CAFR or
12.7% of the property tax revenues and abatements combined. The increase in the percentage of
tax abatements in FY 2018, as previously noted, was due to the reductions in tax assessments and
UTGO debt service property tax revenue.

Other cities reported much less in taxes abated than Detroit. Memphis had the next largest amount
at $16.7 million but was only 3.8% of its property tax revenues and abatements combined because
of the larger amount of property tax revenue collected. Kansas City had the second highest
percentage at The City of Detroit needs to carefully manage abatements to ensure that the
bene?ts are greater than the loss of property tax revenue.

14

($in at Detroit 57

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

Janice M. Winfrey Andre P. Gilbert ll
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk

August 20, 2019

Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Application for Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for
Corktown

Dear Council Members:

On October 21, 1992, your Honorable Body established Neighborhood
Enterprise Zones. I am in receipt of one (1) application for a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone Certificate. THIS APPLICATION HAS BEEN REVIEWED AND
RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL BY THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION, A
COPY OF WHICH IS ATTACHED. Therefore, the attached Resolution, if adopted by
your Honorable Body, will approve this application.

Respectfully submitted,

I01

Janice M. Winfrey
City Clerk


Enc.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
{313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224?1466

Resolution

By Council Member

WHEREAS, Michigan Public Act 147 of 1992 allows the local legislative body to
establish Neighborhood Enterprise Zones for the purpose of providing exemption
from as valorem property taxes, and the imposition of specific property tax in lieu
of as valorem taxes; and

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Council has established a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone for the following area, in the manner required by and pursuant to Public Act
147 of 1992.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the City Council approve the
following address for receipt of Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for a
fifteen-year period:

Zone Address Application No.

Corktown 1710 Bagley 06-8557

Alton James

I I
. alt? at Estr?tt Brenda Goss?Andrews
Chairperson
Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair/Secretary

Lisa Whitmore Davis

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION

Damion Ellis
David Esparza, AIA, LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Mun101pal Center Gregory Pawlowski
Marcell R- Todd: Jr~ Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
D?mt?? Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb
e-mail: cc-cpc@detroitmi. gov

August 21, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certi?cate Application for the rehabilitation a

single-family home located at 1710 Bagley Avenue in the Corktown Neighborhood
Enterprise Zone area. (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

The of?ce of the City Planning Commission (CPC) has received an application requesting a
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (N EZ) eerti fieate forwarded from the t?ti cc of the City Clerk for
the rehabilitation ofa single-family home located at 1710 BagIey Avenue. This application
corresponds to a qualified facility which is to he newly renovated. The project consists of all new

flooring, Window 3, HVAC, interior remodeling of the bathroom, and select demolition. CPC
staff has reviewed the application and recommends approval.

The subject property has been continued as being within the boundaries of the C?orktown NEZ
which was established by

a vote oi'Council on October 26, 1994, and should be eligible for NEZ
certi?cates under State Act 147 of 1992 as currently written. The anticipated cost of

rehabilitation is $43,575.00. The applicant is seeking a 15 year tax abatement. The NEZ
certi?cate application appears to have been submitted prior to the issuance of any applicable
building permits.

Please contact our of?ce should you have any questions.

Respectfully submitted,



50, 4
Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director CPC
George A. Etheridge, City Planner, LPD
ear?? 2:2
t2 
a:
CD

cc: Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcel] R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman

Deputy Director

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

(titty at Detroit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick [-leadd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashlev A. Wilson

0 In 2016, the Council developed a new system of review for the approval of
certain NEZ certificates:

LPD assisted in developing a system for which the Council applied a greaterlevel
of scrutiny at the NEZ Zone approval stage. The recent upswing in the use of NEZS
for the development of apartment buildings and condos downtown and in
?Downtown Revitalization Districts,? 1 instead ofjust neighborhood single family
residents, created a need for this review.

This Neighborhood Enterprise Zone was established in which is prior to the
development of a system of additional ?nancial review for NEZs in 2016, therefore there
is no additional ?scal review for this item.

 

1 Created under Michigan 2008: Public Act 204 Public Act 228

1

?itp of Eetmit I 55

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

Janice M. Winfrey Andre P. Gilbert ll
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk

August 20, 2019

Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Application for Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for
West Village

Dear Council Members:

On October 21, 1992, your Honorable Body established Neighborhood
Enterprise Zones. I am in receipt of one (1) application for a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone Certificate. THIS APPLICATION HAS BEEN REVIEWED AND
RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL BY THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION, A
COPY OF WHICH IS ATTACHED. Therefore, the attached Resolution, if adopted by
your Honorable Body, will approve this application.

Respectfully submitted,

(pair [085

Janice M. Winfrey
City Clerk


Enc.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
{313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313] 224?1466

Resolution

By Council Member

WHEREAS, Michigan Public Act 147 of 1992 allows the local legislative body to
establish Neighborhood Enterprise Zones for the purpose of providing exemption
from as valorem property taxes, and the imposition of specific property tax in lieu
of as valorem taxes; and

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Council has established a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone for the following area, in the manner required by and pursuant to Public Act
147 of 1992.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the City Council approve the
following address for receipt of Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for a
seventeen-year period:

Zone Address Application No.
West Village 1718 Van Dyke 06-8584

Alton James
Chairperson

@It? at Brenda Goss-Andrews
Lisa Whitmore Davis
Lauren Hood, MCD Damion Ellis
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Esparza AIA, LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory Pawlo?wskj
R- TOdd, Jr. Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: 

Angy Webb

August 21, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE:

Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certi?cate Application for the rehabilitation of four
(4) apartment units located at 1718 Van Dyke Avenue in the West Village

Neighborhood Enterprise Zone area. (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

The of?ce of the City Flaming Commission (CPC) has received an application requesting a
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) certi?cate forwarded from the of?ce of the City Clerk for
the rehabilitation of four (4) apartment units located at 1718 Van Dyke Avenue. This application
corresponds to a quali?ed facility which is to be newly renovated. The project consists of all new
plumbing, electrical and HVAC, exterior siding and the addition of insulation. Some
recon?guration of the interior walls to make the units more ef?cient will also occur. The ?rst
and second ?oors will be divided into two units. The third ?oor is currently an attic, and is

anticipated to be incorporated into the second ?oor units. CPC staff has reviewed the application
and recommends approval.

The subject property has been con?rmed as being within the boundaries of the West Village
NEZ which was established by a vote of Council on November 15, 2000, and should be eligible
for NEZ certi?cates under State Act 147 of 1992 as currently written. The anticipated cost of
rehabilitation is $122,550.00. The applicant is seeking a 17 year tax abatement given this historic

nature of the property. The NEZ certi?cate application appears to have been submitted prior to
the issuance of any applicable building permits.

Please contact our of?ce should you have any questions.

at: Respectfully submitted2:21;: :9 Marcell R. Todd, Director CPC
as: 
OH '5


?5

George A. Etheridge, City Planner, LPD

cc: Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman

Deputy Director

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

(titty of EBetroit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashlev A. Wilson

0 In 2016, the Council developed a new system of review for the approval of
certain NEZ certi?cates:

LPD assisted in developing a system for 
of scrutiny at the NEZ Zone approval stage. The recent upswing in
apartment buildings and condos downtown and in

instead of just neighborhood single family

for the development of
?Downtown Revitalization Districts.

residents, created a need for this review.

This Neighborhood Enterprise Zone was established in 245-}!
development of a system of additional ?nancial review



is no additional ?scai review for this item.

 

1 Created under Michigan 2008: Public Act 204 Public Act 228

1

hich the Council applied a greater level

the use of NEZs

which is prior to the
for NEZs in 2016, therefore there

MEMORANDUM
TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
Boysie Jackson, Chic urement Officer

   

FROM: Janee? Ayers, Chai

DATE: July 24, 2019

RE: Request for Amendment(s) to the Procurement Ordinance

 

I am requesting the Law and Procurement departments to please provide an analysis for Council
to consider a potential cap on equalization credits.

Thank you in advance for your time and effort,

Janee? Ayers
Detroit City Council

cc: Colleagues
City Clerk

 

:City of Detroit

SCOTT R. Benson

 

MEMORANDUM

TO: David Massaron, CFO I
FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 

CC: l-lon. Janee Ayers, Chair, Budget, Audit Finance Standing Committee

l-lon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

David Whitaker, Director, LPD

Irv Corely. LPD

Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 19 July 2019
RE: PENSION FUNDING POLICY

The pension systems are currently debating the establishment ol?a Funding policy. which will
set the City of Detroit's annual payment obligation to both systems. The General Pension
and the Police and Fire Pension Systems are discussing the policies separately and have
different priorities under which they could conceivably adopt a policy. it is imperative that
Detroit provide input for these conversations to ensure we are preparing our budget team for
this impending financial obligation.

Any funding policy adopted by the pension systems will have major implications for:

1. Detroit?s financial health.
2. Our ability to comply with the Plan of Adjustment.
3. The required pension contribution from our current employees.

The proposed amortization schedules have the City?s annual obligation set at approximately
$190m to $240m. These numbers are much higher than anticipated during the bankruptcy
proceedings. which set the payment at $140m, and could place Detroit on a path of financial
insolvency ifwe are committed to this funding level and can't grow the City?s general fund
by an amount suf?cient to offset this proposed annual obligation.

Please provide responses to the following questions:

1. The administration?s plan for funding/managing the City?s pension obligation beyond
the Retiree Protection Plan

2. The City programs that will be defunded to comply with any pension obligations
above the budgeted $140m.

3. A suggested amortization schedule for submission to the pension system.

Please provide a response by 15 August 2019. If you have any questions do not hesitate to
contact my office at, 313-224-1 198

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave. Suite 1340 - Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313) 224?1198 Fax (313) 2244684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

 

Cal

'City of Detroit

NEQEL 

 

 

EM ORAN DU 

TO: David Whitaker, Director, LPD
FROM: Scott Benson, City Council District 3
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

David Massaron, CFO
Stephanie Washington, Liaison to Mayor?s Of?ce

VIA: Brenda Jones, Detroit City Council President
DATE: 26 Aug 2019
RE: CASINO GAMING BILLS: HB 4311, HB 4312 (H-2), HB 4323

My of?ce is requesting LPD review and provide a report on the attached House Bills,
which authorize internet gaming and set the tax rate for this industry. The State?s
legislative analysis from the House Fiscal Agency states:

IMPACT: In general, the bills likely would result in a net
reduction in revenues for state and local governments, including the City of
Detroit, mainly due to the incentives produced by the lower tax rate on
internet gaming adjusted gross receipts (AGR) and the revenue distribution
differences between the intemet gaming tax revenue and brick-and-mortar
gaming tax revenue. See Fiscal Information, below, for a detailed ?scal
analysis.?

Based upon the above analysis my of?ce is concerned about the potential for a negative
impact on the City?s general fund. With this in mind, please ensure your report addresses
this concern. In addition, provide suggested language to be sent to the Michigan House
Detroit Delegation that ensures a high percentage of the revenues generated are
committed, by law, to be invested inside Detroit?s neighborhoods and outside of the 7.2
square mile investment area.

Please provide this report by 27 September 2019. Reach out to my of?ce at 313-224-
1198 with any questions.

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313)224~1198 Fax (313) 2244684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

Legislative Analysis

LAWF UL INTERNET GAMING ACT

House



AGENCY

Phone: (517) 373-8080


House Bill 431 as referred to second committee Analysis available at
Sponsor: Rep. Brandt Iden 

House Bill 4312 (ll-2} as referred to second committee
Sponsor: Rep. Wendell 

House Bill 4323 as referred to second committee
Sponsor: Rep. LaTanya Garrett

Committee: Regulatory Reform
2nd Committee: Ways and Means
Complete to 5?1-19

BRIEF Sw?llARl?: llouse Bill 431 I would create the Lawful Internet Gaming Act; allow inteniet
gaming to be conducted in accordance with the new act; license various activities; create the
Division ol?lnternet Gaming in the Michigan Gaming Control Board impose a tax
on the conduct of licensed internet gaming; create the internet Gaming Fund: prohibit certain
conduct: establish civil sanctions and criminal penalties for violations of the act; and authorize

the promulgation of rules.

House Bill 43 ll would place the maximum term ot?imprisonment for a felony violation of the

Lawful Internet Gaming Act within the sentencing guidelines.

House Bill 4323 would exempt gambling conducted under the Lawful Internet Gaming Act

from the provisions of the Michigan Penal Code.

Tie-hats: House Bill 431 is tie-barred to HE 4308. House Bill 43 [2 is tieaharrcd to HBs 4311
and 4173, and House Bill 4323 is tie-barred to BB 4311. A bill cannot take effect unless the

bill to which it is is also enacted.

Effective date: Each bill would take effect 90 days after it is enacted.

FISC4L Iil'fPle'T: in general, the bills likely would result in a net reducti

on in revenues for state

and local governments. including the City ofDetroit. mainly due to the incentives produced by

the lower tax rate on intemet gaming adjusted gross receipts (AGRJ and the revenue
distribution diftcrences between the internet gaming tax revenue and hrick-altd-mortar gaming
tax revenue. Sec Fiscal In?ammation, below, for a detailed tiscal analysis.

THE CONTENT OF THE BILLS:

uuse Bill 431 1 would create the Lawful Internet Gaming Act, a description of which follows.

House Fiscal Agency

Page 1 of 13

De?nitions
The act provides de?nitions for numerous terms used throughout it. These include:

Authorized participant: An individual who is at least 21 years of age with a valid
internet wagering account with an internet gaming operator.

Casino: A building or buildings in which gaming is lawfully conducted under the
Michigan Gaming Control and Revenue Act [the initiated law voted on by Michigan
electors which authorized the three Detroit casinos) or in which Class gaming is
conducted by an Indian tribe under a facility license issued in accordance with a tribal
gaming ordinance approved by the chair of the National Indian Gaming Commission.

Internet gaming: Operating, conducting, or offering for play an internet game.

Internet game: A game of skill or chance offered tor play through the internet in which
a person wagers money or something of monetary value for the opportunity to win
money or something of monetary value. Free plays or extended playing time won on a
game oi" skill or chance would not be "something of monetary value." The term would
include gaming tournaments conducted via the internet in which persons compete in
games authorized by the Division of internet Gaming.

Internet gaming operator: A person issued an internet gaming license from the
Division of Internet Gaming to conduct internet gaming or otherwise authorized to
operate, conduct, or offer internet gaming.

Internet wagering: Risking money or something of monetary value on an internet
game.

Internet wagering account: An electronic ledger in which deposits, withdrawals,
internet wagers. monetary value of prizes, certain charges authorized by the authorized
participant, and adjustments to the account are recorded.

A_p_nlieabilltv of Act, Location of OperationtEquipment

The Lawful Internet Gaming Act would allow internet gaming only to the extent that it is
conducted in accordance with the act. A law inconsistent with the act would not apply to
internet gaming, and the act would not apply to lottery games offered by the Bureau of Lottery,
Class II and Class gaming conducted exclusively on Indian lands by a properly licensed
Indian tribe, or a fantasy contest conducted under the Fantasy Contests Consumer Protection
Act.

Under the act. an internet wager would be considered placed when received by the internet
gaming operator, regardless ofthc location of the participant at the time the wager was placed.
An internet wager received by an internet gaming licensee would be considered to be gambling
or gaming conducted in the licensee?s casino, regardless of the authorized participant?s location
at the time the wager was placed. The intermediate routing oi? electronic data in connection
with internet wagering, including routing across state lines, would not determine the location
or locations in which the wager is initiated, received, or otherwise made.

Aggregating computers or other internet access devices in order to enable multiple players to
simultaneously play an internet game would be restricted to licensed internet gaming operators.

House Fiscal Agency HBs 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 2 of [3

   

Division of Internet Gamin h'luiti'urisdietional Gamin arts Bettin
The Division of Internet Gaming (?the Division?) would be established in the MGCB to
administer, regulate, and enforce the system of intemet gaming established by the act. The
Division would have jurisdiction over licensees and could take enforcement action as provided
in the act against an unlicensed person offering internet gaming in the state.

 

Under the act. the Division could enter into agreements with other jurisdictions. including
Indian tribes. for multijurisdictional internet gaming by gaming licensees if consistent with
state and federal lawr and for gaming conducted only in the United States. The Division could
permit intemet gaming operators to conduct internct wagering on amateur or professional
sporting events or contests.

Internet Gaming License, Application and License Fees

An applicant For an internet gaming license would have to hold a casino license or be an Indian
tribe that lawfully conducts Class ill gaming under the required license. After receiving an
application and application fee, the Division would have to issue a license ii'the interact gaming
proposed by the applicant complied with the act and the applicant was otherwise eligible and
suitable (with the burden on the applicant to establish suitability).

In determining whether an applicant is eligible and suitable. the Board could request and
consider the ?nancial situation of the applicant. historical compliance with casino~re ated
licensing requirements. criminal history. or history ol'bankruptcy.

An application fee of$100,fl00 would have to accompany the application. Departmental rules
could allow for a refund of the fee. or a partial refund if not wholly expended in processing the
application, and provide the circumstances under which a fee would be refunded.

An internet gaming license would be valid for live years and could be renewed for live-year
periods. The initial license fee would be $200000 payable at the time the license is issued. The
yearly fee would be $100000. Application and license fees would be deposited into the interact
Gaming Fund created by the act. An institutional investor [such as a ?nancial institution or
pension fund} holding less than 309:1; ot' the equity of an applicant would be exempt from
licensure under the act.

Tribal Internet Gaming

A federally recognized tribe in Michigan could apply to the Division to conduct internet
gaming and would have to include relevant information on its application. such as the name
and location of its casinos. relevant tribal law and goveming documents. and financial
information.

Issuance, maintenance, and renewal of internet gaming licenses to tribal casinos would be

based on all of the following:

0 Compliance with the act and related rules.

0 Adoption and maintenance of technical standards consistent with those adopted by the
Division.

0- Maintenance of a mechanism to determine that participants are at least 21 years old and in
allowed jurisdictions.

0 Adoption and maintenance of responsible gaming measures.

0 Maintenance and operation of a casino operating Class gaming and containing at least
50% ofthe gaming positions in place as ofthe act?s effective date.

House Fiscal Agency [-135 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 3 of l3

 Timely payment of 8% of the gross gaming revenue received from internet gaming.

0 Provision of internet gaming records for veri?cation of the 8% amount upon request by the
Division.

0 Provision of a waiver of sovereign immunity to consent to the Division?s jurisdiction f0r
speci?ed purposes, as well as to the exclusive jurisdiction of Michigan?s court system
(expressly waiving the exhaustion of tribal revenues).

Under the bill, the state (acting through the governor) would have to negotiate any amendments
to a tribe?s compact necessary to ensure compliance with the act and any applicable federal
law upon request by any Indian tribe. If the governor failed to enter into negotiations or failed
to negotiate in good faith, the tribe could initiate a cause of action against the governor in state
or federal court.

The Division would have to exercise its limited direct regulatory and enforcement authority in
a manner that is not arbitrary, capricious, or contradictory to the act. The act would o_nly
regulate intemet gaming and would not extend to any further aspect of tribal gaming Operations
beyond those granted to the state under a compact with the tribe.

Internet Gaming Vendor and Gaming Platform Vendor Provider Licenses

An internet gaming vendor would be a person providing to an internet gaming operator goods,
software, or services that directly affect the wagering, play, and results of authorized internet
games. Only a person licensed under the act could provide goods, software, or services as an
internet gaming vendor to an internet gaming operator.

A provisional license would be available to enable the applicant for a vendor license to conduct
business with an internet gaming operator or applicant before receiving a vendor?s license. The
provisional license would expire on the date listed.

A vendor license would be valid for ?ve years and would be renewable for additional ?ve-year
periods if eligibility and suitability standards continued to be met. Applications would be made
on forms provided by the Division and would have to include certain information speci?ed in
the act, such as ?nancial information regarding the applicant.

A nonrefundable fee to be determined by the Division (but not to exceed $5,000) would have
to accompany the application with a fee of $5,000 payable upon issuance of a license. The
annual fee would be $2,500.

An internet gaming platform provider would pay a license fee of $100,000 at the time of
issuance of the license and $50,000 each year after that. Internet gaming platform
provider is not de?ned in the act, nor are any requirements speci?ed. The act de?nes internet
gaming platform to mean an integrated system of hardware, software, and servers through
which an internet gaming operator operates, conducts, or offers internet gaming]

Application and license fees, taxes, and payments would be deposited into the Internet Gaming
Fund created under the act. Information included with the application and records pertaining
to the application process would be con?dential and not subject to the Freedom of Information
Act (FOIA). An institutional investor holding less than 30% of the equity of an applicant would
be exempt from licensure under the act.

House Fiscal Agency [-183 431 l, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 4 of 13

Jurisdiction of the Division, Civil Fines. Civil Remedies

The Division would have jurisdiction over and responsibility to supervise all internet gaming

operations governed by the act. The Division could do the following to effectuate the act:

0 Develop quali?cations. standards, and procedures for approval and licensure of internet
gaming operators and gaming vendors. [l_\l_ri_tg; internet gaming platform provider licensee
is not mentioned here]

I Conduct hearings pertaining to violations of the act or rules.

. Develop and enforce testing and auditing requirements for internet gaming platfonns,
internet wagering, and inter-net wagering accounts.

- Develop and administer civil lines (not to exceed $5.000 per violation) for internet gaming
operators and internet gaming vendor licensees that violate the act or departmental rules.

The Division could investigate issue cease and desist orders, and obtain injunctive relief

against a person that is not licensed and that is offering internet gaming in the state.

information. records, interviews. reports, and other data supplied to or used by the Division in
the course of an investigation of a licensee would be con fidential anti not be subject to 

Rule Promulgatien
Within one year after the act took effect. the Division would be required to promulgate rules

governing the licensing. administration, and conduct of internet gaming necessary to carry out

the act. The rules could only include things expressly authorized by the act. including the

following:

0 Types of internet games to be offered; poker, blackjack, cards. slots, and other games
typically offered at a casino must be offered.

0 Qualifications, standards, and procedures for approval and licensure of internet gaming
licensees and intemet gaming vendor operators.

0 Requirements to ensure responsible gaming.

0 Technical and ?nancial standards for internet wagering, wagering accounts. and intemet
gaming platforms, systems, and software or other electronic components for intemet
gaining.

0 Procedures for conducting contested case hearings.

- Requirements for multijurisdictional agreements entered into with other jurisdictions.
These would include quali?cations, standards. and procedures for approval of internet
gaming vendors providing interact gaming platforms in connection with the agreement.

0 Procedures and requirements for the acceptance, by an internet gaming operator, 
wagers initiated or otherwise made by persons in other jurisdictions. if the Division
authorized multijurisdictional gaming.

Age Veri?cation Requirements, Requirements of Internet Gaming Operators

An internet gaming operator have to provide one or more mechanisms on the gaming platform

it uses that are designed to:

Reasonably verify that an authorized participant is at least 21 years of age. An individual
would have to satisfy the veri?cation requirements in order to establish an internet gaming
account or to make an intemet wager on an intemet game.

i Limit interact wagering to transactions that are initiated and received or otherwise made
by an authorized participant located in Michigan or a jurisdiction in the United States in
which internet gaming is legal.

0 Detect and prevent the unauthorized use of internet wagering accounts, and detect and
prevent fraud, money laundering, and collusion.

House Fiscal Agency [-183 43 l, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 5 of 13

An internet gaming operator could not knowingly authorize an individual less than 21 years
old or tut individual whose name appears in the responsible gaming database created under the
act to establish an internet gaming account or knowingly allow them to wager on internet games
offered by the licensee?unless required and authorized by the Division for testing purposes
or to otherwise fulfill the purposes ofthe act.

Responsible Gaming Database, Posting of Compulsive Gambling Hotline

The Division could develop responsible gaming measures. including a statewide responsible

gaming database that would identify individuals who are prohibited from establishing an

internet wagering account or participating in internet gaming offered by an internet gaming
operator. An individual?s name could be placed in the database if any of the following apply
to the individual:

0 He or she has been convicted in any jurisdiction of a felony, a crime of moral turpitude, or
a crime involving gaming.

0 He or she has violated the act or another gaming?related act.

0 He or she has performed an act, or has a notorious or unsavory reputation, such that his or
her participation in internet gaming under the act would adversely affect public confidence
and trust in internet gaming.

0 His or her name is on a valid and current exclusion list maintained by Michigan or another
U.S. jurisdiction.

Names of individuals to be included on the list could be provided by an internet gaming
operator in a format speci?ed by the Division.

The number of the toll-free compulsive gambling hotline maintained by the state would have
to be displayed in a clear, conspicuous, and accessible manner on the internet gaming platform
used by an internet gaming operator. Also, responsible services and technical controls would
have to be offered to authorized participants. This would consist of both temporary and
permanent self-exclusion for all internet games offered and the ability for authorized
participants to establish their own periodic deposit and internet wagering limits and maximum
playing times.

A participant could voluntarily prohibit himself or herself from establishing an internet
wagering account with an operator. The voluntary self-exclusion list could be incorporated into
the responsible gaming database and both be maintained by the Division in a confidential
manner. Both lists would be exempt from disclosure under 

Prohibited Conduct. Criminal Penalties

The act would prohibit a person from doing any ofthe following:

- Offering internet gaming for play it' not an internet gaming operator (except if exempt as a
lottery game. tribal casino, or fantasy contest]. This would be a felony punishable by
imprisonment for up to It) years or a fine of up to Ill 100.000. or both.

Knowingly making a false statement on an application for a license issued under the act.

- Knowingly providing false testimony to MGCB or its authorized representative while
under oath.

A license could not be issued to a person that committed a listed violation. An action to
prosecute a violation could be brought by the attorney general or a county prosecuting attorney

House Fiscal Agency HBs 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 6 of 13

in the county in which the violation occurred or in Ingham County, at either of the of?cials?
discretion.

Gross Gaming Revenue Tait. Allocation of Tax
An internet gaming licensee would be subject to an 8% tax on the gross gaming revenue from
internet gaming conducted under the act, payable No other tax, payment. or fee could

be imposed on an intemet gaming operator for internet gaming.

The tax would have to be allocated as follows:
0 30% to the city in which the internet gaming licensee?s casino is located, for use in that
city in connection with the following:
Hiring, training. and deployment of street patrol of?cers.
0 Neighborhood and downtown economic development programs designed to create
jobs, with a focus on blighted neighborhoods.
0 Public safety programs such as emergency medical services, ?re department
programs, and street lighting.
Anti-gang and youth development programs.
0 Other programs designed to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life.
0 Relief to the taxpayers of the city from one or more taxes or fees imposed by the
city.
0 Costs of capital improvements.
0 Road repairs and improvements.
. 55% to the state to be deposited into the Internet Gaming Fund.
0 to be deposited in the state School Aid Fund.
- 5% to be deposited in the Michigan Transportation Fund.
0 5% to the Michigan Agricultural Equine Industry Development Fund. (However, if that
amount exceeded $3 million in a fiscal year. the excess would have to be deposited in the
Internet Gaming Fund.)

lfthe combined total ofthe 30% allocated to the city and the wagering tax under the Michigan
Gaming Control and Revenue Act were less than $179 million, the Board would have to
distribute to the city from the fund an amount equal to the difference between $179 million
and the amount received by the city in the previous year. This would have to take place by
December 31. 2021]. and each December 31 thereafter. However, the total amount under the
30% allocation and this dispersal could not be more than 55% of the total tax imposed under
this section in the ?scal year.

1n_ternet Gaming Fund

The Internet Gaming Fund would he created in the treasury. Money or assets required to be
paid into the fund or received from any other sources would be received by the state treasurer.
interest and earnings from fund investments would be credited to the fund. MGCB would be
the administrator for auditing purposes. would be required to expend money from the
Fund. on appropriation, for its costs of regulating and enforcing internet gaming under the act.
as well as $1.0 million to the Compulsive Gaming Prevention Fund.

Of the 8% gross gaming revenue (under section of the bill), 759:}. of the payments would
have to be deposited into the Internet Gaming Fund, with the remaining 25% deposited into
the Michigan Strategic Fund.

House Fiscal Agency HBs 43 ll, 43 12, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 7 of 13

House Bill 4312 would amend the Code of Criminal Procedure to specify that internet gaming
offenses under Section 13 of the proposed new Lawful Internet Gaming Act would be a Class
felony against the public order punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years.
Additionally. Bingo false statements would be a Class felony against the public trust
punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of 2 years.

 

MCL 777.14d

House Bill 4323 would add a new section to the Michigan Penal Code to specify that Chapter
44 {Gambling} would not apply to gambling conducted under the proposed Lawful Internet
Gaming Act.

 

Proposed MCL 750.310d
BA CK GROUND INF ORMA ION:

House Bills 431 l, 4312. and 4323 are part ofa series of reintroduced bills regarding gaming
regulation in Michigan. The bills? counterparts in the 2017-18 legislative session?House Bills
4926, 4928, and 4927, respectively?were passed by the House and Senate but vetoed by the
governor. In his veto message.l Governor Snyder cited unknown budgetary concerns and a
desire for more careful study of the issue.

FISCAL INF ORMA I 0N:

In general, the bills likely would result in a net reduction in revenues for state and local
governments. including the City ofDetroit. mainly due to the incentives produced by lhe lower
tax rate on interact gaming adjusted gross receipts and the revenue distribution
differences between the internet gaming tax revenue and briek-and-mortar gaming tax revenue.

Determining a ?scal impact is difficult in both scope and magnitude due to the ?nancial. legal.
and tax structure of the Michigan gaming industry; the dynamic interplay between the different
types of gaming offered in Michigan {commercial casinos. tribal casinos. and a state-run
lottery]: and the relatively small sample size ol'states that have legalized interact casino gaming
(Delaware [2012]. Nevada [2013], and New Jersey [21313]). Additionally. casino revenues are
affected by economic conditions. societal trends, expansion ol'gaming in other states. and the
offering of alternative gaining opportunities, all of which make differentiating between
correlation and causation when reviewing other states dif?cult.

New Jersey?s online gaming market is structured most similarly to the proposed online gaming
market under this bill. However. there are notable differences that limit its usefulness as a direct
comparable for Michigan?s gaming rnarkct. While Michigan?s population is almost one million
greater than New Jersey?s, New Jersey has a per capita personal income that is 401'in greater
than Michigan?s. In addition, population demographics and the dependence on tourism as a
source of business for casino gaming diminish the value of direct comparisons.

For purposes of this analysis. the most notable difference is that New Jersey licensees pay a
higher tax rate on internet gaming AGR than brick-and-rnortar AGR while under

 

altar. menlsr'l 

g?gns' trill-10215 d1"

House Fiscal Agency H83 431 1, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 8 of 13

the provisions of this bill Michigan licensees would pay a lower tax rate of 83-2; on internet
gaming AGR (minus the monetary value of free play} than bricleand-mortar casino AGR,
where the effective rate exceeds 199-13.: in Michigan, the commercial casinos in Detroit would
have a strong incentive to promote internet gaming at the expense of briek-and?moitar casino
gaming because AGR received from internet wagering would be levied a tax rate significantly
lower than AGR from the briek-and?mortar facility.

The scope and magnitude of the ?scal impact would depend on whether online gaming had a
substitution, neutral, or stimulative effect on other forms of gaming. All of these factors are
discussed in more detail below.

As background. in 2018 AGR from New Jersey internet gaming totaled approximately $300.0
million. which represented lU?l-?Ei of the overall casino gaming market (based on AGR).
Assuming that interact gaming AGR comprises approximately 12% of the total amount
wagered, roughly $2.5 billion was wagered online in New Jersey in 2018.

The narrative below assumes a mature market and does not represent short term changes
immediately following the adoption of the bill?s provisions.

State School Aid Fund

The State School Aid Fund (SAF) likely would realize reduced revenues under House Bill
431 1. Currently, a wagering tax of 19% is levied on casino AGR. Of that amount, 42.6%
{50081) is distributed to the SAP. Under the bill, internet gaming AGR would be taxed at a
rate of with 5% 1 $0.004} of the tax revenues deposited in the SAP. Therefore, every dollar
of AGR lost at brick-and-niortar casinos due to internet gaming would result in a $0.077 loss

to the SAP.

The reduction in revenues would be directly related to the substitutive effect internet gaming
would have on brick-and-rnortar casinos. Any net new wagering from online gaming would
offset a portion of the losses due to the substitution effect of online gaming.

Table 1 provides this information another way. The table shows how much unernet wagering
would need to occur to hold the SAP harmless at various brick?and-mortar wagering loss

scenarios.

Table 1
Internet Wagering Needed to Hold School Aid Fund Harmless at Various Brick-and-
Mortar Casino Wagering Loss Scenarios

 

Wagering Loss at Internet Wagering Required for
Detroit Casinos SAF Loss Hold Harmless
1% $1,169.73 152.436.918.384
5% 5,848,604 111.184.5919 
10% 11,697,208 24,369,183,838
15% 17,545,812 36,553,775,757

Note: Based on 2018 MGCB AGR datafor Detroit Commercial Casinos; assumes AGR comprises 12% of
total wagering.

 

2 In addition to the 19% wagering tax on adjusted gross receipts, the Detroit casinos pay a mumcrpal services fee and
development agreement payment based on adjusted gross receipts

House Fiscal Agency PBS 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 9 of 13

Internet gaming also could reduce lottery sales, mainly by diverting participants from the
iLottery platform or instant ticket sales, because many of the games offered could be
considered substantially similar from a user perspective. Payouts for individuals playing
casino-operated games would be higher. Higher payout rates likely would lead to increased
internet gaming play at the expense of iLottery and instant ticket play. Lottery AGR (net
revenue) is deposited in the SAP. Therefore, any diminishment in lottery sales from the
introduction of online gaming would result in lower SAF transfers from the Bureau of State
Lottery. In 2017 net revenues from iLottery totaled $80.0 million. Based on net revenues
totaling 12% of total sales for iLottery games and 27% of total sales for instant ticket games,
every dollar of wagering iLottery lost to internet gaming would require $250 of internet
wagering to hold the SAP harmless. Every dollar of instant ticket sales lost to internet gaming
would require approximately $550 of internet wagering to hold the SAP harmless.

Even if no substitution effect were assumed and online gaming had a neutral or stimulative
effect on brick-and-mortar casino revenues, the SAP could still realize a decrease in dedicated
revenues due to a loss in iLottery revenues. However, the lower tax rate for online gaming
likely would result in the Detroit casinos promoting online gaming at the expense of brick?and-
mortar gaming. The strength of this incentive would be affected by any expected non-gaming
revenue a casino expected from brick-and-mortar casino patrons.

City of Detroit Revenues

The City of Detroit (?City?) likely would realize reduced revenues under House Bill 4311.
Currently, a wagering tax of 19% is levied on casino AGR. Of that amount, 57.4% ($0.109) is
distributed to the City. In 2018, the City received approximately $157.4 million from the casino
wagering tax. Under the bill, internet gaming AGR would be taxed at a rate of with 30%
($0.024) of the tax revenues allocated to the City. Therefore, every dollar of AGR lost at brick-
and?mortar casinos due to internet gaming would result in a $0.085 loss to the City.

Table 2 provides this information another way. The table shows 110w much internet wagering
would need to occur to hold the City wagering tax revenues harmless at various AGR loss
scenarios.

Table 2
Internet Wagering Needed to Hold the City of Detroit Harmless at Various Brick-and-
Mortar Casino Wagering Loss Scenarios

 

Wagering Loss at City of Detroit Internet Wagering Needed for
Detroit Casinos Revenue Loss City of Detroit Hold Harmless
1% $1,574,069 $546,551,654
5% 7,870,344 2,732,758,270
10% 15,740,688 5,465,516,540
15% 23,611,031 8,198,274,810

Note. Based on 2018 MGCB AGR data for Detroit Commercial Casinos; assumes AGR comprises 12% of
total wagering.

It should be noted that if the impact on brick-and-mortar casino revenue were relatively neutral
or stimulative, the City would realize increased revenues. The magnitude of the increase would
depend on AGR from online gaming and a combination of the effective tax rate and any new
revenues directly attributable to enhanced brick-and-mortar play due to online gaming.

House Fiscal Agency HBs 431 l, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 10 of 13

I- Iowever. the commercial casinos in Detroit would have an incentive to promote online gaming
at the expense of brickrand-mortar play due to the lower tax rate of online gaming. As noted
above, the strength of this incentive would be affected by any non-gaming revenue a casino
expected from briek-and-mortar casino patrons.

The bill includes a speci?ed tax revenue minimum of $179.0 million for the City. If the City
failed to generate $179.0 million from its wagering tax distribution and internet gaming
distribution, MGCB would be required to distribute the difference from the Internet Gaming
Fund. The amount of revenue the City received from its intemet gaming tax and additional
Internet Gaming Fund distribution could not exceed 55% of the total internet gaming tax
imposed in the fiscal year. Whether or not the floor could be satisfied in any given year would
be a Function of combined revenues from the wagering taxes and available revenues in the
Internet Gaming Fund.

As written, the calculation for the $179.0 million fails to include the development agreement
revenues and the additional 1% wagering tax dedicated to Detroit under section 12(7) of the
Michigan Gaming Control and Revenue Act, 1997 PA 69, MCL 432.212. Therefore. it is
possible that the Internet Gaming Fund would have to allocate funds to the City to make up the
calculated shortfall even in a scenario where there was no substitution effect and the interact
gaming taxes were considered entirely new revenue.

Tribal Gam_ii_tg Payments to the State of b'liehig?

Tribal casino payments to the State of Michigan under the Tribal-State Compacts are made
directly to the Michigan Strategic Fund and Michigan Economic Development Comoration
(MSWMEDC). Any ?scal impact would depend on the negotiated terms related to onlinc
gaming revenue sharing payments and the decisions made regarding revenue sharing payments
to the state. the 12 tribes. a tribes do not currently make revenue sharing payments to the
state. The other 6 tribes pay between 4% and 12% of net win. Payments to totaled
$57.3 million in 2017.

If the tribes that currently do not make revenue sharing payments to the state negotiate a
revenue sharing agreement for online gaming, the state would realize increased revenues.
However, the magnitude and purpose of those revenues for the state would depend on the terms
of the negotiated compact.

Any fiscal impact related to tribes that currently make revenue sharing payments to the state
would depend on the percentage ofthe online gaming payment agreed upon and the substitution
effect of online gaming versus hriclt-and-mortar casino gaming.

Alternatively, tribal casinos that currently make revenue sharing payments to 
could choose to withhold payments if they deemed online gaming to be an expansion of
gaming. Each tribe would have to determine whether revenues generated from online gaming
would exceed revenues saved from withholding state payments.

It is not known how much of the internet gaming market tribal casinos could acquire. Increased
internet gaming market share could further reduce SAP and City revenues.

Tribal Gaming? Payments to Local Units of Government

The provisions of the bill likely would result in reduced tribal casino payments to local units
of government by an unknown amount. Any fiscal impact would depend on the substitution

House Fiscal Agency HBS 431 1, 4312. and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 1 1 of 13

effect. All tribal casinos make payments equal to 2% of net win to local units of government
in their de?ned regional area. These payments totaled $29.7 million in 2017. These payments
cannot be withheld for an expansion of gaming violation of the Tribal-State Compacts. From
the 8% tax rate levied on internet gaming offered by the tribal casinos, 75% must be allocated
in the Internet Gaming Fund and 25% must be allocated to the Michigan Strategic Fund.

Michigan Transportation Fund

The bill would increase revenues to the Michigan Transportation Fund (MTF) by an unknown
amount. The bill directs that 5% of the tax revenues received be deposited in the MTF
established in section 10 of 1951 PA 51 (?Act 51?) to be distributed in accordance with the
provisions of section 10(l)(the primary collection and distribution
fund for state restricted transportation revenue. The Act 51 distribution provisions referenced
in the bill provide for the distribution of net MTF revenue as follows: 39.1% to the State
Trunkline Fund 39.1% to county road commissions; 21.8% to cities and villages.

As provided by section used for construction and preservation of the
state trunkline highway system as well as administration of the Michigan Department of
Transportation. The MTF distributions to county road commissions and to cities and villages
are used primarily for the preservation of local road systems as provided by sections 12 and 13
of Act 51.

The amount of internet gaming tax revenue that would be credited to the MTF would depend
on the total internet gaming tax revenue generated, which in turn would depend on adjusted
gross receipts identi?ed and taxed from online gaming.

Administration and Enforcement

The bill would create a new division within the Michigan Gaming Control Board. This would
increase costs associated with staf?ng, of?ce space, information technology, and other
administrative, enforcement, audit, and regulatory costs. The extent of these costs is unknown.
However, the bill would authorize the licensing and application fees levied on internet gaming
licensees and vendors to be used to cover administrative expenses. In addition, 55% of the
funds collected under the internet gaming tax is deposited in the Internet Gaming Fund in part
for regulation and enforcement. Presumably, the funds collected and allocated for
administration under the bill would be suf?cient to cover necessary expenses related to
administration and enforcement of the provisions of the bill.

Compulsive Gaming Prevention Fund
The bill would increase revenues for the Compulsive Gaming Prevention Fund by $1.0 million
annually due to the required deposit from the Internet Gaming Fund created under the bill.

Impact on tin.- Jntliciarv antllor State and Local Corrections

The bill would have an indeterminate ?scal impact on the state?s correctional system and on
local court systems. Information is not available on the number of persons who might be
convicted under provisions of the bill. New felony convictions would result in increased costs
related to state prisons and state probation supervision. In ?scal year 2018, the average cost of
prison incarceration in a state facility was roughly $38,000 per prisoner, a ?gure that includes
various ?xed administrative and operational costs. State costs for parole and felony probation
supervision averaged about $3,700 per supervised offender in the same year.

House Fiscal Agency HBs 43 l, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 12 of 13

Civil ?nes would increase revenues going to the state Justice System Fund, which supports the
Legislative Retirement System, the Departments of State Police, Corrections. Health and
Human Services. and Treasury, and endeavors in the judicial branch.

The ?scal impact on local court systems would depend on how provisions of the bill affected
caseloads and related administrative costs. Any increase in penal fine revenues would increase
funding for local libraries, which are the constitutionally designated recipients of those

revenues .

POSITIONS:
A representative of Greektown Casino testified in support of the bills. (3-12-19)

Representatives of the following organizations testified in support of House Bill 4311


Fan Duel and Draft Kings

MGM Grand Detroit

GEOComply

The Stars Group

The following organizations indicated support for the bills (3?12?19):
Michigan Gaming Control Board
Michigan Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association
Michigan Chamber of Commerce
City of Detroit

The following organizations indicated suppor_t for House Bills 4311 and 4312 
Gun Lake Tribe
Pokagon Band of Potawatomi

Growth (iDevelopment and Economic Association) indicated support for House Bill
4311. (3?12?19)

MGM Grand Detroit indicated support for House Bill 4312. (3?12-19)

The Coalition to Stop Internet Gaming indicated op position to House Bill 4311. (3-12-19)

Legislative Jenny McInerney
Susan Stutzky
Fiscal Ben 
William E. Hamilton
Robin Risko

 

I This analysis was prepared by nonpartisan House Fiscal Agency staff for use by House members in their
deliberations, and does not constitute an l?licial statement of legislative intent.

House Fiscal Agency HBs 43 1, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 13 of 13

HOUSE BILL No. 4323



HOUSE BILL N0. 4323

March 12, 2019, Introduced by Rep. Garrett and referred to the Committee on Regulatory


A bill to amend 1931 PA 328, entitled
"The Michigan penal code,"
(MCL 750.1 to 750.568) by adding section 310d.

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN ENACT:

SEC. 310D. THIS CHAPTER DOES NOT APPLY TO GAMBLING CONDUCTED
UNDER THE LAWFUL INTERNET GAMING ACT.

Enacting section 1. This amendatory act takes effect 90 days
after the date it is enacted into law.

Enacting section 2. This amendatory act does not take effect
unless Senate Bill No. or House Bill No. 4311 (request no.

01428'19) of the 100th Legislature is enacted into law.

01428'19 a Final Page DAW

82817 THE ESDOH

HOUSE BILL No. 4311

HOUSE BILL No. 4311

March 7, 2019, Introduced by Rep. Iden and referred to the Committee on Regulatory
R?bnn

A bill to create the lawful internet gaming act; to impose
requirements for persons to engage in internet gaming; to create
the division of internet gaming; to provide for the powers and
duties of the division of internet gaming and other state
governmental officers and entities; to impose fees; to impose tax
and other payment obligations on the conduct of licensed internet
gaming; to create the internet gaming fund; to prohibit certain
acts in relation to internet gaming and to prescribe penalties for
those violations; to require the promulgation of rules; and to
provide remedies.

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN ENACT:

Sec. 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as the

"lawful internet gaming act".

01428'19 DAW

H917 THE 

40101.3:Sec. 2. The legislature finds and declares all of the
following:

Operating, conducting, and offering for play internet
games over the internet involves gaming activity that already
occurs throughout this state.

This act is consistent and complies with the unlawful
internet gambling enforcement act of 2006, 31 USC 5361 to 5367, and
specifically authorizes use of the internet to place, receive, or
otherwise knowingly transmit a bet or wager if that use complies
with this act and rules promulgated under this act.

This act is consistent and complies with the state
constitution of 1963 by ensuring that the internet may be used to
place wagers only on games of skill or chance that may be lawfully
played in this state and that internet gaming is only conducted by
persons who are lawfully operating casinos in this state.

In order to protect residents of this state who wager on
games of chance or skill through the internet and to capture
revenues generated from internet gaming, it is in the best interest
of this state and its citizens to regulate this activity by
authorizing and establishing a secure, responsible, fair, and legal
system of internet gaming.

Sec. 3. As used in this act:

"Authorized participant" means an individual who has a
valid internet wagering account with an internet gaming operator
and is at least 21 years of age.

"Board" means the Michigan gaming control board created

under section 4 of the Michigan gaming control and revenue act,

01428'19 DAW

\DOdemlwaH


4 a 4 

1996 IL 1, MCL 432.204.

"Casino? means a building or buildings in which gaming is
lawfully conducted under the Michigan gaming control and revenue
act, 1996 IL 1, MCL 432.201 to 432.226, or in which class 
gaming is lawfully conducted by an Indian tribe under a facility
license issued in accordance with a tribal gaming ordinance
approved by the chair of the National Indian Gaming Commission.

"Class II gaming" means that term as defined in 25 USC
2703.

"Class gaming" means that term as defined in 25 USC
2703.

"Compact" means a tribal-state compact governing the
conduct of gaming activities that is negotiated under the Indian
gaming regulatory act, Public Law 100-497, 102 Stat 2467.

"Division" means the division of internet gaming
established under section 5.

"Fund" means the internet gaming fund created under
section 16.

"Gross gaming revenue" means the total of all internet
wagers received by an internet gaming operator, less the total of
all winnings paid out to authorized participants by the internet
gaming operator, during the accounting period. For purposes of this
subdivision, internet wagers received by an internet gaming
operator do not include the monetary value of free play used by
authorized participants.

"Indian lands" means that term as defined in 25 USC 2703.

?Indian tribe" means that term as defined in 25 USC 2703

01428'19 DAW






4

and any instrumentality, political subdivision, or other legal
entity through which an Indian tribe operates its existing casino.

U) "Institutional investor" means a person that is any of the
following:

U) A retirement fund administered by a public agency for the
exclusive benefit of federal, state, or local public employees.

(H) An employee benefit plan or pension fund that is subject
to the employee retirement income security act of 1974, Public Law
93?406.

An investment company registered under the investment
company act of 1940, 15 USC 80a?1 to 80a?64.

(W) A collective investment trust organized by a bank under
12 CFR part 9.

A closed end investment trust.

(W) A chartered or licensed life insurance company or
property and casualty insurance company.

A chartered or licensed financial institution.

An investment advisor registered under the investment
advisers act of 1940, 15 USC 80b-1 to 80b?21.

Any other person that the division determines through
rulemaking should be considered to be an institutional investor for
reasons consistent with this act.

"Internet" means the international computer network of
interoperable packet-switched data networks, inclusive of such
additional technological platforms as mobile, satellite, and other
electronic distribution channels approved by the division.

"Internet game? means a game of skill or chance that is

01428'19 DAW

omqmmanH


4 4 

5

offered for play through the internet in which an individual wagers
money or something of monetary value for the opportunity to win
money or something of monetary value. For purposes of this
definition, free plays or extended playing time that is won on a
game of skill or chance that is offered through the internet is not
something of monetary value. Internet game includes gaming
tournaments conducted via the internet in which individuals compete
against one another in 1 or more of the games authorized by the
division or in approved variations or composites as authorized by
the division.

(0) "Internet gaming" means operating, conducting, or offering
for play an internet game.

"Internet gaming operator" means a person that is issued
an internet gaming license from the division to operate, conduct,
or offer internet gaming.

"Internet gaming platform" means an integrated system of
hardware, software, and servers through which an internet gaming
operator operates, conducts, or offers internet gaming.

"Internet gaming vendor" means a person that provides to
an internet gaming operator goods, software, or services that
directly affect wagering, play, and results of internet games
offered under this act, including goods, software, or services
necessary to the acceptance, operation, administration, or control
of internet wagers, internet games, internet wagering accounts, or
internet gaming platforms. Internet gaming vendor does not include
a person that provides to an internet gaming operator only Such

goods, software, or services that it also provides to others for

01428'19 DAW

{qumU'lIB-le-J


4 

6

purposes not involving internet gaming, including, but not limited
to, a payment processor or a geolocation service provider.

(3) "Internet wager" means money or something of monetary
value risked on an internet game.

"Internet wagering" means risking money or something of
monetary value on an internet game.

"Internet wagering account? means an electronic ledger in
which all of the following types of transactions relative to an
authorized participant are recorded:

U) Deposits.

Withdrawals.

UH) Internet wagers.

(W) Monetary value of prizes.

Service or other transaction?related charges authorized by
the authorized participant, if any.

(W) Adjustments to the account.

"Person? means an individual, partnership, corporation,
association, limited liability company, Indian tribe, or other
legal entity.

"Prizes" includes both monetary and nonmonetary prizes
received directly or indirectly by an authorized participant from
an internet gaming operator as a direct or indirect result of
internet wagering. The value of a nonmonetary prize is the actual
cost of the prize.

"Winnings" includes all of the following:

U) The total monetary value of prizes received by authorized

participants.

01428'19 DAW



(H) Stakes returned to authorized participants.

UH) Other amounts credited to authorized participants'
internet wagering accounts, including the monetary value of loyalty
points, and other similar complimentaries and incentives, not
including free play, granted to authorized participants as a result
of participation in internet games.

Sec. 4. (1) Internet gaming may be conducted only to the
extent that it is conducted in accordance with this act.

(2) An internet wager received by an internet gaming operator
is considered to be gambling or gaming that is conducted in the
internet gaming operator's casino located in this state, regardless
of the authorized participant?s location at the time the
participant initiates or otherwise places the internet wager.

(3) A law that is inconsistent with this act does not apply to
internet gaming as provided for by this act.

(4) This act does not apply to any of the following:

Lottery games offered by the bureau of lottery under the
lottery act, 1972 PA 239, MCL 432.1
to 432.47.

Class II and Class gaming conducted exclusively on
Indian lands by an Indian tribe under a facility license issued in
accordance with a tribal gaming ordinance approved by the chair of
the National Indian Gaming Commission. For purposes of this
subdivision, gaming is conducted exclusively on Indian lands only
if the individual who places the wager is physically present on
Indian lands when the wager is initiated and the wager is received

or otherwise made on equipment that is physically located on those

01428'19 DAW

kam~JmU1uwaH


4 4 

8

Indian lands, and the wager is initiated, received, or otherwise
made in conformity with the safe harbor requirements described in
31 USC 

A fantasy contest conducted under the fantasy contests
consumer protection act.

(5) Unless licensed as an internet gaming operator under this
act, a person shall not aggregate computers or other internet
access devices in a place of public accommodation in this state,
including a club or other association, to enable multiple players
to simultaneously play an internet game.

(6) For purposes of this act, the intermediate routing of
electronic data in connection with internet wagering, including
routing across state lines, does not determine the location or
locations in which the wager is initiated, received, or otherwise
made.

Sec. 5. The division of internet gaming is established in
the board. The division has the powers and duties specified in this
act and all other powers necessary to enable it to fully and
effectively execute this act to administer, regulate, and enforce
the system of internet gaming established by this act.

(2) The division has jurisdiction over every person licensed
by the division and may take enforcement action against a person
that is not licensed by the division that offers internet gaming in
this state.

(3) The division may enter into agreements with other
jurisdictions, including Indian tribes, to facilitate, administer,

and regulate multijurisdictional internet gaming by internet gaming

01428'19 DAW




4 4 

9

operators to the extent that entering into the agreement is
consistent with state and federal laws and if the gaming under the
agreement is conducted only in the United States.

(4) The division may permit internet gaming operators licensed
by the division to accept internet wagers under this act on any
amateur or professional sporting event or contest.

Sec. 6. The division may issue an internet gaming license
only to an applicant that is either of the following:

A person that holds a casino license under the Michigan
gaming control and revenue act, 1996 IL 1, MCL 432.201 to 432.226.

An Indian tribe that lawfully conducts class gaming in
a casino located in this state under a facility license issued in
accordance with a tribal gaming ordinance approved by the chair of
the National Indian Gaming Commission.

(2) The division shall issue an internet gaming license to an
applicant described in subsection (1) after receiving the
application described in subsection (4) or (5), as applicable, and
the application fee, if the division determines that the internet
gaming proposed by the applicant complies with this act and the
applicant is otherwise eligible and suitable. An applicant is
eligible if it meets the requirements set forth in subsection
or It is the burden of the applicant to establish by
clear and convincing evidence its suitability as to character,
reputation, integrity, business probity, and financial ability. The
application or enforcement of this subsection by the division must
not be arbitrary, capricious, or contradictory to the express

provisions of this act. In evaluating the eligibility and

01428'19 DAW

omooqmmaszH


4 4 a 

10

suitability of an applicant under the standards provided in this
act, the division shall establish and apply the standards to each
applicant in a consistent and uniform manner. In determining
whether to grant a license to an applicant, the division may
request and consider any or all of the following information from
the applicant as a factor in the determination:

Whether the applicant has adequate capitalization and the
financial ability and the means to develop, construct, operate, and
maintain the proposed internet gaming platform and to offer and
conduct internet gaming in accordance with this act and the rules
promulgated by the division.

Whether the applicant has the financial ability to
purchase and maintain adequate liability and casualty insurance and
to provide an adequate surety bond.

Whether the applicant has adequate capitalization and the
financial ability to responsibly pay off its secured and unsecured
debts in accordance with its financing agreements and other
contractual obligations.

Whether the applicant has a history of material
noncompliance with casino or casino-related licensing requirements
or compacts with this state or any other jurisdiction, where the
noncompliance resulted in enforcement action by the body having
jurisdiction over the applicant.

Whether the applicant has been indicted for, charged with,
arrested for, or convicted of, pleaded guilty or nolo contendere
to, forfeited bail concerning, or had expunged any criminal offense

under the laws of any jurisdiction, either felony or misdemeanor,

01428'19 DAW




4 0

ll

not including traffic violations, regardless of whether the offense
has been expunged, pardoned, or reversed on appeal or otherwise.
The division may consider mitigating factors, and, for an applicant
described in subsection shall give deference to whether the
applicant has otherwise met the requirements of the applicant's
gaming compact for licensure, as applicable.

Whether the applicant has filed, or had filed against it,
a proceeding for bankruptcy or has ever been involved in any formal
process to adjust, defer, Suspend, or otherwise work out the
payment of any debt.

Whether the applicant has a history of material
noncompliance with any regulatory requirements in this state or any
other jurisdiction where the noncompliance resulted in an
enforcement action by the regulatory agency having jurisdiction
over the applicant.

Whether at the time of application the applicant is a
defendant in litigation involving the integrity of its casino
business practices.

(3) An internet gaming license issued under this act is valid
for the 5-year period after the date of issuance and, if the
division determines that the licensee continues to meet the
eligibility and suitability standards under this act, is renewable
for additional 5-year periods.

(4) A person described in subsection may apply to the
division for an internet gaming license to offer internet gaming as
provided in this act. The application must be made on forms

provided by the division and include the information required by

01428'19 DAW




4 4 

12

the division.

(5) A person described in subsection may apply to the
division for an internet gaming license to offer internet gaming as
provided in this act. The application must be made on forms
provided by the division that require only the following
information:

The name and location of any of the applicant's casinos.

The tribal law, charter, or any other organizational
document of the applicant and other governing documents under which
the applicant operates any of its casinos.

Detailed information about the primary management
officials of the applicant's casinos who will have management
responsibility for the applicant's internet gaming operations.

The current facility license for the applicant's casinos.

The applicant's current tribal gaming ordinance.

The gaming history and experience of the applicant in the
United States and other jurisdictions.

Financial information, including copies of the last
independent audit and management letter submitted by the applicant
to the National Indian Gaming Commission under 25 USC 2710(b)(2)(C)
and (D) and 25 CFR parts 271.12 and 271.13.

The total number of gaming positions, including, but not
limited to, electronic gaming devices and table games, at each of
the applicant's casinos.

(6) An initial application for an internet gaming license must
be accompanied by an application fee of $100,000.00. The rules

promulgated under section 10 may include provisions for the refund

01428'19 DAW



application fee, or the portion of an application fee that
has not been expended by the division in processing the
application, and the circumstances under which the fee will be
refunded.

(7) The division shall keep all information, records,
interviews, reports, statements, memoranda, or other data supplied
to or used by the division in the course of its review or
investigation of an application for an internet gaming license or
renewal of an internet gaming license confidential and shall use
that material only to evaluate the applicant for an internet gaming
license or renewal. The materials described in this subsection are
exempt from disclosure under section 13 of the freedom of
information act, 1976 PA 442, MCL 15.243.

(8) An application under this section must be submitted and
considered in accordance with this act and any rules promulgated
under this act.

(9) An internet gaming operator shall pay a license fee of
$200,000.00 to the division at the time the initial internet gaming
license is issued and $100,000.00 each year after the initial
license is issued.

(10) The division shall deposit all application and license
fees paid under this act into the fund.

(11) An institutional investor that holds for investment
purposes only less than 30% of the equity of an applicant under
this section is exempt from the licensure requirements of this act.

Sec. 7. (1) The division shall condition the issuance,

maintenance, and renewal of an internet gaming license to a person

01428'19 DAW




4 0

14

described in section on the person's compliance with all of
the following conditions:

The person complies with this act and rules promulgated by
the division pertaining to all of the following:

U) The types of and rules for playing internet games that
internet gaming operators may offer under this act.

(H) Technical standards, procedures, and requirements for the
acceptance, by the person, of internet wagers initiated or
otherwise made by individuals located in this state who are not
physically present on the person's Indian lands in this state at
the time the wager is initiated or otherwise made.

UH) Procedures and requirements for the acceptance, by the
person, of internet wagers initiated or otherwise made by
individuals located in other jurisdictions, if the division
authorizes multijurisdictional gaming as provided in this act.

UV) Those requirements set forth in section 11.

The person adopts and maintains technical standards for
internet gaming platforms, systems, and software that are
consistent with the standards adopted by the division under section
10.

The person maintains or more mechanisms on the internet
gaming platform utilized by the person that are designed to
reasonably verify that an authorized participant is 21 years of age
or older and that internet wagering is limited to transactions that
are initiated and received or otherwise made by an authorized
participant located in this state or, if the division authorizes

multijurisdictional internet gaming as provided in this act,

01428'19 DAW

woodeI-waH


4 4 

15

another jurisdiction in the United States authorized by the
multijurisdictional agreement.

The person adopts and maintains responsible gaming
measures consistent with those described in section 12.

The person continues to maintain and operate in this state
a casino offering class gaming and the casino contains not less
than 50% of the gaming positions that were in place as of the
effective date of this act.

The person pays to this state 8% of the gross gaming
revenue received by that person from all internet gaming it
conducts under this act as an internet gaming operator, and the
person makes the payments within the time period described in
section 14(2).

The person agrees to and timely provides, on written
request of the division, books and records directly related to its
internet gaming operations for the purpose of permitting the
division to verify the calculation of the payments under
subdivision 

The person provides a waiver of sovereign immunity to the
division for the sole and limited purpose of consenting to both of
the following:

U) The jurisdiction of the division to the extent necessary
and for the limited purpose of providing a mechanism for the
division to do all of the following:

(A) Issue, renew, and revoke the person's internet gaming
license.

(B) Enforce the payment obligations set forth in this section

01428'19 DAW





and section 14.

(C) Regulate and enforce the provisions of this act described
in sections 10(a), to ll, 12(4) and (5), and l3.

(D) Inspect the person's internet gaming operation and records
to verify that the person is conducting its internet gaming
operation in conformity with the conditions prescribed in this
section.

(E) Assess fines or monetary penalties for violations of the
provisions or rules referred to in sub-subparagraph (C).

(F) Enforce the payment of internet gaming license fees
described in section 

The exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of this state,
and expressly waiving the exhaustion of tribal remedies, with venue
in Ingham County, and any courts to which appeals from that venue
may be taken, to permit the state to enforce administrative orders
of the division, the person's obligation to make payments required
under subdivision and section 14, and to enforce collection of
the judgments. Any judgment of monetary damages under this
subparagraph is deemed limited recourse obligations of the person
and does not impair any trust or restricted income or assets of the
person.

(2) This state, acting through the governor, shall, at the
request of any Indian tribe, negotiate any amendments to an Indian
tribe's compact necessary to ensure compliance with this act and
any applicable federal laws. If the governor fails to enter into
negotiations with any Indian tribe, or fails to negotiate in good

faith with respect to any request, the Indian tribe may initiate a

01428'19 DAW




4 4 

17

cause of action against the governor in his or her official
capacity in either state court or in federal court and obtain those
remedies as authorized in 25 USC 27lO(d)(7).

(3) The division must exercise its limited direct regulatory
and enforcement authority in a manner that is not arbitrary,
capricious, or contradictory to this act. Notwithstanding anything
in this act to the contrary, this act only regulates internet
gaming as provided in this act and does not extend to the division,
or any other agency of this state, any jurisdiction or regulatory
authority over any aspect of any gaming operations of an Indian
tribe described in section beyond those rights granted to
this state under the compact with the Indian tribe.

Sec. 8. The division may issue an internet gaming vendor
license to a person to provide goods, software, or services to
internet gaming operators. A person that is not licensed under this
section shall not provide goods, software, or services as an
internet gaming vendor to an internet gaming operator.

(2) On application by an interested person, the division may
issue a provisional internet gaming vendor license to an applicant
for an internet gaming vendor license. A provisional license issued
under this subsection allows the applicant for the internet gaming
vendor license to conduct business with an internet gaming operator
before the internet gaming vendor license is issued to the
applicant. A provisional license issued under this subsection
expires on the date provided in the license by the division.

(3) An internet gaming vendor license issued under subsection

(1) is valid for the 5?year period after the date of issuance. An

01428'19 DAW

18

internet gaming vendor license is renewable after the initial 5?
year period for additional 5-year periods if the division
determines that the internet gaming vendor continues to meet the
eligibility and suitability standards under this act.

(4) A person may apply to the division for an internet gaming

vendor license as provided in this act and the rules promulgated



under this act.

(5) Except as otherwise provided in this section, an

application under this section must be made on forms provided by

the division and include the information required by the division.

An Indian tribe that submits an application under this section

shall provide only the information described in section 

(6) An application under this section must be accompanied by a

nonrefundable application fee in an amount to be determined by the

division, not to exceed $5,000.00.

(7) The division shall keep all information, records,

interviews, reports, statements, memoranda, or other data supplied

to or used by the division in the course of its review or

investigation of an application for an internet gaming vendor

license or renewal of an internet gaming vendor license

confidential and shall use that material only to evaluate the

applicant for an internet gaming vendor license or renewal.

materials described in this subsection are exempt from disclosure

The

under section 13 of the freedom of information act, 1976 PA 442,

MCL 15.243.

(8) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, an

internet gaming vendor shall pay a license fee of $5,000.00 to the

01428'19

DAW



0(1)division at the time an initial internet gaming vendor license is
issued to the internet gaming vendor and $2,500.00 each year after
the initial license is issued. An internet gaming vendor that
provides to an internet gaming operator all or substantially all of
an internet gaming platform shall pay a license fee of $100,000.00
to the division at the time the initial license is issued to the
vendor and $50,000.00 each year after the initial license is
issued.

(9) The division shall deposit all application and license
fees paid under this act into the fund.

(10) An institutional investor that holds for investment
purposes only less than 30% of the equity of an applicant under
this section is exempt from the licensure requirements of this act.

Sec. 9. The division has jurisdiction over and shall
supervise all internet gaming operations governed by this act. The
division may do anything necessary or desirable to effectuate this
act, including, but not limited to, all of the following:

Develop qualifications, standards, and procedures for
approval and licensure by the division of internet gaming operators
and internet gaming vendors.

Decide and in reasonable order all license
applications and approve, deny, suspend, revoke, restrict, or
refuse to renew internet gaming licenses and internet gaming vendor
licenses. A party aggrieved by an action of the division denying,
suspending, revoking, restricting, or refusing to renew a license
may request a contested case hearing before the division. A request

for hearing under this subdivision must be made to the division in

01428'19 DAW

\oQOmthI-I




20

writing within 21 days after service of notice of the action by the
division.

Conduct all hearings pertaining to violations of this act
or rules promulgated under this act.

Provide for the establishment and collection of all
applicable license fees, taxes, and payments imposed by this act
and the rules promulgated under this act and the deposit of the
applicable fees, taxes, and payments into the fund.

Develop and enforce testing and auditing requirements for
internet gaming platforms, internet wagering, and internet wagering
accounts.

Develop and enforce requirements for responsible gaming
and player protection, including privacy and confidentiality
standards and duties.

Develop and enforce requirements for accepting internet
wagers.

Adopt by rule a code of conduct governing division
employees that ensures, to the maximum extent possible, that
persons subject to this act avoid situations, relationships, or
associations that may represent or lead to an actual or perceived
conflict of interest.

Develop and administer civil fines for internet gaming
operators and internet gaming vendors that violate this act or the
rules promulgated under this act. A fine imposed under this
subdivision must not exceed $5,000.00 per violation.

Audit and inspect, on reasonable notice, books and records

relevant to internet gaming operations, internet wagers, internet

01428'19 DAW




4 4 

21

wagering accounts, internet games, or internet gaming platforms,
including, but not limited to, the books and records regarding
financing and accounting materials held by or in the custody of an
internet gaming operator or internet gaming vendor.

Acquire by lease or by purchase personal property,
including, but not limited to, any of the following:

U) Computer hardware.

Mechanical, electronic, and online equipment and
terminals.

UH) Intangible property, including, but not limited to,
computer programs, software, and systems.

(2) The division may investigate and may issue cease and
desist orders and obtain injunctive relief against a person that is
not licensed by the division that offers internet gaming in this
state.

(3) The division shall keep all information, records,
interviews, reports, statements, memoranda, and other data supplied
to or used by the division in the course of any investigation of a
person licensed under this act confidential and shall use that
material only for investigative purposes. The materials described
in this subsection are exempt from disclosure under section 13 of
the freedom of information act, 1976 PA 442, MCL 15.243.

Sec. 10. Within 1 year after the effective date of this act,
the division shall promulgate rules governing the licensing,
administration, and conduct of internet gaming under this act. The
division shall promulgate the rules pursuant to the administrative

procedures act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, MCL 24.201 to 24.328. The

01428'19 DAW




4 a 

22

rules may include only things expressly authorized by this act,
including all of the following:

The types of internet games to be offered, which must
include, but need not be limited to, poker, blackjack, cards,
slots, and other games typically offered at a casino.

The qualifications, standards, and procedures for approval
and licensure by the division of internet gaming operators and
internet gaming vendors consistent with this act.

Requirements to ensure responsible gaming.

Technical and financial standards for internet wagering,
internet wagering accounts, and internet gaming platforms, systems,
and software or other electronic components integral to offering
internet gaming.

Procedures for conducting contested case hearings under
this act.

Requirements for multijurisdictional agreements entered
into by the division with other jurisdictions, including
qualifications, standards, and procedures for approval by the
division of internet gaming vendors providing internet gaming
platforms in connection with the agreements.

Procedures and requirements for the acceptance, by an
internet gaming operator, of internet wagers initiated or otherwise
made by persons located in other jurisdictions, if the division
authorizes multijurisdictional gaming as provided in this act.

Sec. 11. (1) An internet gaming operator shall require the
internet gaming vendor providing its internet gaming platform to

provide 1 or more mechanisms on the internet gaming platform that

01428'19 DAW




4 a 4 

23

the internet gaming operator uses that are designed to reasonably
verify that an authorized participant is 21 years of age or older
and that internet wagering is limited to transactions that are
initiated and received or otherwise made by an authorized
participant located in this state or, if the division authorizes
multijurisdictional internet gaming as provided in this act,
another jurisdiction in the United States authorized by the
multijurisdictional agreement.

(2) An individual who wishes to place an internet wager under
this act must satisfy the verification requirements under
subsection (1) before the individual may establish an internet
wagering account or make an internet wager on an internet game
offered by an internet gaming operator.

(3) An internet gaming operator shall require the internet
gaming vendor providing its internet gaming platform to include
mechanisms on its internet gaming platform that are designed to
detect and prevent the unauthorized use of internet wagering
accounts and to detect and prevent fraud, money laundering, and
collusion.

(4) An internet gaming operator shall not knowingly authorize
any of the following individuals to establish an internet wagering
account or knowingly allow them to wager on internet games offered
by the internet gaming operator, except if required and authorized
by the division for testing purposes or to otherwise fulfill the
purposes of this act:

An individual who is less than 21 years old.

An individual whose name appears in the division's

01428'19 DAW






24

responsible gaming database.

(5) An internet gaming operator shall require the internet
gaming vendor providing its internet gaming platform to display, on
the internet gaming platform used by the internet gaming operator,
in a clear, conspicuous, and accessible manner evidence of the
internet gaming operator's internet gaming license issued under
this act.

An internet gaming operator shall not conduct internet
gaming until 1 year after the effective date of this act.

Sec. 12. The division may develop responsible gaming
measures, including a statewide responsible gaming database
identifying individuals who are prohibited from establishing an
internet wagering account or participating in internet gaming
offered by an internet gaming operator. The executive director of
the board may place an individual's name in the responsible gaming
database if any of the following apply:

The individual has been convicted in any jurisdiction of a
felony, a crime of moral turpitude, or a crime involving gaming.

The individual has violated this act or another gaming?
related law.

The individual has performed an act or has a notorious or
unsavory reputation such that the individual's participation in
internet gaming under this act would adversely affect public
confidence and trust in internet gaming.

The individual's name is on a valid and current exclusion
list maintained by this state or another jurisdiction in the United

States.

01428'19 DAW

komslmUl-bWNI(2) The division may promulgate rules for the establishment
and maintenance of the responsible gaming database.

(3) An internet gaming operator, in a format specified by the
division, may provide the division with names of individuals to be
included in the responsible gaming database.

(4) An internet gaming operator shall require the internet
gaming vendor providing its internet gaming platform to display, on
the internet gaming platform used by the internet gaming operator,
in a clear, conspicuous, and accessible manner the number of the
toll-free compulsive gambling hotline maintained by this state and
offer responsible gambling services and technical controls to
authorized participants, consisting of both temporary and permanent
self?exclusion for all internet games offered and the ability for
authorized participants to establish their own periodic deposit and
internet wagering limits and maximum playing times.

(5) An authorized participant may voluntarily prohibit himself
or herself from establishing an internet wagering account with an
internet gaming operator. The division may incorporate the
voluntary self?exclusion list into the responsible gaming database
and maintain both the self-exclusion list and the responsible
gaming database in a confidential manner.

(6) The self?exclusion list and responsible gaming database
established under this section are exempt from disclosure under
section 13 of the freedom of information act, 1976 PA 442, MCL
15.243.

Sec. l3. A person shall not do any of the following:

Offer internet gaming for play in this state if the person

01428'19 DAW




internet gaming operator unless exempt from this act
under section 

Knowingly make a false statement on an application for a
license to be issued under this act.

Knowingly provide false testimony to the board or an
authorized representative of the board while under oath.

(2) A person that violates subsection is guilty of a
felony punishable by imprisonment for not more than 10 years or a
fine of not more than $100,000.00, or both.

(3) The division shall not issue a license under this act to a
person that violates subsection (1).

(4) The attorney general or a county prosecuting attorney may
bring an action to prosecute a violation of subsection in
the county in which the violation occurred or in Ingham County.

Sec. 14. (1) Except for an internet gaming Operator that is an
Indian tribe, an internet gaming operator is subject to a tax of 8%
on the gross gaming revenue received by the internet gaming
operator. An internet gaming operator that is an Indian tribe is
subject to the payment requirements under section 

(2) An internet gaming operator shall pay the tax or payment,
as applicable, under subsection (1) on a basis. The payment
for each accounting period is due on the tenth day of the
following month.

(3) No other tax, payment, or fee may be imposed on an
internet gaming operator by this state or a political subdivision
of this state for internet gaming conducted under this act. This

subsection does not impair the contractual rights under an existing

Ol428'l9 DAW



development agreement between a city and an internet gaming
operator that holds a casino license under the Michigan gaming
control and revenue act, 1996 IL 1, MCL 432.201 to 432.226.

(4) In addition to payment of the tax and other fees as
provided in this act, and to any payment required pursuant to an
existing development agreement described in subsection (3), if a
city has imposed a municipal services fee equal to 1.25% on a
casino licensee, the city shall charge a 1.25% fee on the gross
gaming revenues of an internet gaming operator that holds a casino
license under the Michigan gaming control and revenue act, 1996 IL
1, MCL 432.201 to 432.226, whose casino is in that city.

Sec. 15. The tax imposed under section 14 must be
allocated as follows:

Thirty percent to the city in which the internet gaming
licensee?s casino is located, for use in connection with the
following:

U) The hiring, training, and deployment of street patrol
officers in that city.

Neighborhood development programs designed to create jobs
in that city with a focus on blighted neighborhoods.

Public safety programs such as emergency medical
services, fire department programs, and street lighting in that
city.

(W) Anti?gang and youth development programs in that city.

Other programs that are designed to contribute to the
improvement of the quality of life in that city.

(W) Relief to the taxpayers of the city from 1 or more taxes

01428'19 DAW






fees imposed by the city.

The costs of capital improvements in that city.

Road repairs and improvements in that city.

Fifty-five percent to the state to be deposited in the
fund.

Five percent to be deposited in the state school aid fund
established under section 11 of article IX of the state
constitution of 1963.

Five percent to be deposited in the Michigan
transportation fund created under section 10 of 1951 PA 51, MCL
247.660, to be disbursed as provided in section 10(1)(l) of 1951 PA
51, MCL 247.660.

Five percent to the Michigan agriculture equine industry
development fund created under section 20 of the horse racing law
of 1995, 1995 PA 279, MCL 431.320. However, if the 5% allocated
under this subdivision to the Michigan agriculture equine industry
development fund created under section 20 of the horse racing law
of 1995, 1995 PA 279, MCL 431.320, exceeds $3,000,000.00 in a
fiscal year, the amount in excess of $3,000,000.00 must be
allocated and deposited in the fund created under section 16.

(2) By December 31, 2020 and each December 31 after that date,
if the combined amount of money received in the preceding fiscal
year by the city in which the internet gaming operator licensee's
casino is located from money allocated under subsection and
from the wagering tax allocated under section 12(3) of the Michigan
gaming control and revenue act, 1996 IL 1, MCL 432.212, is less

than $179,000,000.00, the board shall distribute from the fund to

01428'19 DAW



the city in which the internet gaming operator licensee's casino is
located an amount equal to the difference between $179,000,000.00
and the combined amount of money the city in which the internet
gaming operator licensee's casino is located received in the
preceding fiscal year from money allocated under subsection 
and from the wagering tax allocated under section 12(3) of the
Michigan gaming control and revenue act, 1996 1L 1, MCL 432.212.
However, the total amount the city in which the internet gaming
operator licensee's casino is located receives for the preceding
fiscal year under subsection and this subsection must not be
more than 55% of the total tax imposed under section 14 in the
fiscal year.

Sec. 15a. Any payments under section must be allocated
as follows:

Seventy?five percent to this state to be deposited in the
fund.

Twenty-five percent to the Michigan strategic fund created
under section 5 of the Michigan strategic fund act, 1984 PA 270,
MCL 125.2005.

Sec. 16. The internet gaming fund is created in the state
treasury.

(2) The state treasurer may receive money or other assets
required to be paid into the fund under this act or from any other
source for deposit into the fund. The state treasurer shall direct
the investment of the fund. The state treasurer shall credit to the
fund interest and earnings from fund investments.

(3) The board is the administrator of the fund for auditing

01428'19 DAW




4 

30

purposes.

(4) Except as otherwise provided in secLion 15(2), the board
shall expend money from the fund, on appropriation, for all of the
following:

Each year, $1,000,000.00 to the compulsive gaming
prevention fund created in section 3 of the compulsive gaming
prevention act, 1997 PA 70, MCL 432.253.

The board?s costs of regulating and enforcing internet
gaming under this act.

Sec. 17. This act does not authorize the construction or
operation of a casino that was not constructed or Operating before
the effective date of this act.

Enacting section 1. This act takes effect 90 days after the
date it is enacted into law.

Enacting section 2. This act does not take effect unless
Senate Bill No. or House Bill No. 4308 (request no. 01480'19)

of the 100th Legislature is enacted into law.

01428'19 Final Page DAW

HOUSE BILL No. 4312

HOUSE BILL No. 4312

March 7, 2019, Introduced by Reps. and Iden and referred to the Committee on Regulatory


A bill to amend 1927 PA 175, entitled
"The code of criminal procedure,"
by amending section 14d of chapter XVII (MCL 777.14d), as amended
by 2016 PA 272.
THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN ENACT:
1 CHAPTER XVII
2 Sec. 14d. This chapter applies to the following felonies

3 enumerated in chapters 422 to 432 of the Michigan Compiled Laws:

4 M.C.L. Category Class Description Stat Max
5 431.257 Pub Horse racing 

delivery of unclaimed

winnings 2
6 431.307(8) Pub Horse racing 

testifying falsely to
commissioner while
under oath 4

01428'19 DAW

ZLSV 

10
11

431.317(9)

431.330(6)

431.332

432.30

432.218

432.313

Pub 

Pub 

Pub 

Property

Pub ord

PUB 0RD

Horse racing 

accepting wagers on

live or simulcast

horse races without a
license 5

Horse racing 
administering a drug

that could affect

racing condition 5

Horse racing 

influencing or

attempting to .
influence result of

race 5

Lottery forgery of
tickets 5

Casino gaming
offenses lO

INTERNET GAMING
OFFENSES 10

Enacting section 1. This amendatory act takes effect 90 days

after the date it is enacted into law.

Enacting section 2.

unless Senate Bill No.

01428'19)

01428'19 

This amendatory act does not take effect
or House Bill No. 4311 (request no.

of the 100th Legislature is enacted into law.

Final Page DAW

