NEW

BUSINESS

BY COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

RESOLUTION TO AFFIRM SUPPORT IN THE PROTECTION OF THE
FEDERAL COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT

WHEREAS, The mission of the Detroit City Council is to promote the economic, cultural and
physical welfare of Detroit?s citizens through Charter-mandated legislative functions; and

WHEREAS, The Community Reinvestment Act (the was enacted on October 12, 1977,
to remedy the once common discriminatory practice of ?redlining? by ?nancial institutions of
drawing a red line on a map around the neighborhoods where they had not offered ?nancial
services; and

WHEREAS, Prior to the enactment, redlining made it nearly impossible for low and
moderate-income Americans, racial and ethnic minorities, and their neighborhoods to access
credit services, such as mortgages and business loans, regardless of their quali?cations or
creditworthiness; and

WHEREAS, The CRA establishes a regulatory regime for monitoring the level of lending,
investments, and services in low and moderate-income neighborhoods traditionally underserved
by lending institutions, and examiners from the federal Of?ce of the Comptroller of Currency,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Reserve Board assess and ?grade?
the activities of lending institutions in low and moderate income neighborhoods; and

WHEREAS, Under the CRA regulated ?nancial institutions have continuing and af?rmative
obligations to help meet the credit needs of the local communities in which they are chartered;
and

WHEREAS, Despite the impact, discrimination in lending remains a problem. Agency
examiners? ?ndings that a ?nancial institution is not serving moderate income neighborhoods
may result in the delay or denial of such institution?s request to merge with another lender, to
open a branch, or expand any of its other services, or conditionally approve a merger application
subject to an institution?s meeting speci?ed improvements in lending or investment services in
low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, and its CRA grade may be downgraded if evidence of
illegal, abusive, or discriminatory lending on their fair lending exams is found; and

WHEREAS, According to analysis of bank lending data by the National Community
Reinvestment Coalition (N CRC), since 1996 CRA-covered banks issued more than $25 million
small business loans in low and moderateincome tracts, totaling more than $1 trillion, and $980
billion in community development loans that support affordable housing and economic
development projects bene?ting low- and moderate-income communities; and

WHEREAS, The annual dollar amount of community deveIOpment loans increased 442 percent
from $17.7 billion in 1996 to $96 billion in 2016; and

WHEREAS, Studies have found that CRA-covered home lending is safer and sounder than non-
CRA covered lending; when a larger share of lending is issued by CRA-covered banks than by
independent mortgage companies, a neighborhood experiences lower delinquency rates and less
risky lending; and

WHEREAS, Despite the tremendous bene?ts of the CRA to communities, the full potential of
CRA has not been realized because it hasn?t been updated to take-into account changes in the
banking industry and the economy, and independent mortgage companies not covered by CRA
now make more than 50 percent of the home mortgage loans in the United States and ?nancial
technology companies not covered by CRA operating via the internet are rapidly increasing their
lending; and

WHEREAS, In addition to the need to modernize CRA, there are real concerns to be addressed
that some federal regulators intend to takes steps that will substantially weaken the and

WHEREAS, A recent forecast from the NCRC, projects that a weakening of the CRA could
reduce lending in low and moderate?income communities up to $105 billion over ?ve years 
$139 million in US Representative Brenda Lawrence's district and $1.9 billion in

Michigan overall. The forecast calculated likely losses in both small business and mortgage
lending in every census tract in the nation; and

WHEREAS, Detroit?s residents are still experiencing the negative impact of redlining in that
the same communities that were prevented from obtaining mortgage loans are still experiencing
little to no lending; and

WHEREAS, A modernized CRA should expressly provide that covered ?nancial institutions are
obligated to fairly serve all races and ethnicities, and banks that engage in large-scale illegal and
harmful activities should fail their CRA exams; and

BE IT RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council support efforts aimed at modernizing the
CRA by: expanding its application to non-banking institutions such as mortgage companies,
?nancial technology companies, and credit unions; implementing a clearly-de?ned grading
system that emphasizes lending, bank branches, fair lending performance, and responsible loan
products for working class families; holding ?nancial institutions accountable for not passing
CRA exams or seeking to merge with an institution with a higher CRA grade, encouraging
community bene?ts agreements and other efforts to motivate ?nancial institutions to increase
lending and investment in traditionally underserved communities, as well expand the scope of
?nancial services they provide; and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council Opposes rulemaking that would
in any way undercut the Community Reinvestment Act intent to reduce illegal redlining practices
and make loans more accessible to poorer communities; and

NOW THEREFORE BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, That copies of this resolution be
forwarded to the Mayor, the Governor, the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services, the
U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and to all U.S. Congressional
delegates from Michigan.

ditty of ?etrm?t

David Whitaker, Esq. CITY COUNCIL

$332;er J, LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
Executive Pozicy'A/fanager 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Marcell R. Todd, Jr. Detroit, Michigan 48226

Sem'orCroJPlanner Phone: (313)224?4946 Fax: (313)224-4336

Janese Chapman
Deputy Director

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, 
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

TO: Honorable Detroit City Council

FROM: David D. Whitaker
Legislative Policy Division Staff

DATE: August 26, 2019

RE: Af?rming Support for the Community Reinvestment Act

Christopher Gulock, 
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashley A. Wilson

On August 21, 2019, the Honorable Council President Brenda Jones requested that the
Legislative Policy Division draft a resolution af?rming support for the Community

Reinvestment Act.

The draft resolution is attached for your review.

RESOLUTION

RESOLVED, that the September 11, 2019, meetings of the Detroit City Council Internal
Operations Standing Committee and the Budget, Finance and Audit Standing Committee,
as well as the September 12, 2019, meetings of the Planning and Economic Development
Standing Committee and the Neighborhood and Community Services Standing
Committee will be canceled because a quorum of committee members will not be
present.

The committees will reconvene on their next regularly scheduled meeting dates.

LPD: 8/14/19

