STATE OF ILLINOIS
COUNTY OF COOK

August 1, 2019

MINUTES FOR THE REGULAR MONTHLY BOARD MEETING
NORTH SHORE MOSQUITO ABATEMENT DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
At the convened monthly meeting for the North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Board of Trustees held at the District office, 117 Northfield Road, Northfield, Illinois,
Thursday, August 1, 2019. President Zbesko called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
ROLL CALL
Trustee Carol Blustein
Trustee Nelson Howard
Trustee Kathleen Kendrick
Trustee John Zbesko
Trustee William Zimmer

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE
Executive Director Mark Clifton
Communications Manager David Zazra
Attorney Ross Secler of Odelson & Sterk
Internal Operations Manager Jennifer Zimmer
I.

MINUTES

Approval of Minutes: Minutes of the July 11, 2019, meeting of the NSMAD were
approved as corrected and distributed to the members of the Board. Trustee Kendrick
moved to approve, Trustee Blustein seconded. All ayes.
II.

REPORT FROM BOARD OFFICERS

President: President Zbesko commended the NSMAD staff on their hard work so far this
season. He also noted that the District’s weekly reports and other surveillance have
shown that from a health policy perspective view, 2019 is looking to be a very successful
season.
Vice President: No report.
Secretary: No report.
Trustee: No report.

1

 Treasurer: Trustee Zimmer read financials as well as July bills and payrolls. Total
receipts were $298,912, total disbursements were $132,815 and total assets were
$2,152,993. All totals rounded to the nearest dollar. The finance report was accepted. The
report will be filed for the audit.
III.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S AND LAB REPORT:

Operationally, the Executive Director informed the Trustees that two rounds of larvicide
treatments have been completed. This includes treatment in almost 70,000 basins and is
on pace with treatments done last year. Over 1,000 quality control back checks have also
been completed. Overall, the catch basin program is performing as expected.
Early season floodwater larviciding efforts have continued to pay off, there are few
nuisance complaints and no adult mosquito control has been conducted so far this season.
Staff has treated 1,053 acres of floodwater, which is about double the amount that was
treated this time last year. The Operations Manager, Field Supervisor and the seasonal
staff have done a great job with the large amount of standing water this season.
Staff continues to collect Dog Ticks in the District. So far they have not found Deer
Ticks, Gulf Coast Ticks or Lone Star Ticks which may appear in the District. Two weeks
ago Dog Ticks were tested with the District’s PCR and 7 of 42 ticks tested positive for
some strain of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever (Rickettsia). Further testing is needed to
determine what strains of the bacteria are present.
The vector index in the District is currently below average but most likely will go up at
the end of August. If the vector index rises, adult mosquito control will be considered.
Nuisance mosquito levels continue to be below average throughout the District.
Finally, the Trustees were updated on the progress of the District’s Five Year Plan. This
fall, staff will be working a plan to repair the outside of the building in 2020. This will
include repairing the signage on the west side of the building and adding signage to the
south side of the building.
IV.
REPORT FROM LEGAL COUNSEL:
Attorney Ross Secler informed the Trustees that they will be voting on an update to the
District’s Full Time Employee Manual later in the meeting mostly due to legislative
changes in Springfield. Upon approval, his office will finalize the document and send it
to the Internal Operations Manager for distribution to staff.
V.

COMMUNICATION MANAGER’S REPORT:

Communications Manager, Dave Zazra, updated the Board on public relations and
communications activities for the month of July, including media, public outreach to
residents, intergovernmental outreach, updates to the website and GovDelivery and
Twitter messaging metrics.

2

 VI. INTERNAL OPERATION MANAGER’S REPORT:
Internal Operations Manager, Jennifer Zimmer, updated the Board on the financial
operations of the District and information on upcoming activities at the next Board
meeting.
VII.

OLD BUSINESS: None

IX.

NEW BUSINESS:

Trustee Zimmer made a motion to approve revised Full Time Employee manual dated
August 2019. Trustee Howard seconded. All ayes.
Trustee Blustein made a motion to change the November board meeting date to Tuesday,
November 19, 2019 from Thursday, November 14, 2019. Trustee Howard seconded. All
ayes.
After some discussion, Trustee Kendrick made a motion to purchase the FieldSeeker
program and associated tablets for an amount not to exceed $55,000. Trustee Zimmer
seconded. A roll-call vote on the levy ordinance resulted in the following; Ayes: Trustees
Zbesko, Zimmer, Howard, Kendrick and Blustein. Opposed: none. The motion passes.
Announcements:
September 5, 2019, at 7:00 P.M. and NSMAD headquarters, 117 Northfield Road,
Northfield, IL, were fixed as the time and place of the next regular meeting. Trustee
Zbesko asked for a motion to adjourn. Trustee Howard seconded. All ayes.
Adjournment: The August 1st meeting was adjourned at 8:04 pm.
ATTESTED
President, John Zbesko

SUBMITTED
Secretary, Kitty Kendrick

3

 