SSA #19 Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, July 3, 2019, 8:30 am
The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard St.
Minutes
In Attendance: Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Gale Howard,
Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, RPBA SSA Manager
Guests: Karen Forte of City of Chicago; Lizzy Kreindler of A5 Branding & Digital
Meeting called to order by Carrie Sullivan at 8:50 am.
I. Welcome & Introductions.
II. There was no community input.
III. March 20, 2019 Minutes
Simone Freeman moved to approve the minutes. Charlotte Walters seconded it. Motion
passed.
May 15, 2019 Minutes
Charlotte Walters moved to approve the minutes. Gale Howard seconded it. Motion passed.
June 19, 2019 Minutes
Gale Howard moved to approve the minutes. Simone Freeman seconded it. Motion passed.
IV. January – May 2019 Financials
Simone Freeman moved to approve the financials. Gale Howard seconded it. Motion
passed.
V. 2020 Final Budget
Charlotte Walters moved to approve the final budget. Gale Howard seconded it. Motion
passed.
VI. Chalk Howard St Festival Update
Lizzy Kriendler of A5 Branding & Digital reported that we have finalized all plans for the
Chalk Howard St Festival: hired seven professional artists (two featured 3D artists, one
featured 2D artist & four 2D artists); eight bands; five food & beverage vendors and two
retail vendors. We are all set with two different rain plans if needed. Charlotte Walters offers
to purchase eight squares to be given away. The Factory Theater and Gale Howard are
interested in purchasing a square. Program is finalized and being printed.
VII. OEMC Security Cameras
Cynthia Ryan and Karen Forte discussed visiting the 24th police district security camera
room that police officers monitor 24/7. It was brought up for discussion that Devon Ave.
SSA #43 that is purchasing security cameras and donating to the police department. Each
camera is approx. $200 each. If they order in bulk, they may be able to reduce the costs.
VIII. Adjournment
Meeting was adjourned 9:50 am.
IX. Next SSA Meeting - Wed., August 21, 2019 at 8:30 am, The Factory Theater.

 