STAFF REPORT 09-11-2019 REGULAR MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6410
ADDRESS: 1682 LONGFELLOW STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT: BOSTON EDISON
APPLICANT: MARIE BROOKS
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 8-7-2019
STAFF SITE VISIT: 08-30-2019

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

SCOPE: DEMOLISH EXISTING GARAGE (PUBLIC HEARING)
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The building located at 1682 Longfellow Street is a 2½-story single-family residence constructed in 1916. The
structure is clad in red brick and features painted wood details and an asymmetrical front façade. A wood-frame
detached garage, constructed in 1917, exists at the northeast corner of the parcel. The garage is utilitarian in design
and is accessed from the driveway located directly east of the house. It is clad in lapped wood siding that is painted
white. The simple gable roof is covered in black asphalt shingles. The non-historic metal overhead garage door
appears to be inoperable. Two fixed wood windows exist at the west façade. There is a slight overhang of the roof at
the eave line above the garage door opening. A scalloped fascia board calls out the overhang.

PROPOSAL
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to demolish the existing garage per
the attached application. Included in the proposal are the following scope items:
• Demolish existing garage structure and concrete pad in its entirety
• Remove existing tree located behind the garage
• Erect a temporary chain-link fence to match existing fence to secure the yard once the garage is demolished.
STAFF OBSERVATIONS & RESEARCH
• The applicant intends to come before the Commission at a later date regarding the construction of a new
garage.
ISSUES
• None at this time

RECOMMENDATION
Although the existing garage is of historic age, it is staff’s opinion that the work, as proposed, does not remove or

 alter features that characterize the property. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission find the demolition of
the existing garage and concrete slab, the removal of the tree at the rear of the property, and the erection of a
temporary chain-link fence to be appropriate as the scope of work meets the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for
Rehabilitation
2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or
alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(1) Height. Virtually all of the houses in the district have two (2) full stories plus an attic or a finished third floor within
the roof, which are generally called "two-and-a-half" (2½) story houses, additions to existing buildings shall be related
to the existing structure. New buildings shall meet the following standards:
(i) The eight (8) adjoining houses on the same block face, excluding any houses built since 1930, shall be used to
determine an average height. If eight (8) houses are not available on the same block face, then one (1) or more
houses as close as possible to being directly across the street from the proposed structure may be used. The height
of the two (2) adjoining houses shall be added into the total twice, with a divisor of ten (10) used to determine the
average. The main roof of any new building must have a height of at least eighty percent (80%) of the resulting
average. In no case shall a new building be taller than the tallest roof height included in the calculation. In
determining the height of existing buildings and proposed buildings, the highest point of the main roof shall be
used, even where towers or other minor elements may be higher.
(ii) The level of the eaves of the proposed new structure has as much or more significance for compatibility as the
roof height. Therefore, an average eave or conice height shall be determined by the same process as that
described above. The proposed new structure shall have a height at the eaves or cornice of not less than ninety
(90) percent of the average determined from existing structures; and in no case shall the eaves or cornice of the
proposed structure be lower than the lowest eave or cornice height used in the computation, nor higher than the
highest eave or cornice.
(2) Proportion of buildings' front facade. Proportion varies in the district, depending on the age, style, and location in a
specific subdivision. Most houses are wider than tall, especially those on large or multiple lots east of the John C.
Lodge Freeway. With height being established by the standards above, proportion will be established by prohibiting
any proposed building or addition from creating a front facade wider than the widest, or narrower than the narrowest,
of those existing on the same block face.
(3) Proportion of openings within the facade. Windows openings are virtually always taller than wide; however, several
windows are sometimes grouped into a combination that is wider than tall. Window openings are always subdivided.
The most common window type is double-hung with sashes that are generally further subdivided by Muntins or
leaded glass. Facades have approximately fifteen (15) percent to thirty-five (35) percent of their area glazed. Sun
porches with a very high proportion of window openings subdivided by mullions and muntins are common.
(4) Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. In buildings derived from classical precedents, voids are usually arranged
in a symmetrical and evenly-spaced manner within the facades. In examples of other styles, particularly those of
English Medieval Inspiration, voids are arranged with more freedom, but usually in a balanced composition.
(5) Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally determined by the setback from
side lot lines. There is a variance in the widths of subdivision lots from one block to another. The lots generally range
from forty (40) feet to seventy-five (75) feet in width. The minimum spacing between houses is ten (10) feet and the
maximum spacing between houses is approximately three hundred and twenty-five (325) feet, where several lots are
combined. The typical spacing is ten (10) feet to fifteen (15) feet from side lot lines. In the case of very wide
properties, two (2) conditions exist: The house is located in the center of the site with extensive side yard space,
which only occurs with extremely large houses by district standards; or the house is located at the side of the wide
site, which creates an extensive side yard on one (1) side of the house.
(6) Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. In those examples derived from classical precedents, entrances and
porches, if any, tend to be centered on the front facade. Other examples display more freedom with entrance and
porch placement. Porches and permanently enclosed sun porches are often placed at the side and sometimes at the
rear of the building.
(7) Relationship of materials. The majority of houses are faced with brick, while many are partially or totally stucco.
There are some stone buildings, sometimes combined with stucco; clapboard is rare, and is extremely rare as the sole
material. Roofing includes slate, tile and asphalt shingles. Wood shingle roofs were once common and have generally
been replaced with asphalt. Wood shake does not exist and there is no known evidence that it was ever used in the

 district. Stone trim is common. Wood is almost universally used for window frames and other functional trim and is
used in many examples for all trim.
(8) Relationship of textures. The most common relationship of textures in the district is that of a low-relief pattern of
mortar joints in brick contrasted with the smooth surface of wood or stone trim. There are a few houses with rough or
rusticated stone surfaces. The use of stucco or concrete, with or without half-timbering, as a contrast to brick surfaces,
is not unusual. Tile, slate, or wood shingle roofs have particular textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles
generally have little textural interest, even in those types which purport to imitate some other variety.
(9) Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors (such as red, yellow, brown, buff) predominate in wall surfaces. Natural
stone colors also exist. Where stucco or concrete exists, it usually remains in its natural state, or is painted in a shade
of cream. Roofs are in natural colors (tile and slate colors, natural and stained wood colors), and asphalt shingles are
predominantly within this same dark color range. Paint colors often relate to style. The buildings derived from
classical precedents, particularly those of Neo-Georgian Style, generally have woodwork painted white, cream, or in
the range of those colors including "putty"; doors and shutters are frequently dark green or black.
Colors known to have been in use on similar buildings of this style in the eighteenth or early twentieth centuries may
be considered for appropriateness. Buildings of medieval inspiration (notable Neo-Tudor) generally have painted
woodwork and window frames of a dark brown or cream color. Half timbering is almost always stained dark brown.
The original colors of any building, as determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for a house, and
may provide guidance for similar houses.
(10) Relationship of architectural details. Architectural details generally relate to style. Neo-Georgian buildings display
classic details, mostly in wood, and sometimes in stone. Porches, shutters, window frames, cornices, and dormer
windows are commonly, although not always, treated. Details on "Mediterranean" style or vernacular buildings
including arched windows, door openings, and porches, are often done in stone, brick, tile, and sometimes in stucco.
Buildings of medieval inspiration tend to have details in the form of carved wood or carved stone ornaments on
window frames, door frames, and eaves. In general, the various styles are rich in architectural details.
(11) Relationship of roof shapes. A variety of roof shapes exist in the district, depending on building style. Shallow
hipped roofs with dormers, roofs with triangular gables, and steep hipped roofs predominate. A few Gambrel roofs
exist. Complex arrangements of the gabled and/or the hipped types, with subsidiary or transverse roofs, are not
unusual. Dormers are common. Flat roofs are present only as subsidiary roofs on residential structures. Garage roofs
generally reflect the style and pitch of the roof on the main house.
(12) Walls of continuity. The major wall of continuity is created by the buildings, with their uniform setbacks within the
blocks. New buildings should contribute to this wall of continuity. Minor walls of continuity are created where rows
of trees have survived in sufficient numbers or new trees are planted in rows, and where hedges along front lot lines
exist in numbers.
(13) Relationship of Significant Landscape Features and Surface treatments. The typical treatment of individual
properties is a flat or graded front lawn area in grass turf, often subdivided by a straight or curving walk leading to the
front entrance. Materials for such walks are concrete, brick, stone, or combinations of those materials. Some front
yards have rectangular raised earthwork terraces upon which the house stands. These unpaved terraces having sloping
embankments or retaining walls which are made of brick, stone, or both, at the change of grade foundation plantings,
often of a deciduous character, characteristic of the period 1900—1930, are present virtually without exception.
Hedges between properties and along front property lines are not uncommon. It is characteristic for corner lots to have
hedges or fencing at side lot lines along the sidewalk. There is a wide range in the type of fencing. Fencing within the
public view was generally designed to compliment the style, design material, and date of the residence. Although the
American Elm was once the dominant tree, it is virtually extinct in the district. Replacement trees should be
characteristic of the area and period. Plantings of new trees should be directed to "tree lawns" and medians. If
American Elm is planted, it should be disease resistant.
Straight side driveways leading from the street to rear garages are the norm, although access to garages is also off the
alley, especially in areas of the district that were developed earlier. On corner lots, garages and driveways often face
the side streets. These driveways are paved in asphalt, concrete, or brick. Side lots are not uncommon for the larger
properties in the district, and a number of these form a part of the original site plan for the residence. Such side lots
are usually landscaped and are often fenced at or near the setback line.
The width of tree lawns varies from block to block. Street pavements are now asphalt. Cut stone curbs exist in areas
of the district where they have not yet been replaced with concrete, primarily east of the John C. Lodge Freeway.
Public sidewalks are concrete. Some tree lawns/berms have been covered with concrete in parts of the district, which

 may represent encroachment on city property. The resulting wide sidewalks are not appropriate in the district. The
ample one hundred and twenty-five (125) foot street right-of-ways of West Boston Boulevard and Chicago Boulevard
are ample, and each have two (2) narrow pavements divided by the large graded grassy median strips which are
planted with evergreens and deciduous trees, the other east-west streets, Longfellow Street and Edison Boulevard, are
sixty-six (66) feet wide.
The Detroit Lighting Commission's ornamental poles ("O.P.") with cast iron bases (Pattern #10 and Cast Iron Panel
Pattern #16A) and wooden shafts are placed at regular intervals primarily on the medians on Boston Boulevard and
Chicago Boulevard, and on the tree lawns on other east-west streets. Lighting on the north-south side streets consists
of steel poles, some of which are fluted, with either ornate pendants or simple cranes. There are historic upright poles
along the periphery of Voight Park. Concrete and brick entrance piers exist at Woodward Avenue and Longfellow
Street. Alleys run east-west down the center of the blocks, with the exception of the north-south alleys behind the
Woodward Avenue frontage.
(14) Relationship of open space to structures. Open space in the district occurs in the form of vacant land, a city park,
side lots, and grassy median strips in the boulevards. There are no houses facing Woodward Avenue. Ample open
space is provided at Woodward Avenue and Boston Boulevard, creating a park-like entrance into the district. The
John C. Lodge Freeway is depressed and forms a visual and physical gap in the district. All houses have rear yards as
well as front yards. Where an original or early arrangement of house and grounds included, and still includes,
landscaped lots which form part of the landscaping plan for the residence, such landscaped lots are significant
landscape features.
(15) Scale of facades and facade elements. There is a variety in scale from block to block and style to style, the largest
and most substantial houses being primarily those on the first two (2) blocks west of Woodward Avenue and on
Boston Boulevard east of the John C. Lodge Freeway West of the John C. Lodge Freeway and on Longfellow Street
and Edison Boulevard, the houses are generally smaller in scale and are situated on smaller lots. The size and
complexity of facade elements and details either accentuate or subdue the scale of the facades. Facade elements have
been determined by what is appropriate for the style. Window sash are usually subdivided by Muntins, which affect
the apparent scale of the windows within the facades.
(16) Directional expression of front elevations. Although many of the larger buildings are wider than tall, the expression
is generally neutral.
(17) Rhythm of building setbacks. Because of the existence of various subdivisions and related subdivision and deed
restrictions, setbacks vary from area to area within the district, although they are generally consistent within each
block or area. The varying designs of the houses, occasionally with slight setbacks in the facades, cause the houses to
relate to the front setback line in different ways. This creates a slight variation in the setback line. Nevertheless, within
each block or area, a wall of continuity is created.
(18) Relationship of lot coverage. Lot coverage ranges from approximately forty (40) percent (40%) to ten (10) percent or
less in the case of homes with large yards. Most homes are in the twenty-five (25) percent to thirty-five (35) percent
range of lot coverage.
(19) Degree of complexity within the facade. The degree of complexity has been determined by what is typical and
appropriate for a given style. The buildings derived from classical precedents usually have simple, rectangular facades
with varying amounts of ornamentation. Other styles, such as those of medieval inspiration, frequently have facades
complicated by gables, bays, slight setbacks, and an occasional tower. In general, the smaller houses in the district are
less complex.
(20) Orientation, vistas, overviews. Most of the houses in the district have front entrances which are oriented toward the
streets running east-west. The houses on LaSalle Boulevard, from Chicago Boulevard to Edison Boulevard, are
orientated toward LaSalle. Garages are frequently oriented either toward an alley and/or the front drive or toward a
side street in the case of corner lots. Almost all garages are detached and are at the rear of the lot.
(21) Symmetrical or asymmetric appearance. Neo-Georgian and other buildings derived from classical precedents are
generally symmetrical, buildings in other styles, including the Neo-Tudor, are generally asymmetric, but balanced,
compositions.
(22) General environmental character. The Boston-Edison District, with its long straight streets, two (2) boulevards,
large-to-moderate sized stately single-family homes, Voight Park and Woodward Avenue's open space, has an urban,
substantial, low density residential character.

 IL

58 iz-n: Street}

e; a?cInal

"at? if??

 

as? .r . . .
macaw 30:3.? .. .

an arm.

 

STAFF SITE VISIT 08/30/2019

 STAFF SITE VISIT 08/30/2019

 STAFF SITE VISIT 08/30/2019

 DESIGNATION SLIDE -- 1974

 DESIGNATION SLIDE -- 1982

 Addendum to Application for Garage Demolition:
Photos of Main Building (1682 Longfellow Street)
Marie Brooks
Front:

 Right Side:

 Left Side:

 Back:

 REPORT

Description of Existing Conditions
The existing structure is a detached two-car, one story garage on a concrete pad. There is no live wiring
and no plumbing in the building. The property was bought in February 2018, and the condition of the
garage is approximately as purchased. See photos for more details.
Frame Condition: Wood beams are ok, but not square, as the whole structure is tilted.
Wall Condition: Wood Boards are falling off the frame. There is no insulation or waterproofing.
Roof Condition: The roof has extensive damage, including many large holes. The wood is almost
entirely rotted. More shingles come off it every time there is substantial wind.
Door Condition: The metal door is buckled and inverted due to spring failure. It can no longer
move on its tracks.
Pad Condition: The concrete pad is badly cracked and not level.
Description of Project
The garage is fundamentally structurally unsound, and cannot be repaired. This is largely due to the
state of the concrete pad on which it stands, which cannot be leveled while the garage stands. The
cracked and tilted bad means that the garage is not upright, which leads to structural issues and has
made the door impossible to repair. Apart from the issue of the pad, the roof is entirely rotted and
cannot be repaired, as none of the remaining materials can be salvaged. Due to these major
considerations, I propose to demolish the garage and the pad in their entirety in order to enable the
construction of a new garage (to be built on the same site, to the same approximate dimensions). This
application does not cover the construction of a new garage, which will be the subject of a future
application once I have worked with an architect to design one in keeping with the character of the
neighborhood.

Detailed Scope of Work
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Remove all debris from the interior of the garage
Remove garage door
Remove siding and window
Pull down structure and move all materials to rented dumpster
Break up and remove existing concrete pad to rented dumpster
Remove tree from back of garage location, where it interferes with power lines and poses a
threat to the future garage (tree has been trimmed by DTE in the past)
7. Erect temporary chain link fence matching existing fence (see photos) to secure the yard before
the new garage is built. Fence will be removed upon construction of new garage.

 REPORT

Photos
Front: Note inverted door and broken springs

Garden side: Windows are missing glass or have broken glass

 REPORT

Side next to Neighbors (note chainlink fence, which would be extended along alleyway until new garage
is built):

 REPORT

Back: Note tree, to be removed as it has grown into the garage and pad

Interior (note roof condition):

 REPORT

Roof:

 REPORT

Corner: Note that the frame does not form right angles. This is true throughout the structure, as it is all
leaning.

 REPORT

Pad: It is hard to capture the pad as a whole, but there are many places like this, where sections of the
pad are visibly cracked and raised above other sections.

 REPORT

 
 
 

 

GARAGE INSPECTION REPORT 
1682 Longfellow St. 

Red Line Contracting & Consulting Ltd. 
P: 647-987-5055 
E: info@redline-group.ca 
A: LL01, 401 Richmond Street West Toronto Ontario M5V 3A8 
 

 REPORT

Table of Contents 

Introduction .................................................................................................................................................................. 2 
Overview ....................................................................................................................................................................... 2 
Observations ................................................................................................................................................................. 3 
Conclusion ..................................................................................................................................................................... 6 
Recommendation .......................................................................................................................................................... 6 
 
 

 REPORT

Introduction 
 
Red Line Contracting & Consulting Ltd. (RLC&CLTD) was retained by the homeowner of 1682 Longfellow St. to 
conduct an assessment on an existing deteriorating standalone garage on the property. Due to the historic value of 
the garage, the historic commission would like the garage repaired. This report will outline why it is not feasible to 
repair the structure and removal and replacement is needed.  
 

Overview 

th

Red Line Contracting & Consulting Ltd. visited the site on August  19  2019 to perform an inspection on the 
existing standalone garage. The garage is a typical wood frame building that sits on a concrete slab. Red Line 
Contracting & Consulting Ltd. inspected the following components of the building: concrete slab/foundation, wood 
structure and building envelope. Upon inspection and review the building is not repairable and needs to be 
removed and replaced.  
 
 

 

FIGURE  1  –   EXTERIOR OF E XISTING  GARAGE  

FIGURE  2  –   EXTERIOR OF E XISTING  GARAGE  

 REPORT

Observations 
Concrete Foundation/Slab 
The existing garage sits on a concrete slab with a varied thickness of 4” to 6” with no signs of reinforcement. The 
concrete slab is severely deteriorated, and there are numerous cracks across the length and width of the slab. The 
slab has lifted in various areas. See figures 3 and 4.  The cracking and lifting of the slab have happen due to 
numerous reasons, including inadequate compaction of the sub base, no concrete reinforcement, no frost 
protection and age. The existing concrete foundation is not repairable and will need to be removed and replaced.  

 
F IGURE  3   –   S LAB LIFTING  

 
F IGURE  4   –   S LAB CRACK ACROSS THE LENGTH OF THE SLAB  
 

 

 REPORT

Wood Structure 
The garage is a typical stick framed building. The exterior walls are made up of a 2” x 4” lumber spaced out at 16” 
to 24” with bottom and top plates. The roof of the building consists of 2” x 6” hand cut rafters with plywood 
sheeting and asphalt shingles. Due to the lifting concrete slab which the building sits on, the garage is not leveled, 
square or plumb. The exterior walls have lifted. Most of the wood bottom plates and studs are rotten or 
deteriorating. The roof of the building is currently falling in, due to the snow loads over the years. Very little of the 
existing wood structure is repairable or salvageable. It would be very expensive to repair the structure, and unsafe 
to work in.  

 

 

 REPORT

Building Envelope 
The exterior of the building consists of wood siding that is fastened to the wood frame. The wood siding is 
weathered, various areas are rotten and deteriorated. Since the exterior walls have lifted the garage door is not 
operational, and it cannot be opened or closed. The shingles on the roof are severely damaged. It would not be 
reasonable to simply replace the wood siding, garage door or roof shingles due to the fact that the underlying 
structure will need to be replaced first.  

 REPORT

Conclusion 
After inspecting and reviewing the existing garage, we believe that It is not feasible to repair the building due to 
the following: 
1)
2)
3)
4)

The concrete slab/foundation has severe cracking and lifting and will not be able to support a structure
above it. The concrete slab is not repairable and needs to be removed and replaced.
The wood structure is deteriorated beyond repair.
Due to the concrete slab lifting and cracking, the exterior walls have lifted and moved out of place
The building envelope is severely weathered

Recommendation 
The existing garage is damaged beyond repair and is unsafe. The existing garage will need to be demolished 
completely including the concrete slab/foundation. There is no way to repair the structure to its original state in a 
safe and cost effective manner. 

 