NEIGHBORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

September 3, 2017

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002123 100% City Funding To Provide Inventory Tracking, On-Site Storage and
Handling of Assets for DFD and GSD. Contractor: Vitec LLC 
Location: 2801 Clark St., Detroit, MI 48210 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through September 1, 2024 Total Contract Amount:
$3,000,000.00 GENERAL SERVICES

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER SHEFFIELD

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002123 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated September 3, 2017, be hereby and is approved.

tr 5
18100 MEYERS ROAD

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48235

PHONE 313-628-0900 
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 3130628-1915
GENERAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT 

 
 
 

August 26, 2019

Honorable City Council;

Re: Authorization to enter into a Funding Agreement with Economic Development Corporation
for the Riverfront Asset Plan.

The General Services Department is requesting authorization from your Honorable Body to enter
into a Funding Agreement with Economic Development Corporation to launch a comprehensive
assessment of its Riverfront Assets.

The purpose of this agreement is to determine the level of capital improvements and economic
development strategies that will support the long term viability of the property. The General
Services Department along with Economic Development Corporation will manage and oversee
the planning study, including procurement of a consultant to perform the Flaming Services.

We respectfully request your authorization to set up appropriation segments 4533-20507-
470010-631100-470008 for the general fund portion of $1 81,100 to be added to appropriation
segment for the UTGO Bonds in the amount of
$1,000,000 to fund the planning study with a Waiver of Reconsideration

9W?Amm

Janet Anderson, 
Director

 

RESOLVED

Council Member

Whereas, the City wants to launch a comprehensive assessment of its Riverfront Assets, to
determine the level of capital improvements and economic development strategies to support the
long-term viability of the assets;

Whereas, General Services Department will collaborate with Economic DeveIOpment
Corporation to manage and oversee the Flaming Study, including the procurement of a
consultant

Whereas, appropriation segments for the $181,100 from
the general fund and appropriation segment for the
amount of $1,000,000 from the UTGO Bond will be set up to handle the associated cost of the
planning study.

FUNDING AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
AND
THE CITY OF DETROIT
(RIVERFRONT ASSET PLAN)

THIS FUNDING AGREEMENT ("Agreement") executed this day 
and effective as of the date that it is approved by the City Council of the City De oil (the

?City Cooncil?), is an agreement by and between The Economic Development Corporation of
the City of Detroit (the a Michigan public authority and body corporate organized and
existing pursuant to Act 338 ofthe Public Acts of Michigan of  974, as amended, and the City of
Detroit (the ?City"}, a Michigan municipal corporation acting by and through its General Services
Department (the The City and the EDC may also be known individually as a"Pat1y" or
collectively as the ?Parties".

WHEREAS, the City desires to launch a comprehensive assessment of its Riverfront
Assets, to determine the level of capital improvements and economic development strategies to
support the long-term viability of the assets; and

WHEREAS, GSD wishes to engage the EDC to assist in managing and overseeing the
Planning Study, including procurement ofa consultant to perfonn the Planning Services (as de?ned
below) {the ?Consultant"); and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the EDC authorized the EDC to enter into this
Agreement and to assist the City with the Planning Study pursuant to EDC Resolution EDC I906-
52-12.

NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed that:
I. The above recitals are incorporated into this Agreement as if fully set out word for word.

2. The term ?Planning Services" as herein used, is hereby defined as any assessment services
including but not limited to surveys, structural assessments, seawall assessments, title work,
other due diligence work, community engagement, planning and design, business and
?nancial planning necessary to support the Riverfront Asset Plan as outlined in Exhibit A
and requested by GSD that are required by GSD and related to the City?s Riverfront assets.

3. The City agrees to reserve an amount not to exceed One Million and 00/100 Dollars
from UTGO bond proceeds (the Funds") to fund the Planning
Services to be performed by the Consultant on behalf of the EDC and the City. The UTGO
Funds shall be disbursed by the City to the EDC as follows: the full amount of the fee
payable to the Consultant for the Planning Services (not to exceed payable
in one lump sum payment, within thirty (30) days following the presentation to the
City of a complete payment request including an invoice, the fully executed contract

between the EDC and the Consultant, and any additional documents requested by the City;
and, (ii) subject to prior approval as described in Paragraph 5, the full amount ofany
change order resulting in an increased fee to the Consultant, payable in one lump sum
payment, within thirty (30) days following the presentation to the City of an
additional complete payment request including an invoice in the amount of the increased
fee requested, the fully executed change order between the EDC and the Consultant, and
any additional documents requested by the City. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth herein, in no event shall the City or GSD be obligated to remit funds to the
Consultant exceeding $1,000,000.00. Upon GSD's request, the EDC shall provide GSD
with invoices and other documents reasonably requested by GSD evidencing the EDC's
expenditure of the UTGO Funds for the Planning Services.

. The City agrees to reserve an amount equal to One Hundred Eighty One Thousand Eight
Hundred Eighty Dollars ($18 I ?80.00) in general fund proceeds (the ?General Funds" and
together with the UTGO Funds, the ?City Funds?)) to pay an administrative fee (the
?Administrative Fee") to the EDC for the oversight and other administration of the
Planning Services. The Administrative Fee shall be payable in one lump sum payment
following the full execution of this Agreement and the approval of this Agreement by
Detroit City Council. The City will endeavor to remit to EDC payment of the
Administrative Fee within thirty (30) days? of presentation to the City ofa complete
payment request including an invoice and any additional documents requested by the City.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, in no event shall the City or GSD
be obligated to remit an Administrative Fee to EDC exceeding One Hundred Eighty-One
Thousand Eight Hundred Eighty and 00/100 Dollars 

. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, including but not limited to the provisions
of Paragraph 3 hereof, the EDC will notify GSD, or cause GSD to be 
noti?ed ol?any proposed change order or other modification of a specific scope item that
could cause a material increase in the costs of such work. Any such cost increases
exceeding the total amount of UTGO Funds then disbursed must ?rst be approved by the
City prior to EDC incurring any additional costs in connection with the increase.

. The scope of work for the Planning Services to be completed by the EDC shall be publicly
bid by EDC pursuant to a competitive bidding process. GSD shall approve the ?nal selected
EDC contractor(s).

. The EDC shall include in any agreements with third parties For completion of the Planning
Services a requirement that such third parties indemnify both the City and the EDC.

. The EDC shall include in any agreements with third parties for completion of the Planning
Services a requirement that such third parties maintain certain insurance coverages
acceptable to GSD with related insurance policies naming the ?City of Detroit? as an
additional insured.

Id

9. The EDC shall, and shall require any third parties completing the Planning Services to
maintain full and complete books, ledgers, journals, accounts, documents and records in
auditable form wherein are kept all entries reflecting all of its operations pursuant to this
Agreement, and the BBC and any third parties completing the Planning Services shall make
available all books, documents, papers and records for monitoring, audits, inapcctions and
examinations by the City during normal business hours. In the ful?llment of its
responsibilities under this Agreement the BBC will abide by and cause any persons
receiving funds pursuant to this Agreement to abide by all federal, state and local laws, as
well as relevant City executive orders.

10. All records referred to in Paragraph 9 shall be maintained by the EDC and any third parties
completing the Planning Services for three years after the completion of the Planning
Services. In the event of dispute between the Parties arising out of this Agreement that
occurs within three (3) years a?er the later of the completion of the Planning Services or
the ?nal disbursement of City Funds, the BBC and any parties completing the Planning
Services shall continue to maintain the data required pursuant to this paragraph until said
dispute has been ?nally concluded, including all available challenges or appeals and audits.

II. All notices, consents, approvals, requests and other communications, herein collectively
called 'Noticcs", required or permitted under this Agreement shall be given in writing,
signed by an authorized representative of the City or the BBC, and hand delivered, mailed
by first-class mail, or mailed by overnight courier such as, by way of example only, FedEx,
and addressed as follows:

If to the City: If to the EDC:

City of Detroit The Economic Development Corporation of the
General Services Department City of Detroit

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 500 Griswold, Suite 2200

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808 Detroit, Michigan 48226

Detroit, Michigan, 48226 Attention: Authorized Agent

Attention: Director

With a copy to: With a copy to: 
The City of Detroit Law Department The Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 500 Griswold, Suite 2200 

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 500 Detroit, Michigan 48226

Detroit, Michigan 48226 Attention: General Counsel

Attention: Corporation Counsel

All Notices shall be deemed given on the date of mailing. Either Party to this Agreement
may change its address for the receipt ofNotices at any time by giving notice thereofto the
other as herein provided. Any Notice given by a Party hereunder must be signed by an
authorized representative of such Party.

12.

l3.

14.

15.

16.

City may terminate this Agreement at its convenience at any time by giving the BBC as
written Notice of Termination at least sixty (60) days before the effective date thereof.
Upon such receipt of a Notice of Termination, EDC shall immediately cease to incur any
further obligations with respect to the Planning Services and begin to wind down its
operations related thereto. The BBC will be entitled to retain such portion of the City
Funds for all amounts owed for work completed by BBC or its contractors for Planning
Services up to the termination date given by the City in its Notice of Termination. or such
later date as required by third party contract for the Planning Services. Conversely,
EDC shall return such portion of the City Funds for Planning Services, including the
applicable portion of the Administrative Fee, that have yet to be completed by the
termination date given by the City in its Notice of Termination.

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts. All such counterparts
shall be deemed originals and together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

This instrument contains the entire agreement between the Parties reapecting the subject
matter of this Agreement, and all prior negotiations and agreements are merged herein.
Neither Party nor its agents have made any representations except those expressly set forth
herein, and no rights or remedies are or shall be acquired by the Parties by implication or
otherwise unless expressly set forth herein.

No amendment to this Agreement will be effective unless it is in writing, expressly makes
reference to this Agreement and is executed by a duly authorized representative of each

Party.

This Agreement shall bind, and the rights, bene?ts and advantages of this agreement shall
inure to the successors of the City and the EDC.

. This Agreement will become effective upon its approval by Detroit City Council and expire

on the date of the last payment of City Funds owed to the BBC for work performed by EDC
or its contractors, unless otherwise terminated earlier as provided for herein.

(Signatures commence on next page)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, BBC and the City, by and through their duly authorized
representatives, have executed this Agreement as of the year and date ?rst written above.

Acknowledged and agreed:

 

 

 

 

 

-r

THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CITY OF DETROIT,

CORPORATION OF THECITY OF a Michigan municipal 1130 tion

a Michigan public authority and body H. am
By: Pringame: deck; ram .

Print Name: ?ya?g? ?an 

Its: Authorized Agent

 

 

 

 

Approved as to Form Only:

Counc the EDC

5]


THIS AGREEMENT WAS APPROVED BY APPROVED AS TO FORM IN ACCORDANCE
DETROIT CITY COUNCIL ON: WITH 15-206 OF THE 2012 CITY OF
DETROIT CHARTER
Date

Corporation Counsel

 

Chief Procurement Of?cer

THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT VALID OR AUTHORIZED UNTIL APPROVED BY
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL AND SIGNED BY THE CHIEF
PROCUREMENT OFFICER.

Ui

EXHIBIT A

East Riverfront and Entertainment District Planning Study

SCOPE OF WORK: Comprehensive assessment of the City of Detroit's Riverfront assets and administrative
services to manage and oversee the planning study.

DELIVERABLE: ImpIementation strategy of critical investments for capital improvements to Riverfront assets and
a comprehensive business strategy to support the long-term viability of these assets.

Purpose:
Assess the condition of publicly owned assets along the East Riverfront to determine level ofcapital improvements
and economic development strategies.
Hart Plaza - assess current physical conditions, connectivity to the riverfront and downtown through Spirit Plaza and
strategies for near?term and long?term capital investments.
Analyze opportunities for an entertainment district for large outdoor events such as music festivals, exhibits.
conventionsI etc.
General Scope for Study:

- Physical and Environmental Assessments

- Land Use Analysis

Financial Analysis

- Economic Development and Commercial Opportunities

- Entertainment Opportunities including Venue Capacity Study

- Maintenance and Operations Strategies

- Legal Frameworks

- Long term and short term phasing scenarios

Primary Assets include:
Spirit Plaza
- Hart Plaza
- Aretha Franklin (Cherie) Park
- Erma Henderson Park/Marina
- Jefferson Village! Marina District

Co

    
  

18100 MEYERS
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48235
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1100 - 
RECREATION DEPARTMENT (313) 224-3544
ADMINISTRATION OFFICE 

 

August 26, 2019

Honorable City Council;

Re: Authorization to accept a donation of park improvements from Historic Indian Village
Association for Mollicone Park.

Detroit General Services Department requests authorization from your Honorable Body to accept
a donation of park improvements from Historic Indian Village Association to be installed at
Mollicone Park.

Park improvements will consists of the purchase and installation of brick and materials for laying
a brick pathway at the Northeast corner park entrance. The estimated cost of $12,790 will be
borne by Historic Indian Village Association.

We respectfully request your authorization to accept this donation of park improvements with a
Waiver of Reconsideration

Sincerelyadv 

Janet Anderson
Director

   

 

Resolution

Council Member

Whereas, the General Services Department is requesting authorization to accept a donation of
park improvements from Historic Indian Village Association to be installed at Mollicone Park.

Whereas, the total cost of $12,790 will be borne by Historic Indian Village Association. The
organization will also purchase and install the materials needed to lay a brick pathway

Resolved, General Services Department is authorized to accept a donation of park improvements
from the Historic Indian Village Association to be installed at Mollicone Park.

nlal?to?a

Parks Recreation I mp rovement

Division Authorization Form
DETROIT

 

APPLICANT SECTION

 

Requesting Organization Name: ?mm" Today?s Date: 13: 2019

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Contact Name: Brian McMillan DPRD Property Name: Mollicone Park
Email: brimcmillan@gmail.com Location within the Property: 2430?? (burns
Address: 776 Seminole Street, Detroit, MI, 48214 Northeast corner entrance
Improvement Type:
Park IE Physical Improvement
[ii Not-Art ?ll out Donation Letter
El FaCIllty Rec Center) UArt ?ll out Art Donation Letter

Maintenance ?9 ?ll out SLA Letter
Improvement Project Description:
(Please specify if any listed funding are for an event I program, or not for a permanent, physical improvement.)
Installation of commemorative brick pathway.

 

 

 

 

 

Estimated Value of Improvement: $12,790

By submitting this request l/We/Our Organization agree(s) to abide by all rules and policies of the City of Detroit and
the General Services Department, Parks and Recreation Division. l/We also agree that all information submitted in
this Park Improvement Authorization Form is true and accurate to the best of my/our knowledge and hereby
request that the Parks and Recreation Division consider my/our Project for approval. l/We agree at my/our own
expense to defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless the City of Detroit, its officers, employees and agents against
and from any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims, costs, charges, and expenses (including
without limitation, fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and other consultants) which may be imposed
upon, incurred by or asserted against myself/us and/or the City of Detroit by reason of or resulting from my/our use
of the DPRD Property named above and construction of this Project as described herein.

Signature: Brian McMillan Date: 8/13/2019

 

 

Print Name: Brian McMillan

 

Organization on behalf of: Historic Indian Village Association

 

 

 

 

Janet Anderson, 

Director, General Services Department
Detroit Parks and Recreation Division
18100 Meyers Road Lower Level
Detroit, Michigan 48235

Dear Dr. Anderson:

On behalf of The Friends of Mollicone Park, a organization sponsored by the Historic
Indian Village Association, I am writing to offer our full assistance in purchasing and
installing a brick pathway at the northeast corner entrance in Mollicone Park. The costs,

approximately $12,790 are being borne by the group mentioned above.

These improvements will take place on as soon as possible. We have worked with
community representatives to ensure these improvements are desired.

The brick pathway should require little maintenance for the next ?ve years.
Thank you for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,

5W 7%m

Member, Friends of Mollicone Park committee
Brian McMillan

Rev 20190522

City of Detroit
scorr R. Benson

 

MEMORANDUM

TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel . 
FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 

CC: Hon. Mary Shef?eld, Pro-Tem, Neighborhoods Community Services
Standing Committee
Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
Irv Corely, LPD
David Massaron, CFO
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison
Neil Barclay, CHWMAAH, Executive Director

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 30 August 2019
RE: CHARLES H. WRIGHT MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN

HISTORY (CHWMAAH) OPERATING AGREEMENT

The operating agreement With the city of Detroit expires on 31 Oct 2019 and
must be renegotiated. Please provide the following documents to my of?ce:

1. Cepies of all existing City of Detroit cultural institution operating agreements. I.e.
Zoo, Historical Society, Eastern Market, etc.

2. Copies of existing insurance policies covering the CHWMAAH.

3. Copies of Disaster Recovery Plans established by the City of Detroit, as per section
E.l3 of the executed CHWMAAH Operating Agreement dtd. 18 Oct 1999.

4. The Executive Orders that currently apply to the CHWMAAH. The Ctu'rent
operating agreement identi?es Executive Orders 5 and 22.

5. A copy of the Professional Services Agreement between the City of Detroit and
CHWMAAH dtd. 1 July 1997.

In addition to the above documents, identify who will be responsible for negotiating the new
operating agreement between the City of Detroit and CHWMAAH.

Please provide a response and all documents by 15 September 2019. If you have any
questions do not hesitate to contact my of?ce at, 313-224-1198.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 - Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

T0:

THRU:

FROM:

DATE:

RE:

QEitp of Eetrnit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

MEMORANDUM

David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division
Council Member Brenda Jones, Council President

?3 i
Council Member Raquel Casta?eda-L?pez Egg?
September 4, 2019

Renaming Tarnow-Kirkwood Park as Emma Hernandez Park

 

Following the recent tragic death of Emma Hernandez, I have been working with the
Administration on a proposal to rename the nearby Tarnow?Kirkwood Park in her memory. I
request that the Legislative Policy Division draft a resolution formally changing the name of
Tarnow-Kirkwood Park to Emma Hernandez Park.

Please do not hesitate to contact my of?ce at 313?224-2450 if you have any questions. Thank you.

Cc:

Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison
City Clerk

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


