STAFF REPORT 9-11-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER 19-6438
ADDRESS: 2225 W. BOSTON
HISTORIC DISTRICT: BOSTON EDISON
APPLICANT: JACQUELINE CUTRIGHT
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 8-1-2019
DATE OF STAFF SITE VISIT: 9/9/2019

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS

SCOPE: REPLACE WOOD COLUMNS WITH NEW FIBERGLASS COLUMNS
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The building located at 2225 W. Boston is a two-story, single-family dwelling that was erected ca. 1920.
The building features buff brick exterior cladding and wood sash windows. The roof is hipped, with
hipped-roof dormers located at the side elevation roof surface. A centrally-located, partial-width porch
with four monumental wood Tuscan columns shelters the building’s primary entrance. Additional classical
detailing at the front porch includes the cornice and dentils at its roof.
2225 W. Boston, current appearance

PROPOSAL
As per the submitted proposal, the applicant proposes to replace the two freestanding wood Tuscan
columns at the front porch with two new composite columns which measure 9’1” in height, 18” in
diameter (at the base) and 15” in diameter (at the capitol). The new columns will be painted to match the

 existing trim/pilasters. The applicant has stated that the homeowner wishes to replace the columns because
they are rotted at the base.
STAFF OBSERVATIONS AND RESEARCH
• The applicant has provided photographic evidence of the wood rot at the base of the two columns.
Staff has reviewed these photos and is of the opinion that the columns can be repaired.
• It is also staff’s opinion that the columns are significant character-defining features of the home
ISSUES
• As per Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation standard number 6) Deteriorated
historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced. Where the severity of deterioration
requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features
shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
• It appears that the columns proposed for replacement are repairable
RECOMMENDATION
As per the above, it is staff’s opinion that the two columns proposed for replacement can be repaired. Staff
therefore recommends that the Commission deny the issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness for the
work as proposed because it does not meet the Secretary of the Interior Standards for Rehabilitation,
standard # 6) Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced. Where the severity of
deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design,
color, texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features
shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.

            