STAFF REPORT 9-11-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER 19-6428
ADDRESS: 1658 LEVERETTE
HISTORIC DISTRICT: CORKTOWN
APPLICANT: MEGAN ELLIOT
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 8-21-2019
DATE OF STAFF SITE VISIT: 9/9/2019

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS

SCOPE: PAINT HOUSE
EXISTING CONDITIONS
Erected ca. 1900, the building located at 1658 Leverette is a wood-frame, Queen Anne-style home. The
building features a 2-story, hipped-roof, central/main mass with 2 1/2 –story, gabled-roof, projecting wings
at the front and side elevations. A 1-story, hipped-roof porch with brick columns and deck at elevation
shelters the building’s primary entrance. Exterior walls are primarily clad with lapped wood siding with
wood fish-scale shingles in gable ends. Windows are wood historic-age, double-hung units. Currently, the
building’s body/lapped siding is painted light blue, while the trim is painted a brownish/maroon red. The
foundation and chimney are painted a tan color. The front porch columns are unpainted buff brick.
Sunburst detailing at the front elevation gable end and porch railings are painted yellow.
1658 Leverette, current appearance

 PROPOSAL
As per the submitted proposal, the applicant proposes to paint the exterior of her home according to the
following scheme:
•
•
•

Sherwin Williams Gale Force (SW 7605, locator# 279-C3) shall be applied to the body, trim,
window sash, porch, porch steps, and all decorative accents. See the below photo, which provides a
precedent for the proposed paint scheme.
The existing unpainted chimney brick (at the roof) and the front porch columns will remain
unpainted
The portion of the chimney which is currently painted (below the roof, at the east elevation) and the
foundation wall will be repainted according to the existing color (Sherwin Williams 6124,
Cardboard).

STAFF OBSERVATIONS AND RESEARCH
• Please see the attached, which indicates that the home’s body was painted light blue (same color as
existing) with white trim at the time of the district’s designation
• A review of the home’s HDC property file review indicated that the Commission approved the
application of the current red/maroon color at the trim in 2008
ISSUES
• Please note that staff does have the authority to approve new paint colors, as long as the scheme
conforms to the property’s assigned HDC color chart. In this case, the home’s assigned color chart
is system B (see the attached). Staff has forwarded the current application to this body for review
because the proposed color scheme does not conform to the home’s assigned color system.
• The Corktown Element of Design #9, entitled “Relationship of colors.” notes that “…Queen Anne
style buildings sometimes display richer and darker colors, such as browns, golds, grays, and blues.
Common trim colors are in shades of cream, yellow, gray, brown, green, and white, and window
sashes are frequently painted white, deep red, brown and gray. Asphalt siding is either red or
brown brick color.”
• As noted in the above-referenced Element of Design #9, homes within the district are not typically
monochrome in color. Rather, colors typically highlight the home’s exterior elements, with the
body, sash, and trim being painted different colors
RECOMMENDATION
The proposed work/new paint is “reversible” and thus will not destroy historic materials which characterize
the home and/or the district. Also, the Elements of Design for the district note that Queen Anne homes
within the neighborhood “…sometimes display richer and darker colors, such as …blues.” Staff therefore
recommends that the Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for the work as proposed because
it meets the Secretary of the Interior Standards for Rehabilitation, standard # 2) The historic character of a
property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and
spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided; #9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related
new construction shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be
differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features
to protect the historic integrity of the property and its environment.

 REPORT

Precedent image re: proposed paint scheme
- - 1'

 

-

REPORT

Designation slide

 

REPORT

August 26, 2019

Historic District Commissioners:

The design concept for 1658 Leverette is to utilize a monochrome strategy for a former ?painted
lady.? We propose to use Sherwin Williams Gale Force (SW 7605, locator 2.79-C3) as a dark
rich navy for the paint color for body, trim, window sash, porch, porch steps, and all decorative
accents. The existing unpainted chimney brick will remain brick and the existing unpainted ??ont
brick pillars will also remain brick. Existing painted brick along the chimney base (below the
roof along the eastern-facing facade) and the foundation will be repainted the existing color
(Sherwin Williams 6124, Cardboard). The attached rendering explains the positioning of these
colors. The contractor had a bit of trouble reducing some of the redness in the existing image
with the window trim as well as the lightness of the door, so the rendering should be considered
for color placement purposes and not consideration of the ?nal product?s look and feel.

Both colors in their non-distorted form can be found at the following links:

Gale Force: 


Cardboard: 
colors-bv-familve?SW6 

We have had to take out a very large loan to be able to pay for this repainting. Currently the
chipping and peeling paint is a detriment to the neighborhood, not only from an aesthetic
standpoint, but more importantly from a public health perspective, because we cannot ?nd
documentation of any prior lead remediation efforts and a large number of children live in the
neighborhood and play in and around our home. We will be doing like-for-like replacement of
wood in any place where there is deterioration.

By proposing to utilize only one color in the repainting of our house, we are making a thoughtful
design decision for how to highlight the texture of our home?s woodwork. Given the number of
Spindles and Special accents at 1658 Leverette, when attempting to ?nd colors to highlight these
accents, our home always ended up looking somewhat cartoonish given the ratio of trim to base
on the front facade and the brick support columns on the porch. This is what initially drew us to

the idea of a monochrome palette, which is allowable by Historic District Commission
Standards.

As the Color System Guidelines note, ?the explosion of styles in the High and Late Victorian
periods required a deeper palette of colors to unify the diverse elements of these designs and to
highlight the variety of materials and textures used by Detroit?s architects and builders.? We
liked the idea of honoring this sentiment and the deeper palette of colors appropriate to the time
period by choosing one of the dark options. However, rather than choosing a true black (B19) --
which would have been staff level approval under the System colors-- we wanted to pick up
the beauti?rl tones in our historic double ?'ont doors and two stained glass windows by leaning
more towards the dark blue of Gale Force and coming in front of the Commission. There is
already at least one navy home on our block, so we do not feel that this is in any way extreme.
Although it may be a unique request, this Option honors the intent of the historic commission
guidelines while also highlighting the beauti?Jl textures of our home. In the future once we are
able to save more, we would like to replace our existing concrete porch. At that time, coming in
front of the commission again, we may have the opportunity to rebuild a more historically
accurate wood porch that would be another opportunity to draw out the wood elements and pair
those with the navy hue, similar to the adjacent property porch with wood.

1 would also like to apologize for being unable to represent this case in person, as have to attend
a work trip for the City of Detroit and will be bringing the entire family because of a complicated
childcare arrangement. I have ensured that representatives from our contractor team will be
present to speak to the painting in person should you have further questions.

Thank you for your consideration,

Meagan Elliott

Chief Parks Planner

Public Space Planning Unit

City of Detroit, General Services Department
Personal Contact Information


713-253-6902

REPORT
.. ., 5w 1'605
Gale Forca

Interior Exterinr

. ..
I..- 
-. .Ip-ul, - 
Lmatur Number: ETS-CE

?r
I.



SW6124
CARDBOARD
FOUNDATION
1

7%




Einn?l
i llul,,

Elili

WI
uhh

 

I Job #3421
THE Scheduled 08/23/2019

Phone 248-844?8888
0? ?Tm" Email info@theexteriorpainters.oom
Website ActionPaintingExperts.com or
TheExteriorPainters.com
Client Phone 248.798.6421
From The Exterior Painters 8:
KreteCoat Floor Coating
Sys?ems
26Avnn ri Drive
DetrOIt, Michigan 48216 Riciestgr 

 

SERVICE 1 PRODUCT DESCRIPTION QTY.
Lead Sate Painting Exterior Painting of residence to lead safe process. 1
Process to include:
1. Preparation

a. Applying 6 mil plastic sheeting around perimeter of home to catch all lead
paint chips. it is required for us to extend plastic sheeting 10 feet from the
building. This consequently may require us to cover bushes, grass, and other
vegetation that may be sensitive to smothering. Unfortunately this step is
required by law. Action Companies will NOT be responsible for any damage
to plant life caused by this process.

b. Scraping any peeling or loose paint using hand tools with water misting
and/or power tools equipped with HEPA vacuum in order to prevent the
spread of lead dust.

2. Caulking all seams and cracks using PPG Top Gun 400 Polyurethane
Acrylic Caulk where needed.

3. Coating of all wood trim, wood siding, and wood windows, aluminum
window, foundation, doors, entry door, using Sherwin?Williams Rejuvenate
Siding Restoration Coating which is a unique, high build, water-based
coating. Rejuvenate is an exterior paint and primer in one designed to
maximize adhesion. Gives aged and weathered siding a smooth, uniform
appearance. Tintable to paste! and mid?tone shades, the beautiful low sheen
provides a sleek, attractive finish. Two coats of Rejuvenate delivers cost-
effective, dependable results. It is formulated to bond-to and seal a wide
range of construction materials. It will help reduce highs and lows in the paint
from the multiple coats of paint over the years.

4. Cleanup

a. Wrap up all plastic sheeting to capture as many paint chips as possibie.
b. Walk perimeter and vacuum up any visible paint chips.

c. Bury any remaining paint debris under top soil (as permitted by law) in
order to prevent any further spreading.

of 2 pages

41-18} ERIOR


 

Job #3421
Scheduled 08/23/2019
Phone 248?844?8888

DIVISIONS OS Email inio@theexteriorpainterscom

Patrick Cooney
1858 Leverette Street
Detroit, Michigan 48216

SERVICE PRODUCT

Website ActionPaintingExperts.com or
TheExteriorPainters.com
Client Phone 248.798.6421
From The Exterior Painters 

KreteCoat Floor Coating
Systems

2365 Avon industrial Drive
Rochester Hills, Ml 48309

DESCRIPTION

 

Pamphlet Receipt

Beveled Paulownia 6"
Reveal

Specialty Crown Molding
Replacement

Rotted Wood Trim and
Siding Terms

By signing this contract 1 am acknowledging that i have received a copy of 1
the lead hazard information pamphlet informing me of the potential risk of the

lead hazard exposure from renovation activity to be performed on the exterior

of my dwelling unit. I received this pamphlet before the work began.

Housing built before 1978 may contain lead-based paint. Lead from paint,
paint chips, and dust can pose health hazards if not managed properly. Lead
exposure is especially harmful to young children and pregnant

women. Homes built pie-1978 will receive a federally approved pamphlet
called The Lead-Safe Certified Guide to Renovate Right.

Beveled Paulownia 6" Reveal Siding. 100
Price includes labor, material, and disposal of existing siding.
(Price per Linear ft)

Replacing Crown Molding above Window enclosures on front of house. 50
Material, Labor and disposal all included in price. Price per LN FT $8.00.

Rotted wood replacement is a rough estimate to give you an idea of the cost 1
of the job. Due to the unforeseen issues that are hidden behind paint and

caulk the amount of wood replacement is subject to change. (Usually occurs)

Rotted wood is beyond our control, and there will be an extra charge for any

additional rotted wood. A change order will be provided for the additional

rotted wood. if a customer chooses to decline the additional wood

replacement, we will be forced to paint over the rotted wood and the warranty

will be void.

 

Date Client Signature

2 of 2 pages

.. .w . Mam? .

 

 If



..71



 

 

y: 

 

 

 

 

 

 


LQJ
Victorian house colors ideas 92
Article from lnspira Spaces
Victorian house colors ideas 92
Read it
Photos videos Comments
Tried this Pin? Add a photo or Video to Show how it went
Add
A ?l 

Home Fotlowing @Notifications a Saved

HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

2 WOODWARD AVENUE, ROOM 808. DETROIT, MI 48226 DATE: 6 I I 

PROPERTY INFORMATION
ADDRESS: I AKA: CJUWW R0056.

HISTORIC DISTRICT: WW

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

scope or WORK: its?? tan/tits? 32s? teases/Fer? 2222.2.?
(Check ALL that apply)

gSIIVstruction Demolition Addition Other: 8'me pimg??

?Contractor ?gcnigaelafatgtEngineer/

COMPANY p, (2756?ch @oxxm?s

 

 

CITY: go DOA ZIP: {3111.
Cam Do
PHONE: .. 8 MOBILE: EMAIL: - 

cm
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST CHECKLIST

Please attach the following documentation to your request:
KEEP FILE SIZE OPENIIRE SUBMISSION UNDER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -I

NOTE:

I
I
I Based on the scope Of work, I
I additional documentation may I
I
I
I
I

 

Photographs of ALL Sides Of existing building or site

 

 

Detailed photographs Of location Of proposed work I be required.

(photographs to show existing condition(s). design. color. material) See for

SCO nts.
Description of existing conditions I. .. a
(including materials and design)

 

 

 

 

Description of proiect (if replacing any existing material(s). include an explanation as to why
replacement--rather than repair-of existing and/or construction of new is required)

 

 

Detailed scope of work (formatted as bulleted list)

 

 

Brochure/cut sheets for proposed replacement material(s) and/or product(s). as applicable

 

 

 

Upon receipt of this documentation, staff will review and inform you Of the next steps toward Obtaining your building
permit from the Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) to perform the work.

SUBMIT COMPLETED REQUESTS HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING 8: DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. ROOM 808. DETROIT. MI 48226 DATE: 33" - I4

PROPERTY INFORMATION

?Noam MAW
HISTORIC 

APPLICANT IDENTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. Property Tenant or Architect/
Owner/ Contractor Business Englneer/
Homeowner Occupant Consultant

 

 

?Mm COMPANY NAME: it?! 0? 9?33""

Amman?I'M CITY: Em STATE: at ZIP: ?nlh
PHONE: MOBILE: $333455} 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Datum-M . 9N
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST CHECKLIST
Please attach the fOllowing documentation to your requestPhotographs Of ALL Sides Of eXIstmg bolldIng or Site I I

I Based on the some of work. additional I

Detailed photographs Of location of prOposed work I documentation may be required. I
(photographs to Show existing condition(s). design.?color, material) See for 
Description of existing conditions 51?2(including materials and design)

 

 

Description of project (if replacing any existing material(s). include an explanation as to why
replacement--rather than repair~~of existing and/or construction of new is required)

 

 

Detailed scope of work (formatted as bulleted list)

 

 

Brochure/cut sheets for proposed replacement material(s) and/Dr product(s). as applicable

 

 

 

Upon receipt of this documentation, staff will review and inform you Of the next steps toward Obtaining your building permit
from the Buildings. Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) to perform the work.

SUBMIT COMPLETED REOUESTS TO ETRO ITM I -G 0V

COLOR SYSTEM B
ASSOCIATED ARCHITECTURAL STYLES: (2) ITALIANATE, (3) SECOND EMPIRE, (4) GOTHIC
REVIVAL, (5) STICK, (6) SHINGLE, (7) EASTLAKE, (8) QUEEN ANNE, (9) ROMANESQUE REVIVAL,
(10) QUEEN ANNE/ROMANESQUE, (11) FRENCH RENAISSANCE, (12) COMPOSITE VICTORIAN
The explosion of styles in the High and Late Victorian periods required a deeper palette of colors to unify the
diverse elements of these designs and to highlight the variety of materials and textures used by Detroit’s
architects and builders. At the same time, paint manufacturers such as the Acme White Lead Works in Detroit
and other national firms with a strong market in the region, such as the Sherwin Williams Company, developed
ready-mixed paints in resealable cans in every-richer and darker colors. Deep olives, browns, and greens in
a wide variety of shades became readily available for the first time. While the light colors of the mid-century
were manufactured throughout the High and Late Victorian periods (and consequently could, historically,
be used on the later styles), the lighter colors were generally used on simple frame buildings. The more
imposing High and Late Victorian structures, especially when erected of brick or stone, require the darker
colors to bring out their best features, particularly the window frames and sash which almost universally
were painted darker than the main body color to make the windows appear to recede into the facade.
The trim color for masonry buildings of this period should always be selected with the color of the brick or
stone in mind. Because the natural materials have already determined the overall body color of the house red, brown, or yellow brick, green or gray stone, for example - the trim color should tend towards the earth
tones: browns, yellows, greens, olives, and grays. Modern pastels, especially pale yellows, blues, and pinks,
simply are historically incorrect. Occasionally black was suggested as a sash color to provide contrast to one
of the browns or greens used for the window frames. This was a logical consequence of trimming a brick or
stone building in a color darker than the masonry and then seeking an even darker color for the sash.
If the structure has stone detailing (above windows and doors, for example) it would be appropriate to paint
the cornice or porch a color that matches the stone, selecting a darker color for the window frames and sash.
If the structure has iron crestings, railings, or brackets they should be painted black, dark brown, or green.
Often such details were painted to look like weathered bronze.
Shingle Style houses or those with shingles in the gables pose a special problem. Normally it was recommended
that these surfaces be stained, although most surviving examples have long since been painted. The colors
of this stain (or, if repainting, the paint) should follow the colors given, with the darker greens, olives, browns
and yellows (in that order) being the most popular.

 REPORT

COLOR SYSTEM B
ACCEPTABLE COLOR COMBINATIONS *MS = MUNSELL STANDARD
BODY

TRIM

SASH

CORNICE/
PORCH

IRON
CRESTING

Any System B Color
EXCEPT A:7, A:8, A:9, B:19

Any System B Color

Match trim color or
A:9, B:12, B:18, B:19

Match trim color or
stone detailing

A:8, B:8, B:11 or
B:19

Shingles:
Any System B Color
Stained or painted any System B
Color ESPECIALLY Dark Greens,
Olives, Browns and Yellows
EXCEPT A:7, A:8, B:19

Match trim color or
A:9, B:12, B:18, B:19

Match trim color or
stone detailing

A:8, B:8, B:11 or
B:19

Match trim color or
Any System B Color darker
A:9, B:12, B:18, B:19
than the brick or stone body,
ESPECIALLY B:6, B:8, B:11, B:18

Match trim color or
stone detailing

A:8, B:8, B:11 or
B:19

Existing brick or stone

A:7 Bluish Gray
MS: 10B 5/1

A:8 Blackish Green
MS: 2.5BG 2/2

A:9 Moderate
Reddish Brown
MS: 7.5R 3/6

B:1 Light
Yellowish Brown
MS: 10YR 6/4

B:2 Dark Yellow
MS: 5Y 6/6

B:3 Light Yellow
MS: 2.5Y 8/6

B:4 Moderate Yellow
MS: 2.5Y 7/6

B:5 Light Brown
MS: 7.5YR 5/4

B:6 Moderate Brown
MS: 7.5YR 4/4

B:7 Moderate
Yellowish Brown
MS: 10YR 5/4

B:8 Grayish Brown
MS: 5YR 3/2

B:9 Moderate
Yellow Green
MS: 2.5GY 6/4

B:10 Grayish Green
MS: 10G 5/2

B:11 Grayish Olive
Green
MS: 5GY 4/2

B:12 Grayish Green
MS: 10G 4/2

B:13 Moderate Olive
Brown
MS: 2.5Y 4/4

B:14 Dark Grayish
Olive
MS: 10Y 2/2

B:15 Dark Grayish
Yellow
MS: 5Y 6/4

B:17 Light Olive
MS: 10Y 5/4

B:18 Dark Reddish
Brown
MS: 2.5YRG 2/4

B:16 Light Grayish
Olive
MS: 7.5Y 6/2

B:19 Black
MS: N 0.5/

FIND OUT
MORE!
www.detroitmi.gov/hdc

 d  

The  design  treatment  level  of  the  Corktown  Historic  District  shall  be  conservation,  as 
provided for in section 25‐2‐2. 

 
e  
 
1  

The defined elements of design, as provided for in section 25‐2‐2, shall be as follows: 

Height.  Most residential buildings in the district range from one story to two and one‐half 

2 1/2  stories tall, with a four‐story apartment building on Porter.  Commercial buildings 
and industrial buildings range in height from one to five  5  stories tall; the Victorian 
commercial buildings are between two  2  and three  3  stories tall.  Institutional 
buildings range from one to three  3  stories. 
 
2  

Proportion of buildings' front facades.  Proportion varies in the district, depending on the 
age, style, and type of building.  One story workers' cottages are slightly wider than tall to 
the peak of the gable; two‐story pre‐1880's residential buildings are generally taller than 
wide.  Side‐by‐side duplexes are either wider than tall or square in proportion; terraces or 
attached rowhouses, when grouped together, are substantially wider than tall, although 
the individual units may appear taller than wide.  Queen Anne style residences are 
generally slightly wider than tall or as tall as wide to the eaves to their roofs.  The church 
buildings in the district are taller than wide, and other institutional buildings are generally 
wider than tall.  Victorian commercial buildings are generally taller than wide, while 
newer commercial buildings in the district may be wider than tall.  Multistoried industrial 
buildings in the district are usually taller than wide while one‐ or two‐storied industrial 
buildings are wider than tall.  The fire station on Bagley at Sixth is wider than tall. 

3  

Proportion of openings within the facades.   Window openings are usually taller than wide 
but square openings and transom window openings which are wider than tall also exist.  
Several windows are sometimes grouped into a combination wider than tall.  Window 
openings are almost always subdivided, the most common window being the double‐hung 
sash, whose sashes are generally further divided by muntins, resulting in two‐over‐two, 
four‐over‐four, or six‐over‐six lights.  There are a great variety of sizes and shapes of 
window openings in the Queen Anne style buildings, while there is a more regular 
arrangement in the earlier pre‐1880's buildings.  Facades have approximately five  5  
percent to seventy‐five  75  percent of their area glazed; residential buildings generally 
fall into the thirty‐two  32  to thirty‐five  35  percent range. 

4  

Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades.   Pre‐1880's buildings in the Italianate and 

 

 

Greek revival styles display a great regularity in the rhythm of solids to voids, with one 
opening placed directly above the other.  The post‐1880's Queen Anne style buildings 
exhibit a greater freedom, with their bay windows and combinations of windows in gables. 

 
5  

Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets.   The original pattern of spacing of buildings on 
streets was the of houses placed very close together.  Most houses were situated on 
twenty‐five‐foot lots, the major exceptions being in the Lognon Farm where most lots were 
thirty‐three feet wide and where a house was infrequently placed on an undivided fifty‐
foot lot.  Houses on narrow lots were usually placed on or closer to a side property line, 
providing more space on one side of the building.  Rhythm has been interrupted by vacant 
lots due to demolition of buildings almost throughout the district. 

6  

Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections.   Most houses in the district have projecting 
front porches, usually on one side of the front facade and sometimes wrapping around to 

 

 the side, especially on corner lots.  Some Victorian houses have a secondary porch at the 
side. 
7  

Relationship of materials.  The great majority of buildings in the district are wood frame 

structure originally clad in clapboard with wooden skirting or brick foundations.  Some 
have more recently been sheathed in aluminum, vinyl or asphalt siding, and original 
skirting has often been replaced with metal skirting or concrete block foundations.  
Window sash and functional and decorative trim are in wood, and wood is frequently the 
only material below the eaves of a building, except for the window glass.  There are some 
brick residential buildings in the district, the majority of these being duplexes and multi‐
unit dwellings.  The small commercial buildings the industrial buildings, the fire station, 
and most of the institutional buildings in the district are brick.  Roofing material is 
primarily asphalt shingles, although a few wood shingle roofs and one slate roof exist in 
the district. 
8  

REPORT

Relationship of textures.  The most common relationship of textures in the district is that 

of clapboard to the smooth surface of wood trim.  Aluminum or vinyl siding of the same 
width as the original clapboard siding that does not alter the relationship of the siding to 
the functional trim and architectural detail of the building can sometimes contribute to 
textural relationships.  Porches are usually in wood, although some have brick piers.  Steps 
are either in wood which was the original material, or concrete.  Where wooden shingles, 
carvings, or other decorative wooden detail exists, it adds significantly to the textural 
interest of the building.  Asphalt shingles or rolled asphalt roofs generally have little 
textural interest while wood shingle has considerable interest.  Detailed brickwork on 
brick buildings contributes to textural interest when it exists. 

9  

Relationship of colors.  Paint colors in the district generally relate to style.  Earlier 
buildings usually display muted colors, such as earth tones and shades of yellow, while 
Italianate and Queen Anne style buildings sometimes display richer and darker colors, 
such as browns, golds, grays, and blues.  Common trim colors are in shades of cream, 
yellow, gray, brown, green, and white, and window sashes are frequently painted white, 
deep red, brown and gray.  Asphalt siding is either red or brown brick color.  Wood shingle 
roofs are a weathered cedar tone, while most asphalt shingled roofs are either in light 
colors, such as sand, light gray, light brown, or light green, or darker colors, such as dark 
gray, black, or dark green. 

10  

Relationship of architectural details.  These generally relate to style, and the styles in 

Corktown run from early Victorian to late Victorian and Colonial Revival.  The earliest 
houses in the Greek Revival and vernacular styles contain a minimal amount of 
architectural detail.  Functional detail includes the wooden cornerboards, wide cornices 
with brackets supporting the eaves, and window frames and sills.  More ornate details of 
the Italianate or Queen Anne styles include paired brackets, window and porch hoods, 
wooden carvings sunburst patterns, fishscale shingles, and vergeboards in gables, and 
spindlework or balustraded porches.  Some buildings, especially those on Church Street, 
have leaded glass windows.  The late Victorian commercial buildings sometimes have 
decorative cornice work, corbeltables, and pediments or parapet walls.  In general, 
Corktown is rich in its diversity and quality of architectural styles and detail. 

11  

Relationship of roof shapes.  Pitched roofs with frontal gables predominate in the district 
although pitched roofs with side‐facing gables, hip roofs, and hip roofs with intersecting 

 gables also exist.  More complex roof shapes occur primarily on Church Street. Commercial 
buildings generally have flat roofs.  St. Peter's Episcopal Church has a steeply pitched roof 
with frontal gables.  Rear additions to houses, such as kitchens, frequently have shed roofs. 
 
12  

Walls of continuity.  The major wall of continuity is created by the buildings, with their 
fairly uniform setbacks within blocks.  Mature and recently planted trees along the tree 
lawns create a secondary wall of continuity. 

13  

Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The typical treat‐

 

ment of individual properties is a shallow flat front lawn area in grass turf, subdivided by a 
concrete walk leading to the front entrance and sometimes a concrete walk leading to the 
side entrance.  Short concrete walks from the curbline to the public sidewalk are also 
frequent in the district.  Foundation plantings and evergreens are typical plantings in front 
yards.  Hedges are occasionally planted along the side lot lines in the front yards and 
sometimes along the front lot line; this treatment usually on comer lots when it exists.  
Chainlink fences predominate as rear yard enclosures; few continue into the front yards.  
Wood posts and rails with wire mesh is also a common fence type found in the district, and 
a few of these enclose the front yard as well as the rear.  Many rear garages with alley 
entrances exist; concrete side driveways, where they exist, interrupt the succession of 
front yards and are not the original treatment of the property.  Curbs are cut red‐brown 
stone in the majority of the district, with the primary exceptions of Porter, Labrosse, 
Leverette, and Michigan Avenue, Alleys in the district are paved in concrete.  Vacant lots 
are either paved over or gravelled as parking lots or are unkept.  Light fixtures are 
elevated on wooden telephone poles in most parts of the district. 

 
14  

Relationship of open space to structures.  Open space occurs in the form of vacant land, a 
playground, and parking lots, and frequently occurs on corner lots.  Open space in the form 
of front yards to buildings is generally very shallow.  Some buildings are situated on the 
front lot line or very close to it; this usually occurs on north‐south streets east of Rosa 
Parks Boulevard, and on Porter Street. 

15  

Scale of facades and facade elements.  The majority of buildings in the district are small in 

 

scale, with the exceptions being multistory industrial buildings and apartment buildings, 
which are medium to large in scale and therefore not in keeping with the original scale of 
the neighborhood.  Facade elements, such as bays, steep roofs, gables and/or verandas, are 
moderate in scale.  Details within these elements are generally small in scale. 

 
16  

Directional expression of front elevation. One story residences are usually slightly wider 

than tall but their directional expression is vertical due to the gable of the steeply pitched 
roof.  Two‐story Italianate and Greek Revival single‐family residences are vertical in di‐
rectional expression, while duplexes in those styles are usually neutral.  Two‐story Queen 
Anne buildings are either neutral in directional expression or have vertically expressed 
front facades, depending on the projection of gables and/or roof slopes.  Terraces are 
horizontal in directional expression, churches are emphatically vertical, and industrial 
buildings are either vertically or horizontally expressed, depending on the number of 
stories.  Individual Victorian commercial buildings are usually vertical but may form a 
commercial row that is horizontal. 
 
17  

Rhythm of building setbacks.  Setbacks vary from area to area within the district, although 
they are usually consistent within blocks.  In general, buildings have very shallow front 

 18  

 

yards, although buildings may relate to the building lines differently due to porch 
projections and bays where they exist.  Buildings on the north‐south streets and corners 
are very close to front lot lines.  Some industrial and commercial buildings are situated 
directly on the front lot line. 
Relationship of lot coverage Lot coverage ranges from zero percent to one hundred  100  
percent, the average residential coverage being approximately forty  40  percent. 
 
Industrial buildings are in the upper range, as are some corner stores and some 
houses on north‐south cross streets. 

19  

Degree of complexity within the facade‐ Early buildings are simple and straightforward; 
Queen Anne style buildings are more complex in massing and detail but are not overly 
complex. 

20  

Orientation, vistas, overviews.  In general, buildings are oriented towards the east‐west 
streets, with Trumbull Avenue and Sixth being exceptions.  Garages are oriented towards 
the alleys.  Commercial buildings tend to occupy corner lots and Michigan Avenue.  There 
are vistas of downtown Detroit and Tiger Stadium from the Corktown District.  The 
general overview is that of a small scaled mixed use neighborhood with major 
thoroughfares and major landmarks, such as Tiger Stadium and Most Holy Trinity R.C. 
Church surrounding it. 

21  

Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Most buildings in the district are asymmetrical in 
appearance, but result in balanced compositions. 

22  

General environmental character.  The Corktown Historic District, with its narrow lots, 

 

 
 

shallow front yards, and small‐scaled buildings, ‐has a low‐density, urban, mixed use 
character of a pre‐automobile city.  Its original cohesiveness has been eroded by housing 
demolition over the years.  Anchored by Tiger Stadium on the north, light industrial 
buildings on the west, Most Holy Trinity Church and the John C. Lodge Expressway on the 
east, and the West Side Industrial Park on the south, the neighborhood is set apart from its 
surrounding environment, resulting in a definable community in the shadows of 
Downtown Detroit.  Ord.  No. 605‐H, § 1 28A‐1‐49 , 12‐12‐84  

 