STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee,
Charging Party,
and
County of Cook and Sheriff of Cook County,
Respondent.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

Case No. L-CA-18-037

ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE’S RECOMMENDED DECISION AND ORDER
On January 4, 2018, the Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee (Union) filed a charge
with the Illinois Labor Relations Board’s Local Panel (Board) alleging that the County of Cook
(County) and Sheriff of Cook County (Sheriff) (collectively, Respondents) engaged in unfair labor
practices within the meaning of Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations
Act (Act) 5 ILCS 315 (2014), as amended. The charge alleged that the Respondents failed and
refused to bargain in good faith with the Union when the Respondents unilaterally implemented a
layoff of lieutenants without first bargaining the impact of the decision and reaching an agreement
and when the Respondents refused to submit a grievance concerning the layoff to arbitration. The
charge was investigated in accordance with Section 11 of the Act. On July 3, 2018, the Board’s
Executive Director issued a Complaint for Hearing.
A hearing was conducted on October 22, 2018, in Chicago, Illinois, at which time the Union
presented evidence in support of the allegations and all parties were given an opportunity to
participate, to adduce relevant evidence, to examine witnesses, and to argue orally.
The parties filed timely post-hearing briefs. After full consideration of the parties’
stipulations, evidence, arguments, and briefs, and upon the entire record of the case, I recommend
the following:
I.

PRELIMINARY FINDINGS
The parties stipulate, and I find that:
1. At all times material, the Sheriff has been an employer within the meaning of
Section 3(o) of the Act.
1

 2. At all times material, the County has been an employer within the meaning of
Section 3(o) of the Act.
3. At all times material, the Respondents have been joint employers within the
meaning of Section 3(o) of the Act.
4. At all times material, the Respondents have been subject to the jurisdiction of the
Local Panel of the Board pursuant to Section 5(b) of the Act.
5. At all times material, the Union has been a labor organization within the meaning
of Section 3(i) of the Act.
6. At all times material, the Union has been the exclusive representative of a
bargaining unit composed of lieutenants in the Respondents’ Court Services
Department as certified by the Board on February 19, 2001, in Case No. L-RC-99028 (Unit).
7. At all times material, the Unit has been a “peace officer unit” within the meaning
of Section 14 of the Act.
II.

ISSUES AND CONTENTIONS
The Union narrowed the issues for hearing on brief by addressing only the following issue:

whether the Respondents failed to bargain in good faith in violation of Sections 10(a)(4) and (1)
when they implemented their decision to lay off sixteen lieutenants, without completing impact or
effects bargaining. 1
The Union argues that the Respondents did not engage in good faith bargaining, but rather
engaged in surface bargaining over the effects of the Respondents’ decision to lay off sixteen
lieutenants. The Respondents assert that they bargained in good faith over the impact of the
layoffs.
III.

FINDINGS OF FACT
The Union is the exclusive representative of a bargaining unit composed of lieutenants in

the Respondents’ Court Services Department. The Respondents and the Union (collectively,
All other issues raised by the Complaint are properly deemed waived on appeal. Vill. of Bensenville, 10
PERI 2009 (IL SLRB 1993), aff'd by unpub. order no. 2-94-0089 (2nd Dist. 1995) (respondent waived the
argument that employee conduct was unprotected because the Respondent did not argue the issue before
the ALJ); Vill. of Glenwood, 32 PERI ¶ 159 (IL LRB-SP 2016).
1

2

 Parties) are parties to a collective bargaining agreement with an effective date of December 1,
2012, through November 30, 2017 (CBA). The CBA provides that if either party provides written
notice at least ninety days prior to the expiration date that the party desires to modify the CBA, the
CBA shall continue to remain in effect after the expiration date until a new agreement is reached.
The CBA further provides that in the event of a layoff, lieutenants may “bump” the
employee with the least seniority in the bargaining unit of successive lower merit rank, which is
sergeant, within the Court Services Department, if the bumping lieutenant has more court security
seniority than the sergeant he or she will bump. The Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) represents
the sergeants in the Respondents’ Court Services Department.
On January 31, 2017, LaShon DeFell, deputy bureau chief of human resources/director of
labor relations for the County, wrote to the Union, stating:
We write to you in anticipation of negotiating the 2012-2017 successor collective
bargaining agreement for your union. We look forward to working with you in the
coming months to complete this contract. Please contact … by Wednesday,
February 8, 2017, to provide your availability for a minimum of four initial
bargaining sessions.
On August 28, 2017, Joseph Andruzzi, an attorney for the Union, notified the County of
its desire to modify the CBA.
On November 15, 2017, John Ferro, an employee in the County’s Department of Budget
and Management Service (DBMS), emailed Jill McArdle, an employee in the Sheriff’s Office,
notifying her of potential layoffs in the Sheriff’s Office. Ferro stated, in part:
This has been a long and complicated budgetary process with constant changing
and submitting files back and forth and tracking the most recent data, Jill and Tim
can express the same thoughts, I believe.
DBMS has attached the list of PIDs as potential layoffs. The process for choosing
Union positions was a last in first out assumption, (lowest pay probably last in),
using the thought process of bumping rights and CBAs. DBMS understands that
final layoffs will follow the guidelines provided in CBAs.
Ferro attached a spreadsheet to the email which listed the titles of employees who would
potentially be laid off. At hearing, Peter Kramer, the Sheriff’s special counsel of labor affairs,
testified that, in 2017, the County lacked revenue, and rather than raise revenue, the County chose
to recommend layoffs.
On November 28, 2017, Thomas Nelligan, assistant general counsel for the Sheriff,
emailed Thomas Pleines, an attorney for the Union, and Joseph Kaliga, a union representative for
3

 the FOP, notifying them that the County budget was calling for the layoff of eighteen lieutenants
and requesting to meet with Pleines and Kaliga. Nelligan stated, in part:
Unfortunately [sic] the County budget is still calling for the layoff of 18 Court
Services Lieutenants. Looking at the CBA language (for both CBA’s), the Lt.’s
CBA states a Lt. may bump into the next lower rank provided they have more court
services seniority. The least senior of the 18 identified positions has more seniority
than the least senior Sgt. Once they bump down, the next round of layoffs (which
may result in approximately 23 Sgt.s to make up for the budgeted 18 Lt.’s positions)
have to be done pursuant to the Sgt.’s CBA which is by date of promotion to Sgt.
Obviously [sic] no one is happy about this and the language is less than clear, but I
would like to make sure no one is laid off incorrectly. I’d like to meet you both as
soon as possible, either together or separate. If you cannot meet, please advise if
you have a different interpretation than the language above.
On November 29, 2017, the County sent out letters to sixteen lieutenants notifying them
that their positions had been eliminated from the budget and advised them to contact the Union
regarding their “bumping” rights under the CBA. The letter stated, in part:
The Cook County Sheriff’s Office received notification from the Cook County
President’s Office that layoffs are necessary to meet Cook County’s budgetary
reduction needs. We regret to inform you that the Cook County President’s Office
has eliminated 16 Court Service Lieutenant positions from the budget. You are
being notified due to the potential impact on your current position based on the
bumping rights of Court Service Lieutenants. This letter serves as notice pursuant
to Section 8.5 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Your Union has been
notified as well and can best advise you of any options you have under your
Collective Bargaining Agreement.
On November 30, 2017, Pleines informed Nelligan that all the lieutenants facing layoff
would be exercising their bumping rights under the CBA. Pleines also informed Nelligan that
Lieutenant Ervin had less seniority than Lieutenant Diaz, and therefore, Ervin should be laid off
prior to Diaz. Later that day, Nelligan informed Pleines that Nelligan would “look into” the
Union’s claim regarding Lieutenant Ervin’s seniority.
That same day, Andruzzi contacted Nelligan demanding to bargain over the effects of the
impending layoffs and requesting to schedule negotiations for a successor contract. Andruzzi
stated, in part:
The Cook County Court Lieutenants (Union), represented by the Policemen’s
Benevolent Labor Committee, demands bargaining over the impending layoffs. As
you are aware, under Section 7 of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, unilateral
changes cannot be implemented regarding mandatory subjects of bargaining until
the completion of bargaining. The effects of the layoffs were never negotiated.
The Union is prepared to commence bargaining over the effects of these layoffs
4

 immediately. Until bargaining is complete, any impending layoffs should be
halted.
Additionally, pursuant to Article XIX of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the
Union made proper timely notification of its desire to modify the current CBA,
which expires today, November 30, 2017, on August 28, 2017. This was followed
by a mediation request filed with the Illinois Labor Relations Board on November
1, 2017 (assigned contract number 2017-11-99-028).
Please contact me to schedule negotiations.
At some point, Nelligan informed Pleines that the Respondents had set the effective date
of the layoffs for December 13, 2017. Nelligan testified at hearing that the CBA requires the
Respondents to provide two-weeks’ notice prior to layoffs.
On December 1, 2017, Nelligan responded to Andruzzi’s November 30, 2019, demand to
bargain inquiring whether the Union would be available to meet on December 8, 2017. That same
day, Nelligan also emailed a copy of the lieutenants’ seniority lists to Pleines and Andruzzi
requesting that the Union identify and forward any changes and/or corrections to the lists to the
County.
The Parties agreed to meet on December 8, 2017. At the meeting, Nelligan, DeFell, and
Nicholas Skouffas, general counsel for the Sheriff, attended on behalf of the Respondents; Pleines,
Andruzzi, Donald Milazzo, lieutenant and vice-president of the Union, and Susan Joyce, president
of the Union, attended on behalf of the Union. At the meeting, the Union tendered a written
proposal to the Respondents. The Union proposed to increase civil processing fees in order to
increase revenue and fund the eliminated lieutenant positions.

The Union explained that

neighboring counties had higher fees than Cook County, and the Union’s proposal would bring in
additional revenue of $2.6 million dollars. The Union noted in its proposal that “[r]eviewing the
fee structure related to process could show additional alternative revenue that would more than
make up for the decrease in budget allotment.” According to the Union, the purpose of the
proposal was to avoid the layoff of the lieutenants. Milazzo testified that after presenting the
proposal to increase civil processing fees, the Respondents took a break and checked to see if the
Union’s information was correct. According to Milazzo, the Respondents then returned to the
meeting and stated that the proposal “wouldn’t work.”

Milazzo further testified that the

Respondents stated that “even if they could get the money, the Sheriff didn’t have to spend it on
[the lieutenants].” Nelligan, however, testified that at the meeting he responded to the Union’s
proposal stating that he would “look into it.” Nelligan also testified that he was uncertain whether
5

 the fees were statutorily mandated and thus could not be unilaterally raised by the Sheriff. Milazzo
testified that the Union believed that the Sheriff could unilaterally raise the fees because the fees
were not statutorily mandated. Milazzo further testified that Lieutenant Dicaro had previously
negotiated an increase in the fees when she was the chief.
At the December 8th meeting, the Union also informed the Respondents that four
lieutenants were planning on retiring soon and that these retirements could help alleviate the need
for layoffs. Nelligan responded that the retirements would only be helpful if they occurred before
the end of the year.
At the December 8th meeting, the Union also provided the Respondents with a copy of a
spreadsheet showing the impact of the layoff, and the Parties discussed how the layoff would affect
the supervision of the Respondents’ facilities. Milazzo testified that the Respondents then took
another break, came back in, and said, “it still didn’t matter.”
Nelligan testified that, at the December 8th meeting, he inquired whether the Union would
be willing to agree to salary reductions to offset the salaries of the lieutenants who were identified
for layoff. Nelligan also testified that he did not offer a specific percentage or dollar amount.
Nelligan further testified that the Union did not respond to the inquiry at the meeting. At hearing,
Nelligan testified that had the Union been willing to agree to salary reductions, Nelligan would
have presented the Union with specific numbers at a later time. In addition, Nelligan testified that
even if the Union had agreed to the salary reductions, Nelligan did not have the authority to stop
the layoffs at the time of the December 8th meeting. However, Milazzo testified at hearing that the
Respondents never proposed salary reductions.
At the December 8th meeting, the Parties also discussed the effective date of the layoffs.
Nelligan testified that, at the meeting, the Union asked whether the date could be extended.
Nelligan testified that “after discussion, I believe we were okayed to extend it to January 5th.”
Milazzo testified that the Respondents extended the date at the Union’s request. Milazzo further
testified that the extension was granted so that the Parties could meet again to discuss the impact
of the layoffs and to give the Union more time to “find other proposals to offer.” The December
8th meeting lasted between approximately one hour and 1.5 hours.
On December 11, 2017, Nelligan emailed Pleines asking whether the Union had any other
issues with the seniority list other than Lieutenant Ervin’s seniority. That same day, Pleines
responded to Nelligan stating that Lieutenants Rhodes, Mills, and Cervantes had been promoted
6

 and should not be on the seniority list. Nelligan then removed Rhodes, Mills, and Cervantes from
the seniority list.
On December 12, 2017, Nelligan informed Pleines that the Respondents were still
considering the Union’s proposal to increase civil processing fees and the issue of the four planned
lieutenant retirements.
On December 14, 2017, Pleines emailed Nelligan informing him that the Union had
demanded to bargain over the impact of the layoffs and would be filing a grievance over the
Respondents’ alleged failure to bargain. Pleines stated in part:
The collective bargaining agreement applicable to the Court Services Lieutenants
provides for bargaining over the impact or effects of the layoffs. We have
previously demanded bargaining over the issue. We have been given one
opportunity to meet with the Employer. That was on December 8, 2017. At that
time, the Union presented two proposals to raise revenues in an amount sufficient
to cure the reported budgetary shortfall. As you stated in our December 12, 2017
telephone call the Employer is still considering these proposals. There was some
disagreement among the Employer’s representatives whether these revenue
proposals constituted bargaining over the effects of the layoffs. The Union does
not consider this to have been a bargaining session. The Union also explained that
Section 18.9 entitled “Maintenance of Benefits” applies to this current situation and
gives the Union the right to arbitrate any dispute over changes in economic benefits.
The Union will be filing a grievance and demanding arbitration within the
immediate future. Because the Employer has not bargained with the Union over
the impact of these layoffs and the parties will need to have sufficient time to
arbitrate the grievance, we are against asking that the January 5, 2018 effective date
be pushed back until the parties have had time to bargain and, if necessary arbitrate
this dispute.
On December 15, 2017, the Union filed a grievance regarding the layoff and requested that
the Respondents delay implementation of the layoffs until the Parties had time to bargain over the
impact of the layoffs, and if necessary, arbitrate the dispute. The Respondents did not provide a
written response to the grievance. The CBA provides that if the Respondents do not provide an
answer at any step of the grievance process, the Union may advance the grievance to the next step.
On December 18, 2017, Nelligan responded to Pleines’ December 14th email message,
stating “[p]lease let me know what dates work for you so that we can meet again to discuss the
impact.” Pleines responded to Nelligan suggesting December 28, 2017, as a date to meet.
The Parties agreed to meet on December 28, 2017. At the meeting, Nelligan and Kelly
Jackson, then-chief of Court Services, attended on behalf of the Respondents; Pleines, Andruzzi,
Milazzo, and Joyce attended on behalf of the Union. At the meeting, Nelligan stated that he would
7

 continue to look into the Union’s proposal of increasing civil processing fees, but that he believed
the proposal was “too complicated and not something we could do at that time.”
At the meeting December 28th meeting, the Union orally proposed that lieutenants could
conduct rapid response/active shooter training for outside agencies as a way of increasing revenue
in order to prevent the layoffs. Milazzo testified that the Respondents responded to the proposal
by stating that the layoffs “were going to go through no matter what.” Milazzo further testified
that the Respondents stated at the meeting that the proposal “had already been rejected.” At
hearing, Nelligan testified that either at the December 28th meeting or the later January 9th meeting,
Nelligan rejected the proposal stating that it would not “really be feasible at this point.” At hearing,
Nelligan testified that “[i]t was kind of speculative how much [money the training] would bring
in, and I think there were liability issues that were impacted in that as well.”
At the December 28th meeting, the Union also asked the Respondents whether the
lieutenants would be receiving compensatory time after they were bumped down and what effect
the bumping down would have on the lieutenants’ seniority. Nelligan responded that he would
“look into it” and get back to the Union on those questions. Chief Jackson then explained what
would happen to the lieutenants who were not being laid off, for example, how and where they
would be assigned after the layoff.

Nelligan testified that when Jackson discussed where

individuals would be assigned after the layoff, there “didn’t seem to be any objection or any
conflict” from the Union.

Milazzo testified that the Union did not play any role in the

reassignments. Rather, Milazzo testified that the Respondents merely told the Union where the
lieutenants would be assigned and reassigned.
Nelligan further testified that at the December 28th meeting, he again orally inquired
whether the Union would be willing to agree to salary reductions in order to avoid the layoffs.
Nelligan testified that “it didn’t seem like I was going to get an answer.” As noted previously,
Milazzo testified that the Respondents never proposed salary reductions. The December 28th
meeting lasted at least one hour.
On January 3, 2018, the Union advanced the grievance to step two of the Parties’ grievance
procedure. The CBA has four steps in its grievance procedure. The fourth step is arbitration. The
CBA further provides that failure to advance the grievance within the required time limits
concludes the grievance process.

8

 Also, on January 3, 2018, Nelligan emailed Pleines asking him to identify the lieutenants
who were planning on retiring in January. That same day, Pleines responded stating that four
lieutenants would be retiring in January: Lieutenants Miles, Lopresti, Murund, and Smith. Later
that day, Nelligan asked Pleines whether any of those individuals planned to retire by January 31,
2018. That same day, Pleines responded stating that he would confirm the effective date of the
retirements. Later that day, Pleines emailed Nelligan informing him that Lieutenants Miles and
Barrata had already retired. The next day, Nelligan informed Pleines that the Respondents did not
have paperwork for Miles’ retirement. Later that day, Nelligan told Pleines that Lieutenant Miles
should contact the Respondents’ human resources department to confirm Miles’ retirement date.
At some point, Miles did so.
In addition, on January 3, 2018, Nelligan emailed Pleines, Andruzzi, and Joyce stating, “I
have talked to Kramer about your grievance. If you want he is able to schedule a 3rd Step Hearing
with you regarding this. Or if you prefer we can hold off on your grievance hearing until after the
Jan 9 meeting. Please let me know which you prefer.” On January 5, 2018, Joyce responded
stating, “[l]ets just handle this on the 9th.”
On January 5, 2018, the Respondents implemented the layoff. Fourteen lieutenants were
laid off and bumped down to sergeant. Two lieutenants had chosen to retire rather than be bumped
down to sergeant.
On January 9, 2018, the Parties met for the third and final time to discuss the impact of the
layoffs. Nelligan, Jackson, and Kramer attended on behalf of the Respondents; Andruzzi, Milazzo,
and Joyce attended on behalf of the Union. At the meeting, Kramer orally proposed a settlement
regarding the grievance as well as extending the recall rights for the laid-off lieutenants. The
Union did not provide a response to the proposal. At hearing, Milazzo testified that the Union did
not respond to the oral proposal because “verbal agreements in the County aren’t really good for
much.” In addition, at hearing, Milazzo testified that according to the Union, the CBA does not
define the limit of recalls. At hearing, Kramer and Nelligan testified that according to the
Respondents, the CBA provides for recall rights for twelve months only. The Union did not submit
any proposals at the January 9th meeting. The meetings lasted for approximately one hour.
Sometime after the January 9th meeting, the Union rejected the proposal to extend the recall rights
of the laid-off lieutenants.

9

 To date, the Union has not advanced the grievance regarding the layoffs to step three or
step four. To date, the Respondents have not received a demand to arbitrate the grievance from
the Union.
IV.

DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Respondents violated Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act when they implemented the

lay off without bargaining to agreement or impasse with the Union over the effect of the layoffs.
Section 10(a)(4) of the Act provides that it is an unfair labor practice for an employer to
“refuse to bargain collectively in good faith with a labor organization which is the exclusive
representative of public employees in an appropriate unit.” 5 ILCS 315/10(a)(4). Section 7 of the
Act provides that employers are required “to negotiate in good faith with respect to wages, hours,
and other conditions of employment, not excluded by Section 4 of the Act.” 5 ILCS 315/7. Section
4 of Act provides that employers “shall not be required to bargain over matters of inherent
managerial policy, which shall include such areas of discretion or policy as the functions of the
employer, standards of services, its overall budget, the organizational structure and selection of
new employees, examination techniques and direction of employees.” 5 ILCS 315/4. Section 4
of the Act adds that employers “however, shall be required to bargain collectively with regard to
policy matters directly affecting wages, hours and terms and conditions of employment as well as
the impact thereon upon request by employee representatives.” Id.; Cnty. of Cook v. Licensed
Practical Nurses Ass'n of Ill., Div. 1, 284 Ill. App. 3d 145, 153 (1st Dist. 1996); Chief Judge of the
Circuit Court of Cook Cnty., 31 PERI ¶ 114 (IL LRB-LP 2014); Vill. of Glenwood, 32 PERI ¶
159.

If a decision of managerial prerogative impacts employees' terms and conditions of

employment, an employer cannot, as a general matter, implement the decision without first
bargaining the effects of the decision. Cnty. of Cook (Juvenile Temp. Det. Center), 14 PERI ¶
3008 (IL LLRB 1998); State of Ill., Dep'ts of Cent. Mgmt. Servs. & Corrs., 5 PERI ¶ 2001 (IL
SLRB 1988), aff'd Am. Fed. of State, Cnty. & Mun. Emps., AFL-CIO, 190 Ill. App. 3d 259 (1st
Dist. 1989); Vill. of Glenwood, 32 PERI ¶ 159.
In this case, the Parties do not dispute that the layoffs impact the lieutenants’ terms and
conditions of employment and that the Union demanded effects bargaining. However, the Parties’

10

 dispute whether the Respondents engaged in bargaining over the effects of the decision to lay off
the lieutenants.
The Respondents assert that they bargained in good faith over the impact of the layoffs
because they met with the Union on three occasions to discuss the impact of the layoffs. The
Respondents also argue that they explained to the Union why the Union’s proposals to raise civil
processing fees and the impending retirements would not work. Additionally, the Respondents
contend that they made proposals to reduce the lieutenants’ salaries and to extend the recall rights
of the laid-off lieutenants. In addition, the Respondents contend that they agreed to extend the
effective date of the layoffs. Finally, the Respondents assert that they responded to the Union’s
concerns regarding the seniority list.
The Union, however, asserts that the Respondents engaged in surface bargaining at the
three meetings. The Union notes that at the December 8th meeting, representatives of both the
Sheriff and the County (Nelligan, DeFell, and Skouffas) attended on behalf of the Respondents,
but at the December 28th meeting, representatives of only the Sheriff (Nelligan and Jackson)
attended on behalf of the Respondents. The Union further notes that at the January 9th meeting,
representatives of only the Sheriff (Nelligan, Jackson, and Kramer) attended on behalf of the
Respondents.
Additionally, the Union asserts that at the December 8th meeting, the Respondents did not
offer proposals or counter-proposals and only offered to “look into” the Union’s proposals. The
Union asserts that Nelligan’s “offer” to implement salary reductions to avoid layoffs was not, in
fact, a proposal. The Union notes that Nelligan testified that even if the Union had agreed to the
alleged proposal, Nelligan also testified that the layoffs would have still gone forward as planned.
In addition, the Union asserts that it did not respond to the Respondents’ oral proposal on January
9, 2018, to extend the recall rights of laid-off lieutenants because the Respondents never formally
tendered a written proposal. The Union asserts that oral offers from the County “aren’t really good
for much.” In addition, the Union contends that the Respondents made no proposals or counterproposals at the December 28th meeting. Instead, the Union asserts that the Respondents merely
informed the Union where the lieutenants would be assigned and reassigned following the layoffs.
Likewise, the Union asserts that the January 9th meeting “consisted of the Sheriff’s Chief reading
off to the Union where each of the unaffected lieutenants would be assigned/reassigned.” Finally,
the Union asserts that the extension of the layoff from December 13, 2017, to January 5, 2018,
11

 was not the result of bargaining. Rather, the Union asserts that the Respondents “with no
explanation, on [their] own accord informed the Union of [the Respondents’] intention to change
the lay-off date.”
Here, I find that regardless of whether the Respondents engaged in good faith bargaining
at the two meetings on December 8th and 28th, the Parties had not concluded bargaining over the
effects of the layoffs when the Respondents implemented the layoffs on January 5, 2018. The
Parties met two times before the layoffs were implemented. The Parties last meeting occurred
after the layoffs had already occurred. Notably, at the last meeting on January 9, 2018, the
Respondents proposed to extend the recall rights for the laid-off lieutenants. Thus, the Parties had
not concluded bargaining when the Respondents implemented the layoff on January 5, 2018.
In addition, the Parties had not reached impasse in bargaining the effects of the layoff as
of the date of implementation of the layoffs. A finding of impasse is based on an examination of
the facts of each case, considering the following factors: 1) bargaining history, 2) the good faith of
the parties in negotiations, 3) the length of negotiations, 4) the importance of the issue, and 5) the
contemporaneous understandings of the parties as to the state of negotiations. City of Chicago, 9
PERI ¶ 3001 (IL LLRB 1992); Vill. of Glenwood, 32 PERI ¶ 159.
In this case, the impasse factors indicate that no impasse had been reached. The Parties
met only two times to discuss the impact of the layoffs prior to the layoff being implemented, and
those meetings lasted for a total of approximately two to two and one-half hours. In fact, as noted,
the parties third meeting, on January 9, 2018, occurred after the layoffs had already taken place on
January 5, 2018. Further, as noted, the Respondents offered to extend the recall rights of the
lieutenants at the January 9th meeting. Thus, the Parties were not at impasse when the Respondents
implemented the layoff on January 5, 2018. Based on the small number of meetings that took
place before implementation of the layoff and the importance of the items being discussed,
negotiations were not yet at a point where neither party had more to offer. See City of Chicago, 9
PERI ¶ 3001, citing Taft Broad. Co., 163 NLRB 475 (1967); State of Ill., Dep'ts of Cent. Mgmt.
Servs. & Corrs., 5 PERI ¶ 2001; Bd. of Trs. of Univ. of Ill., 7 PERI ¶ 1061 (IL ELRB 1991); see
also, Carpenter Sprinkler Corp. v. NLRB, 605 F.2d 60 (2d Cir. 1979). Accordingly, I conclude

12

 that the Parties were not at impasse with regard to impact issues when the Respondents
implemented the layoffs.
Additionally, although the Union’s proposals to increase civil processing fees and conduct
rapid response/active shooter training sought to bargain the layoff decision itself, the evidence
suggests that from the outset the Union was interested in negotiating over a number of matters
pertaining to the effect of the layoffs on the Union members’ terms and conditions of employment,
including the effective date of the layoffs, the lieutenants’ compensatory time after the layoff, the
lieutenants’ seniority after the layoff, and the assignment and reassignment of lieutenants who had
not been laid off. 2 Indeed, on December 14, 2017, the Union requested that the effective date of
January 5, 2018, be “pushed back until the parties have had time to bargain.” Likewise, on
December 15, 2017, the Union filed a grievance again requesting that the implementation of the
layoffs be delayed until the Parties had time to bargain over the impact of the layoffs. Additionally,
it is unclear whether the Respondents had responded to the Union’s concerns regarding
compensatory time and seniority of bumped down lieutenants at the time the layoffs were
implemented. At the final meeting prior to the layoff, Nelligan responded that he would “look
into” those issues and get back to the Union. Finally, the Respondents admit that the purpose of
the meeting on January 9, 2018, was to discuss the impact or effects of the layoff, and the
Respondents offered to extend the recall rights of the lieutenants at that meeting.
Moreover, the Respondents implementation of the layoff without first bargaining over its
effects is an unfair labor practice even absent other indicia of bad faith bargaining. Vill. of
Glenwood, 32 PERI ¶ 159, citing State of Ill., Dep't of Cent. Mgmt. Servs. (Dep't of Agric.), 13
PERI ¶ 2014 (IL SLRB 1997) (considering solely whether the Respondent implemented change
without bargaining over effects); State of Ill., Dep’ts of Cent. Mgmt. Servs. & Corrs., 23 PERI ¶
113 (IL LRB-SP 2007). The Board has long held that such negotiations over the effects of a
Not every impact of a managerial prerogative decision requires bargaining. Chief Judge of the Circuit
Court of Cook Cnty., 31 PERI ¶ 114, citing Decatur Bd. of Educ., Dist. No. 61 v. Illinois Educ. Labor Rel.
Bd., 180 Ill. App. 3d 770, 781 (4th Dist. 1989) (“nothing contained in this opinion should be taken to
indicate that all cases, where impact is present, are subject to bargaining”). Instead, the employer must
bargain only where the effects are not an inevitable consequence of the decision itself. Chief Judge of the
Circuit Court of Cook Cnty., 31 PERI ¶ 114, citing City Colleges of Chicago, 13 PERI ¶ 1045 (IL ELRB
1997) (adopting approach of the private sector with respect to impact bargaining). This rule preserves the
employer's right to decline bargaining over permissive matters by ensuring that impact bargaining does not
inevitably lead to questioning of the underlying decision. Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook Cnty.,
31 PERI ¶ 114, citing City Colleges of Chicago, 13 PERI ¶ 1045.
2

13

 decision should take place at a meaningful time before the contemplated action is taken. Id.;
Chicago Transit Auth., 14 PERI ¶ 3002 (IL LLRB 1997); Cnty. of Cook (Cook Cnty. Hosp.), 2
PERI ¶ 3001 (IL LLRB 1985).
Here, there was not a good faith effort to reach agreement before the Respondents
implemented their decision. The record shows that the Respondents began planning the layoff
sometime around November 2017. The Parties met on December 8 and 28, 2017, and on January
9, 2018, to discuss the impact or effects of the layoffs. The Respondents implemented the layoff
on January 5, 2018. It was incumbent upon the Respondents if they planned to adhere to the
January 5th deadline, to build in time for enough bargaining sessions after its layoff plan was
ascertainable, but before it was implemented, to reach agreement or impasse as to the effects. See
State of Ill., Dep’ts of Cent. Mgmt. Servs. & Corrs., 23 PERI ¶ 113 (respondent violated Sections
10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act when it implemented layoff without completing effects bargaining).
Thus, the Respondents violated Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act when they laid off the sixteen
lieutenants.
V.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
The Respondents violated Sections 10(a)(4) and (1) of the Act when they laid off sixteen

lieutenants without bargaining to agreement or impasse with the Union over the impact or effects
of the layoffs.
VI.

RECOMMENDED ORDER

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Respondents, their officers, and agents, shall:
1) Cease and desist from:
a. Failing and refusing to bargain collectively in good faith with the Union,
Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee, as the exclusive representative of the
bargaining unit composed of lieutenants in the Court Services Department,
regarding the impact or effects of the Respondents’ decision to layoff sixteen
lieutenants.
b. In any like or related manner, interfering with, restraining, or coercing employees
in the exercise of the rights guaranteed them under the Act.
2) Take the following affirmative action necessary to effectuate the policies of the Act:
14

 a. On request, bargain collectively in good faith with the Union, Policemen’s
Benevolent Labor Committee, as the exclusive representative of the bargaining unit
composed of lieutenants in the Court Services Department, regarding the impact or
effects of the Respondents’ decision to layoff sixteen lieutenants.
b. Restore the status quo by rescinding the layoffs of the sixteen lieutenants until the
parties have completed impact or effects bargaining.
c. Make whole members of the bargaining unit for any losses incurred had the
Respondents not laid off the lieutenants before completing impact or effects
bargaining, plus seven-percent interest per annum.
d. Post, at all places where notices to employees are normally posted, copies of the
Notice attached to this document. Copies of this Notice shall be posted, after being
duly signed, in conspicuous places, and be maintained for a period of 60
consecutive days. The Respondents will take reasonable efforts to ensure that the
notices are not altered, defaced, or covered by any other material.
e. Notify the Board in writing, within 20 days from the date of this Decision, of the
steps the Respondents have taken to comply with this order.
VII.

EXCEPTIONS

Pursuant to Section 1200.135 of the Board’s Rules, parties may file exceptions to the
Administrative Law Judge’s Recommended Decision and Order and briefs in support of those
exceptions no later than 30 days after service of this Recommendation. Parties may file responses
to exceptions and briefs in support of the responses no later than 15 days after service of the
exceptions. In such responses, parties that have not previously filed exceptions may include crossexceptions to any portion of the Administrative Law Judge’s Recommendation. Within seven days
from the filing of cross-exceptions, parties may file cross-responses to the cross-exceptions.
Exceptions, responses, cross-exceptions and cross responses must be filed with the Board’s
General Counsel, at 160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, Illinois 60601-3103, or to the
Board’s designated email address for electronic filings, at ILRB.Filing@Illinois.gov. All filing
must be served on all other parties. Exceptions, responses, cross-exceptions, and cross-responses
will not be accepted at the Board’s Springfield office. The exceptions and/or cross-exceptions
sent to the Board must contain a statement of listing the other parties to the case and verifying that
15

 the exceptions and/or cross-exceptions have been provided to them. The exceptions and/or crossexceptions will not be considered without this statement. If no exceptions have been filed within
the 30-day period, the parties will be deemed to have waived their exceptions.

Issued at Chicago, Illinois this 29th day of March, 2019
STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
/s/ Michelle

N. Owen

Michelle N. Owen
Administrative Law Judge

16

 NOTICE TO EMPLOYEES
FROM THE
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
Case No. L-CA-18-037
The Illinois Labor Relations Board, Local Panel, has found that the County of Cook and Sheriff of Cook County
have violated the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act and has ordered us to post this Notice. We hereby notify
you that the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (Act) gives you, as an employee, these rights:
•
•
•
•
•

To engage in self-organization
To form, join or assist unions
To bargain collectively through a representative of your own choosing
To act together with other employees to bargain collectively or for other mutual aid and protection
To refrain from these activities

Accordingly, we assure you that:
WE WILL cease and desist from failing and refusing to bargain collectively in good faith with the Policemen’s
Benevolent Labor Committee, as the exclusive representative of the bargaining unit composed of lieutenants in
the Court Services Department.
WE WILL cease and desist from failing and refusing to bargain collectively in good faith with the Policemen’s
Benevolent Committee regarding the impact or effects of our decision to layoff sixteen lieutenants.
WE WILL cease and desist from in any like or related manner interfering with, restraining or coercing our
employees in the exercise of the rights guaranteed them in the Act.
WE WILL bargain collectively in good faith with the Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee regarding the
impact or effects of our decision to layoff sixteen lieutenants.
WE WILL restore the status quo by rescinding the layoffs of the sixteen lieutenants until we have completed
impact or effects bargaining with the Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee.
WE WILL make whole members of the bargaining unit for any losses incurred had we not laid off the sixteen
lieutenants before completing impact or effects bargaining, plus seven-percent interest per annum.

DATE ____________

____________________________________
County of Cook
(Employer)
____________________________________
Sheriff of Cook County
(Employer)

ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

801 South 7th Street, Suite 1200A
Springfield, Illinois 62703
(217) 785-3155

160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400
Chicago, Illinois 60601-3103
(312) 793-6400

THIS IS AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT NOTICE
AND MUST NOT BE DEFACED.

 