LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
August 13, 2019
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:04 AM by Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission; Michael Peters on behalf of Andrea Telli, City of Chicago designee; Ivana
Dabizljevic for Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller; Kathy McKee, Cook County
State’s Attorney’s designee.
Members Absent: None
Staff Present: None
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: David Joens, Director of Illinois State Archives and Secretary of State
designee, Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Members Absent: None
Staff Present: Robert Boots, Chief Deputy Director of Illinois State Archives; Travis Schweitzer,
Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.
The minutes of the July 9, 2019 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County were
reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the minutes as submitted.
Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
None.
NEW BUSINESS:
New Applications
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following new applications:
19:010C–Northbrook Public Library (Northbrook). Mr. Joens made a motion to approve
19:010C as submitted. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried and was
approved unanimously.

 Application Add-Ons and Amendments
The Cook County Local Records Commission reviewed the following add-ons and amendments:
09:012C–Acorn Public Library District (Oak Forest) There were fourteen add-ons (items:
#53, #54, #55, #56, #57, #58, #59, #60, #61, #62, #63, #64, #65, #66). Mr. Joens noted this was
his favorite name for a library. Mr. Joens clarified on item # 59 (LACONI) stands for Library
Administrators Conference of Northern Illinois. Mr. Joens stated that item #63 (Tax Increment
Info) has different retentions and that there are items required to keep permanently. He said that
if the district was ever dissolved there are procedures in place for what would happen to those
records. Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve the add-ons for 09:012C as submitted. Mr.
Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
12:010C–Cook County Department of Administrative Hearings (Chicago) There was one
add-on (item: #900). Mr. Joens noted the dates for this item were closed dated, and the agency
had stopped producing this record. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the add-on for 12:010C
as submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
17:029C–Mount Prospect Police Department (Mt. Prospect) There were two add-ons (items:
#56, #57). Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the add-ons for 17:029C as submitted. Ms.
Mckee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
85:042C–Chicago Department of Revenue (Chicago) There was one add-on (item: #362). Mr.
Joens informed the commission this item is for video recordings and agencies tend to do a rolling
disposal each year because retentions varies from seven to sixty days. Mr. Joens made a motion
to approve the add-on for 85:042C as submitted. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion
carried and was approved unanimously.
Other New Business
Mr. Joens informed the commission that a new Cook County Records Archivist, Marikay
Hegarty, has been hired and will start on Friday, August 16, 2019. He stated that Ms. Hegarty is
assigned to the following territories: the City of Chicago and Southern Cook County. Mr. Joens
and Mr. Boots are planning to introduce her to the Chairman of the Cook County Commission,
Martha Martinez, and the Cook County Records Administrator, Deneena Norton, on the morning
of Friday, August 23, 2019. Mr. Joens said the commission should see an increase in
applications covering all areas of Cook County.
Mr. Joens said that Mr. Boots is working on an advisory guidelines for social media policies. He
said that the Illinois State Archives has received several agency requests seeking assistance with
social media records management best practices for their Facebook pages and websites. Mr.
Joens said the goal is to have the advisory guidelines ready to present to both the State and Local
Records Commission as part of the September meeting agenda with a projected plan for
member-provided feedback for guideline improvements during the October meeting.

 Mr. Joens said that starting next month Springfield members of the Cook County Local Records
Commission and associated staff will be changing conference room locations from the Lincoln
Land Community College (LLCC) Capital Training Center to a new location in Springfield.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
None
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00AM on Tuesday September 10, 2019 at the Illinois Department of Central Management
Services Video Conferencing Center located in Room 9-035 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois and the Secretary of State Admin Conference Room
located in Room 574 of the Howlett Building, 501 S. Second St., Springfield, IL.
ADJOURMENT:
Mr. Joens made a motion to adjourn. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and
was approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Travis Schweitzer, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.

 