SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes
July 11, 2019

PRESENT

ABSENT

Dorothy Hudson
Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Alex J. Alemis
Angela Hurlock
Laurentino Ramirez
Albert Garcia
SERVICE PROVIDER
Tom Schell
Dave Price
Diane Abbott
GUESTS
Alyssa Morgan, 10th Ward Alderwoman’s Office
Julio Miramontes, 10th Ward Alderwoman’s Office
Danielle Richards, Alliance of the Southeast

Meeting was called to order at 2:10 p.m.

1. Approval of the Agenda
A motion to approve the agenda was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by
Laurentino Ramirez. Motion carried.
Angela Hurlock acknowledged that a long-time South Chicago community
supporter and activist Kevin Murphy had died.
Service Provider: South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc.

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

July 11, 2019

2. Items for Approval
Mr. Schell presented the June and July invoices for payment approval. The
security bills had not been received as of the meeting but there being no
unforeseen added costs, the commissioners agreed to include the June 15-30
bill and the July 1-15 bill in the approval of June and July expenses. After a brief
discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the June and July
invoices was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion
carried.
Mr. Schell presented the proposed 2020 Budget Summary and Work Plan. After
detailed discussion regarding each section of the proposed budget, work plan
and scope of services, a motion to approve the SSA 5, 2020 Proposed Budget
Summary, Work Plan and scope of services was made by Laurentino Ramirez,
seconded by Alex J. Alemis.
Additionally, a motion to approve South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc., as
the 2020 Service Provider Agency was made by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond,
seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.
3. Items for Discussion
A request by Justin Jordan, business owner for a blanket letter of support from
the SSA 5 commissioners was revisited. After a discussion, it was agreed that
each event he hosts, he can request a support letter if it aligns with the goals of
the community and SSA 5. Also, Mr. Jordan will be invited to join the event
committee of the SSA 5.
Dave price discussed the possibility of teaming with a non-profit agency called
Resurrection Project to clean lots that are in need of clearing and cleaning.
Dave Price said he is meeting with the individuals form the 10th Ward
Alderwoman’s office, Danielle, and the 4th District Police Commander to discuss
the future planned events for the SSA 5.
Dave Price stated the “Third Thursday” musical group for July will be the Myron
Miles Jazz Band, Thursday, July 18, 2019. The event will take place at 90th and
Commercial Avenue.
Commissioner Bonnie Dinell-Dimond requested that it would be wonderful to
engage the media and get some positive recognition for the South Chicago
neighborhood and SSA 5.

Service Provider: South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc.

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

July 11, 2019

Adjournment
There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 3:45 p.m.
was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond. Motion
carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting – August 22, 2019 at 2:00 p.m.

Service Provider: South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc.

 