Guide Development Minutes
Tuesday, September 10, 2019 8:10 – 9:20 AM
Goddess & the Grocer – 1649 N. Damen Ave.
In attendance: Marcy Huttas (Committee Chair), Brent Norsman (Voting Member), Chad
Jashelski (Voting Member)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
1. Wicker Park Advisory Council Safety Rebate Application
a. The committee reviewed the application to retroactively fund WPAC’s request
for security during Wicker Park Fest.
b. Commissioners had previously discussed and agreed to split the remaining
balance of $1,140.00 with 1st Ward Alderman LaSpata’s office.
Motion 1: The Guide Development motions to approve funding not to exceed $600.00 from line
item 5.05 (General Safety & Security Programs) to reimburse Wicker Park Advisory Council for
hired security for Wicker Park (1425 N. Damen Ave.) during Wicker Park Fest on July 26-28th.
(19-0911)

MH motions. BN seconds. All in favor. MOTION PASSES.
2. Legacy Business Recognition Program
a. The committee reviewed the spreadsheet with list of businesses collected by
staff
b. Staff will be receiving quotes for the clings within the next week and then
sending them to print
c. Silverman will be looped into conversation for PR
d. This program will allow staff to highlight participating businesses on social media
3. 2019 Budget Update
a. GK presented the current 2019 budget as it relates to Guide Development
Committee
b. Even though most of these lines appear as though they will not be spent in 2019,
several large expenses within those categories (i.e. holiday decoration) make the
budget very tight for the rest of the year
4. 2020 Neighborhood Branding / Promotional Campaign
a. Staff updated the committee on last week’s discussion with Promote Committee.
i. They would like to plan a focus group to run several ideas by the group
and see what sticks
b. The committee expressed concern with how slow this process is going and would
like to see SSA use 2020 budget to hire outside firm

 5. Window Works updates
a. BN suggested reaching out to Silver Room since they just announced their popup will be wrapping up at the end of this month
6. Photo-op Frame
a. Staff received two submissions from one artist
b. BN suggested a branded mural/wall for photos. This could possibly be done in
collaboration with the Arts Committee through their mural program.

 