MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE
JEFFERSON VAN DYKE
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Metro Church of Christ
1511 Van Dyke
Detroit, MI 48214
5:30 PM
In attendance were:
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Michael Higgins (Jefferson Van Dyke)
John Heiss (Jefferson Van Dyke)
Luis Ramirez (Jefferson Van Dyke)
Sara Jo Shipley (ASTI)
Bryan Cook (Berardi)
Roger Saylor
Lisa Linn
Mark Davis
Byron Osbern
Mark Owens
Curtis Cameron
Frances Howard
Menuette Cooley
Torianno Thomas
Mr. Vosburg called the meeting to order at 5:35 PM.
Mr. Vosburg and Ms. Capler informed the hearing of the tax increment financing request per the Brownfield
Plan, provided an overview of the project, and answered questions regarding the activities to be reimbursed
through tax increment financing.
Mr. Higgins and Mr. Heiss provided details regarding the redevelopment plan for the project location and
answered questions regarding the existing and planned parking structure and its availability to residents
and the public, anticipated rental rates, affordable housing and the levels of affordability of the residential
units, environmental cleanup and related review and oversight, the plans for employment of Detroit
residents and contractors in accordance with Executive Orders, potential tenants for the retail spaces, the
plans for the pedestrian plaza on Jefferson Avenue, the construction timeline, ownership of adjacent
properties, and engagement with community groups.
Mr. Osbern suggested the developer make a strong effort to pursue hiring minorities and minority
contractors to work on the project.
Ms. Howard suggested that there be meeting spaces available in the development for local nonprofits and
community groups to utilize.

 Paper copies of the Brownfield Plan and renderings for the project were provided.
Nine people present indicated their support for the project on the sign-in sheet. There were no comments
received in opposition of the project.
Citing no further public comments, Mr. Vosburg closed the public hearing at 6:07 PM.

 