Item No. 1

September 17, 2019
RESOLUTION NO. 2019-CHAWHEREAS,

Eugene E. Jones, Jr., after faithfully serving the Chicago Housing Authority,
tendered his resignation as Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Housing
Authority effective as of the end of the day on September 10, 2019; and

WHEREAS,

The Board of Commissioners accepted the resignation of Eugene E. Jones,
Jr. as Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Housing Authority and all
authority of such position granted to him as such was rescinded, as of the
close of business on September 10, 2019; and

WHEREAS,

On September 10, 2019, the position of Acting Chief Executive Officer of
the Chicago Housing Authority was offered to James L. Bebley; and

WHEREAS,

James L. Bebley has agreed to serve as such Acting Chief Executive Officer
of the Chicago Housing Authority until the appointment of the Chief
Executive Officer position has been made.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

James L. Bebley is hereby appointed as the Acting Chief Executive Officer of
the Chicago Housing Authority, until such time as a permanent Chief
Executive Officer is appointed by this Board. James L. Bebley is hereby
granted supervisory and management responsibility over all Chicago Housing
Authority operations, programs and activities, all to be exercised in
accordance with the approved policies and procedures of the Chicago Housing
Authority.

THAT

James L. Bebley shall have the following authority in his capacity as Acting
Chief Executive Officer:
1)

Signatory authority to execute, including but not limited to, bonds,
leases, mortgages, contracts, agreements, grant applications, grants,
correspondence, payroll and operations/bank drafts, transfers of funds
and other legal and official documents necessary for the operation of
the Chicago Housing Authority; and

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 www.thecha.org

 2)

Delegation authority to appoint appropriate Chicago Housing Authority
employees as designees to sign contracts, bonds, leases, mortgages, grant
applications, grants, correspondence, payroll, operations/bank drafts, transfers
of funds and other legal and official documents as he deems necessary for the
efficient operation of the Chicago Housing Authority.

THAT

The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority hereby ratifies any
and all actions that James L. Bebley has taken between the dates of September 10,
2019 when he agreed to serve as Acting Chief Executive Officer and September 17,
2019, the date of his appointment at this Board meeting.

THAT

All financial institutions are requested and directed to honor checks, drafts, and/or
other payment orders that bear the facsimile signature of James L. Bebley without
regard to whom or by what means the actual or purported facsimile signature(s)
thereon may have been affixed thereto, if such signature(s) resemble(s) the facsimile
specimen(s) of such signature(s) certified to and filed with the financial institution by
or on behalf of the Chicago Housing Authority.

_____________________________
Craig Chico, Interim Chairman
Chicago Housing Authority

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 www.thecha.org

 