Ke??m??ublv
7/ )7 

NEIGHBORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES STANDING
COMMITTEE

?go

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

September 10, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002333 100% Capital Bond (4533) Funding To Provide Non-Pursuit Small and
Large Sedans for the following City Departments: Fire, DPW, PDD,
Recreation, GSD, Inspector General, City Clerk, Elections and Fleet
Loaner Pool. Contract includes contingency for in?ation of 4th year order.
Contractor: Jefferson Chevrolet Company Location: 2130 Jefferson
Avenue, Detroit, MI 48207 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through August 31, 2021 Total Contract Amount:
$500,000.00. GENERAL SERVICES

ReSpectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM SHEFFIELD

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002333 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated September 10, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

21

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
September 10, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or pers0n(s):

6002366 100% City Funding To Provide Installation of Park Equipment and a
Vault Toilet at Mariner Park. Contractor: Premier Group Associates 
Location: 535 Griswold Street Suite 1420, Detroit, MI 48226 Contract
Period: Upon City Council Approval through September 16, 2020 Total
Contract Amount: $205,020.00. GENERAL SERVICES

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM SHEFFIELD

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002366 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated September 10, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

l8100 MEYERS
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48235

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1100 - 
PARKS RECREATION DEPARTMENT (313) 224-3544 FAX 

  
  

ADMINISTRATION OFFICE 

 

September 9, 2019

Honorable City Council;

Re: Authorization to accept a donation of park improvements from Palace Sports and
Entertainment, LLC, to install murals at Tolan Play?eld and Palmer Park.

Detroit General Services Department is requesting authorization from your Honorable Body to
accept a donation of park improvements from Palace Sports and Entertainment, LLC to install
murals at Tolan Play?eld and Palmer Park.

The park improvements consist of painting murals. The cost of the improvements,
approximately $15,000 per mural (total $30,000), will be borne by Palace Sports and
Entertainment, LLC and the Wilson Foundation. As a gift, ownership rights to the murals will
be transferred entirely to the City.

We respectfully request your authorization to accept this donation of park improvements with a
Waiver of Reconsideration

Sincerely,

?}anet Anderson, 
Director

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

 

Whereas, General Services Department is requesting authorization to accept a park donation
from Palace Sports and Entertainment, consisting of painted murals to be installed at Tolan
Play?eld and Palmer Park

Whereas, the park improvements will consist of the painting of murals at the basketball courts at
Tolan Play?eld and Palmer Park. The cost, approximately $15,000 per mural, will be borne by
the Palace Sports and Entertainment, LLC and the Wilson Foundation

Resolved, General Services Department is authorized to accept a donation of park improvements
from the Palace Sports and Entertainment, LLC to be installed at Tolan Play?eld and Palmer
Park basketball courts.

 DIPAHTMINT
Parks 8. Recreation Improvement

Division Authorization Form
DETROIT

 

APPLICANT SECTION

 

Requesting Organization Name: Today?s Date: 27. 2019

 

 

 

 

Contact NamezAwenate Cobbina DPRD property Name: Palmer Park and Totan Play?eld
Phone: 248'377'0122 Merlt'l and 3901 Gtryuler Drive
Email: acobbina@pistons.com Location within the Property:

 

Address: 6 Championship Dr, Auburn Hills MI 48326 Palmer Park and Tolan Playfleld Basketball Courts

 

Improvement Type:

til Park IE Physical Improvement
. El Not-Art ?ll out Donation Letter
El Fac'l'ty Rec center) til Art ?ll out Art Donation Letter

El Maintenance fill out SLA Letter
Improvement Project Description:
(Please specify if any listed funding are for an event I program. or not for a permanent. physical improvement.)
Painting of mural art on the Tolan Playfleld and Palmer Park basketball courts.

 

 

 

 

 

Estimated Value of Improvement: 3530.000

By submittingthis request llWelOur Organization agree(s) to abide by all rules and policies of the City of Detroit and
the General Services Department. Parks and Recreation Division: also agree that all information submitted in
this Park Improvement Authorization Form is true and accurate to the best of mylour knowledge and hereby
request that the Parks and Recreation Division consider my/our Project for approval. agree at my/our own
expense to defend. indemnify, save and hold harmless the City of Detroit. its of?cers, employees and agents against
and from any and all liabilities. obligations, damages. penalties. claims. costs, charges. and expenses (including
without limitation, fees and expenses of attorneys. expert witnesses and other consultants) which may be imposed
upon, incurred by or asserted against myself/us and/or the City of Detroit by reason of or resulting from my/our use

of the DPRD Prope named a ove and construction of this Project as described herein.


Date: August 27, 2019

print Name: Awenate Cobbina

Signature:

 

 

 

Organization on behalf of: Palace Sports Entertainment, LLC

 

 

 

Please return this form to: Juliana Fulton General Services

fultonj@detroitmi.gov 18100 Meyers Rd, Upper Level
313-628-2365 Detroit MI 48235

 

GSD STAFF SECTION

 

Asset Information: -
. \r 2
DPRD Property Number: 1* ?33 Asset Life Cycle: 5 '0 {Us

AssetValue: 3 50.060- ?)S?oo Qath Decom tission Cost' {0:01:50 ?(96min
(OWL) {standard 

 

Maintenance Information:
GSD Maintenance Requirements: GSD Operations Requirements: Mr 

mural Watt-?wt hit (girth ?Emile;
{Al-n urethra} es.
+LJIiPltl'l\ till Mathl?te?u

GSD ProjectCoordinator: Hrit?mmx Date: 9 Ll? l?i

 

 

 

Authorization:
Project Denied

Project Approved as Submitted
El Project Approved with Changes:

 

*Approved by GSD Director:9W Date: 

*Requesting Group shall not have approval to make the requested park improvement without the approval of the
General Services Department Director

 

 

 

DETROIT

PISTONS

 

Tuesday, August 27, 2019

Janet Anderson, 

Director, General Services Department
Detroit Parks and Recreation Division
18 I 00 Meyers Road Lower Level
Detroit, Michigan 48235

Dear Dr. Anderson:

On behalf ofthe Detroit Pistons, 1 am writing to offer the donation ofmurals painted by Detroit-based
artists on the basketball courts located at Tolan Playfteld and Palmer Park. The muralists and I met with
community representatives for each neighborhood to ensure that these improvements are desired. After
reviewing each artists? sketch and artist statement with the community representatives, we received their
approval to move ahead. The meetings were observed by members of the Department of Neighborhoods
and Parks and Recreation. The cost ofthe improvements, approximately $15,000 per mural, are being
borne by Palace Sports and Entertainment LLC and the Wilson Foundation.

These improvements will take place in September 2019 to commemorate the second summer of
basketball court renovations that the Pistons have undertaken. Tolan Playfield and Palmer Park are two of
the 60 courts that are scheduled to be renovated by the Detroit Pistons under the Parks and Recreation
Master Plan of2015, and the Pistons community benefits agreement approved by the Pistons
Neighborhood Advisory Council and Detroit City Council in 2015.

As a gift, the ownership rights to the mural will be transferred entirely to the city. Atty rights to the
artwork, by the artists, or their descendants will be transferred in their entirely to the City of Detroit. After
the life cycle ofthe mural, the City of Detroit will return the court surface to the then-current color
scheme and specifications.

We respectfully request your authorization to accept and install the Tolan Play?eld Basketball Court
Mural and Palmer Park Basketball Court Mural, with a waiver ofreconsideration.

Sincerely,



Awenate Cobbina
Vice President of Business Affairs Associate Counsel
Palace Sports Entertainment, LLC

Clyw, IQWK

Jesse Kassel Tony 
Palmer Park Muralist Tolan Playf'leld Muralist

 

13

18100 MEYERS

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48235
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1100 -- 
PARKS RECREATION DEPARTMENT (313) 224-3544 FAX
ADMINISTRATION OFFICE 

 

September 9, 2019

Honorable City Council;

Re: Authorization to accept a donation of park improvements from the Michigan Handball
Association to be installed at Palmer Park.

Detroit General Services Department requests authorization from your Honorable Body to accept
a donation of park improvements from the Michigan Handball Association to be installed at
Palmer Park.

Park improvements will consists of the purchase and installation of solar lighting and wood
benches to be placed at the handball courts in Palmer Park. The estimated cost of $800 will be
borne by aforementioned organization.

We respectfully request your authorization to accept this donation of park improvements with a
Waiver of Reconsideration

Sincerely,
I/danet Anderson, 

Director

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

 

Whereas, the General Services Department is requesting authorization to accept a donation of
park improvements from the Michigan Handball Association to be installed at Palmer Park

Whereas, the park improvements consists of the purchase and installation of solar lighting and
wood benches to be placed at the handball courts in Palmer Park

Resolved, General Services Department is authorized to accept a donation of park improvements
from the Michigan Handball Association to be installed at Palmer Park.

GENERAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
Parks Recreation Improvement

em; Division Authorization Form
DETROIT

 

APPLICANT SECTION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Requesting Organization Name: Michigan Handbail Association Today?s Date: 08'14'19
Contact Name: Shaw? DPRD Property Name: Pa'mei Park
Phone. 248-210-4447 PropertyAddress: 910 Merrill Plaisance, Detroit. MI 48203
Email: Location within the Property: Handba" 00??9
Address: 4558 Middleton Road. West Bloom?eld, Mi. 48323
Improvement Type:
Park Physical Improvement

. . . Not?Art ?ll out Donation Letter
El Rec Center) UArt ?ll out Art Donation Letter

EIMaintenance ?ll out SLA Letter
Improvement Project Description:
(Please specify if any listed funding are for an event I program, or not for a permanent, physical improvement.)
Install four (4) 200 watt LED solar lights - one per each Court

 

Install four (4) wood benches.

 

 

 

 

Estimated Value of Improvement: $800

 

By submitting this request Organization agree(s) to abide by all rules and policies of the City of Detroit and
the General Services Department, Parks and Recreation Division. also agree that all information submitted in
this Park Improvement Authorization Form is true and accurate to the best of mylour knowledge and hereby
request that the Parks and Recreation Division consider mylour Project for approval. agree at mylour own
expense to defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless the City of Detroit, its of?cers, employees and agents against
and from any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims, costs. charges, and expenses (including
without limitation, fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and other consultants) which may be imposed
upon, incurred by or asserted against myself/us and/or the City of Detroit by reason of or resulting from mylour use
of the DPRD Property named above and construction of this Project as described herein.

Signature: gigs Date: 08-14-19

 

 

Print Name: Stewart Shevm

 

Organization on behalf Of' Michigan Handball Association

 

 

 

 

Please return this form to: Juliana Fulton General Services

fultonj@detroitmi.gov 18100 Meyers Rd, Upper Level
313-628-2365 Detroit MI 48235

 

GSD STAFF SECTION

 

Asset Information:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DPRD Property Number: 5 Asset Life Cycle: 0750 
Asset Value: 300 Decommission Cost: 7.00
Maintenance Information:
GSD Maintenance Requirements: GSD Operations Requirements:
Hone. Home:
.1 W.) . i (N0

 

{Win magmt??im 14?.ka 
{mud 

GSD Project Coordinator: Date: lay-low

 

Authorization:

Project Denied

mtoject Approved as Submitted
Project Approved with Changes:

 

 

*Approved by GSD Director: Date: 3 

*Requesting Group shall not have approval to make the requested park improvement without the approval of the
General Services Department Director

 

 

 

Michigan Handball Association
18890 San Quentin Drive
Lathrup Village, MI 48076

Dear Ms. Anderson,

On behalf of the Michigan Handball Association I am writing to offer our full assistance
in purchasing and installing solar lighting and wood benches at the Handball Courts in
Palmer Park. The costs, approximately $800 are being borne by the group mentioned
above. These improvements will take place on 08-15-19. We have worked with
community representatives to ensure these improvements are desired. There is no
maintenance required to maintain this improvement throughout the summer, or in the
expected future.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,



Stewart Shevin
Secretary
Michigan Handball Association

Chaudhry Farhat

From: Stewart Shevin <sshevin@comcast.net>

Sent: Friday, August 23, 2019 8:08 PM

To: Chaudhry Farhat

Cc: Jeff Klein

Subject: Re: Handball courts solar lights benches gift letter
Hi Farhat,

Ican?t tell you where I will be after the 50,000 hours of the light?s working time. I guess I would say the MHA
will try to replace them. But if in your document my signature implies a contract commitment to that
replacement, it is best to say they will be decommissioned.

- Stewart

Description
Solar Street Light Outdoor, 200W LED Flood Lights

0 Super bright LED: high quality LED lamp bead, high brightness, no flash frequency, high color
rendering index, the object under the light is closer to the real color, and the service life is up to 50,000 hours.

- Remote control and lighting control: The solar panel automatically turns offthe light during the day
and automatically lights up at night. You can also use the remote control to force the switch, timing, adjust the
brightness, convenient, energy saving, and no pollution.

- IP65 waterproof: This solar street light is made of die-cast aluminum, waterproof, anti-aging and long
service life. It can be used outdoors and can withstand all kinds of bad weather.

- Charging and lighting time: The new generation of silicon solar panels, charging faster,
automatic charging during the day, and equipped with a large-capacity safety battery, can be used for about
12-20 hours after full charge, all power comes from solar energy, 0 cost.

0 Easy to install: no wiring required. Mounted with screws, suspended from a balcony, garden, outdoor
wall or mounted on a pole, it can work automatically without maintenance, it has a wider illumination angle,
ideal for courtyard lighting, road lighting

0 lP65 Waterproof Wide Beam Angle: With IP65 rating, it can be widely used in outdoor and indoor
lighting projects; shadow-free and anti-glare,providing great bright light.

Turn Automatically: Light Sensor outdoor solar street lights turns on at dusk keep on dim mode, turn
off at daytime and start recharge. PIR Motion Sensor(120? angle, 19.6ft sensor distance)

On Aug 23, 2019, at 4:29 PM, Chaudhry Farhat wrote:



Hi Stewart,



Also, if the lights last for, let?s say 4 years (Or whatever years you think) .. What is the plan after that? Do you
plan to replace? Decommission?

I need all that info to complete paper work.

Thank you.



Farhat

 

