TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

L.

al?l'wm

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL I 7

rah?" . . . .
To 
Mr. Curtis Hugo Burl Kilpatrick

?In Recoanitirm 0 Your emermia/ 100m Birthday."
- .

Whereas, October 20, 2019, marks the 100th Birthday of Mr. Curtis Hugo Burl Kilpatrick, a very signi?cant milestone,
reserved for very few. The Detroit City Council would like to publicly acknowledge this important event in his life.
and

Whereas, Curtis Kilpatrick was born on October 20, 1919, in Clarksdale, Arkansas, to the union of Virginia Dubose

Kilpatrick and Warren Rudolph Kilpatrick. His mother was six months pregnant with his brother, Warren Rudolph
Kilpatrick Jr., when his father made his heavenly transition. Shortly therea?er, Curtis and his mother moved back
to Jackson, Alabama, where he began his education; and

Whereas, After graduating ?'om high school and working a few odd jobs, Curtis was drafted into the United States Army in
1943. He received an honorable discharge in 1945. As a result of the GI. Bill that was passed by Congress and
signed into law by President Franklin Roosevelt in 1944, Curtis enrolled at the Tuskegee Institute, where he
studied tailoring. After completing his course of study, Curtis accepted a position in Memphis, Tennessee to teach
tailoring. He taught there for three years before returning to Jackson. Curtis started his own dry cleaning business,
City Cleaners and Tailors, which operated for over 38 years; and

Whereas, Elder Kilpatrick gave his life to Christ at an early age and was baptized at Mt. Olive #2 Baptist Church. He grew
spiritually and had many opportunities to experience the goodness of God. He served as a Sunday School teacher,
trustee, and deacon. While faithfully serving the body of Christ, he received the call to ministry at Mt. Olive under
the leadership of Reverend Williams. Elder Kilpatrick was later ordained to preach the gospel at Good Hope
Missionary Baptist Church in Salitpa, Alabama. in the 703, he served as Pastor of Old Mt. Sinai Baptist Church
until God laid it on his heart to build The House of Prayer. Elder Kilpatrick is affectionately referred to as the ?Sin
Buster?; and

Whereas, Elder Kilpatrick has been very fortunate to have had two wonderful women in his life. He married his ?rst wife,
Ola Belle Burroughs Kilpatrick in 1945. They were together for 22 years before she went on to be with the Lord.
To this union one son was born. Elder Kilpatrick later married his second wife, Ethel Louise Alston Kilpatrick.
who loved him and supported him in his ministry and in life. They were married for over 39 years until the Lord
called her home at the tender age of Elder Kilpatrick is the father of Curtis Jr., who is married to Emily
JoAnna. He has two grandsons, Curtis and Eric Jarreau; two granddaughters, Carmen (Keith) Williams and
Cindita (Frazier) Cunningham; four great?grandsons, Christopher, Timothy, Daeven, and Daeon; and two great-
granddaughters, Kennedy and Victoria. Elder Kilpatrick has witnessed many historical events during the century
of his life and imparted many caveats of wisdom. At age 100, Elder Kilpatrick keeps moving ?by the power of
God. As family and friends are gathered here today to commemorate and celebrate his 100th Birthday, it is
abundantly ?tting and proper that Elder Curtis Hugo Burl Kilpatrick be appropriately recognized during this
very special and memorable time of his life. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

Resolved, That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones congratulate Elder Curtis Hugo Burl
Kilpatrick on the occasion of his 100th Birthday. We wish him continued peace, good health and happiness.

EMB

 
 
    

 

COUNCIL 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

COUNCIWEMBER 
October 20, 2019

DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 98

. . Ll, f7 .
(56/51/61? 

Detective Dalanda Rutledge
?More than 23 Years of Dedicated Service?
DETROIT POLICE DEPARTMENT

WHEREAS, On September 14, 2019, Detective Dalanda Rutledge, badge D-4657, assigned to the Special
Victims Unit, will be retiring from the Detroit Police Department (DPD) after more than
twenty-three (23) years of exemplary service to the citizens of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, Of?cer Rutledge was appointed to the Detroit Police Department on May 6, 1996. Upon
completion of basic training at the Detroit Police Academy, Officer Rutledge was assigned to
the Eleventh Precinct. She also worked at the Sex Crimes Unit; and

WHEREAS, On December 19, 2016, Of?cer Rutledge was promoted to the rank of Detective and assigned
to the Special Victims Unit. Later, Detective Rutledge was assigned to the Sex Crimes Unit
where she remained until her retirement; and

WHEREAS, During her career with the Detroit Police Department, Detective Rutledge was the recipient of
numerous departmental awards which included a Chief?s Citation, the NFL Super Bowl XL
Recognition Award, Rosa Parks Funeral Recognition Award, MLB All Star Baseball
Recognition Award, the Conclusion of the Conditions of Con?nement Consent Judgement
Award, and the Fireworks Celebration Award. Detective Rutledge also received seVeral
accolades from within the Department and from other agencies and citizens for her
professionalism and expertise; and

WHEREAS, Detective Dalanda Rutledge has served the Detroit Police Department and the citizens of
Detroit with commitment, loyalty and professionalism. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones hereby commend
Detective Dalanda Rutledge for her contributions to the Detroit Police Department; working
to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of Detroit; and for more than twenty-three
years of dedicated law enforcement service.

3%
at? 2 7 

 

    

 

 

 

 



 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS.

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

 

- ru 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

CC: (2.5 tunanmi 

CORPORAL DENISE V. WALKER

?32 Years of Dedicated Service?
DETROIT POLICE DEPARTMENT

On September 9, 2019, CORPORAL DENISE V. WALKER, assigned to Special Events, will retire from the
Detroit Police Department (DPD) after thirty-two (32) years ofdedicated service to the citizens of Detroit: and

On April 6. 1987. OFFICER DENISE WALKER was appointed to the Detroit Police Department. Upon
completion of the Detroit Police Academy. OFFICER ?rst assignment was the Detroit Police
Department?s Youth Section. On September 30, 1988, OFFICER WALKER was transferred to the Seventh
Precinct. Her assignments included patrol and administrative duties. On July 6, I999, OFFICER WALKER was
assigned to the newly created Gaming Division and served as the liaison between the Detroit Police Department and
Motor City Casino. OFFICER WALKER worked the Distraction Theft Unit and was instrumental in several
successful surveillance operations which resulted in prosecution and/or the prevention of crime. Her additional
assignments included the Metropolitan Division, Risk Management Section. Northeastern District, Of?ce of the
Assistant Chief, Of?ce of the Chief of Police, the Tactical Operations Section. First Precinct, and Downtown
Services; and

On January 1, 2019, being in good standing with an exemplary service record. OFFICER WALKER was recognized
and of?cially promoted to the rank of Corporal. ln her current assignment as the Chiefs Neighborhood
Liaison/Special Events, CORPORAL WALKER continued to excel, Operating as the Detroit Police Department?s
liaison for major events, such as the North American International Auto Show (NAIAS). the Ford Fireworks. the
Mayoral State of the City Address, National Association of Black Engineers, NAACP National Convention, and
countless dignitary visits, from United States Presidents and Vice Presidents, to foreign heads of state; and

Throughout her stellar career, CORPORAL WALKER was the recipient of numerous departmental awards,
including the MLB All-Star Baseball Recognition Award, NFL Super Bowl XL Award, Rosa Parks Funeral Award,
Ford Fireworks Award, the Conclusion of Consent Judgement Award, Chief?s Merit Awards, and many citations,
letters of appreciation and recommendation. It is to be noted, CORPORAL last and most recent
appreciation and tribute was being selected as a nominee for the Detroit Metro Convention Visitors Bureau?s
prestigious 2019 Rose Award; and

CORPORAL DENISE WALKER served the Detroit Police Department and the citizens of Detroit with
commitment, loyalty and professionalism. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones hereby commend CORPORAL DENISE V.
WALKER for her contributions to the Detroit Police Department: working to ensure the safety and well-being ol
the citizens of Detroit; and thirty-two years of dedicated law enforcement service.



.COUCL IDENT

 

 

 

 

 



1' IL
1"
with ,6

 

 




0' .4

6, 2019/

DATE

 


-1.

