MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
JANUARY 17, 2019
JAMES R. THOMPSON CENTER
100 WEST RANDOLPH ST. ROOM 9-040
1:00 PM
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
The regular meeting of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission was held at the James R.
Thompson Center, Chicago, Illinois 60601 Room 9-031 pursuant to notice.
Call the Roll:
Constance Beard, Chair
Donald O’Connell, Commissioner
Cynthia Cronin Cahill, Commissioner
Patricia Pulido Sanchez, Commissioner
Thomas Gibbons, Commissioner
Ann Deters, Commissioner
Gerald Gorman, Commissioner
Also Present:
Chimaobi Enyia, Acting Executive Director
Thomas Schlenhardt, Associate Director
Dusanka Marijan, Licensing Administrator
Les Peterson, Enforcement Director
Lee Roupas, BASSET Manager
Pamela Paziotopoulos, Deputy General Counsel
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

I.

Approval of Minutes
a. A motion was made by Commissioner Cahill to approve the release of the
minutes of the December 5, 2018 Board Meeting. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Gibbons. The motion was unanimously approved.

II.

Director’s Report
a. Acting Director Enyia informed the Commissioners of the completion of the
Legal Procedural manual.
b. Acting Director Enyia announced the ILCC Newsletter will be distributed
February 1, 2019.
c. Acting Director Enyia has continued conversations with CMS for a new space for
the ILCC.

 d. Acting Director Enyia informed the Commission of the progress of the Byrd case.
e. Illinois Licensed Beverage Association (ILBA) presented to the Commission.
f. Acting Director Enyia provided the current procedures to the One Time Transfer
requests.

III.

Enforcement Division
a. The ILCC completed 140 SAM compliance checks, 24 failed. Eight compliance
checks were repeat violators, 2 violated again. This gives a repeat violator
compliance rate of 75%.
b. The ILCC cited 54 establishments for operating without a valid State of Illinois
Liquor License.
c. As of January 6th, the FY19 LC-13 program has 60 active contracts, using 268
inspectors. These contracts will cover 6,079 licenses.
d. For the period 7/1/18 – 12/31/18 the LC-13 program inspectors have performed
1,674 inspections resulting in 601 licenses with violations.

IV.

Licensing Division
a. The percentage of online renewals is 86%, the highest since online renewals was
implemented. Mrs. Marijan also provided a report of all new licenses issued for
December 2018.
b. In December 2018 the ILCC issued 272 new licenses across all categories.
c. The ILCC published the Brewers Warehouse Permit license online. This allow a
Class 1 or Class 2 Brewer to store or warehouse their product at another premises
specified on the permit

V.

Industry Education
a. The total number of BASSET applicants trained in November 2018 was 5,687.
b. The total number of BASSET applicants in the look up is 264,209.
c. A BASSET training class was held in Wilmington, IL.
d. The Parental Responsibility Campaign was presented to Somonauk Middle
School and Magnet Elementary School in December 2018.

 VI.

Legal Division
a. A motion was made by Commissioner Cahill to approve the Administrative Law
Judge tax case recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
O’Connell. The motion was unanimously approved.
b. A motion was made by Commissioner O’Connell to approve the Administrative
Law Judge default recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Gibbons. The motion was unanimously approved.
c. Dolton Shell & Winning Circle were heard before Commissioners Cahill &
O’Connell. Dolton Shell agreed to a one (1) day suspension and a $2500.00 fine.
Winning Circle agreed to a three (3) day suspension and a $5000.00 fine. A
motion was made by Commissioner Deters to approve the Sale to Minor cases.
The motion was seconded by Commissioners Gibbons. The motion was
unanimously approved.

VII.

Public Comment
a. Attorney Dimitri Christopoulos informed the Commission of SB54.

VIII.

Closing Remarks and Adjournment to Hearing
a. Commissioner O’Connell made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Motion was
seconded by Commissioner Cahill. Motion unanimously approved.

ATTEST:

_______________________________
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

 