MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY LAND BANK AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

December 13, 2018

Board of Directors of the Cook County Land Bank Authority met pursuant to notice on
December 13, 2018 at 10:00 AM at the Cook County Administration Building, 69 West
Washington, 22?"1d Floor, Suite Chicago, Illinois 60602.

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
Chairman Gainer called the meeting of the Board of Directors to order.

Present: Directors Friedman, Gainer, Holmes, Limas, Ostenburg, Planey, Richardson, Reifman,
Sherwin, Smith, Stewart, and Ware (12)

Absent: (0)
Also Present: Robert Rose (CCLBA Executive Director)

Others Present: Anthony Blakely (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Emily Carlson (Solstice
Stained Glass), Natasha M. Cornog (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Brent Denzin
(Denzin Soltanzadeh), Dominic Diorio (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Darlene Dugo
(Cook County Land Bank Authority), Ella Britton Gibson (Woodiawn Works), Gene Kelley
(Cook County Land Bank Authority), Sharon Louis (Concerned Citizen), David Lubin
(Woodlawn Works/University Cowork), Sharon Malloy (Woodlawn Works), Aaron Martel]
(Logistics Property), Emily Robinson (Elevated Energy), Mustafaa Saleh (Cook County Land
Bank Authority), Elisha Sanders (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Claudette Shivers (Cook
County Land Bank Authority), Alex Simmons (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Stephen
Soltanzadeh (Denzin Soltanzadeh), Caroline Wellford (C-Strategies), Cindy Williams (Cook
County Land Bank Authority)

11. Public Speakers
Chairwoman Gainer noted there was no public speaker:

111. Award Presentation
Chairman Bridget Gainer and Executive Director Rob Rose presented Cook County
Clerk, Karen Yarbrough, with an award recognizing her initial seeding ideas to create a platform
for a Land Bank, as well as, her involvement with helping to move CCLBA forward.

IV. Executive Director?s Report (Robert Rose)
Director Rose began his presentation with the following announcements:
0 CCLBA would be given away a fully rehabbed house in the Village of Maywood
on December 21, 2018
0 CCLBA will be switching it?s legal services to the new law practice of ?Denzin
Soltanzadeh 

 a i -
.iim .
FY 2018 accomplishments:
- CCLBA generated nearly $11 million in earned program income; 9% increase
over 2017
Closed with a record- high 687 transactions in 2018; 26% increase over 2017
Created $42.4 million in market value via reoccupied/rehabbed homes
90 Homes were sold to direct consumers via the Homebuyer Direct Program
CCLBA received $250,000 from Illinois Housing Development Authority to
continue blight reduction efforts

Year-in-Review:
CCLBA acquired 307 properties (including 207 homes via surpassing
. 355 homes acquired in 2017

CCLBA converted 118 certi?cates into tax deeds from the 2015 Scavenger Sale

0 CCLBA is on track to take 32% of tax certi?cates to deed; greatly exceeding the
sub-1% taken by the private market 

CCLBA has sold 317 properties; surpassing 182 properties sold in 2017

0 CCLBA have processed nearly 5,000 applications for property acquisition

0 CCLBA has sold 140 homes since the rollout of the Homebuyer Direct program,
August 1, 2017 (90 homes were sold in 2018)

0 Daniel Taylor was hired as an Asset Manager to help increase capacity and
organizational ef?ciency

- CCLBA has partnered with the Village of Ford Heights via an IGA for target
redevelopment

0 CCLBA continues to work with the City of Chicago and speci?c departments
around abandonment, building initiatives/forfeitures, as well as, coordinate and
support South Suburban Land Bank as a companion

Finance Report
CCLBA is seeing a decrease in revenue, but an increase in earned revenue. CCLBA is receiving

less grant funding; which is mainly a reimbursable grant for demolition. Revenue is lower, as
well as, expenses because the expenses are linked directly to the activities. CCLBA continues to
have a strong and positive fund balance.

Director Holmes: CCLBA is in a very solid ?nancial position.

V. Land Transactions Committee Report Peter Friedman
Regarding the Washington Park National Bank Building the evaluation committee received three
proposals and has requested more information from each applicant, the committee will meet
again in January, 2019.

Director Friedman recommended moving the 9325 King Drive, Franklin Park, IL project forward
to Board of Directors for approval.

VI. Approval to enter into a Purchase Sales Agreement with Logistics Property Company
LLC for 9325 King Avenue. Franklin Park, IL
Director Ostenburg seconded by Director Friedman moved to approve the Purchase Sales
Agreement with Logistics Property Company LLC for 9325 King Avenue, Franklin Park, IL
The motion carried unanimously.

 i. i. i

.,


VII. Motion to appjoye the Resolution Amending Cook County Land Bank Authority
Policies and Procedures to Include Con?ict of Interest Policy
Director Friedman seconded by Director Planey moved to approve the Resolution Amending
Cook County Land Bank Authority Policies and Procedures to Include Con?ict of Interest Policy
The motion carried unanimously.

Motion to approve the Cook County Land Bank Authority Board of Directors 2019

meeting schedule
There was an on the ?oor amendment from the original dates to the following dates:

March 15, 2019
June 21, 2019
September 20, 2019
December 13, 2019

Director Friedman seconded by Director Ostenburg moved to approve the amended meeting
schedule dates for Board of Directors meetings. The motion carried unanimously.

IX. Motion to approve the Cook County Land Bank Authority Land Transactions
Committee 2019 meeting schedule
Director Friedman seconded by Director Ostenburg moved to approve the meeting schedule
dates for Land Transactions Committee meetings. The motion carried unanimously.

IV. Motion to approve the Cook County Land Bank Authority Data and Marketing
Committee 2019 meeting schedule
Director Friedman seconded by Director Ostenburg moved to approve the meeting schedule
dates for Data and Marketing Committee meetings. The motion carried
unanimously.
XI. Consent Agenda

Director Planey, seconded by Director Richardson, moved to approve the consent agenda which
includes the minutes of the September 27, 2018 Cook County Land Bank Board of Directors
meeting. The motion carried unanimously.

XII. Chairman Report (Commissioner Bridget Gainer)

0 Chairman Gainer acknowledged that CCLBA is on the way to changing the system
regarding the tax sale and the way people get access to these properties.

0 Chairman Gainer thanked the staff for doing their jobs and making a massive impact on
the County and City Chicago; also gave thanks to ED, Rose, for overseeing the
organization and executing mission.

0 Wished everyone Happy Holidays and Great New Year.

Adiournment
Director Planey, seconded by Director Limas moved to adjourn. The motion carried
unanimously and the meeting was adjourned.

cclba?

Respectfully submitted,
Boa of rectors of the Cook County Land Bank Authority

 

Attest.

 

Director Ostenburg, Secretary

