MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY LAND BANK AUTHORITY LAND
TRANSACTIONS COMMITTEE
April 12, 2019
Land Transactions Committee of the Cook County Land Bank Authority met pursuant to notice
on April 12, 2019 at 10:00 AM at the Cook County Building, 69 W. Washington Street 22nd
Floor, Chicago, Illinois.
I. Call to Order and Roll Call
Chairman Friedman called the meeting of the Land Transactions Committee to order.
Present: Chairman Friedman, Director Ostenburg, Director Monocchio and Robert Rose (CCLBA
Executive Director) (4)
Absent: Directors Planey, Reifman (2)
Others Present: Bob Benjamin (Cook County Treasurer’s Office), Anthony Blakely (Cook
County Land Bank Authority), Jerry Brown (Siesel & Callahan), Dominic Diorio (Cook County
Land Bank Authority), Kayla Lane-Freeman (City Bureau), David Herrera (Golden Mean
Group INC), Erica Knox (City Bureau), Victor Martinez, Robert McMurtry (Allstate), Elisha
Sanders (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Claudette Shivers (Cook County Land Bank
Authority), Alex Simmons (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Daniel Taylor (Cook County
Land Bank Authority), Cindy Williams (Cook County Land Bank Authority)
II. Public Speakers
Chairman Friedman noted that there were no registered public speakers present.
III Land Transactions Report
Robert Rose gave an update on the following CCLBA activities: Core Business Activities, Current
Commercial Projects, Scavenger Sale, and FY 2019 Focus. The dashboard covers December 2018
through March 2019.
Core Business Activities
The CBA report covers the period from December 1, 2018 through March 31, 2019. CCLBA
acquired 39 homes, disposed of 70 homes, and demolished 2.
Cumulative Core Business Outcomes
In terms of Community Wealth, CCLBA is over $51.0 million; 71% of our goal.
Cumulative Core Business Activities
Cumulative Core Business Activities as of March 31, 2019 are as follows: 1,144 Acquisitions, 119
Demolitions, 807 Dispositions, 414 Rehabs, 337 Properties in Inventory, 361 Properties
Reoccupied.

1 Page

 Wheeling/Leydon Township – CCLBA is finalizing this project. There are 3 more properties that
are pending. In terms of total programs, CCLBA anticipates to have this project completed by early
2020.
We’re currently working with MWRD in Robbins, IL. They are looking to build a retention pond
and do some developing around the retention pond. CCLBA has been assisting in that area.
The Riverside Lawn Buyout Program – Funding for all acquisitions must be completed by June
2019. Final offers have been made to all interested parties. Franklin Park as a community in whole
is currently interested in participating in this program.
CTA Redline – Lots has been identified in the proposed path and CCLBA is currently reviewing
the acquisition process. A series of grants has been approved for the CTA Red Line. The extensions
are well underway.
IHDA Program/Abandoned Properties Program – These are properties that needs to be demolished.
The state will reimburse CCLBA using APP funds. CCLBA has received 250k for Round Three.
Applications Monthly Breakdown
CCLBA has received a cumulative total of 12,131 applications; 975 applications (February/March)
over the last period.
Commercial Projects
The Stewart Building (6429 S. Stewart) – The 45-unit was approved by the Board of Directors for
CCLBA to purchase it. CCLBA is in the process of finalizing the paperwork. The closing of the
property is anticipated in May 2019.
Washington Park National Bank Building (6300 S. Cottage Grove) – Revive 6300 was selected
by the Selection Committee. It’s the joint venture between DL3 Realty and Greenlining Realty.
CCLBA is in the process of drafting that redeveloping agreement. The developers are working on
their financing for the project.
Harvey Hotel Chicago China Gateway Development (171st and Halsted Street) –The building has
been demolished. This will be a 140,000 square foot warehouse facility that will be built on the
site of the old Chicago Park Hotel on the corner of 80th and Halsted. CCLBA is in the process of
purchasing a final parcel and anticipate the sale in June 2019.
Berwyn Development Corporation – This Land Banking Agreement was approved by the Board
of Directors at the last meeting. The Berwyn Development Corporation is a nonprofit
organization. This organization works on behalf of the Village of Berwyn. BDC currently works
on projects for their Roosevelt Road corridor.
Scavenger Sale (7,553 bids)
The next Scavenger Sale will be in July 2019. Once the Cook County Treasurer’s Office has
finalized the list, CCLBA will determine how many properties will be available. CCLBA will focus
on a higher conversion rate from what CCLBA acquire to what should be taken to deed.
2 Page

 As of March 31st, CCLBA has received 4,307 applications, a total of 1,772 PIN’s applied for, 410
purchase agreements are in place and the delinquent taxes for 704 PIN’s have been redeemed on
the tax certificates.
Scavenger Sale Tax Redemptions
~$8.28 million is the current total which includes 704 owners that have redeemed taxes. For the
2017 Scavenger Sale, the process is still ongoing.
Suburban Municipalities (1,632): Bellwood, Chicago Heights, Country Club Hills, Dixmoor,
Forest Park, Hazel Crest, Homewood, Matteson, Maywood, Melrose Park, Midlothian, Olympia
Fields, Orland Hills, Posen, Riverdale, South Holland, and Stone Park.
City of Chicago Neighborhoods (6,146): Auburn Gresham, Austin, Belmont Cragin, Brighton
Park, Chatham, Chicago Lawn, East Garfield Park, Englewood, Gage Park, Grand Boulevard,
Greater Grand Crossing, Hermosa, Humboldt Park, Morgan Park, Pilsen, Roseland, South Shore,
Washington Heights, Washington Park, West Pullman, Woodlawn, and Miscellaneous
Neighborhoods.
FY2019 Focus
CCLBA continues to focus on acquiring 800 homes by the balance of the fiscal year and to execute
the scavenger sale opportunities. CCLB would like to dispose 400 properties this year. CCLBA is
currently working with developer pools, homeowners, development partners and non-profits.
Homebuyer Direct Program: The program has been very successful and CCLBA continues to work
with banking partners and housing counseling agencies to source and service such deals. The
properties are listed on MLS by our acquisition specialist Tony Blakely.
IV. Consent Agenda
Director (Mayor) Ostenburg, seconded by Director Monocchio moved to approve the Consent
Agenda CCLBA Land Transactions Committee for December 6, 2018.
V. Adjournment
Chairman Friedman moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED AND THE MEETING WAS
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the Cook County Land Bank Authority

________________________________
Peter Friedman, Committee Chair

3 Page

 