MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
MARCH 21, 2019
JAMES R. THOMPSON CENTER
100 WEST RANDOLPH ST. ROOM 9-040
1:00 PM
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
The regular meeting of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission was held at the James R.
Thompson Center, Chicago, Illinois 60601 Room 9-031 pursuant to notice.
Call the Roll:
Constance Beard, Chair
Donald O’Connell, Commissioner
Cynthia Cronin Cahill, Commissioner
Thomas Gibbons, Commissioner
Patricia Pulido Sanchez, Commissioner
Gerald Gorman, Commissioner
Also Present:
Chimaobi Enyia, Acting Executive Director
Thomas Schlenhardt, Associate Director
Dusanka Marijan, Licensing Administrator
Les Peterson, Enforcement Director
Pamela Paziotopoulos, Deputy General Counsel
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

I.

Approval of Minutes
a. A motion was made by Commissioner Gibbons to approve the release of the
minutes of the February 21, 2019 Board Meeting. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Cahill. The motion was unanimously approved.

II.

Director’s Report
a. Acting Director Enyia informed the Commission of the ILCC Appropriation
Hearing approval.
b. Acting Director Enyia presented the future locations of the IL Liquor Control
Commission Chicago and Springfield Office.
c. Acting Director Enyia explained SB54 & HB3625 and presented additional
pending legislation.

 d. Craft Distillers presented to the Commission.
e. Acting Director Enyia provided memorandums on One Time Transfers, Alcohol
Infused Products, Quantity Discounting, Retail Sales Below Cost, & Special Use
Returns.

III.

Enforcement Division
a. The ILCC completed 148 SAM compliance checks, 26 failed. Thirty-eight
compliance checks were repeat violators, 3 violated again. This gives a repeat
violator compliance rate of 92%.
b. The ILCC cited 317 establishments for operating without a valid State of Illinois
Liquor License.
c. As of March 4, 2019, the FY19 LC-13 program has 62 active contracts, using 273
inspectors. These contracts will cover 6,029 licenses.
d. For the period 7/1/18 – 2/28/19 the LC-13 program inspectors have performed
2,572 inspections resulting in 598 licenses with violations.

IV.

Licensing Division
a. The percentage of online renewals is 78%, a 6.4% increase from February 2018.
b. Mrs. Marijan also provided a report of all new licenses issued for February 2019.
c. In February 2019 the ILCC issued 188 new licenses across all categories.
d. Mrs. Marijan presented a 6 year report of all licenses issued by the IL Liquor
Control Commission.

V.

Industry Education
a. The total number of BASSET applicants trained in February 2019 was 5,970.
b. The total number of BASSET applicants in the look up is 267,777.

VI.

Legal Division
a. A motion was made by Commissioner Cahill to approve the Administrative Law
Judge tax case recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
O’Connell. The motion was unanimously approved.

 b. A motion was made by Commissioner Cahill to approve the Administrative Law
Judge default recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Gibbons. The motion was unanimously approved.
c. Island Sports Bar and Grill, Inc. v. Blue Island 18 CA 10 appeal case was
motioned for dismissal. A motion was made by Commissioner O’Connell to
dismiss the appeal case. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Cahill. The
motion was unanimously approved.
d. A motion was made by Commissioner Cahill for closed meeting session. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Gibbons. The motion was unanimously
approved.
e. A motion was made by Commissioner O’Connell to reopen the public meeting.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Cahill. The motion was unanimously
approved.
f. A motion was made by Commissioner O’Connell in the matter of American
Legion v. Steelville 18 SA 06. The appeal case was motioned for reversal of local
decision. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Cahill. The motion was
unanimously approved.

VII.

Public Comment
a. Pat Doerr of Hospitality of Chicago informed the Commission the City of
Chicago has released their first 3 quarters of Sale to Minor inspections.
b. In addition, Pat would also like the Commission to begin the rule process for
Naming Rights.
c. Vince Vidmer of the Local 3 Union expressed the Local Union 3’s disapproval of
the proposed changes to 100.250 to the Commission.

VIII.

Closing Remarks and Adjournment to Hearing
a. Commissioner O’Connell made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Motion was
seconded by Commissioner Cahill. Motion unanimously approved.

ATTEST:

_______________________________
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

 