MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY LAND BANK AUTHORITY
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE

March 25, 2014

Sustainability Committee of the Cook County Land Bank Authority met pursuant to notice on
March 25, 2014 at 11:00 AM in the of?ces of the Metropolitan Planning Council, 140 South
Dearborn, Suite 1400, Chicago, Illinois.

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
Chairwoman Brawley called the meeting of the Sustainability Committee to order.

Present: Directors Brawley, Dworkin, Ostenburg, Planey, Saffo (5)
Absent: Director Gainer (1)
Also Present: Brian White (CCLBA Executive Director)

Other Present: Bob Benjamin (Cook County Treasurer?s O?ice), Derek Bender (Cook County
Commissioner Stanley Moore?s O?ice), Charles Brown (Action Now), Adam Gross (BPI
Institute), Amy Ellingson (Cook County Commissioner Bridget Gainer ?s O?ice), Abin
Kuriakose (Cook County Commissioner Bridget Gainer ?s Of?ce), Logan (Universal
Housing Solutions CDC), Grady Norwood Jr (Chicagoland Black Chamber of Commerce),
Andrea Paxton (Illinois Black Chamber of Commerce), Courtney Poyer (Cook County Bureau
of Economic Development), Vincent Walle (Cook County Government, IL), Bryant Williams
(Cook County Department of Environmental Control)

II. Public Speakers
Chairwoman Brawley noted there was one public speaker registered:
Andrea Paxton (Illinois Black Chamber of Commerce)

Review of Sustainability Committee Priorities
Chairwoman Brawley opened the discussion to reaf?rm the goals, role and priorities of the
CCLBA Sustainability Committee. She invited all committee members and Brian White,
CCLBA Executive Director, to share their views and recommendations.

Brian White, CCLBA Executive Director noted that the Cook County Land Bank Policies 
Procedures identifies opportunities and priorities for the Sustainability Committee to
operationalize.)

Director Ostenburg commented the committee should take on a broad View of sustainability with
a holistic approach. Opportunities include water conservation and stormwater management,
transit-oriented and in?ll development with residential or commercial properties and economic

 

development of a given community. Director Ostenburg offered a recommendation for the
committee to create a sustainability checklist for future CCLBA acquisition and disposition.

Director Planey commented on the distinction between sustainability activities for parcels held in
the short?term by CCLBA versus a long-term strategy when implementing sustainable practices.
Director Planey also noted the committee should be proactive in collaborating with local
governments and community groups. Director Planey inquired about a detailed study on costs of
demolition versus deconstruction.

Director Dworkin commented on the opportunity for job creation through future CCLBA
demolition activities.

Chairwoman Brawley commented that sustainability in regards to property use requires
community engagement the goal of addressing community needs, which is a role the
Sustainability Committee can help play. Director Dworkin added that CCLBA community
engagement is a full board responsibility that may go beyond just the Sustainability Committee.

Brian commented that the Sustainability Committee should create a list of key priorities it would
like to see from community and partner organizations of the CCLBA when it comes to
acquisition and disposition of real property.

Director Saffo commented that identifying community needs for the Sustainability Committee
requires direct interaction with the community, which would require CCLBA to have ?boots on
the ground? to engage communities in a meaningful way. Brian also added that the CCLBA
should communicate that the agency is open to ideas and wants to work with
communities/organizations that bring forward speci?c plans for how CCLBA can be impactful.

Director Saffo commented that CCLBA must make a conscious effort to communicate that
CCLBA would like to be a partner to communities.

Director Ostenburg commented that the Sustainability Committee has a role to play in educating
the general public, including elected of?cials, on mission.

Brian noted that CCLBA at this current time must be mindful of a limited budget and funding
capacity. He also commented that he sees CCLBA playing a useful role as a connection point
between municipalities and project leaders like Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning and
community?based project proponents. Brian noted that CookCountyLandBank.org can be a
useful portal for information and reports for organizations/municipalities considering
development projects and for the community to learn about the role that CCLBA can play.

Director Brawley reviewed a list of Sustainability Committee priorities generated by the
discussion: awareness of mission and services community engagement outreach,
job creation, environmental conservation, productive use of vacant lots, water management,
transit development and energy conservation.

Director Ostenburg, seconded by Director Planey, moved to approve a motion to instruct Brian
White, CCLBA Executive Director and Commissioner Bridget Gainer?s Office to draft a
Sustainability Committee mission statement and priorities document. The motion carried
unanimously.

IV. Consideration of ?Best Practices in Sustainability?
Chairwoman Brawley introduced a project coordinated by her, Brian and Commissioner Bridget
Gainer?s Of?ce to review and collect information on the best practices in sustainability for land
bank organizations.

Director Ostenburg commented that the review of best practices in sustainability should not just
be limited to land bank organization but also municipalities and other comparable community
organizations which may coordinate sustainability activities relevant to CCLBA.

Brian requested for the members of the Sustainability Committee to send him names of
organizations or relevant reports that would be helpful for the review.

Director Planey noted that the Chicago Botanic Garden and Openlands may be two local
organizations to consider in the review for best practices. No action taken.

V. Reports from Committee Members 7
Chairwoman Brawley invited committee members to offer updates to the committee since the
last meeting.

Director Saffo reported that Commissioner Bridget Gainer (CCLBA Board Chairwoman)
delivered a presentation on CCLBA to his faith-based organization which was followed by a
meeting with Roseland Hospital. Potential projects for CCLBA may include Roseland Hospital
and Maywood, Illinois? beauti?cation project to improve streetscape, greenspace, street lighting
and storefronts.

Chairwoman Brawley noted that there is an of?cial CCLBA presentation from Commissioner
Bridget Gainer that is available for Directors to use.

Director Planey commented on the need for CCLBA to have communication channels such as
e-mail available for community engagement. Brian noted that the Committee should consider a

separate account. No action taken.

VI. Report from Committee Chair
After discussion with the committee, Chairwoman Brawley announced Sustainability Committee
meetings to be scheduled for the third Tuesday of every month, to begin by 11:00 AM.
Chairwoman Brawley announced the next Sustainability Committee meeting is scheduled for
Tuesday, April 15, 2014 at 11:00 AM. No action taken.

VII. Adiournment
Director Ostenburg, seconded by Director Planey, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION
CARRIED AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the Cook County Land Bank Authority

gar/1%

Emy Brawley, Committee air

 

 

 

 

