(:Cl ba 

MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY LAND BANK AUTHORITY
FINANCE COMMITTEE

December 13, 2018

Finance Committee of the Cook County Land Bank Authority met pursuant to notice on
December 13, 2018 at 10:30 AM at the Cook County Administration Building, 69 West
Washington, 22??1 Floor, Suite Chicago, Illinois 60602

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
Committee Chair Holmes called the meeting of the Finance Committee to order.

Present: Directors Holmes, Sherwin, Smith
Absent: (0)

Also Present: Robert Rose (CCLBA Executive Director), Cassidy Harper (CCLBA Business
Manager)

Other Present: Bob Benjamin (Cook County Treasurer ?5 Of?ce), Emily Carlson (Solstice Stained
Glass), Natasha M. Cornog (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Darlene Dugo (Cook County
Land Bank Authority) Stanley Turner (University Cowork/Woodtawnworks)

11. Public Speakers
Committee Chair Holmes noted there were no registered public speakers.

Finance Report (Rob Rose)
CCLBA cash collection through November 2018 has been $10.6 million average
income is just under $900,000. Majority of revenue is coming from property
sales.

Chairman Holmes: Has there been a depreciation/acceleration in homes sales that relates to
interest rates increasing? ED, Rose: No, CCLBA have not seen an appreciable difference in our
activities with regards to the shifting of interest rates.

Total Revenue by Fiscal Year

CCLBA has four years that have been audited, the 2018 numbers are unaudited. Total revenue is
down however there is a substantial increase in earned revenue. Earned revenue has increased by
9% over last year. Grant funding has decreased. CCLBA anticipated higher revenue from the
three-way IGA between CCLBA, Franklin Park and there was a six month delay.

Director Sherwin: Why didn?t Franklin Park do an IGA directly with ED, Rose,
Franklin Park did not have idle cash readily available.

 a (f
Revenue by Type

Property sales are 87.5% of total revenue that has been received. Donations and demolition
concessions have declined, however, foreclosures continue to come through the channel.

Line of Credit

current has a $3 million line of credit with Chicago Community Loan Fund (CCLF).
The line of credit is used for two-thirds of acquisitions. The average loan on the line is
approximately 73% in of capacity. ED, Rose, will make a request to Cook County Board of
Commissioner?s to increase the line-of?credit by $2 million for a total of $5 million. No Action
taken.

IV. Consent Agenda
Director Sherwin, seconded by Director Smith, moved to approve the consent agenda which
includes September 27, 2018 Finance Committee meeting minutes of the Cook County Land
Bank Authority. The motion carried unanimously.

V. Motion to approve the Cook County Land Bank Authority Finance Committee 2019 meeting
mini:
Director Smith seconded by Director Sherwin moved to approve the meeting schedule dates for 
Finance Committee meetings. The motion carried unanimously.

V. Chairman?s Report Calvin Holmes)
Chairman Holmes reminded everyone of Finance Committee meeting; March 21,
2019 at 9:00 am. No action was taken

VII. Adiournment

Director Smith, seconded by Director Sherwin, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the Cook County Land Bank Authority

Calv1 oli?rrefghaifman, Finance Commit: 

 

