MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY LAND BANK AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Board of Directors of the Cook County Land Bank Authority met pursuant to notice on March
15, 2019 at 10:00 AM at the Cook County Administration Building, 69 West Washington, 22nd
Floor, Suite Chicago, Illinois 60602.

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
Chairwoman Gainer called the meeting of the Board of Directors to order.

Present: Directors Friedman, Gainer, Limas, Monocchio, Planey, Reifman, Richardson,
Sherwin, Stewart, Ware (10)

Absent: Directors Holmes, Ostenburg, Smith (3)
Also Present: Robert Rose (CCLBA Executive Director)

Others Present: Bob Benjamin (Cook County Treasurer ?s O?ice), Joel Berman (Berman
Architecture), Anthony Blakely (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Kyle Brunke (South Side
Weekly), Lydia Collins (IFF),Natasha M. Cornog (Cook County Land Bank Authority),
Dominic Diorio (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Darlene Dugo (Cook County Land Bank
Authority), Kendra Freeman (Metropolitan Planning Council), Eric Green (WPD
Management), Cassandra Guice (Woodlawn Community), Laverne Hall (Cando Corporation),
Sean Harden (Greenlining Realty USA), Cassidy Harper (Cook County Land Bank Authority),
David Hulseberg (Berwyn Development Corportation), Eden Hurd-Smith (IFF), Gene Kelley
(Cook County Land Bank Authority), Kelly LaBarge (Anchor Initiatives), Sheila Lewis (City
Bureau), David Lubin (University Cowork), Sharon Mallory (SDM Investments), Lynnette
McRae (Black Chicago Tomorrow), Ward Miller (Preservation Chicago), Kevin Nugent
(WPD Management), Gabriel Piemonte Ward Resident), Mustafaa Saleh (Cook County
Land Bank Authority), Elisha Sanders (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Claudette Shivers
(Cook County Land Bank Authority), Alex Simmons (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Alex
Sparhawk (DL3 Realty), Charisma Thapa (Communities United), Leon Walker (DL3
Realty), Cindy Williams (Cook County Land Bank Authority), Daniel Wolk (City Bureau)

11. Public Speakers
Chairwoman Gainer noted there was ?ve (5) registered public speaker for Agenda Item V:
Sharon Mallory SDM Investments
David Lubin University CoWork
Joel Berman Berman Architecture
Ward Miller Preservation Chicago
Gabriel Piemonte 5Ih Ward Resident

 

"f 
a 





. Executive Director?s Report (Robert Rose)
Rob Rose, CCLBA Executive Director gave an overview of Announcements, FY2018
Accomplishments, Legislative Activities, Core Business Activities, Current Commercial
Projects, and Scavenger Sale. No action taken.

IV. Presentation by WPD Management - Kevin Nugent and Eric Green

a) Mr. Nugent and Mr. Green are the owners of WPD Management. WPD Management
manages approximately 3,500 apartment units and have purchased 64 buildings and
redeveloped 1,200 plus units. WPD is a fully integrated property management company
with about 80 staff members in every facet of property management. WPD Management
presented a complete rehab proposal for the 45 unit property located at 6429 South
Stewart with the intent of downsizing from 45 units to 39 larger units and keeping 20 of
the units affordable.

b) Motion for Approval to Enter into a Purchase Sales Agreement with WPD
Management for the property located: 6429 South Stewart, Chicago, Illinois 60621
Director Planey, seconded by Director Limas moved to approve entering into a purchase
sales agreement with WPD Management for the property located: 6429 South Stewart,
Chicago, Illinois 60621. The motion carried unanimously.

V. Motion for Approval to Award: 6300 South Cottage Grove. Chicago, Illinois 60637
Director Friedman, seconded by Director Ware, moved to approve the awarding of the property
located at 6300 South Cottage Grove to: Revive 6300 (team consists of DL3 Realty Leon Walker
and Greenlining Realty USA, Lamell Morris) as our chosen developers. Director Sherwin, Nay.
Motion carried.

VI. Presentation bv IF Eden Hurd and Lydia Collins

a) IFF is a mission driven lender, real estate consultant, and developer. IFF have partnered
with Foundation for Homan Square as a developer to create some housing and
community facilities. IFF is interested in 15 of CCLBA parcels. 14 are vacant lots;
which would be new construction and one is an existing six-unit building that would be
rehabbed. Development opportunities have been identi?ed for seven of the parcels; IFF is
looking for other partners to help develop the remaining parcels.

b) Approval to enter into a Land Banking Agreement with IFF for Homan Square
Project
Director Planey, seconded by Director Limas moved to approve entering into a Land
Banking Agreement with IFF for Homan Square Project. The motion carried
unanimously.

VII. Presentation by Berwyn Development Corporation David HulsebeLg
a) The Berwyn Development Corporation has been in existence for 35 years. Berwyn
Development Corporation serves as the planning, zoning, and economic development
arm for the City of Berwyn. Berwyn Development Corporation is interested in four (4)
parcels: 6841 Roosevelt Road, 6809 Roosevelt Road, 6601 West 26th Street, and 2609
South Harlem. Berwyn Development Corporation would like to acquire these parcels to
create positive value for the community.

b) Motion for Approval to Enter into a Land Banking Agreement with Berwyn
Development Corporation
Director Richardson, seconded by Director Limas moved to approve entering into a Land
Banking Agreement with Berwyn Development Corporation for various locations The
motion carried unanimously.

Motion for Approval of CCLBA Resolution to Enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Village of Mavwood to Encourgage Economic Development, Reduce
Blight, and Improve Property Value

Director Rose: This Intergovernmental Agreements will allow CCLBA to step in and assist the
Village of Maywood with abandonment cases and work with developers and interested parties on
disposition.

Director Friedman, seconded by Director Planey moved to approve entering into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Village of Maywood. The motion carried unanimously.

IX. Consent Agenda
Director Friedman, seconded by Director Ware, moved to approve the consent agenda which
includes December 13, 2018 Cook County Land Bank Board of Directors meeting minutes. The
motion carried unanimously.

X. Chairman Report Commissioner Bridget Gainer)
Commissioner Gainer thanked the selection committee and all the individuals who participated
in the community meetings for their time and diligent efforts related to the Washington Park
National Bank Building.

XI. Adjournment
Director Richardson, seconded by Director Ware moved to adjourn. The motion carried

unanimously and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
irectors of the Cook County Land Bank Authority

Bridgman Chairman-/
I f1

i if 



Boar

  

 

VEDirector Osienburg, Secretary 

