(gel l; 

MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY LAND BANK AUTHORITY
FINANCE COMMITTEE

September 27, 2018

Finance Committee of the Cook County Land Bank Authority met pursuant to notice on
September 27, 2018 at 9:00 AM at the Cook County Administration Building, 69 West
Washington, 22ml Floor, Suite Chicago, 60602

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
Committee Chair Holmes called the meeting ofthe Finance Committee to order.

Present: Directors Holmes, Ostenburg, Sherwin, Smith
Absent: (0)

Also Present: Robert Rose (CCLBA Executive Director), Cassidy Harper (CCLBA Business
Manager)

Other Present: Angela Allen (Washington, Pittman, and MeKeever), Bola Babatunde (Washington,
Pittman, and McKeever), Bob Benjamin (Cook County Treasurer?s O?ice), Natasha M. Cornog
(Cook County Land Bank Authority), Darlene Dugo (Cook County Land Bank Authority) Steve
Lawrence (Steve Lawrence Associates

II. Public Speakers
Committee Chair Holmes noted there were no registered public speakers.

FY2017 Washington Pittman and McKeever (Angela Allen)
Angela Allen presented the FY2017 audit; accompanying financial statements which
comprise the statements net position as of November 30, 2017 and 2016 and the related
statements of revenue, expenses, changes to net positions, and cash flows for the years then
ended, and the related notes to the ?nancial statement. There were no material changes between
the draft audit presented on June 28, 2018 and the ?nal audit.

Ms. Allen report included required communications to those charged with government and she
gave excerpt ofthe financial statement and the analysis.

Statement of Net Position
Washington, Pittman, and McKeever offered a variance analysis and noted the signi?cant
changes from year to year.

Total Assets increased by $9.9 million resulting from the increased property held for
sale and the additional acquisition from the Riverside Lawn Project. The increase was offset by
a reduction in receivables.

 

r; til a gig:

Total Liabilities increased by $3.6 million because CCLBA increased property purchases at the
end of the year.

Statement of Revenue and Changes in Net Position
Operating Revenue increased by $1.2 million as a result of increase in property sales. This was
offset by a reduction of grant funding.

Operating Expenses decreased by $926,000 due to a reduction of property costs; related to
acquisition through Forfeiture and the Scavenger Sale.

CCLBA ended the year with a positive change in net position of $6.3 million compared to $4.2
million last year. Net position separated equals $6.3 restricted this represents the property from
Riverside Lawn; that will be transferred at some point and $7.7 million unrestricted.

Chairman Holmes pointed out that the management discussion and analysis were comments from
management team summarizing fiscal processes across the year and it?s variances and
not a management letter from Washington, Pittman, and McKeever.

Director Sherwin suggested the audit be placed on the website for transparency.

Director Holmes: lnquired about the updated recommendations for the chart of accounts,
ensuring fewer reclassi?cations and written policy for the valuation of distressed property.
Angela Allen: Washington Pittman and McKeever met with Cook County Comptroller office
regarding the chart of accounts and Cassidy Harper is in discussion with the comptroller?s of?ce.

Bola Babetunde: Cassidy Harper has done a good job in giving Washington, Pittman, and
McKeever a preliminary policy of how distressed property is evaluated. The policy will be
updated as it relates to the different types of property (forfeitures, deed-in-lieu) CCLBA will
onboard.

ED Rose pointed out, CCLBA gives the auditors a different look into the different types of
properties being acquired and this presents a different challenge in terms of valuation and how
CCLBA accounts for things along with Cook County?s change over from JD Edwards to Oracle
this change has presented some barriers with accessing information. CCLBA continues to have
conversations with Cook County?s Comptroller?s office to help them to understand 
processes and policies to categorize inventory properly.

Chairman Holmes: Do you think CCLBA need to have a pre-audit to get a jump start on any
challenges on how to extract information form Cook County? Cassidy Harper: Cook County
does not prepare trial balances until six weeks after closeout of the fiscal year. Pre-audit with
Washington, Pittman, and McKeever would only be beneficial if CCLBA had access to the final
trial balances.

Chairman Holmes made a motion to recommend the FY2017 audit to Cook County Land Bank
Authority?s full board for approval. Motion carried.

IV. Finance Report (Cassidv Harper)

Revenue Collected by Month
average income has increased to $956,000. CCLBA is on pace to finish the
year close to $1 million a month.

Total Revenue by Fiscal Year

CCLBA has four years that have been audited. Sources of revenue have steady between grant
funding and earned income. CCLBA will continue to receive approximately 25-35% of grant
revenue. CCLBA is expecting to receive the revenue by the end ofthe year (November 30,
2018) from the first phase of the Riverside Lawn project which includes all demolition and
holding costs. Grant funding will increase by 

Revenue by Type
Donations and demolition concessions have decreased signi?cantly. Majority of CCLBA funds

come from property sales and other revenue streams (admin from Riverside Lawn Buyout
project, BRP reimbursement and APP reimbursement). More admin will be received from the
Leyden/Wheeling Franklin Park Project.

FY18 vs FY17 Revenue Comparison
This chart reflects increases and decreases in revenue from different sources.

Chairman Holmes: What is the driving increase in property sales? ED Rose: CCLBA have
increased inventory, which allows for more property sales.

Fiscal Year 2018 Expenses bv Tvpe
CCLBA biggest expense is property maintenance, as a result of the volume of property acquired.
There are no significant changes.

Line of Credit

Approximately two-thirds of CCLBA acquisitions are purchase through the Line of Credit.
CCLBA carries about three-fourth of the balance of average expenses on the Line of Credit. To
date CCLBA has spent roughly $89,000 on interest. Revolving transactions are running 60-90
days, the goal is to be selective about what?s carried on the line and shorten the time.

ED Rose will be looking to request to increase the Line of Credit to $5 million.

V. CCLBA FY 2019 Proposed Budget
CCLBA proposed budget is present first to the Finance committee and moves to full
Board of Directors for approval. Once approved it is then presented to Cook County Board of
Commissioners in October to be rolled up into Cook County?s Budget for approval in November
and become effective December 1, 2018.

 

("til 1.3a 

FY2019 Budget Highlights

CCLBA has included continuing appropriations resolution FY2019

Acquire 800 Homes

Execute Scavenger Sales

Dispose of 400 properties

Continue Homebuyer Direct Program

Execute 2018 Staffing Plan

- Proactively Acquire Properties via Cases

Director Smith: What happens with aged inventory? ED Rose: CCLBA clears out aged
inventory regularly by have some sort of a sale.

operation is beginning to stabilize. CCLBA anticipates an increase in revenue because
of the Scavenger Sales properties. One of the driving factors is that the Scavenger Sales
properties expenses have been expensed to prior accounting periods.

Director Holmes made a motioned for the proposed FY2019 Budget to move forward to Cook
County Land Bank Authority?s full Board of Directors for approval, motion carried.

VI. Consent Agenda
Director Sherwin, seconded by Director Smith, moved to approve the consent agenda which
includes June 28, 2018 Finance Committee meeting minutes of the Cook County Land Bank
Authority. The motion carried unanimously.

V. Chairman?s Report (Calvin Holmes)
Chairman Holmes acknowledged Director Ostenburg for his fantastic service and high level of
participation and engagement over the past three year to the Finance Committee.

VII. Adiournment
Director Smith, seconded by Director Sherwin, moved to adjourn and the meeting was
adjourned. The motion carried unanimously

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the Cook County Land Bank Authority

 
 

 

Calvin olmes, Cliai?nan, Finance Committee

