MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
November 13, 2018
JAMES R. THOMPSON CENTER
100 WEST RANDOLPH ST. ROOM 9-031
1:00 PM
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
The regular meeting of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission was held at the James R.
Thompson Center, Chicago, Illinois 60601 Room 9-031 pursuant to notice.
Call the Roll:
Constance Beard, Chair
Donald O’Connell, Commissioner
Cynthia Cronin Cahill, Commissioner
Patricia Pulido Sanchez, Commissioner
Thomas Gibbons, Commissioner
Ann Deters, Commissioner
Gerald Gorman, Commissioner
Also Present:
Chimaobi Enyia, Acting Executive Director
Dusanka Marijan, Licensing Administrator
Kenneth Williams, Enforcement Division
Lee Roupas, BASSET Manager
Pamela Paziotopoulos, Deputy General Counsel
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

I.

Approval of Minutes
a. A motion was made by Commissioner O’Connell to approve the release of the
minutes of the October 17, 2018 Board Meeting. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Gibbons. The motion was unanimously approved.

II.

Director’s Report
a. Acting Director Enyia informed the Commissioners of PA 100-1050 and the
movement towards implementation for the July 1, 2019 deadline.
b. Acting Director Enyia notified the Commissioners of the rule making
consideration by JCAR if there are no considerable changes the Of Value Rules
will move to 2nd notice.
c. Acting Director Enyia introduced the new more efficient ILCC Board Meeting
procedures.

 d. Acting Director Enyia introduced Abraham Zisook, ILCC Legal Attorney to the
Commission.
III.

Enforcement Division
a. The ILCC completed 140 SAM compliance checks, 26 failed. Sixteen compliance
checks were repeat violators, 2 violated again. This gives a repeat violator
compliance rate of 87.5%.
b. The Underage participants (UAP) roster is now at 20 individuals.
c. As of November 2nd, the FY19 LC-13 program has 60 active contracts, using 268
inspectors. These contracts will cover 6,079 licenses.
d. For the period 7/1/18 – 10/31/18 the LC-13 program inspectors have performed
735 inspections resulting in 127 licenses with violations.

IV.

Licensing Division
a. The percentage of online renewals is 81%, up 11% from the same time last year.
Mrs. Marijan also provided a report of all new licenses issued for September
2018.
b. In October 2018 the ILCC issued 264 new licenses across all categories.
c. The ILCC underwent a system enhancement, online activity will now be available
in real-time.

V.

Industry Education
a. The total number of BASSET applicants trained in October 2018 was 6,845.
b. The total number of BASSET applicants in the look up is 261,507.
c. The Parental Responsibility Campaign was presented to the St. John the Apostle,
George Cassell School, Trauber Jr. High and Charles Sahs School.
d. The College Town Summit was held on November 1, 2018 at Illinois State
University.

VI.

Legal Division
a. Deputy Counsel Paziotopoulos presented the Department of Revenue Tax Cases
and default cases for ILCC Commission approval.

 b. A motion was made by Commissioner Cahill to approve the Administrative Law
Judge tax case recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Deters. The motion was unanimously approved.
c. A motion was made by Commissioner O’Connell to approve the Administrative
Law Judge default recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Cahill. The motion was unanimously approved.
d. Room 183 appeal was continued to the December 5th Board Meeting. The matter
was taken under by the Commission.
e. Attorney Harlan Powell filed a motion to withdraw as counsel from Smokin Hot
Smokehouse, Inc. A motion was made by Commissioner Cahill. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner O’Connell. The motion was approved.
f. Smokin Hot Smokehouse, Inc. appeal was dismissed without prejudice. A motion
was made by Commissioner O’Connell. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Cahill. The motion was approved.
VII.

VIII.

Public Comment

Closing Remarks and Adjournment to Hearing
a. Commissioner O’Connell made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Motion was
seconded by Commissioner Cahill. Motion unanimously approved.

ATTEST:

_______________________________
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

 