MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
October 17, 2018
JAMES R. THOMPSON CENTER
100 WEST RANDOLPH ST. ROOM 9-040
1:00 PM
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
The regular meeting of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission was held at the James R.
Thompson Center, Chicago, Illinois 60601 Room 9-040 pursuant to notice.
Call the Roll:
Constance Beard, Chair
Donald O’Connell, Commissioner
Cynthia Cronin Cahill, Commissioner
Patricia Pulido Sanchez, Commissioner
Thomas Gibbons, Commissioner
Ann Deters, Commissioner
Gerald Gorman, Commissioner
Also Present:
Chimaobi Enyia, Acting Executive Director
Dusanka Marijan, Licensing Administrator
Les Peterson, Enforcement Director
Lee Roupas, BASSET Manager
Pamela Paziotopoulos, Deputy General Counsel
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

I.

Approval of Minutes
a. A motion was made by Commissioner O’Connell to approve the release of the
minutes of the September 22, 2018 Board Meeting. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Cahill. The motion was unanimously approved.

II.

Director’s Report
a. Acting Director Enyia informed the Commissioners of PA 100-1050.
b. Acting Director Enyia notified the Commissioners of the rule making
consideration by JCAR is due by November 13, 2018.
c. Acting Director Enyia introduced the new more efficient ILCC Board Meeting
procedures.

 d. Acting Director Enyia informed the Commission of the personnel updates- the
ILCC will be bringing on one permanent Legal Attorney, starting November 1,
2018.
e. Acting Director Enyia informed the Commission the Deputy General Counsel and
Associate Director attended the CLE Wine Beer & Spirits Conference.
III.

Enforcement Division
a. The ILCC completed 60 SAM compliance checks, 6 failed. Seven compliance
checks were repeat violators, 0 violated again. This gives a repeat violator
compliance rate of 100%.
b. The Underage participants (UAP) roster is up to 21 individuals.
c. As of October 5th, the FY19 LC-13 program has 58 contracts, using 261
inspectors. These contracts will cover 5,393 licenses.
d. For the period 7/1/18 – 9/30/18 the LC-13 program inspectors have performed
735 inspections resulting in 207 total violations. This reflects a 83% compliance
rate.

IV.

Licensing Division
a. Dusanka Marijan stated that the percentage of online renewals is 70%, up 3%
from the same time last year. Mrs. Marijan also provided a report of all new
licenses issued for June 2018.
b. September 2018 was the first month the ILCC sent email reminders for expiring
licenses.
c. The ILCC underwent a system enhancement, online activity will now be available
in real-time.

V.

Industry Education
a. The total number of BASSET applicants trained in September 2018 was 6,343.
b. The total number of BASSET applicants in the look up is 258,017.
c. The Parental Responsibility Campaign was presented to the Old Orchard High
School.
d. The College Town Summit will be November 1, 2018 at Illinois State University.

VI.

Legal Division

 a. Deputy Counsel Paziotopoulos presented the Department of Revenue Tax Cases
and default cases for ILCC Commission approval.
b. A motion was made by Commissioner Cahill to approve the Administrative Law
Judge tax case recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
O’Connell. The motion was unanimously approved.
c. A motion was made by Commissioner O’Connell to approve the Administrative
Law Judge default recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Deters. The motion was unanimously approved.
d. Deputy Counsel Paziotopoulos informed the Commission of her efforts of
clearing out the backlog of legal items. Paziotopoulos developed a new Refer to
Legal process. Paziotopoulos has closed 17 high priority cases.
e. Richard Fallon of Department of Health and Family Services was present for the
Child Support cases presented to the Commission.
f. Its All About You Nails & Spa Inc. was revoked immediately. A motion was
made by Commissioner Cahill to approve the revocation. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Gorman. The motion was unanimously approved.
g. B.B.K Post #480 The American Legion appeal was dismissed. A motion was
made by Commissioner O’Connell to approve the revocation. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Cahill. The motion was unanimously approved.
h. Smokin Hot Smokehouse, Inc. appeal was continued. A motion was made by
Commissioner O’Connell to approve the revocation. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Cahill. Commissioner Gorman recused from the vote. The motion
was unanimously approved.
VII.

VIII.

Public Comment

Closing Remarks and Adjournment to Hearing
a. Commissioner O’Connell made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Motion was
seconded by Commissioner Cahill. Motion unanimously approved.

ATTEST:

_______________________________
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

 