MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY LAND BANK AUTHORITY
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
May 20, 2014
Sustainability Committee of the Cook County Land Bank Authority met pursuant to notice on
May 20, 2014 at 9:00 AM in the offices of the Metropolitan Planning Council, 140 South
Dearborn, Suite 1400, Chicago, Illinois.
I. Call to Order and Roll Call
According to the Cook County Land Bank Rules and Procedures, Committee Chair Brawley
appointed Director Jenkins as a substitute member of the Sustainability Committee for the May
20, 2014 meeting.
Committee Chair Brawley called the meeting of the Sustainability Committee to order.
Present: Directors Brawley, Dworkin, Jenkins, Saffo (4)
Absent: Directors Gainer, Ostenburg, Planey (3)
Also Present: Brian White (CCLBA Executive Director)
Other Present: Anthony Allen (Concerned Citizen), Bob Benjamin (Cook County Treasurer’s
Office), Princess Benson (Lotus Design Property Source), Charles Brown (Action Now), Mark
Buford (Dearborn Real Estate), Amy Ellingson (Commissioner Bridget Gainer’s Office), Josh
Ellis (Metropolitan Planning Council), Jon Grosshans (US EPA), Robert Kruse (Cook County
Assessor’s Office), Khemet LeMuria (LeMuria Consultants), Jeanne Lindwall (Camiros, Ltd.),
Jason Navota (CMAP), Bob Newport (US EPA), Emily Robinson (Elevate Energy), Kevin
Schnoes (Cook County Department of Environmental Control), Heather Tabbert (Regional
Transit Authority), Bryant Williams (Cook County Department of Environmental Control)
II. Public Speakers
Committee Chair Brawley noted there no registered public speakers.
III. Millennium Reserve Initiative Update
Committee Chair Brawley introduced the Millennium Reserve Initiative and noted that the
Reserve is working in the same geography as CCLBA and towards similar goals. No action
taken.
IV. Presentation from U.S. EPA Region 5 – Robert Newport and Jon Grosshans
Robert New port and Jon Grosshans from the U.S. EPA Region 5 gave a presentation about
green infrastructure and stormwater controls. No action taken.
V. Draft Mission Statement
Committee Chair Brawley introduced a draft Mission Statement and list of priorities for the
Sustainability Committee and invited committee members to offer feedback.
6

 Director Jenkins asked for a clarification on productive uses of vacant land. Committee Chair
Brawley noted that vacant land will most likely stay vacant in the short term, so it is important to
identify productive uses of vacant land that CCLBA can help facilitate.
Committee Chair Brawley asked the Committee if they see the Sustainability Committee as an
access point to CCLBA for community members. Brawley noted that community engagement is
a priority for the entire Board and not vested in one Committee alone. Director Saffo stated that
community outreach is important, and it would be a good role to play.
Director Saffo inquired about how the Committee would encourage coordination. Committee
Chair Brawley responded that CCLBA is not able to make a singlehanded investment in a
neighborhood and would prefer to work with other organizations to achieve its goals. Brian
White noted that community engagement also means inviting people to present proposals and
ideas to the Board. No action taken.
VI. Sustainability Best Practices Research Update
Amy Ellingson from Commissioner Bridget Gainer’s office presented an update on the
sustainability best practices research project. No action taken.
VII. Executive Director Update
Brian White, CCLBA Executive Director, gave an update to the Committee. Brain announced
that the Delta Institute is creating a strategy document for CCLBA around deconstruction. Brian
also noted things are moving forward with CCLBA’s acquisition strategy, and CCLBA has
agreed to begin accepting properties, though no properties have been acquired. No action taken.
VIII. Report from Committee Chair
Committee Chair Brawley suggested adding additional non-Board members to the Committee to
provide additional resources and insight to the Committee. Brian White noted CCLBA bylaws
require each Committee to have at least 3 Board members, but clarification is needed regarding
non-Board Committee members. Director Dworkin inquired about the timeline for a finalized
Sustainability Committee Mission Statement. Brian White responded that he and Committee
Chair Brawley would incorporate feedback and have a finalized version for the next
Sustainability Committee meeting. No action taken.
VII. Adjournment
Director Dworkin, seconded by Director Saffo, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the Cook County Land Bank Authority
_________________________________
Emy Brawley, Committee Chair

7

 