Min) Bu>1m :2 a

447?461.

NEIGHBORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES STANDING
COMMITTEE

MEMORANDUM

TO: David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division

CC: Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk

FROM: Council President Brenda Jones 39
DATE: September 17, 2019
RE: Resolution Request

 

Please draft a resolution declaring March 18 as Hot Sam?s Day in honor of their
upcoming centennial anniversary.

HOT BIOGRAPHY

Owned by 2 legendary Detroiters, Tony Stovall and Cliff 6. Green. Hot Sam?s is an iconic Detroit
Men?s Fashion Brand built on a loyalty to the city of Detroit. The Hot Sam?s brand has always
been synonymous with High Quality Detroit Style. The story goes that in 1974 a COUple of
determined, hardworking and passionate young men started working their way all the way up
the business ladder to become the owners ofthe very store they worked at some 20 years later,
making this fashion and lifestyle label a true American/ Detroit Dream personified.

 

A combination of rich history and heritage, multiple generation span of service, timeless tactics,
indigenous foundation and champions of overcoming odds has provided Hot Sam?s with a
unique identity in the ever-changing city of Detroit and world of fashion and lifestyle.

Hot Sam's is the quintessential Detroit business, open since 1921 and, in many cases, serving
three generations of Detroiters at the same time. Hot Sam's has always been the place where
the Detroit distinguished men would go to get their clothes. From mayors of the city to athletes
to musicians Hot Sam?s has dressed them all over the years, yet Hot Sam?s is much more than a
clothing store. Often considered a landmark and a historic business in the heart of the city,
Downtown. A main appeal is the owners, the staff and the environment making it an enjoyable
experience at store entry. It has been considered to have a ?cheers? vibe where everybody
knows your name. The joke has often been you never know who may walk through the doors
of Hot Sam?s. Hot Sam?s reach expands beyond the doors and goes into the community it so
proudly serves. Hot Sam?s provides mentorship to young men, provides dress for success to
college graduates, freely gives and donates to organizations and the community at large.
Everyone has a unique story about their ?Hot Sam?s Experience?.

Though change is inevitable Hot Sam?s has managed to evolve and yet remain true to its 
factor. They recently did a store renovation. Their inventory has evolved to attract the new
modern man but keep their distinguished man. They have created 2 brands in one store: HS
and 1921. Hot Sam?s has added HS Custom which is custom clothing and HS Mobile Retail,
Where the store comes to you. Soon to come will be The HS Club.

Hot Sam?s is gearing up for their Centennial Celebration in 2021.

Website: 

