REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Charles Hayes Family Investment Center
4859 S. Wabash, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
9:30 a.m.

AGENDA

I.

Roll Call

II.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

III.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
General Item
Item No. 1
Appointment of James L. Bebley as Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago
Housing Authority effective September 10, 2019 – Cheryl Colston, Chief Legal
Officer
Finance & Audit Committee Report – Craig Chico, Chairman
Item No. 1A Recommendation to approve the FY2020 Moving to Work (MTW) Annual Plan
and submit the Plan to HUD – Jennifer Hoyle, Director, Strategic Management &
Partnerships
Item No. 2

Recommendation to approve Contract Amendment with Pugh, Jones and
Johnson, P.C. for Ethics Officer and EEO Officer Services in an amount not-toexceed $75,000 – Cheryl Colston, Chief Legal Officer

Item No. 3

Recommendation to purchase Property and Management Liability Insurance
Coverages for an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $2,761,527 – Patricia Rios,
Chief Administrative Officer

Real Estate Operations Development Committee Report – Matthew Brewer, Chairman
Item No. 4
Recommendation to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the
Regional Housing Initiative and adopt the supplemental Administrative Plan –
Cheryl Burns, Chief Housing Choice Voucher Officer
Item No. 5
Item No. 6

Recommendation to approve Housing Assistance Payments Contract with
Renaissance Partners – Cheryl Burns, Chief Housing Choice Voucher Officer
Authorization to proceed with the application process for Renaissance North
Apartments under the Rental Assistance Demonstration Program – Eric Garrett,
Chief Property Officer

 Item No. 7

Authorization to proceed with the application process for the Emmett Street
Project utilizing Transfer of Assistance from Julia Lathrop Homes under the Rental
Assistance Demonstration Program – Eric Garrett, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 8

Authorization to extend and to provide additional compensation for the Service
Agreement between the CHA and the Gordian Group to manage Section 3 Job
Order Contracting (JOC) Mentoring Program in an amount not-to exceed
$2,060,000 – Eric Garrett, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 9

Recommendation to submit a Disposition Application for property in the
Pullman Community Area – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Item No. 10

Authorization to submit Disposition Application and amend Board Resolution
Number 2018-CHA-89 to provide CHA funds not-to-exceed $13,000,000 for the
first phase of development of Parkside 4 Phase 2 – Ann McKenzie, Chief
Development Officer

Item No. 11

Recommendation to approve the assignment of the Ground Lease of the Archer
Courts Site to RAHF IV Archer Courts, LLC – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development
Officer

Item No. 11A Authorization to approve CHA Community Support Corporation’s Ownership
interest in Southbridge Phase 1A and 1B – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development
Officer
IV.

Public Participation

V.

Closed Meeting
•
Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1) and (c)(2); purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property under (c)(5) and (c)(6); pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c) (11);
review of closed meeting minutes under (c) (21) and audit reviews under (c) (29).

VI.

Open Session Resumes – Roll Call

VII.

Approval of Minutes for the Closed and Regular Meetings of July 16, 2019.

VIII.

Presentation of Matters from Closed Session
Item No. 12 Approval of Personnel Actions – Kimberly Ross, Chief Human Resources Officer

XI.

Adjournment

2

 