25'

of matted
QTY UNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit. Michigan 4822(}
Phone: 3l3. 224.348? Fax: 
c-mail: 

September 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

Clerk?s office by the petitioner Ms. Joan Pentsil on behave of the family and members of Antioch
Missionary Baptist Church for the establisiunent ot'a Secondary Street Name for Rev. Dr. Eunice S.
Payne. Reasonable grounds for a secondary street sign for Rev. Dr. Eunice S. Payne has been provided.

Upon review of the documentation submitted by the petitioner (see attachment), staff has concluded that

the petition does meet the criteria for Secondary Naming of Street in accordance with Article VII
Sections 50-7-31 through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

The proposed location ot'the Secondary Street Sign at the intersection ol?McDougall Avenue and Nevada
Street is appropriate in that the location of the Antioch Missionary Baptist Church.

Criteria

As stated in Chapter 50 of the 984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks that Other Pith/to Pieces,
.-trticr?e Opening, dosing, attending i'F'r'rlening, locating, Nmm'ngorm? Renaming rgf'tS'rrcers and
Assigning Names to Streets. A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize

a person who achieved prominence as a result ofhis or her signi?cant, position, contributions to the City
ol?Detroit, State oi'Michigan, the United States ol?America, or the international community.

1. Sites, buildings, structures where cultural. social, spiritual, economic, political, architectural
history of the continually. city, state or nation is particularly reflected or exempli?ed.

events in the community, city. state or national history.

Attached for you review and consideration is a resolution which will authorize the establishment of a
Secondary Street Name in honor ot?Rcv. Dr. Eunice S. Payne upon the conclusion ot"a Favorable public
hearing, which must beheld in accordance with Section 50-7-33 of the Detroit City Code.

Staff is available to answer any questions you may have.
fully submitted,

a 
nese Chapman, Deputy Director,

egislative Policy Division
islorie Designation Advisory Board

     
    

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Planning and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13th
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday, 2019
at for the purpose of considering the request of Council Member Scott
Benson, on behalf of Joan Pentsil of Antioch Missionary Baptist Church, requesting the
secondary street name in honor of Reverend Dr. Eunice S. Payne in the area of
McDougall Avenue and Nevada Avenue to ?Rev. Dr. E. S. Payne.?

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ESTABLISHNIENT OF A SECONDARY STREET NAME
IN HONOR OF REVEREND DR. EUNICE S. PAYNE AT THE INTERSECTION OF
MCDOUGALL AVENUE AND NEVADA AVENUE

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council has received a request from Council Member Scott Benson, on
behalf of Joan Pentsil of Antioch Missionary Baptist Church, to assign a Secondary Street Name to
Reverend Dr. Eunice S. Payne, to be located at the intersection of McDougall Avenue and Nevada
Avenue; and

WHEREAS, the intersection of McDougall Avenue and Nevada Avenue is historically signi?cant, being
location of Antioch Missionary Baptist Church where Reverend Dr. Eunice S. Payne as served as Senior
Pastor for over 61 years; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Dr. Eunice S. Payne organized Antioch Missionary Baptist Church in 1958 and
was able to quickly grow its membership to over 100 members and provide services such as a community
food bank, mentoring programs (Boys to Men), Adult Education programs, School partnerships, clothing
driVes, free summer lunch programs for children; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Payne is an organizing member of the Detroit Ministry of the Baptist Union
Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Payne is a current member and past President of the Prospect District which
engages in community scholarships and mentoring programs; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Payne implemented a plan to open a day care center in the church providing
quality early childhood education in the community and community employment opportunities. NOW
THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that the City Council ?nds the above?mentioned individual and the proposed location
meets the criteria for Secondary Naming of a Street in accordance with Article VII, Sections 50?7-31
through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code; BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the intersection of McDougall Avenue and Nevada Avenue be assigned the secondary
street name ?Rev. Dr. E. S. Payne? in celebration of his noteworthy achievements; BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the projected cost of designing, producing, erecting, replacing and removing the
necessary signs and markers shall be paid, in advance, to the street fund by the petitioner requesting the
secondary name; AND BE IT FINALLY

RESOLVED, A certi?ed copy of the resolution shall be transmitted by the City Clerk to the ?re
department, police department, department of public works and its city engineering and traf?c
engineering divisions, department of transportation and the United States Postal Service.

I Petition number:

City of Detroit

Secondary Street Sign Application

 

 

in order to honor people who have made signi?cant contribution to our community, the City of Detroit has
provided the opportunity for those to be honored on Secondary Street Signs per Ordinance Chapter 50,
Sections 50-7-2l through Sections 50-7-50. The petitioner is required to complete the said application for
consideration ol'ereetlng a Secondary Street Sign. Required documentation includes ZIers of residents and
businesses within 300 linear l't ofthe proposed signage are in approval and a written statement explaining the
significance of the honoree, along with a letter of concurrence from either the honoree?s surviving or living
descendants, it?applieahlc. A Six-hundred sixty-live dollar ($665) fee must be paid to the order of the City of
Detroit Treasurer prior to submission. sign is approved. the petitioner will be required to pay two-hundred
dollars ($200) per sign to the Department of Public Works street fund prior to installation. Please return all
supporting documentation to the Of?ce of the Detroit City Clerk.

APPLICANT INFORJVIATION

Please type or print information clearly:

Contact name: Cl PE +Sl 
Name of the Organization:_ 311(0 ?10 QVM C?H/y?/l
Mailing Address: 199/36; \j I
City/State/Zip Code: Dez??l'} 4/??24

 

 

Phone: (3L3) L770 E-Milili 10/762, (170/ (EM

lt' registered as a non-pro?t, please indicate your non-pro?t status identi?cation number and
attach a copy_ol'th ertiticate. Non-pro?t identil'aelion

number: 38-35% baht/? 

 

 man-n ?Mqun?=? 3me W25: ?31' "(txr-

ll. SECONDARY STREET NAME
INFORMATION

{at E. 
What will the name on the Secondary Street Sign be?
Rev Dr. payee,

Where will the sign be located?

MCDouqu t5: Net/ado Antioch ?780

i
(Please list the intensection where the signs are being reintestetl to he installed.)

Proposed installation date of the sign?

WEEK oi} Gaffe?MA.) 2145/ 9

(A petition for a secondary street name shall be ?ieti with the office of the ity Cierk not iess than one hundred
eighty (130) days prior to the proposed date of installation of the secondary street signfs).)

Purpose ofSecondary Street Sign?

a. ?To 75171401) 25%! WWMQ Bar: - git/fit} 

.35. [Jags-mgr; 2:5 01' :0 Ail?El
i Fj?lu-r-V 



{Fiease a written narrative describing the honoree who has achieved prominence as a resntt of his or
her signi?cant. positive eontrihntions to the City tgf?etrnit. State nfhiichignn, the Unt'ten?r States of; Interim, or
the internatinmn? community.)

(0) Is this located on a Michigan State Trunk Line or Wayne County Road (See
attached for State Trunk Lines and Wayne County Roads)? 

Ill. CERTIFICATION

i earth? that the information contained in the foregoing appticotion is true and correct to the
best of my knowledge and belief that I have read. untierstantt' and agree to abide by the ruies and
regulations governing the proposed Seconthu'y Street Sign. i understand that this apph'cation is
made saiy?ect to the rates and reguiations as outh'ueti in ordinance Chapter 5i). Sections 50-i?2i
through Sections 50-7-50. .ipptieant agrees to comply with all other requirements of the ity.
County. State and any other ttppiicabie entity. which pertains to Secondary Street Signs.

The and . 
Orth't auce.

 
  
 

ed uppiicant(s) agree thine by the provides set by the ity oj'Detroit and Sign


v: fittM?

,t h'cant Signature Date

      

 

May 19, 2019

To: Ianese Chapman, Historic Designation Advisory Board

218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

Detroit, Michigan 48226

From: Antioch Missionary Baptist Church, 18045 McDougall, Detroit, MI 48234-

Dear Ms. Chapman,

Please ?nd the petition and supporting documents for the street designation. Mrs.
Ann Connally has spoken with Councilman Scott Benson and he has agreed to
support our petition. He is waiting for our submission to email you.

lfyou have any questions, please call me at 313-410-8889.

Sincerely,

Joan Pentsil
Antioch MBC

March 29, 2019

To: The Historic Designation Advisory Board
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit. Michigan 48226

From: Yolanda Mallett, Granddaughter ofReve-rend Dr. Eunice S. Payne
21918 Hill Street

Warren, Michigan 48091

Dear Advisory Board:

On behalfofthe family ofEunice S. Payne, I give my support ofthe Honorary Street
designation for my great grand father.

It is a great honor and well deserved for a man who gave his life to God and the city
of Detroit. To help make it a better place for all citizens.

Sincerely,

Yo nda Mallett WW

1.

January 23, 2019
Reverend Doctor Eunice S. Payne
Contributions To The Community

1
Organized Antioch Missionary Baptist Church in 1958. Purchased

two church properties in the community. One on Nevada and
Flemingand the second on McDougall and Nevada.

2.



o: Growth to over 100 members.

Food Bank
:0 Mentoring Program - Boys to Men
2? Adult Education Program

3? School partnerships

Clothing Drives

9 Established a Community Picnic-
02? School Supply Giveaways

Free Summer Lunch Program for children

9

6




Organizing member of the Detroit Ministry of the Baptist Union

Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity

3.

Organizing Member and Past President of the Prospect District
Community Scholarships
Mentoring Programs
02' Clothing Outreach

Established Several Community Gardens

03? Provided free food to the community

Beautified the community by removing blight
Offered volunteer work

?9

implemented Plan to open a day care in church
Provides quality early childhood education in the community
Health food for kids

Employment to the community




9.0

.0

6. Detroit Rescue Ministry Volunteer
0:0 Leader in the Spiritual Life Services This is the heart of
everything they stand for
Offering love and support through the devotion and chapel
services and Bible study

 

INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

P. 0. Box 2503 .
CINCINNATI, OH ;45201


Employer Identification Number:

Date: 06: 2008 0322465466

17053 347023049
ANTIOCH MISSIONARY BAPTIST CHURCH Contact Person:

OF DETROIT FAYE no 31290
18045 Contact Telephone Number:
DETROIT. MI 48234 (877) 829-5500

3 Accounting Period Ending:
NOVEMBER 30
Form 990 Required:
N0
Addend.m Applies:
NO

Dear Applicant:

Based on information supplied. and assuming your operations will be as
stated in your application for recognition of exemption, we have determined
you are exempt from federal incOme tax under section 531(a1 of the Internal
Revenue Code as an organization described in section 501(Ci(3).

We have further determined that you are not a private foundation within
the meaning of section 509(a) of the Code, because you are an organization
described in sections 509(a)(1) and 

If your sources of support, or your purposes. character, or method of
operation change, please let us know so we can consider the effect of the
change on your exempt status and foundation status. In the case of an amend~
ment to your organizational document or bylaws, please send us a copy of the
amended document or bylaws. Also, you should inform us of all changes in your

name or address.

As of January 1. 1984, you are liable for taxes under the Federal
Insurance Contributions Act {social security taxes! on remuneration of $100
or more you pay to each of your employees during a calendar year. This does
not apply, however, if you make or have made a timely election under section
3121(w) of the Code to be exempt from such tax. You are not liable for the tax

imposed under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA). 

since you are not a private foundation, you are no: subject to the excise
taxes under Chapter 42 of the Code. However, if you are involved in an extess
benefit transaction, that transaction might be subject to the excise taxes of
section 4955. Additionally. you are not automatically exempt from other
federal excise taxes. If you have any questions about excise, employment, or
other federal taxes, please contact your key district office.



Grantors and contributors may rely on this determination unless the
Internal Revenue Service publishes notice to the contrary. However, if you
lose your section 509(a)(1) status, a grantor or contributor may not rely
on this determination if he or she was In part responsible for, or was aware
of. the act'br failure to act. or the substantial or material change on the 
part of the organization that resulted in your loss of such status, or if he or

Letter 94? 

Reverend Doctor Eunice S. Payne Awards and Recognitions

Certificate ofCompletion - Detroit Public Schools
June 19, 1946

Certificate of Ordination - December 8, 1962
Antioch Missionary Baptist Church

First independence National Bank of Detroit Founder Family Group
Charter Member- September 14, 1970

Prospect District Congress ofChristian Education
Certificate oprpreciation August 26, 1983
Teacher of the Ministry

Metropolitan Detroit Congress on Evangelism- May 30, 1985
Seminary Extension

The Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity, Inc.
Building Development - November 2, 1990

Detroit City Council ?Testimonial Resolution 1991
36 Years of Service to the Community

The Ministers Baptist Union ofDetroit November 1991
Service Award for Program Chairman and 2nd Vice President

City of Detroit
Distinguished Service Award - October 25, 2011

Prospect Baptist Women?s Auxilary Award April 22, 2006
Dedicated Service and Devotion

Prospect Missionary Baptist District Association, Inc.
May 28, 2010
Pace Setter Award

National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund ?March 24, 1997
Award for Honoring Slain Officers

Baptist Missionary and Education State Congress of Christian Education
Certificate of Recognition April 30, 1993

Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States
Certificate oprpreciation for Support and Encouragement of Disabled
Veterans March 28, 1994

1989 Celebrate Halloween Right Campaign Certificate

Detroit City Council
Testimonial Resolution - November 22, 2011
For Leadership throughout the City of Detroit for Nurture and
Mentoring so many

Lifetime Member ofthe NAACP

Baptist Minister?s Union of Detroit &Vicinity and the
School ofTheology Founder Award - 2010

Pastoral Leadership Award - Baptist Missionary and Education
Women's Auxiliary-2004
Visionary Leadership Award-2003

PETITION FOR HONORARY SECONDARY STREET NAME

Dclroil. 
APPII \730 ICI
9 7

THE HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

We, the undersigned owners ot'thc property within 300 lincar I'uct oflhc below listed intersection'



Location of Intersection

do pctilioncr your Honorable Body to mm. a sccondary street name in honor of

Rev. D12. Eunicr: C) 

Name at Humane: WHO
ocm PMIISIL WI: 1

 

 

(Nam-3) (Address) No} )3f3 
Signature of Dead Signature of Spouse or Address Date
Other Co-Owuer

 


1

 

mibew/ 
3N1 fig/?I 
7147/5

I1

3 mmodm? LNIW

I ?2?0 :1qu 

201.7

 

 

 

i"

 

 

 

 

 

 



I13 ??301 II ?1/Lg1

Iimmzw 3w

 

 

 

 

 

Zb

QEitp of Eetrnit
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313. 224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336
e-mail: historic@detroitmi.gov

September 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request for a Secondary Street Sign for Reverend Tellis Jerome Chapman at the
intersection of West Vernor Highway and Harding Street.

The Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) staff reviewed documentation submitted to the City
Clerk?s of?ce by the petitioner on behave of the family and members of Galilee Missionary Baptist
Church for the establishment of a Secondary Street Name for Rev. Tellis Jerome Chapman. Reasonable
grounds for a secondary street sign for Rev. Tellis Jerome Chapman has been provided.

Upon review of the documentation submitted by the petitioner (see attachment), staff has concluded that
the petition does meet the criteria for Secondary Naming of Street in accordance with Article VII
Sections 50-7-31 through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

The proposed location of the Secondary Street Sign at the intersection of West Vernor Hwy and Harding
Street is apprOpriate in that the location of the Galilee Missionary Baptist Church where the Reverend
Chapman has served for many years.

Criteria

As stated in Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places,
Article VII, Opening, closing, Extending, Widening, Vacating, Naming and Renaming 0f Streets and
Assigning Secondary Names to Streets. A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize
a person who achieved prominence as a result of his or her signi?cant, position, contributions to the City
of Detroit, State of Michigan, the United States of America, or the international community.

1. Sites, buildings, structures where cultural, social, spiritual, economic, political, architectural
history of the community, city, state or nation is particularly re?ected or exempli?ed.

2. Sites, buildings, structures, which are identi?ed with historic personages or with important
events in the community, city, state or national history.

Attached for you review and consideration is a resolution which will authorize the establishment of a
Secondary Street Name in honor of Rev. Tellis Jerome Chapman upon the conclusion of a favorable
public hearing, which must be held in accordance with Section 50-7-35 of the Detroit City Code.

Staff is available to answer any questions you may have.

Respectfully submitted, A
(?If

Janese Chapman, Deputy Dir
Legislative Policy Divisio
Historic Designati?n ?Jidvisery Board

    

101',

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Planning and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13th
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday, 2019
at for the purpose of considering the request of Council President Brenda
Jones, on behalf of Galilee Missionary Baptist Church, requesting the secondary street
name in honor of Reverend Tellis Jerome Chapman in the area of E. Vernor Hwy, and
Harding Street to ?Rev. Tellis J. Chapman.?

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SECONDARY STREET NAME
IN HONOR OF REVEREND TELLIS JEROME CHAPMAN AT THE INTERSECTION OF W.
VERNOR HWY. AND HARDING STREET

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council has received a request from Council President Brenda Jones, on
behalf of Galilee Missionary Baptist Church, to assign a Secondary Street Name to Reverend Tellis
Jerome Chapman, to be located at the intersection of W. Vernor Hwy. and Harding Street; and

WHEREAS, the intersection of W. Vemor Hwy. and Harding Street is historically signi?cant, being the
location where Reverend Chapman has served as Senior Pastor of Galilee Missionary Baptist Church for
many years; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Chapman is the Pastor of Galilee Missionary Baptist Church in Detroit,
Michigan, and has received Honorary Doctoral degrees from Natchez College, Natchez, Mississippi and
Dallas Baptist College, Dallas, Texas; and

WHEREAS, He has served as Vice Moderator and Vice President of the Michigan District Baptist
Association and Congress of Michigan, and served as Parliamentarian for the Baptist Missionary and
Educational Convention of the State of Michigan; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Chapman has been involved in Detroit's growth as it relates to mass transit. He
was a board member of the City of Detroit Department of Transportation Commission for several years;
and

WHEREAS, Reverend Chapman served as an advisor on the Faith-Based Advisory Board of Governor
Jennifer Granholm of the state of Michigan. He has also received the distinguished honor of Pastor of the
Year by the Detroit Chapter of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference; and

WHEREAS, He is the Founder and President of the Chapel Vision Community Development
Corporation, serving greater southeast Detroit. He is also Founder and President of the Mid-West
Community Development Corporation, serving greater southeastern Michigan; and

WHEREAS, Rev. Chapman is a board member of the National Baptist Convention, USA, Inc. American
Baptist College; he formerly served as President of the Baptist Missionary and Educational State
Convention of Michigan. Currently, he serves as the Director of the Pastors and Ministers Division,
National Baptist Convention, USA. Inc. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that the City Council finds the above-mentioned individual and the proposed location
meets the criteria for Secondary Naming of a Street in accordance with Article VII, Sections 50-7-31
through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code; BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the intersection of Madison Avenue and Brush Street be assigned the secondary street
name ?Aretha Franklin Boulevard? in celebration of her noteworthy achievements; BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the projected cost of designing, producing, erecting, replacing and removing the
necessary signs and markers shall be paid, in advance, to the street fund by the petitioner requesting the
secondary name; AND BE IT FINALLY

RESOLVED, A certi?ed copy of the resolution shall be transmitted by the City Clerk to the ?re
department, police department, department of public works and its city engineering and traf?c
engineering divisions, department of transportation and the United States Postal Service.



(Eitp nt Ectruit
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313. 224.4336
e-mail: historic@detroitmi. gov

September 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition #971: Council President Brenda Jones, request for a Secondary Street Sign for Don
H. Barden at the intersection of Lyndon Street and Schaefer Hwy.

The Historic Designation Advisory Board (PIDAB) staff reviewed documentation submitted to the City
Clerk?s office by the petitioner John Barden on behaved of the Barden family for the establishment of a
Secondary Street Name for Don H. Barden. Reasonable grounds for a secondary street sign has been
provided.

Upon review of the documentation submitted by the petitioner (see attachment), staff has concluded that
the petition does meet the criteria for Secondary Naming of Street in accordance with Article VII
Sections 50-7-31 through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

The proposed location of the Secondary Street Sign at the intersection of Lyndon Street and Schaefer
Hwy is appropriate in and that 12775 Lyndon Street is the historic location of Barden Cable, now the
Comcast Cable.

Criteria

As stated in Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places,
Article VII, Opening, closing, Extending, Widening, Vacating Naming and Renaming 0f Streets and
Assigning Secondary Names to Streets. A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize
a person who achieved prominence as a result of his or her signi?cant, position, contributions to the City
of Detroit, State of Michigan, the United States of America, or the international community.

1. Sites, buildings, structures where cultural, social, spiritual, economic, political, architectural
history of the community, city, state or nation is particularly re?ected or exempli?ed.

2. Sites, buildings, structures, which are identi?ed with historic personages or with important
events in the community, city, state or national history.

Attached for you review and consideration is a resolution which will authorize the establishment of a
Secondary Street Name in honor of Don H. Barden upon the conclusion of a favorable public hearing,
which must be held in accordance with Section 50-7-35 of the Detroit City Code.

Staff is available to answer any questions you may have.

Respectfully submitted,

   

    

_1

Historic Designation Advisory Board

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Planning and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13th
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday, 2019
at for the purpose of considering the request of Council President Brenda
Jones, on behalf of John Barden, petition no. 971 requesting the secondary street name in
honor of Don H. Barden in the area of Lyndon Avenue and Schaefer Hwy to ?Don H.
Barden St.?

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SECONDARY STREET NAME
IN HONOR OF DON H. BARDEN AT THE INTERSECTION OF LYNDON AVENUE AND
SCHAEFER HWY

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council has received a request ?om Council President Brenda Jones, on
behalf of John Barden, petition no. 971 to assign a Secondary Street Name to Mr. Don H. Barden, to be
located at the intersection of Lyndon Avenue and Schaefer Hwy; and

WHEREAS, the intersection of Lyndon Avenue and Schaefer Hwy is historically signi?cant, being the
location of and base of operations for Barden Cablevision; and

WHEREAS, Don H. Barden was given the opportunity to revolutionize Detroit for at least 30 year
having created many jobs for the people of the City of Detroit with opportunities for growth and
expansion; and

WHEREAS, Don Barden is credited with having the foresight to deve10p the current infrastructure that
has accommodated the technological advances of today here in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, Always politically savvy, Done learned early in his business career the importance of
having a strong handle on the political environment in the cities and states where he wanted to conduct
business; and

WHEREAS, In the 1960?s in Lorain Ohio, Don served as the ?rst African American City Councilman;
this experience instilled in him some valuable lessons about politics, business and people that were
bene?cial to him throughout his career; and

WHEREAS, Internationally, Don founded Barden International, Inc., an automotive processing plant
built in Namibia, Africa for the purpose of converting and uplifting General Motors vehicles; and

WHEREAS, Nationally, Don was a long-time supporter and member of the Democratic National
Committee having been at one time, the largest contributor to the and

WHEREAS, Don strategized with then President William J. Clinton during his administration and was
named National Finance Co-Chair for Representative Dick Gephardt during his run for the Democratic
nomination for President of the United States; and

WHEREAS, Don became a leader in the cable industry during the 1980?s ?ling for the right to building
cable systems in seven cities, including the City of Detroit, under the auspices of the Honorable Coleman
A. Young, Don built, owned and operated cable systems in Detroit, Romulus, Inkster and Van Buren and
led Barden Cablevision to the point of distinction as one of the nation?s largest urban cable systems; and

WHEREAS, In 2001, Mr. Barden became the ?rst black owner of a Las Vegas casino with his purchase
of Fitzgerald?s; He was also the President and Chief Executive Of?cer of Barden Colorado Blackhawk,
Barden Mississippi Tunica and Barden Nevada, as well as Chairman and President of Barden
Development, Inc.; and

WHEREAS, Embedded in the mission of the companies Don owned and founded in the following: . .A
pledge of strong commitment to community by way of volunteerism and other active participation and
involvement. Our goal is to build solid relationships, provide ?nancial support, donate in-kind services
and strive to make a difference in the communities where we live and work, today and for the future;? and

WHEREAS, Don?s philanthropic efforts have impacted a variety of organizations and people from all
walks of life including but not limited to the Detroit Institute of Arts, Michigan Opera House, NAACP,
Detroit Urban League, the Detroit Renaissance Board, the Booker T. Washington Business Association,
Junior Achievement, and the Boys and Girls Club; and

WHEREAS, Don was a visionary and lived the American dream, seeing now barriers when it came to
entering industries like cable and gaming. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that the City Council ?nds the above-mentioned individual and the proposed location
meets the criteria for Secondary Naming of a Street in accordance with Article VII, Sections 50-7-31
through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code; BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the intersection of Lyndon Avenue and Schaefer Hwy be assigned the secondary
street name ?Don H. Barden St.? in celebration of his noteworthy achievements; BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the projected cost of designing, producing, erecting, replacing and removing the
necessary signs and markers shall be paid, in advance, to the street fund by the petitioner requesting the
secondary name; AND BE IT FINALLY

RESOLVED, A certi?ed copy of the resolution shall be transmitted by the City Clerk to the ?re
department, police department, department of public works and its city engineering and traf?c
engineering divisions, department of transportation and the United States Postal Service.

may at warren

Janice M. Il'IiInFI'e?ir OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Canen West
City Clerk Deputycity Uerk/UiiEfoStaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, June 26, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From; Janice Win?ey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION DPW CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
PUBLIC LIGHTING DEPARTMENT

971 Don H. Barden Family, request to install a secondary strret sign on Lyndon
Street at the corner of Schaefer Street in honor of Don H. Borden.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 Fax (313) 224-1466

461+!

l?utitlmt 

(7in ul' Detrnit
Secondary Street Sign Appli ?ntinn

In urdcr to Mm hau- \iunit'u-mt cuntrihntinn to our community. tin: Cit} til' Dctroit It.?
prmidcil the opportunity fur thine to be Imnmul cm Sign: per (Jrllitunn- Chapter 50.
Scutium Ihruugh Sccti-Jnt 50-7-5?. I It: pctitiunrr i1. ruquirnl tn cnrtiplutc the said :tpplicutiun fut
uf erecting a Sucmulnr)? Street Sign. thuirtd documentation includes 23rd: at I'c'u'd??I :ml
within 341-!) linear [t oftht: pmpmed tigmgc are in and :1 written c'thJini-m the
signi?mnce u! the Itunum. along: with :1 letter at? l?wm either the lmunrce's whiting or thing
if applicable. sixty-Hi. dull)! {$665(?ity uf
Ilrttoit Trumrcr priur tn whiniuimt. If "il?Lzll is the prtitimtur it ill In.- ruquircd to pay 
dull?; per sign tu Ihu uf Public Vt [mid tn intullttiun. I?lt?ttsc ll?lltl'? .tll
?Ippartiu'g tl-wlttIIt-nt Him: to Of?ce uf the "ctrnil ('lt'rk.

-

l. 

Phase pc nr print inl'nrntutinn dent-l}:

name: jC Lz?gg?ti "xi 
Name orthc 151171111
9151:?) Di??

rm St-lmlin rude: .Mi 43174

Cm) 8?58)qu Hi (:17 FL) a0! On 

It Iggiucrutt .h .I tmn-pmiit, plum Milt :tc wi'r-Jtit ?slat-r an!
Ht Hm I. {mil}! Lit :.tmn

Fillifti?kf 

 

ll. SECONDARY STREET NAM 


(.1) What Hill the name an the Second-Jr} Street Sign 

DOG 1:2 rvzl'. 



 

Where will the sign be located?

am Mr Cl me, SCHAEFER ST.

 

 

(Nan: It's! the when! the n?mn urr ?quash-J be r'mu?'mu

Prupmed installation: (late of the sign?
If? f- h.
4911!. 1 1 [x ZCWQ

t' perin'ml fur a \n'umltuy ?we! lhm?t? he [fled mm the af?x? nfrha fry Te?rk mu? but than Immln-J
rig-my (I m) dag-I pn'ur thepnrpum'ri aim? tlfl'm'ru?urfml nf?'n- ?ream-Jury \fl't'ff 

Purpose nl' Secondary Street Slun'.?

rf't't'me ?Hm-he'll u'n'm'u narrative the human-c n'hu Inn urhic-vm? prummwu'e In :4 n'un'l u] M: ur
fn'r ?an-Uh 1m, Imu'u'vc u'umln'brm'mu the u] mu}, ?film-hf: m. my?! 5m,? m.
1' I'nh'mun?mml ummunify.)

this located on a Michigan State Trunk Line 0r Wayne County Road (See
attached fur State Trunk Lines and ?lune 



In'mh? that L'mtmiut'd Ifrc {Smutgniaeq c.7741 unrm tr uu ?Ht! u? rt't'r the
ll! Ill'l.? {mi?4c 1?13!ij ?It? ?fh? Truth! HHJ My ?'1th
grncun?m: the 51?: Sign that .tf?phumem 
u?ym I In Hurts (HIJ It'qm?trnr?rrt at u'u?fun mm? 
(In . mg": Sm vat jrl- 7.50 ll'llr?fu?uni 41g: cm {a tannin": :t .Jf'rfn' 

film's urn! om?u'r utl'r?w'r'url?u'c t'HffH. {In I: ,r't'r mfrra' Jim-t1 Sign:

I'ht' .?Ulift?l tl'JJ'l't'h Ilg?luL' :?il [.113 8-. I L'n' {h'fr'rjjf ?15" 
that?: mm,-



f? 

f.
J. 

[min/44! .?wt'h r"

SECONDARY STREET NAME
DON H. BARDEN ST.
LYNDON ST.

 

 

To Honorable Brenda Jones, President
Detroit City Council
2 Woodward, 13th Floor
Detroit, MI 48226

From: Mr. John Barden
on behalf of the Barden Family

 

Fie Secondary Street Name for
Mr. Don H. Barden

Date: May 21, 2019
To the Honorable Detroit City Council President Brenda Jones

I am writing this letter on behalf of the family of the late, Don H. Barden. We would like to ask for
the entire body of the Detroit City Council and your support as we work to rename Lyndon Street
(Livernois to Greenfield) to include Don H. Barden St., a secondary street name in our Community.

Don H. Barden was given the opportunity to revolutionize Detroit for at least 30 years. He created
many jobs for the people in Detroit with growth and expansion. He gave the best benefits including
stock options, which helped individuals and their families. He also was committed to hiring an
agreed percentage of Detroit residents and he reached his goal.

Taking a brief look at our history, The City of Detroit, with its 375,000 households, wanted to get
wired for cable and put the big job up for bids in 1982. Barden was prepared. He invested his own
money and took out bank loans. Eventually he put $500, 000 together to write a proposal on how he
could do the job for Detroit. The city hired a consultant to review Barden's plan as well as the plans
of other would-be cable contractors. The consultant gave his approval to Barden, recommending to
Detroit's cable commission that he get the job. Then the Honorable Mayor Coleman signed off on
the Barden plan, as did the Detroit City Council.

The future of the past became the future of today and tomorrow. Developing a structure that has
accommodated the technological advance. Because of his futuristic thinking, the development and
upgrades of today were done at yesterday's cost.

As we recently, celebrated the 8th year of the Life and Legacy of the passing of Don H. Barden on
Sunday, May 19th, we discovered there are no other streets in the City of Detroit honoring Don H.
Barden. The entire City of Detroit, especially District 2, one of the most diverse districts in our
beloved city, we feel is directly connected to the leadership of Don H. Barden. it would be a
privilege for the City of Detroit, to rename Lyndon Street (from Livernois to Greenfield or Wyoming
to Meyers) in honor of one of our finest citizens to Don H. Barden St.

We humbly ask the entire Detroit City Council Members and you for your support in making this
dream of ours a reality for our family, beloved city and community. I'm looking forward to
discussing this matter with you more, and to find out what will be the next steps to take to make this
happen. I can be reached at 734.858.9362, feel free to call me at anytime.

Rinrerely

- 

Don H. Barden (born December 20, 1943) was the ninth of 13 children and was
proud to be the only child born in the City of Detroit. At the early age of 11, Don knew he
would be his own boss and have great success.

POLITICIAN

Always political savvy, Don learned early in his business career the importance of
having a strong handle on the political environment in the cities and states where he
wanted to conducted business.

In the 19605 in Lorain, Ohio, Don serves as the first black city councilman. This
experience instilled in him some valuable lessons about politics, business and people
that were beneficial to him throughout his career. Don was always well-respected by
the local governments where he conducted business.

Internationally, Don founded Barden International, Inc., an automotive processing plant
built in Namibia, Africa for the purpose of converting and uplifting General Motor
vehicles.

Nationally, he found it helpful to have friends in Washington, D.C., Thus, Don was a
long-time supporter and member of the Democratic National Committee. At one time,
he was the largest contributor to the DNC. Don strategized with then President Williams
J. Clinton during his administration. He was named National Finance Co?Chair for
Representative Dick Gephardt to help him with his run for the Democratic nomination for
the President of the United States. Don was an early supporter of President Barack
Obama and was proud of all of his accomplishments in politics including becoming the
first African American President of the United States. Don was also a friend to many in
the US. Congress and Senate.

For decades, Don developed strong ties to innumerable city council members, mayors,
state representatives, governors, congressmen and congresswomen, lobbyists, judges
and the many levels of the legislative and judicial systems in Ohio, Michigan, lndiana,
Nevada, Mississippi, Colorado, Harland and Washington, DC.

NT RQELST

Don was a pillar and friend to many organizations, charities and communities. No
matter what level of success he experienced throughout the years, he always felt
indebted to those who supported him. He felt such support played a significant role in
his ability to achieve his personal goals and dreams. He was always appreciative of
those who afford him an opportunity. His tribute to those who mentored him was to
mentor others.

Don believed that at some point in everyone?s life they may need a helping hand.
Whether it was a reference, a long, a job, an opportunity, advice or a contract, if he was

in the position to help, he always did so. No matter what the business policy, no matter
contrary advice, he did what he could. Don did what he wanted to do and he did what
he felt was right. The way Don lived his life was indicative of this belief; Simply put, he
was a giver.

Don became a leader in the cable industry during the 19803 filing for the right to build
cable systems in seven cities, including the City of Detroit, under the auspices of The
Honorable Coleman A. Young. Don built, owned and operated cable systems in Detroit,
Romulus, Inkster and Van Buren and led Barden Cablevision to the distinction as one of
the nation's largest urban cable systems. Subsequently, Mr. Barden sold all of his cable
television holdings to Comcast Cable for an amount in excess of $100 Million.

In 2001, Mr. Barden became the first black owner of a Las Vegas casino with his
purchase of Fitzgeralds. He was also the President and Chief Executive Officer of
Barden Colorado Blackhawk, Colorado, Barden Mississippi Tunica, Mississippi and
Barden Nevada Las Vegas, Nevada and Chairman and President of Barden
Development, Inc.

Embedded in the mission of the companies Don owned and founded is the following:
pledge of strong commitment to community by way of volunteerism and other
active participation and involvement. Our goal is to build solid relationships, provide
financial support, donate in-kind services and strive to make a difference in the
communities where we live and work, today and for the future.? Don lived his life
accordingly and encourage other to do the same.

Don?s philanthropic efforts have impact a variety of organizations and people from all
walks of life. He contributed to the arts through donations to the Detroit Institute of Arts
and the Michigan Opera House. He supported the NAACP and the Detroit Urban
League. He supported the business community through his work on the Detroit
Renaissance Board, and the Booker T. Washington Business Association. He believed
strongly in the education of our youth. He also supported Junior Achievement, the Boys
and Girls Club and many more organizations.

Don also loved senior citizens and it's fair to say they loved him. However, what?s not
published is probably what will be remembered most and that is the lives he touched
with his kind and generous heart.

 

 

 

LEIITAN
At 54 years old, Don was one of 11 entrepreneurs listed as a Black Enterprise Titan of
the BE. 1003 in a book written by Derek T. Dingle.

Don, a visionary, dreamed the American dream. He saw no barriers when it came to
entering industries like cable and gaming. Don was a great supporter of
entrepreneurship. He accepted many speaking engagements over the years, which
afford him the opportunity to talk to colleagues and aspiring entrepreneurs. He found
the Don H. Barden Foundation, Inc., whose mission was to promote entrepreneurship.
Don alone can be credited with helping many young people become the successful
entrepreneurs they are today. Many existing small business can testify to the guidance
that Don gave them usually in the form of free advice and small loans.

Don?s accomplishments never went unnoticed as evidenced by the scores of awards
and recognition he received throughout his career.

OUR HERO
Don was a confidant, Charismatic and approachable with a great sense of humor. He
was simply a likable guy which is why so many called him a friend.

There were many facets to his personality; however, his friendship was complicated.
Don would be a serious businessman during office hours and a fun loving guy after
hours. Don was a friend to many entertainment and celebrities. For those seeking a
minute with Don Barden, you were likely to catch him on certain nights of the week at
Flood?s Bar and Grille. if you were fortunate and would receive an invitation to join him
and his buddies at his reserved table.

Don was a son, brother, husband, father, uncle, colleague, employer and friend who
seems to have a unique relationship with everyone in his life. He touched the lives of
people close to him but also seem to positively impact the lives of many who never had
the pleasure of meeting him personally. Don was a hero and he will go down in history
as an iconic figure whose legacy will transcend to future generations.

Awa rcls_a_1j d. A 
Mr. Don Barden has earned more than 100 awards and accolades ranging from Black
Enterprises 2003 recognition as Company of the Year, to the 2004 Trumpet Award from
Turner Broadcasting Company; and a host of 

March 26, 1972
?Pride Comes With Progress"
From Lorain, Ohio

January 13, 1980

Outstanding Contributions" to The White House
Conference on Small Businesses

from Jimmy Carter, President Of the United States

June.1982
?Most Successful Businessman"
from Class of 62. InkSter High School

May 7, 1991
?Honorary Doctor's Degree?
from Lewis College of Business

August8. 1991
"Distinguished Achievement Award"
from The Tuskegee Airmen. inc.

March 18. 1992
?1992 Michiganian of the Year
from The Detroit News

May 3, 1992
?Honorary Doctor?s Degree?
from Marygrove College

1992
?1992 Company of the Year?
from Black Enterprise Magazine

February 17', 1997
?Spirit Of Detroit" Award
from Detroit City Council

February 15, 2003
Honorary Decree ?Don Barden Day"
from Mayor Oscar Goodman. City of Las Vegas

May 17. 2003
"2003 Company of the Year"
from Black Enterprise Magazine

June 19, 2003
?2009 Master Entrepreneur of the Year
from Ernst and Young

June 25, 2003
?2003 Trailblazer Award"
from Rainbow Push Coalition

January 26, 2004
"2004 Trumpet Award"
from Turner Broadcasting Company

February18, 2004
"2004 Detroit's Living Legend"
from Detroit City Council

May 1. 2004
Honorary "Doctorate of Laws"
from Tiffin University (Tiffin, OH)

October 5, 2007
2007 Newsmaker of the Year Award
from the Chicago Defender Newspaper

May 28. 2010
Gaston Award"
from Black Enterprise Magazine

 

201 9?06?26

97]

971 Petition of Don H. Barden Family,
request to install a secondary strret
Sign on Lyndon Street at the corner of
Schaefer Street in honor of Don H.
Borden.

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION DPW - CITY
ENGINEERING DIVISION

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

PUBLIC LIGHTING DEPARTMENT

QEt?tp at metrm?t
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313. 224.4336
e-mail: historic@detroitmi.gov

September 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition #909 Request for a Secondary Street Sign for Dr. Roland A. Caldwell, Sr. at the
intersection of West Warren Avenue and 28th Street.

The Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) staff reviewed documentation submitted to the City
Clerk?s office by the petitioners Ms. Quentella Caldwell and Ms. Theresa Humphrey for the establishment
of a Secondary Street Name for Dr. Roland A. Caldwell Sr. Reasonable grounds for a secondary street
sign for Dr. Roland A. Caldwell Sr. has been provided.

Upon review of the documentation submitted by the petitioner (see attachment), staff has concluded that
the petition does meet the criteria for Secondary Naming of Street in accordance with Article VII
Sections 50-7-31 through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

The proposed location of the Secondary Street Sign at the intersection of West Warren Avenue and 28th
Street is appropriate in and that Dr. Caldwell served as Pastor of Burnette Inspirational Ministries Center
located at 4358 West Warren Avenue.

Criteria

As stated in Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places,
Article VII, Opening, closing, Extending, Widening, Vacating, Naming and Renaming 0f Streets and
Assigning Secondary Names t0 Streets. A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize
a person who achieved prominence as a result of his or her signi?cant, position, contributions to the City
of Detroit, State of Michigan, the United States of America, or the international community.

1. Sites, buildings, structures where cultural, social, spiritual, economic, political, architectural
history of the community, city, state or nation is particularly re?ected or exempli?ed.

2. Sites, buildings, structures, which are identi?ed with historic personages or with important
events in the community, city, state or national history.

Attached for you review and consideration is a resolution which will authorize the establishment of a
Secondary Street Name in honor of Dr. Roland A. Caldwell, Sr. upon the conclusion of a favorable public
hearing, which must be held in accordance with Section 50-7-35 of the Detroit City Code.

Staff is available to answer any questions you may have.

Respectfully submitted,

 

. Chapman, epuly Director,
egislalive Policy Division
Historic Designation Advisory Board

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Planning and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13th
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday, 2019
at for the purpose of considering petition no. 909 of Ms. Quentella
Caldwell-Byers and Ms. Theresa Humphrey requesting the secondary street name in
honor of Reverend Roland Arthur Caldwell, Sr. Senior Pastor of Bumette Baptist
Church in the area of W. Warren Avenue and 28th Street to ?Dr. Roland A. Caldwell, Sr.?

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SECONDARY STREET NAME
IN HONOR OF REVEREND ROLAND ARTHUR CALDWELL AT THE INTERSECTION OF
W. WARREN AVENUE AND 28TH STREET

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council has received a request from Ms. Quentella Caldwell-Byers and Ms.
Theresa Humphrey, on behalf of Burnette Baptist Church, to assign a Secondary Street Name to Reverend
Roland Arthur Caldwell, to be located at the intersection of W. Warren Avenue and 28th Street; and

WHEREAS, Burnette Baptist Church located at the intersection of W. Warren Avenue and 28th Street is
historically signi?cant, being the location where Reverend Caldwell has serviced as Senior Pastor for
over 30 years; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Roland Arthur Caldwell, after dedicating his life to Christ at an early age
accepted the call to preach at the age of 12, later being licensed and ordained by his father, Dr. James
Allen Caldwell, who was Founder and Pastor of Burnette Baptist Church; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Roland Caldwell serves as youth Pastor for several year, and concurrently serves
as Youth Administrator for Tennessee Baptist Church in Detroit under the direction of the last Pastor
Napoleon; and

WHEREAS, As a teenager he was privileged to preach in pulpits of some of the most renowned pastors
across the country; and

WHEREAS, At the request of his Father, he became Co-Pastor of his father?s church; and

WHEREAS, He has been recognized for his commitment to the community, having received a certi?cate
of achievement from the Wayne County Commissioner?s of?ce, in 2002 and 2010, respectively; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Caldwell has played a major roles in shaping the spiritual and cultural fabric of
the City of Detroit having organized a ?March on Sin, Crack Crime? in 1988 at the height of the
epidemic, hosting a daily radio program from 1992 through 1997, serving as the administrative assistant
to the late Doctor Claude Young of the South Christian Leadership Conference, serving currently as the
vice moderator of the Baptist State Convention of Michigan of Southern Baptist, having hosted a cable
television broadcast entitled ?Talking with Caldwell Show? on which he endeavored to bring ?shakers
and makers? of our city, state and surrounding communities before the people and discuss general
concerns; and

WHEREAS, Reverend Caldwell?s ministry has included the establishment of a Senior Citizen Day Care
Center and recreational Center in the community exemplifying Burnette Baptist Church?s mission

?Saving The Lost At All Cost! All Color, All culture, All people! Promote spirituality, diversity and unity
within the community. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that the City Council ?nds the above-mentioned individual and the proposed location
meets the criteria for Secondary Naming of a Street in accordance with Article VII, Sections 50-7-31
through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code; BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED, That the intersection of W. Warren Avenue and 28th Street be assigned the secondary
street name ?Dr. Roland A. Caldwell, Sr.? in celebration of his noteworthy achievements; BE IT
FURTHER

RESOLVED, That?the projected cost of designing, producing, erecting, replacing and removing the
necessary signs and markers shall be paid, in advance, to the street fund by the petitioner requesting the
secondary name; AND BE IT FINALLY

RESOLVED, A certi?ed copy of the resolutiOn shall be transmitted by the City Clerk to the ?re
department, police department, department of public works and its city engineering and traf?c
engineering divisions, department of transportation and the United States Postal Service.

Wily? HID Width-Ulst-

Janice M. Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK {Janeen West
[City daft Deputy City (Jerk/d: iefof Staff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, June 5, 2019

To The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION DPW CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
PUBLIC LIGHTING DEPARTMENT

909 Burnette Baptist Church, request to install a secondary street sign at the
intersection of Coner: Warren 28th St. in Honor of Rev. Caldwell.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0- Fax (313) 224-1466

tidied.

Petition number:



 

City of Detroit

Secondary Street Sign Application

 

 

 

in order to honor people who have made signi?cant contribution to our conannuiiy, the City of Detroit has
provided the opportunity for those to tie honored on Secondary Street Signs per Ordinance Chapter 50.
Sections Sti-T-Il through Sections 50-760. The petitioner is required to complete the said application for
consideration at erecting a Secondary Street Sign. Required documentation includes L'ers of residents and
hodnesses within Jill] linear it of the proposed signage are in approval and a written statement explaining the
signi?cance of the honoree. along with a letter of concurrence from either the iionoree's surviving or tiring
descendants. if applicable. A Sis-hundred sixty-fire dollar {$665) fee must be paid to the order of the City of
Detroit Treasurer prior to submission. "sign is approred1 the petitioner be required to pay turn-hundred
dollars per sign to the Department of Public Works street i?und prior to installation. i?iease retnrn all
supporting to the Office ofthe Detroit Cit].r Clerit.

i. APPLICANT 

Please type or print information clearly:
Contact name: Quentella C--Byers Theresa Humphrey



 

Name of the OrgauimtiomErnette Baptist Church
Mailing Address: 15530 Meadowbrook



Cadm?tidjord Ml 48239

LL .-. -. 

313 477?1923
mm: (or: 9.99.1433 ra-Man: 

it? i .?laiCl?L?Li as .1 non-pro?t. please indicate your notoprotit status identi?cation number and
tiller?! .1 copy ot'the certi?cate. Non-pro?t iticnti?iction
number:

SECONDARY STREET NAME

INFORMATION

Rev. Caldwell has been a faithful PASTOR FOR 30 YEARS. He?s visible in the community, hosting
tent meetings in the summer, neighborhood carnivals doing street out reach. He leads the
members of Burnette in giving to the community serving full coarse meals Thanksgiving 
Christmas which time coats are given. He received a Certificate of Achievement from Wayne
County Commissioner?s of?ce, year 2002-2010.

 

ll. SECONDARY STREET NAME


What will the name on the Secondary Street Sign he?
DR. ROLAND A. CALDWELLSR

Where will the sign be located?
CONER: W.WARREN 28th ST.

(Please ii." the intemeethm where the signs are being requested to be installed.)

Fraposed installation date of the sign? ?x 49m
SEPTEMBER 2019 ,gei?hlyi 7 oh

(. I petition ?ir YL'L'f?Illiter xtreet name ahaii hejiimi with the office of the City Cit-rt; nut [en's than one hundred
eighty (HM) tiny? prior tn the n?nte nf immiiutimt 0] the wemnimji' .1 treet 

Purpose of Secondary Street Sign?

Rev Caldwell has been a faithful for ?33121:

-- Sii'i-- - -. 

of Burneite In the at 

Christmas ?3 was en 518F153
Achievement Irom Wayne taunts TSW

- a on an attached sT?eet) 
(i?ttQ?IQ?iimlJM?? ?hm'r'li??tt the ?rmware who has achieved promineuee as a result or

her .ximu'?mu, pmitive emttrihutimn the City ufDetruit. State imitiehiean. the United States af. lmerien. or
the internutirmnl 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Is this located on a Michigan State Trunk Line or Wag. ne County Road (See
attached for State Trunk Lines and Wayne County Roads)? 

CERTIFICATION

I certi/i? that the contained in the foregoing application is true and correet to the
best 0/ my hitch/eige um! lie/id that I have rend, understand and agree to abide [2v the fit/US and
regulations governing the Secwnimy Street Sign. I umlemtumi that this application is
made subject to the m/es' um! regularity? as outlined (miincmc Chapter Seetinm 50-7-3!
thmuqh Sections 50 . lpphumt agrees to crunpiv ith it? other riquirementx ufthe City,
C'mmti'. State and ?my othernpp/iuth/e entin'. It hit. I: pertain? to .S'eemnhu?v Street Sign?:

i he mutt-reigned nppiiennt?tj agrees to abide by the provides vet by the City uj'Deti-oit and Sign


raft-L1G,
.-. - 


ipp/iemtt Signature I Date

PETITION FOR HONORARY SECONDARY STREET NAME

Detroit, Ml

Date 30

IE HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

We. the undersigned owners ot?the property within 300 linear feet of the below listed intersection:

Location of Intersection
do respeetlinlly petitioner your Honorable Body to af?x a secondary street name in honor of
Name of I Ionoree

SPONSORING PETITIONER 
(Name) (Address) (Phone No.)

1 Signature of Deed Signature ofSpouse or Address Date
lloltler Other Co-Owner

Michigan Department of Treasury
Form 3372 (Rev. 08-12)

Michigan Sales and Use Tax Certificate of Exemption

DO NOT send to the Department of Treasury. Certi?cate must be retained In the seller's records. This certi?cate is invalid unless all four sections
are completed by the purchaser.

SECTION 1: TYPE OF PURCHASE

A. One-Time Purchase C. Blanket Certi?cate
Order or invoice Number: Expiration Date (maximum of four 

El B. Blanket Certi?cate. Recurring Business Relationship

The purchaser hereby claims exemption on the purchase of tangible personal property and selected services made from the vendor listed below. This
certi?es that this claim is based upon the purchaser's proposed use of the items or services, OR the status of the purchaser.

Vendor's Name anFAddFess

LifeWay Christia_n Resources Onelefel/Vay Plaza Nashville, TN, 37234?0183

SECTION 2: ITEMS COVERED BY THIS CERTIFICATE

Check one of the following:
All items purchased.

2. CI Limited to the following items: 7 

SECTION 3: BASIS FOR EXEMPTION CLAIM
Check one of the following:
I I, I For Resale at Retail. Enter Sales Tax License Number: 

2. For Lease. Enter Use Tax Registration Number;

The following exemptions DO NOT require the purchaser to provide a number:

3. LI For Resale at Wholesale.

4. Agricultural Production. Enter percentage: 

5. I: I Industrial Processing. Enter percentage: 

6. Church. Government Entity, Nonpro?t School. or Nonpro?t Hospital (Circle type of organization).

7. IXI Nonpro?t Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) Exempt Organization (must provide IRS authorized letter with this form).

8. IXI Nonpro?t Organization with an authorized letter issued by the Michigan Department of Treasury prior to June 1994 (must provide copy of
letter with this form).

9. I I Rolling Stock purchased by an Interstate Motor Carrier.
?ltl Other (explain):

SECTION 4: CERTIFICATION
i declare, under penalty of perjury, that the information on this certi?cate is true, that have consulted the statutes, administrative rules and other
sources of law applicable to my exemption, and that have exercised reasonable care in assuring that my claim of exemption is valid under Michigan
law. in the event this claim is disallowed, laccept full responsibility for the payment of tax, penalty and any accrued interest, including, if necessary,
reimbursement to the vendor for tax and accrued interest.

Business Name Type of Business (see codes on page 2)
Burnette Baptist Ch urch 08
Business Address ?City. State, ZIP Code I MT
4358 West Warren Detroit. MI 48210
Business Telephone Number (include area code) Name (Print or Type) 
313?449-1528 Quentella Caldwell Byers
I and hill: Date Signed 

337;- 
.. it 



DEPARTMENT OF LICENSING AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS 131,3
NONPROFIT CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT

201 8 

Due October 1, 2018 File Online at 

I Identification Number Corporation name
802001 51 9 BAPTIST CHURCH
Fiesident agent name and mailing address Of the registered office


II -

. ROLAND A CALDWELL 1 .
I 4358 WARREN u. 

is DETROIT, MI 4821 

CSCUGD-EGOO 

 

 

 

 

1? AUG 1 5 2013 $2 

I The address Of the registered office 9 

I tla

I _435_& WARREN .
l? MI 48210

. II
I. I

 

 

 

 

 

if no change in the address Of the registered office and/or resident agent proceed to item 4.

 

 

 

 

 

t. 

r? -- - 
1. Mailing address Of registered Office in Michigan if changed (may be at RC. Box) 1 . Resident Agent if changed

 

 

 

I

i

I 

II 3. The address Of the registered office in Michigan if changed (a P. O. Box may not ?be designated as the address Of the registered Office)

 

 

 

 

 



4. The purpOses and general na_?ture and kind Of business? In which the c?0rporatIOn engaged In during the year covered by this report.

-- H.111

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. -I 
IWI ?151.39 #4 (- -- .gi?mm
15? NAME and BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE ADDRESS
Preaidenf?iv - I f? I
?if, 4' 
I . II Si 3-different . _1 .3 z- . .. - ISM- v.irauairrer ?fl/IIis: ?ag; I .3 I: r; 311;; 22:: yi?gf:
it? the cor pmaiion is a private foundation or runner] to provide care to a dentelly underserved population, check the following box. r7?
I if box Is checked the board shall consist Of 1 or more directors. The board Of all other corporations shall consist Of 3 or more directors. 
I-un?A- DlrRaqulred Direclor' 1. 
Director(j'f?351?; J.- AI 7" 
File Online at michigan. gorilgorpfiieonline
I 6' Raport due October 1? 2018' or mail your completed report with am. :It OI money order payable to
the State Of Michigan.
I I
II Fee $20 .00. Fieturn to: Corporations Division
I .0. Box 36161
i Lansing. MI 48909
(517) 241-6470
Of authorized officer or agent dyilf; Utrwa?E/?/K II, :Lljf'S?. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

1mm! Revenue Service
Washington, 0.0. 20224

aglegr 0F 
AFF LIATE TH THE OUTHERN BAPTIST
CONVENIIOH .

2519 55 AVENUE

DETROIT HI 48201

Dear Officer or Trustee:

We-are contacting all group central organizations
organization and its

group exezption number (GEN) in Part 1, item l8(b), of

instructions require each central

Your group number is Show:
nates that are required :0 file an annual
your group exemption nunhe: on their return.

Church central organizations are

r1 {Brut-ever Ell-2.1.: 
SU?CililL'iQ?? at '1 d. 1' r1 79:23.1. ire-L t,
Juli ineltdu on -r th-

g] :31?an rant 

4 13E 111-1.- 

.af? Jul nip; tn: m1 3 Jr' -31 
Interim! Ii (If: L: g; 117'. .E i 

receive a copy,)

If you
number are shown above.

Thank you for your help in this matter.

{-22:11 that amendment is published,
wxenption rulings under section
under other proviSions

have any questions, please contact the person whose name

Department of the Treasury

Person to Contact:
Hr. Charles E. MCLaughlin
Taluphom Number.
(202)964-6197
Ra'ler Reply to:

Dace:
February 1976
Group Exemption Nurnber:

.1950

because the 1975 .Fom 990 and
subordinates to show their
Form 990.?

above.- PleaSe advise any of your subordie
information return, Form 990, to_place 

not requireo to file an annual information
uno;:i;::es that do not qualify as "integrated
file an information return, Fern 990, and
eyptoyriate group exemotion number.
Luznne Tax Regulations which'oiil define an

We are

we will send an

501(c)(3) of the
will not

and teleghone

Sincerely yours,



?r

f- -
C1 (1 4.9.24" (3, 

Yedesno, Director


1

IX.

?#npt Organizations Division


f?

M-UOEE {2-751

we 

Internal Revenue Service

II a? . .- --. 
ll"? '33? ?4113? 0 @2293

In reply rater to:

--. DalP 
y, - AUG 331353 

Baptist State Convention of
Michigan, affiliated with the
Southern Baptist Convention

2619 Cass Avenue?

Detroit, Michigan 48201

Gentlemen:

Based on the information supplied, we rule that you and
your affiliated churches named on the group exemption roster
you submitted are exempt from Federal income tax under section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.

You and your affiliated churches are not required to
file Federal income tax returns.

It will not be necessary for you and your affiliated
churches to file the annual return of information, Fomn
generally required of organizations exempt under
section 501(c)(3) of the Code, as you and your exempt
affiliated churches come within the specific enceptions
contained in section 6033(a) of the Code.

Donors may deduct contributions to you and your affiliated
churches, as provided by section 170 of the Code. Bequests,
legacies, devises, transfers, or gifts to or for the use of
you and your affiliated churches are deductible for Federal
estate and gift tax purposes under sections 2055, 2106, and
2522 of the Code.

You and your affiliated churches, are not liable for
Federal unemployment taxes. You and your affiliated churches
are liable for social security taxes only if you and your
affiliated churches have filed waiver of exemption certifi-
cates, as provided in the Federal Insurance Contributions
Act. (Your District Director will be glad to tell you more
about the latter point.)

If you change your purposes, character, or method of
operation, please let your District Director know, so that
he may consider the effect on your exempt status. Also,
please keep him informed of any changes in your name or
address.

Baptist State ConVention of Michigan. - 3 -
affiliated with the Southern Baptist
Convention

You should advise each of your exempt affiliated
churches of the exemption and the pertinent provisions of

this ruling.
We are notifying your District Director. Detroit. Michigan.
Very truly yours.


Chief, Rulings Section
Exempt Organizations Branch

 BIO (YEAR 2019)

Roland Arthur Caldwell was born July 21, in Detroit, MI. to the late Dr. James
Allen Rosie Lee Caldwell.

After dedicating his life to Christ an early age, Roland Arthur Caldwell accepted
the call to preach at the age of 12, later licensed ordained by his father Dr.
James Allen Caldwell here in Detroit, who was Founder/Pastor of Burnette Baptist
Church. Rev. Roland Caldwell served as youth Pastor for several years. He
concurrently served as Youth Administrator for Tennessee Baptist Church here in
Detroit under the direction of the late Pastor Napoleon.

As a teenager he was privileged to preach in pulpits of some of the most
renowned pastors across the country. At the age of 21, his ministry led him to
leave Detroit on a journey to Los Angeles. After 2 months there he opened a
mission called Ever Faithful Ministry, following that he was called to Pastor New
Starlight Missionary Baptist Church in Los Angeles did so for 4 years.

At the request of his Father, he returned to Detroit to become Co-Pastor of his
father's church, after a year a half and with his father?s blessing, Roland
organized.

God?s mission through Roland, as His vessel, is and was to seek and save those
that are lost and introduce them to Christ.

Pastor Caldwell is a gifted preacher and teacher and throughout the years he has
conducted countless revivals and ministered in hundreds of churches across the
nation. I Chronicles 4:10 ?Lord! Enlarge My Territory?: The Lord, once again,
granted his request and enabled him to deliver the Invocation, to open The Senate
Session in the State Capitol, Lansing Michigan.

He has served as the founder Senior Pastor of Burnette, as of this year, 2019,
THIRTY Years. He?s highly visible in the community; hosting tent meetings in the
summer, neighborhood carnivals and doing street out-reach.

He has been recognized for his commitment to the community; received a
Certificate of Achievement from the Wayne County Commissioner?s Office, years
2002,2010.

Because of his longevity as a preacher/pastor and willingness to share his wisdom,
Pastor Caldwell is sought by Pastors across the country to render advice 
mentoring. Always excited to see others succeed and grow in Christ. He takes his
responsibility as a man of God seriously and is dedicated to continuing his
ministry in the Spirit of Excellence that God requires.

Through his vision compassion for people, Burnette is a blessing to many
through the Food Ministry, serving full course dinners Thanksgiving and
Christmas, which time Food, Clothing and Coats are given.

He is the proud father of 3 biological children, Teela, Rolanda, Rev.Ro and, Jr. 2
stepped children, Cortney, Chasity, and grandchildren. He has many others he
took under his wings as being their Father in Christ, the one they could call on.

Additional accomplishments lnvolvements:

Was State Coordinator of the State Convention

Sat on the Ed. Of Directors of St. Adams Hospital, L.A. California
Organized a ?March on Sin, Crack Crime? 1988 in Detroit

A daily radio program from 1992 to 1997

Administrative Assistant to the late Doctor Claude Young of SCLC

Currently vice moderator of the Baptist State Convention of Michigan of Southern
Baptist of our District

Successful Cable Television (Comcast)Broadcast entitled ?Talking with Caldwell
Show? on which he endeavored to bring shakers makers of our city, state and
surrounding communities before the people and discuss general concerns.
Influential personalities such as the Mayor of Southfield, Brenda Lawrence,
Senator Hansen Clarke, Ken Crockrel, Senator Buzz Thomas, Holocaust survivors,
Senator Martha Scott, Senator Coleman Young ll, Wayne County Clerk Cathy
Garrett, Detroit City Clerk, Janice Windfrey, Benny Napoleon, just to name a few.

Where there is No Vision the people perish and without doubt Pastor Caldwell is a
visionary with the favor of God upon him.

Visualizing: Senior Citizen Day Care Center presently planning to have a
computer training program for seniors in the community.

Renovation of Sanctuary on Warren 28th St.
AND
A prayer toWer recreational Center in the community

EDUCAIIQN.
Doctoral Degree Through Andersonville School of Theology.

STATMENT OF THE CHURCH church that burns with heavenly fire and sinners
are caught within a spiritual net inspired to do great works.? (Formerly Burnette

Inspirational YEAR 2017, BECAUSE OF UNWARRANTED CIRCUMSTANCES PASTOR CALDWELL
CHANGED OUR NAME TO BAPTIST CHURCH)

PUROSE 

Saving The Lost At All Cost! All Color, All culture, All people! Promote Spirituality,
diversity unity within the community.

201 9-06?05

909

Petition of Burnette Baptist Church,
request to install a secondary street
sign at the intersection of Caner: 

Warren 28th St. in Honor of Rev.
Caldwell.

909

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING DEPARTMENTS)

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION DPW CITY
ENGINEERING DIVISION
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

PUBLIC LIGHTING DEPARTMENT

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.6380

clrvor ?apartmem Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT 

Housing and Revitalhation

 

September 12, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate
on behalf of 2220 GRATIOT, LLC in the area of 2220 GRATIOT, Detroit, Michigan, in
accordance with Public Act 146 of 2000 (Petition #897).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department and Finance Departments have reviewed the
application of 2220 GRATIOT, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth by PA. 146 of
2000 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Public Act 146 of 2000 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental
unit, shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate in accordance with Section 8 and other provisions of this act.
Prior to acting upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City
Clerk must provide written notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of
each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issUe of approving the application for
the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a
resolution establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

 

Donald Renclte
Director



cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
K. Trudeau, 
D. Rencher, HRD
A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt
resolution which approves the application of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate within

the boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, 2220 GRATIOT, LLC has made application for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Certi?cate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached

hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public
Hearing, at which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at
which Public Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the
City, or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the . 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
?oor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described
application and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and
shall give written notice of the Public Hearing by certified mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad
valorem tax within the City of Detroit.

Qtity of %etrm?t

Janice M. Winfrey Andre P. Gilbert 11
City Clerk OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Deputy City Clerk

September 13, 2019

To: Maurice Cox, Director
Flaming and Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 908
Detroit, MI. 48226

Re: 2220 Gratiot, LLC

Please find attached an amended application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate for Property located at 2220 Gratiot Ave 2228 Gratiot Ave,
Detroit, MI TO PETITION #897)

"l
Respectfully 
(If?gilht?/I Siff??br.

Jr. Asst. City Council Committee Clerk
Of?ce of the City Clerk

 

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

Michigan Department of Treasury
3574 (Rev. 05-13)

Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

This form is issued as provided by Public Act 146 of 2000, as amended. This application should be ?led after the district is established. This proiect will
not receive tax bene?ts until approved by the State Tax Commission. Applications resolved after October 31 may not be acted upon in the current year.

This application is subiect to audit by the State Tax Commission.
INSTRUCTIONS: File the original and two copies of this form and the required attachments with the clerk of the local gayemment unit.
(The State Tax Commission requires two copies of the Application and attachments. The original is retained by the clerk.) Please see
State Tax Commission Bulletin 9 of 2000 for more information about the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption. The following
must be provided to the local government unit as attachments to this application: General de scription of the obsolete facility (year
built, original use, most recent use, number of stories, square footage); General description of the proposed use of the rehabilitated
facility, (0) Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken, A descriptive list of the ?xed building
equipment that will be a part of the ehabilitated facility, A time schedule for undertaking and completing the rehabilitat ion of the
facility A statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption. A statement from the assessor of the local unit of
government, describing the required obsolescence has been met for this building, is required with each application. Rehabilitation may
commence after establishment of district.

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must be the OWNER of the facility}
2220 Gratiot, LLC

Company Mailing address (No. and street, O. Box, City. State, ZIP Code}
875 Henrietta St. Birmingham, MI 48009

Location of obsolete facility (No and street, City, State. ZIP Code)

2220 Gratiot Ave., Detroit, MI 48207 - - .
City, Township, Village (Indicate whichl? County 
City of Degtroit Wayne

Date of Commencement of Rehabilitation Planned date of Completion of Rehabilitation

October 01, 2019 (mm/?Wm? December 10, 2019

 

  
  
  
   
  

 

 

 

School District where facility is located (include school 

Detroit Public Schools

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation 'Number of years exemption requested Legal description of Obsolete Property on separate
5 eat
$839,810.00 12
Expected project likelihood (check all that apply):
Increase Commercial activity Retain employment Revitalize urban areas
Create em lo ment Prevent a loss of em to ment Increase number 0f residents in the
community in which the facility is situated

Indicate the number of jobs to be retained or created as a result of rehabilitating the facility, including expected construction employment
Each er. the State Treasurer may approve 25 additional reductions of half the school operating and state education taxes for a period not to exceed six years. Check the
folio rig box if you wish to be considered for this exclusion. I:

 

 

 

 



 

CERTIFICATION

The undersigned, authorized of?cer of the company making this application certi?es that, to the best of hisiher knowledge. no information contained
herein or in the attachments hereto is false in any way and that all of the information is truly descriptive of the property for which this application is being
submitted. Further, the undersigned is aware that. if any statement or information provided is untrue. the exemption provided by Public Act 148 of 2000

may be in jeopardy.
The applicant certi?es that this application relates to a rehabilitation program that, when completed, constitutes a rehabilitated facility. as
de?ned by Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. and that the rehabilitation of the facility would not be undertaken without the applicant's

receipt of the exemption certi?cate.
It is further certi?ed that undersigned is familiar ith the provisions of Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. of the Mich igan Compiled Laws; and to

th
the best of mother knowledge and belief. (sjhe has complied or will be able to comply with all of the requirements moreof which are prerequisite to the
approval of the application by the local unit of government and the issuance of an bsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate by the State

Tax Commission.

Name of Company OWino authorized agents)_?
Joseph Ales

Mailing Address

875 Henrietta St Birmingham, MI 48009

Signature ofCorripany Icer(noa hori?anls) ?7
?4'?ch 

LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNIT CLERK CERTIFICATION
The Clerk must also complete Parts 2 and 4 on Page 2. Part 3 is to be completed by the Assessor
Date application received 1

 

 

Fax Number

(248) 648-8825

Email Address
jalestypes@yahoo.com
Title 
President

    
 
  

   

Telephone Number
(248) 417-6516

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

"Signature

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR STATE TAX COMMISSION USE

Application Number Date Received Code

 

 

 

 

3674, Page 2

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION

This section is to be completed by the clerk of the local governing unit before submitting the application to the State Tax Commission. include a copy of
the resolution which approves the application and Instruction items through on page 1. and a separate statement of obsolescence from the
assessor of record with the State Assessor's Board. All Sections must be completed in order to process.

EAR: TAKEN

 

 

PART 3: ASSESSOR RECOMMENDATIONS

 

Action Date:

Exemption Approved for

Denied

 

Years, ending December 30,

(not to exceed 12 years)

 

 

catJDEtrict. Established

 

 

A statement that the local unit is a Quali?ed Local Governmental Unit.

A statement that the 0 bsolete Property Rehabilitation District was
legally established including the date established and the date of
hearing as provided by section 3 of Public Act 146 of 2000.

A statement indicating hether the taxable value of the property
proposed to be exempt plus the aggregate taxable value of property
already exempt under Public Act 146 of 2000 and under Public Act 198
of 1974 (lFT?s) exceeds 5% of the total taxable value of the unit.

A statement of the factors. criteria and objectives. if any. necessary for
extending the exemption, when the certi?cate is for less than 12 years.
A statement that a public hearing was held on the application as
provided by section 4(2) of Public Act 146 of 2000 including the date of
the hearing.

A statement that the applicant is not delinquent In any taxes related to
the facility.

if it exceeds 5% (see above). a statement that ex ceeding 5% will not
have the effect of substantially impeding the operation of the Quali?ed
Local Governmental Unit or of impairing the ?nancial soundness of an
affected taxing unit.

A statement that all of the items described under "Instructions" 
through of the Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate have been provided to the Quali?ed Local

Governmental Unit by the applicant.

Code

 

School Code

PART 2: RESOLUTIONS (the fatiguing statements must be includedin'resolutions approving

A statement that the application is for obsolete property as de?ned in
section 2(h) of Public Act 146 of 2000.

A statement that the commencement of the rehabilitation of the facility
did not occur before the establishment of the Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation District.

A statement that the application relates to a rehabilitation program that
when completed constitutes a rehabilitated facility within the meaning
of Ptibllc Act 146 of 2000 and that is situated lthin an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation District established In a uall?ed Local
Governmental Unit eligible under Public Act 146 of 2000 to establish
such a district.

A statement that completion of the rehabilitated facility is calculated to.
and will at the time of issuance of the certi?cate, have the reasonable
likelihood to. increase commercial activity. create employment. retain
employment. prevent a loss of employ ment. revitalize urban areas, or
increase the number of residents in the community in which the facility
is situated. The statement shoul indicate which of these the
rehabilitation is likely to result in.

A statement that the rehabilitation includes improvements aggregating
10% or more of the true cash value of the property at commencement
of the rehabilitation as provided by section 2(l) of Public Act 146 of
2000.

A statement of the period of time authorized by the Quali?ed Local
Governmental Unitfor completion of the rehabilitation.

Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of the Obsolete Preperty, as provided in Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. for the tax year
immediately preceding the effective date of the certi?cate (December 31st of the year approved by the STC).

?Building(s) . 1

time of Gov?ernmental Unit

Taxable Value

PART 4: CLERK CERTIFICATION

The undersigned clerk certi?es that. to the best of hislher knowledge. no information contained herein or in the attachments hereto is false in any way.
Further, the undersigned is aware that if any information provided is untrue. the?exemption provided by Public Act 146 of 2000 may be in jeopardy.

Name of Clark Clerk SignatUre'

 

CErk's Mailing Address, CIT

 

(Date of Action on application

State Eq_ualiz? Value (SEV)

 

Date of Statement of Obsolescence? -

 

 

 

lTelephone Number

P.O. Box 30471

Mail completed application and attachments to: Michigan Department of Treasury
State Tax Commission

?Date

 

State ZIP Code

 

Fax Mum?bar Email Address

 

If you have any questions. call 517- 335-7491

Lansing. Michigan 48909-7971

For guaranteed receipt by the State Tax Commission. it is recommended that applications and attachments are sent by certi?ed mail.

 

ATTACHMENT TO THE APPLICATION FOR OBSOLETE PROPERTY REHABILITATION
EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE

2220 DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48207

General description of the obsolete facility (year built, original use, most recent use, number of
stories, square footage):

Year Built: 1890 and Addition 1940's

Original Use: General store Repair Shop

Most Recent Use: Storage Obsolete since 1970?s

Number of Stories: Two story (1890) One story Addition (1940?s)
Square Footage: 4,618

General description of the proposed use of the rehabilitated facility:

The property use will be for exams and health care, including the sale of frames
and prescription lenses, non-prescription sunglasses, contact lenses and accessories for
glasses and contact lenses.

Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken:

The general nature and extent of rehabilitation includes:

Selective Demolition (complete interior, exterior wall removal for new entrance,
dormers on second floor roof, etc.)

Concrete Work (removal of current paving and new parking area repaving, along
with paving of two empty lots to the north)

Masonry (exterior tuckpointing, new entry ways into the building, etc.

Structure Steel and Joists

Carpentry and Millwork

Roo?ng

Doors/HardWare and Glass/Glazing

Drywall

Tile/Wood Flooring

Painting and Wallcovering

PIumbing/HVAC/Electricai

ATTACHMENT TO THE APPLICATION FOR OBSOLETE PROPERTY REHABILITATION
EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE

2220 DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48207

A descriptive list of the fixed building equipment that will be a part of the rehabilitated facility:

There will be no fixed building equipment.

A time schedule for undertaking and completing the rehabilitation of the facility:

Start Date: Immediately upon OPRA approval
Completion Date: Three months from rehabilitation start
Opening Date: The month after rehabilitation completion

A statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption:

The exemption is needed to give the owners of the project time in which to start up
their Operation in Detroit and to provide on-going assistance in growing the company.

The Doctors are also working toward the expansion of the optical lab that will be on-site
to include frame finishing and assembly in collaboration with an USA manufacturer and
manufacturers in Italy, France, Germany and Hungary. The intention of using
approximately 1,500 sq. ft. of the space at the subject for this lab is the increase in
potential income which, ultimately would increase employment opportunities for the
community.

Other advantages include:

. The introduction of an affordable optical practice in an area that is mostly poor and
in need of such.

a The project will be an addition to the on-going development and planned
development of the area, further providing incentive to new developers/companies
thinking of returning/expanding into the City of Detroit.

. The addition of collected taxes from employees and sales at the site.

ATTACHMENT A

 

 

LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS

2220 GRATIOT
GRATIOT 4&3 EXC GRATIOT AVE AS WD BLK 37 PLAT OF

PT PC 91 L1 P283 PLATS, 9/43 5719 IRREG

2228 GRATIOT
GRATIOT 20 FT 5 20 FT 9 EXC GRATIOT AVE AS WD
BLK 37 PLAT OF PT PC 91 L1 P283 PLATS, 9/43 20.04

IRREG

 

 
 

. 
ZWTIOT 
TOF PC91 L1

JAMES CAMPAU 
GRATIOT 8 10 FT OF 9 
9/43 40.46 IRREG

GRATIOT AVE AS WD EXC

TRANAG PART OF LOT 7.02 FT ON 3 LINE 27.53 FT

0F LINE BLK 24 599ij PT OF JA CAMPAU FARM L2 P17

PLATs, 37 PLAT OF PT OF 1 L1 P283 PLATs,
.8

9/43 8 IRREG




   
 
   
 

2240 GRATIO
GRATIOT 25&2

   
   

Qtity of Eetroit
city COUNCIL

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART:

 

 

Project Type Incentive Type Investment Amount District
0(2me 0 We 9 ?5an 0 TM 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Emilie P?St?hv?M?y

 

 

 

Jobs Available
Construction Post Construction
Professional Non? Skilled Non-Skilled Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled
Professional Labor Labor Professional Labor Labor
a regime?-
gar-Minn: femur.?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

comm-Her: 
3 09114.41?; wt? (shimmy-rare; MA A dPg/ZWJE?frk

- - - - we- Mr
7
1. What is the plan for hiring DetrOJters. N555 3 m? em?u tan-J

- Win? 144%? M?/myt/Awar #LrL/o.
. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e: job type, job
quali?cations, etc.

. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents? P05517017.

. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential

jobs? Yes jl'

raw-LAM? ?gs-HA5 w?on/ aF
page: 55 .

. What is the expected completion date of construction; 0 

- WIFEJCS 
?0 ?E-Fm?r?tfhc 40f?

. When is construction slated to begin?

   
  

*Please contact Linda Wesley at (313) 628-2993 or weslevl?detroitmi.qov to schedule a date to attend the
Skilled Trades Task Force.

Mat/t7? Ami/4?5, Hum;
rear/445K, ?4r/c? ~17 M9
7617mm Ammo 70 MA Sol-wrla/IJS 

445 lg.? Way?6?44; Primary}: Edifms 
4 ?gft?m?Lr ?raga-56? 

Ham avg?gm45/ (UL 
(?2551a

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224?1245 Fax (313) 224-4095



ANNUAL EMPLOYNIENT REPORT
Current Daily Employment Before Abatement and Upow'After Abatement?s Anniversary



Reporting Date: 0765?), 2 3194??

Applicant complete columns A thru or by job types for workers located only at
facilityfgareel under tax abatement. Detroit workers must have veri?able ID addresses
on ?le with employer for review. This report evidences your commitment or achievement to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

overall full time employment as stated in tax abatement a ement.
Job 8; Types A 
Total Total Percent Total Annual
If a job below is not All Detroit of DR Employees De?cit
appropriate for abated Employees Residents Employed Employer or 
location put NA in Colunm Currently Employed Committed Surplus 
A To
1) Executives c9. 0 62
2) Managers/Supervisors 1v M/i
31 Professionals A 
4) Technicians <9
5) Sales Workers i I 
6) Of?ce/Clerical i I
7) Craft I 
8) Operatives Semi Skilled i i
9) Laborers Unskilled I I i 3
10) Service Workers I I
1) Apprentiges i
12) Trainees 


 

Company: 

 

 

 

 

Mira/i? at? 2,919
1:535qu 2?1 Ali}

phone: #39172 
c? 

Authorized Representative Print



Title

Signature

 

 



or ere-41' Metre/BF :9
The Annual of Voluntary Involuntary Separations 

 

 

 

 

 

and 454351 ?/T/lt/M?n/L 
W.

 

 

Below

,Date 7 

A 56556 r'nu?af?%

I (?J/?lag

6wa
{412

 

526%??



Employer met or did not meet full time employee goals of agreement for the previous year.

Yes No

HRD Staff:

 

DETROIT RESIDENT ANNUAL HIRING REPORT
This Report Is Prior to Abatement Approval Dated:~714 11/ 91) Ht"; or
Is for an Annual Anniversary Report Period From. 

 

Applicant complete columns A only or A thru by job types for new hires located only at
facing/parcel under tax abatement. Detroit resident employees must have veri?able ID 
addresses on ?le with employer for review. This report evidences your commitment or
achievement in new Detroit resident (DR) hiring.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Job 8: Types 
of Total Total Actual New Only
If job below is not Employer Is New New DR Hiring
appropriate for location put Committed To Employees Detroit Percentage
NA in Column A Employing Hired Residents Achieved
Hired CB
1) Executives 
2) Managers/Supervisors 
3) Professionals Aer/4455'? 7754)
4) Technicians fM?a' 21.4! 
5) Sales Workers i) 2' '1 7
1 6) Of?ce/Clerical 019/ an array ate/S

7 Craft Workers/Skilled (seer/V 57m?? cm? .
8) Operatives Semi Skilled 441 moo We ?ween claw-J
9) Laborers Unskilled 7
10) Service Workers 
1 I) Apprentices 
l2) Trainees 
Overall 

 

 

 

Applicant agrees to use Good Faith Efforts to ful?ll the initial New DR Hiring Goals (Column
A) above throughout the term of tax abatement. Further it is agreed that any change 11'] DR Hiring
Goals must be agreed too L?and approved in advance by HRD to take effect

(zygh LLC, Dabber

UF 
29?3?0 #173343)

. 
Authorized Representative Print 3Q - (5?5

 

 

 

 

 

   

Title Phone: 1/4 2% 3?7;
S__rure M3

     

Hno Below 
Approved Further Explanation/Changes Needed Note Attached

HRD Director

.r

I TCompany: A165 ?mat 

Detro' 'esidents? Annual Employment Veri?es" 1 Report
No Detroit Residents write none}

Page 1 of 
List each DR currently employed these should equal totnl DR number given in the Annual Report. Skip illre?Separotion! Column Dato
9_r
If on annual anniversary yeor is completed mm each DR 8: column data during past twelve months must be listed
Ilire Sources: Indicate Only: Detroit Workforce Development (DWD), Trade Union (U) or Other 
This report is used to verify Detroit resident ID uddren during the annual lite visit

 

 

 

 

Employee?s Name Job Detroit Street Address Zip ilirc Ilire Separ.
(First Initial Last Date Source Date
Name) Answer All Columns as Er Instructions if: Maintain Coats for Your Records =l

 

 

 

 

w?HM/g M0 397*.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

For organization?s convenience a similar form can be made as long as the info is consistent with above!

Authorized By: Title: A?g/C/wa? Phone: @3532 4

 

LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHORITY

1, 379 53/1? A95 . a Manager or Member of 2220 Gratiot, LLC, a limited liability
company (the "Company") D0 HEREBY CERTIFY that I am a Manager or Member of the
Company who has the authority to act as an agent of the Company in executing this Certi?cate of
Authority. I further certify that the following individuals are Managers or Members of the
Company who have the authority to execute and commit the Company to conditions, obligations,

stipulations and undertakings contained in this Agreement between the City and the Company:

 

 

 

 

FURTHER, I CERTIFY that all necessary approvals by the Managers or Members of the
Agreement have been obtained with respect to the execution of said Agreement, which is for a
One Hundred 1 month term Exemption Certi?cate.

(I (g
IN WITNESS THEREOF, I have set my hand this day of 201?

CORPORATE SEAL

(if any) Manager or Member

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 43226

(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711

 

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
TO: Ashley McLeod, Housing and Revitalization
FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Obsolete Property District (PA 146) at 2220 Gratiot
[Petition #897]
DATE: August 19, 2019
CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

Kevin Schronce, Central Region, Planning and Development

In order to ensure that the issuance of a certificate for an Obsolete Property District is in conformance with
the City?s Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial activity;
create, retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase the number of residents
in a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 146 of 2000 (section 125.2784), the Planning and
Development Department submits the following interpretation. The Petitioner of this project is Optik.

Location and Project Proposal: 2220 Gratiot; The project proposes to rehabilitate a one-story
retail/warehouse building (approximately 0.30 acres) into a facility for exams and health care,
including the sale of frames and prescription lenses, non-prescription sunglasses, contact lenses and
accessories for glasses and contact lenses.

Master Plan Interpretation:

The subject site area is designated Mixed Residential-Commercial (MRC). Mixed Residential-
Commercial areas consist primarily of high density housing developed compatibly with commercial
and/or institutional uses. This classification is well suited to areas proximal to existing centers of major
commercial activity, major thoroughfares, transportation nodes, or gateways into the city.

The following Master Plan goals and/or policies of the Lower East Central neighborhood describe the

following recommendations to support/advise project:
- Policy 4.1: Encourage high?density mixed-use development to replace obsolete commercial

properties along Gratiot
Policy 5.2: Continue to support neighborhood-servicing retail uses for the residential area north

of Jefferson
Policy 6.1: Along Jefferson and Gratiot, incorporate streetscape, landscape and signage

improvements leading into the Central Business Distict

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 4, Lower East Central; Map 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, 48226

(313) 224-301l - ll

(3 I 3 224-9400



r'lz?

  
  

CITY OF DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE FINANCIAL OFFICER
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR

September 13, 2019

Katharine G. Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate - 2200 Gratiot LLC
Property Address: 2220 Gratiot and 2228 Gratiot
Parcel Numbers: 09001284. and 09001283.

Dear Ms. Trudeau:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
certificate application for the properties located at 2220 Gratiot and 2228 Gratiot in the McDougall Hunt area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for granting Obsolete Property Rehabilitation certificates under PA 146 of 2000, as amended, is based on the
anticipation ofincreased market value upon completion ofnew construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial
property and commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate
additional market value.

2220 Gratiot LLC plans to rehabilitate the buildings for use for exams and healthcare, including the sale of frames and
prescription lenses, non?prescription sunglasses, contact lenses and accessories for glasses and contact lenses. The one-story
building at 2220 Gratiot is currently vacant and consists of 2,140 square feet of retail building area, built in 1915 and situated on
.058 acres of land. The two-story building at 2228 Gratiot is currently vacant and consists of 2,685 square feet of mixed-use building
area, built in 1915 and situated on .031 acres of land. Rehabilitation will include selective demolition for complete interior and
exterior wall removal for new entrance, structure steel and joist work, dormers on second floor roof, new roof, carpentry and
millwork, and new plumbing, HVAC and electrical.

The 2019 values are:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Land
Assessed Building Assessed Value Land
Parcel Address Value (SEV) Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
09001283. 2228 Gratiot 17.700 17,700 1.400 1.400
09001284. 2220 Gratiot 11.600 11,600 2.500 2.500

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 146 of 2000, as amended. it applies to blighted, functionally obsolete and
contaminated properties. "Rehabilitation," meaning that changes to qualified facilities that are required to restore or modify the
property, together with all appurtenances, to an economically efficient condition.

The project is expect to increase commercial activity and create employment.

 

  
 

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate
2220 Gratiot LLC
Page 2

A ?eld investigation indicated that the properties located at 2220 Gratiot and 2228 Gratiot are eligible as it pertains to the Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation Act under PA. 146 of 2000, as amended.

Sin cerelv,

  

Char es Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



   

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate
2220 Gratiot LLC
Page 3

Property Owner: 2220 GRATIOT LLC
Property Address: 2220 GRATIOT
Parcel Number: 09001284.

Legal Description: 5 GRATIOT 4&3 EXC GRATIOT AVE AS WD BLK 37 PLAT OF PT PC 91 L1 P283 PLATS, 9/43 67.19 IRREG

Property Owner: 2220 GRATIOT LLC
Property Address: 2228 GRATIOT
Parcel Number: 09001283.

Legal Description: GRATIOT 20 FT 5 20 FT 9 EXC GRATIOT AVE AS WD BLK 37 PLAT OF PT PC 91 L1 P283 PLATS, 9/43

20.04 IRREG

The legal description matches the OPRA certificate request.

I i 3.0 r?

 

 

  

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.6380

Fax: 313.224.1629


Housing and Revitalization
Department

  

ne?f?blr

September 11, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate
on behalf of CRAWFORD REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT HOLDINGS, LLC
in the area of 6340 E. JEFFERSON Detroit, Michigan, in accordance with Public Act
146 of 2000 (Petition #702).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department and Finance Departments have reviewed the
application of CRAWFORD REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT HOLDINGS, LLC
and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth by PA. 146 of 2000 and would be consistent with
development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Public Act 146 of 2000 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental
unit, shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate in accordance with Section 8 and other provisions of this act.
Prior to acting upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City
Clerk must provide written notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of
each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for
the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a
resolution establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Donald Rencher
Director



cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, 
D. Rencher, HRD
A.McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt
resolution which approves the application of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate within
the boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, CRAWFORD REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT HOLDINGS, LLC has
made application for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate whose boundaries are
particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public
Hearing, at which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at
which Public Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the
City, or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13?h
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described
application and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and
shall give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad
valorem tax within the City of Detroit.

(titty of 

Janice M. Winfrey Andre P. Gilbert 

Citv Clerk OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Deputy? City Clerk

September 13, 2019

To: Maurice Cox, Director
Planning and Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 908
Detroit, MI. 48226

Re: Crawford Real Estate and Development Holdings LLC

Please ?nd attached an amended application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate for Property located at 6340 E. Jefferson, Detroit, MI 48207

(RELATED TO PETITION #702)

[whinittedcii?/J f4L/f/anlirm/i Shafer,

Jr. Asst. City Council Committee Clerk
Of?ce of the City Clerk

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center . Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

 
 

Michigan Department of Treasury
3674 (Rev. 05?13)

Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate
This form is issued as provided by Public Act 140 of 2000. as amended. This application should be ?led after the district to established. This project will
not receive tax bene?ts until approved by the State Tax Commission. Applications received after October 31 may not be acted upon In the current year.
This application is subject to audit by the State Tax Commission.

INSTRUCTIONS: File the original and two copies of this form and the required attachments with the clerk of the local government unit
(The State Tax Commission requires two copies of the Application and attachments. The original Is retained by the clerk.) Please see
State Tax Commission Bulletin 9 of 2000 for more information about the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption. The following
must be provided to the local government unit as attachments to this application: General de scription of the obsolete tacit ity (year
built. original use. most recent use. number of stories, square footage}; General desoription of the proposed use oflhe rehabilitated
facility. Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken. (dl A descriptive list of the fixed building
equipment that will be a part of the ehabititated facility. A time schedule for undertaking and completing the rehabilitat ion ofthe
facility. A statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption. A statement from the assessor of the local unit of
government. describing the required obsolescence has been met for this building. is required with each application. Rehabilitation may
commence after establishment of district.

Applicant {Company} Name (applicant must be the OWNER of the facility}

Crawford Real Estate and Development Holdings LLC

Company Mailing address (No. and street. PO. Box. City, State. ZIP Code]

6340 E. Jefferson Ave.. Detroit. Ml. 48207

Location of obsolete lite. and about. City. State. Code}

6340 E. Jefferson Ave.. Detroit. MI. 48207

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City. Township. Wings [indicate which} County
Detroit Wayne
Date of Commencement of Rehabilitation Plan/mic; data of Completion of Rehabilitation School District whore facility it: located [Include sdtocl code)
09/01/2019 m? 03/30/202, 82010
Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation Number of years exemption requested 33:?th Legal description of Obsolete Property on separate
EB

$500,000.00 12
Expected project likelihood (check all that apply):

Increase Commercial activity Retain employment Revitalize urban areas

Cree em to ment Prevent a loss of em to ent Increase number 0f residents "1 
to CI yin community In which the facility is situated

Indicate the number of jobs to be retained or created as a result of rehabilitating the facility. including expected construction employment
Each your. the State Treasurer may approve 25 additional reductions of half the school operating and state education taxes for a period not to exceed our years. Check the

following box If you wish to be considered for this oxdu: ion.

CERTIFICATION

The undersigned. authorized officer of the company making this application certi?es that. to the best oihtsiher knowledge. no information contained
herein or In the attachments hereto to false in any way and that all of the lnfonnaiion is truly descriptive of the property for which this application is being
Submitted. Further. the undersigned Is aware that. If any statement or information provided is untrue. the exemption provided by Public Act 146 of 2000
may be In jeopardy.

The applicant certifies that this application relates to a rehabilitation program that. when completed. constitutes a rehabilitated as
defined by Public Act 145 of 2000. as amended. and that the of the facility would not be undertaken without the applicant's
receipt of the exemption certificate.

It is further codi?ed that the undersigned Is familiar ith the provisions at Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. of the Michigan Compiled Laws; and to
the best of knowledge and belief. {slhe has compiled at will be able to comply with all of the reguiremenls thereof which are prerequisite to the
approval at the application by the local unit of government and the Issuance ct an bsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the State
Tax Commission.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name of Company Of?cer (no authorized agents] Telephone Number Fax Number
Sylvia Crawford (313) 445-5236
Mailing Address Email Address
6340 E. Jefferson Ave. 
Signature of Company Of?cer the au thorizcd agents} Title
3% WM Chairperson

 



GOVERNMENT UNIT CLERK CERTIFICATION

The Clerk must also complete Parts 1. 2 and 4 on Page 2. Part 3 is to be completed by the Assessor.

Signature Date application received

 

 

 

 

USE-

Number Date Received LUCI Code

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.. -. .31 ?31:
gig?Eli?j's aid! UL. Ild-

3674. Page 2

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION

This section is to be completed by the clerk of the local governing unit before submitting the application to the State Tax Commission. Include a copy of
the resolution which approves the application and Instruction items through on page 1. and a separate statement of obsolescence from the
assessor of record with the State Assessor's Board. All sections must be completed in order to process.

 

 

 

PART 1: ACTION 
Action Date 1
I Exemption Approved for Years. ending December 30. (not to exceed 12 years)
Denied

.- _S_ch_ool C_ode 

Date DistrictEstablished iLUCicEe'

 

 

PART 2: RESOLUTIONS (the following statements must be included in resolutions approving)

A statement that the local unit is a Quali?ed Local Governmental Unit. A statement that the application is for obsolete property as de?ned in
I A statement that the bsotete Property Rehabilitation District was section Of 2000' . . 
legally established Including the date established and the date of A statement that the commencement of the rehabilitation of the faculty
hearing as provided by section 3 of Public Act 146 of 2000. 333:; the establishment 0f the Obsolete Property

 

A bother the ta?fztt?givghiotfug?ifrfgegg A statement that the application relates to a rehabilitation program that
propose exemp pus aggrega a a p_ when completed constitutes a rehabilitated facility within the meanlng
a'ready exe?npt under Ac? 145 ?f 2?00 and 193 I of Public Act 146 of 2000 and that is situated ithin an Obsolete
?f1974 s) exceeds 5?6 0f the total taxable value or the ?hh' Property Rehabilitation District established in a uall?ed Local
A statement of the factors. criteria and objectives. if any. necessary for Governmental Unit eligible under Public Act 146 of 2000 to establish
extending the exemption. when the certi?cate is for less than 12 years. such a district.
A statement that a public hearing was held on the application as A statement that completion of the rehabilitated facility is calculated to.
provided by section 4(2) of Public Act 146 of 2000 including the date of and Will at the time of issuance of the certi?cate. have the reasonable
the hearing. likelihood to. increase commercial activity. create employment. retain

em to merit. reventa loss of em to ment. revitalize urban areas. or

A statement that the applicant '5 not delinquent In any taxes "3'3th to incrgaze the nhimber of residents ih the community in which the facility
the faculty. ls situated. The statement shoul indicate which of these the

I If it exceeds 5% (see above). a statement that ex ceeding 5% will_ not rehabilitation is likely to result in.
have the effect ofsubstantially impeding the operation 0f the Quali?ed A statement that the rehabilitation Includes improvements aggregating
Local Governmental Unit or of Impalring the ?nanCIal soundness of an 10% or more of the true cash value of the property at commencement .

I affected taxmg umt- of the rehabilitation as provided by section of Public Act 146 of
A statement that all of the items described under "Instructions" 2000.

I through. 0f the Application for OPSPIEIE PTOPBW Rehabilitation A statement of the period of time authorized by the Qualified Local
Exemption Certi?cate have been prowded to the Quali?ed Local Governmental Unit for completion of the rehabilitation.

 

Governmental Unit by the applicant.

PART 3: ASSESSOR RECOMMENDATIONS
Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of the Obsolete Property. as provided in Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. for the tax year
immediately preceding the effective date of the certi?cate (December 315i of the year approved by the STC).

Taxable Value State Equalized Value (SEW 

 

 

Building(s)

Name of Governmental Unit Date of Action on application

 

 

Date of Statemeht of Obsolescence

 

 

 

 

PART 4: CLERK CERTIFICATION
The undersigned clerk certi?es that. to the best of his/her knowledge. no Information contained herein or in the attachments hereto is false in any way.
Further. the undersigned is aware that if any information provided is untrue. the_exemption provided by Public Act 146 of 2000 may be in jeopardy.

 

I Name of Clerk 'Clerk Signature Date I

- . . 
{Clerk's Maillng Address lCIty State Code
I


 

 

 

Tl'elephone Number [Fax Number 1 Email Address 

l. . . . 

Mail completed application and attachments to: Michigan Department of Treasury
State Tax Commission If you have any questions. call (517) 373-2408.
PO. Box 30471
Lansing, Michigan 48909-7971

For guaranteed receipt by the State Tax Commission. It is recommended that applications and attachments are sent by certified mail.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARI) 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF ROIT (313) 224-301l - 

Ol'HCl-i OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (3 I 3) 224-9400

OFFICE or: THE Assessoa 

   



August 27, 2019

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate Crawford Real Estate and Development Holdings LLC
Property Address: 6340 East Jefferson
Parcel Number: 15000021.

Dear Mr. Cox:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
certificate application for the property located at 6340 East Jefferson in the Rivertown Warehouse area of the City of Detroit.

The rationale for granting Obsolete Property Rehabilitation certificates under PA 146 of 2000, as amended, is based on the
anticipation ofincreased market value upon completion ofnew construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial
property and commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate
additional market value.

Crawford Real Estate 8: Development Holdings LLC plans to rehabilitate a 2-story vacant retail and apartment building 5,678
square feet built in 1923 on .110 acres ofland. The proposed project consists of renovating the building to include a retail storefront,
co-working lounge and events space. The project will also involve the buildout of an administrative office and an outdoor terrace
overlooking the Detroit River with views of Belle Isle and Mt. Elliott parks. Rehabilitation activities included repairing plumbing,
new roof, new HVAC, updating electrical, installing new flooring, reconfiguring space and basement clean up/waterproofing.

The 2019 values are as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessed Value Building Assessed Value Land
Parcel# AddreSS (SEV) Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
15000021. 6340 EJefferson 66,400 16,020 6,600 1,592

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 146 of 2000, as amended. It applies to blighted, functionally obsolete and
contaminated properties. "Rehabilitation," meaning that changes to qualified facilities that are required to restore or modify the
property, together with all appurtenances, to an economically efficient condition.

The property is located in Rivertown Warehouse area and is expected to increase commercial activity, create employment, retain
employment and revitalize ari urban area.

A field investigation indicated that the property located at 6340 East Jefferson is eligible as it pertains to the Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Act under PA. 146 of 2000, as amended.

Sincer
Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate
Crawford Real Estate and Development Holdings LLC
Page 2

Property Address: 6340 E. Jefferson

Parcel Number: 15000021.

Property Owner: CRAWFORD REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT HOLDINGS LLC

Legal Description: 5 JEFFERSON 3 BLK 2 SUB OF PT MELDRUM FARM L1 P109 PLATS, 15/2 37 IRREG

The legal description on the petition for the PA 146 application matches the assessment roll.

x? 
E1191 -

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313)224-1339. TTY: 711

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization
FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Obsolete Property District (PA 146) at 6340 E. Jefferson
DATE: August 19, 2019
CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

Alexa Bush, PDD East, Planning and Development

In order to ensure that the issuance of a certificate for an Obsolete Property District is in conformance with
the City's Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial activity;
create, retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase the number of residents
in a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 146 of 2000 (section 125.2784), the Planning and
Development Department submits the following interpretation. The Petitioner of this project is Crawford
Real Estate Development Holdings LLC

Location and Project Land Use Proposal: 6340 E. Jefferson; To rehab existing structure and new
construction segments to create a new multi-purpose complex to bolster existing business corridor and
stimulate additional development along a stagnant section of East Riverfront District. The new complex
seeking to include retail storefront, co?working lounge and events space. Project also seeks to include an
administrative office and an outdoor space overlooking the Detroit River. One of the tenants of this
structure will be "The Pro Shop?, a Motor City Match business plan and design award grantee.

Existing Site Information: The existing 5,563 square foot structure was built in 1923 and housed an offset
print shop, retail storefront, and two residential apartments. Through 2016, structure continued to house
print shop, ladies clothing boutique and residential units were converted to house a barber shop and a
women?s hair salon. The structure is currently is intact and is in need of internal and external
repairs/upgrades.

Master Plan Interpretation -- The subject site area is designated Mixed Residential-Commercial (MRC).
Mixed Residential-Commercial areas consist primarily of high density housing developed compatibly
with commercial and/or institutional uses. This classification is well suited to areas proximal to existing
centers of major commercial activity, major thoroughfares, transportation nodes, or gateways into the
city.? The following policies ofthe Near East Riverfront neighborhood describe the following
recommendations:
- Policy 1.1 Develop the riverfront as a mixture of high-density residential and commercial uses
preserving views and public access to open space along the riverfront
I Policy 4.1 Develop neighborhood commercial nodes south ofJefferson with a mix of locally
serving, small-scale businesses, entertainment related development, service establishments and
c1v1c space

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 4, Near East Riverfront, Map 

 

. 

 

0 E. Jefferson Avel'r

I'rr) 

 

 

 

 

Map 4-83

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Neighborhood Cluster 4
Near East Riverfront

 

 

 

Future Land Use

Low Density Residential (RL)
Low I Medium Density Residential (RLM)

- Medium Density Residential (RM)

I High Density Residential (RH)

Major Commercial (CM)

Retail Center (CRC)

Neighborhood Commercial (ON)

a Thoroughfare Commercial (CT)

Special Commercial (CS)

General Industrial (IG)

Light Industrial (IL)

a Distribution I Port Industrial 

Mixed - Residential I Commercial (MRC)
Mixed - Residential I Industrial (MRI)
[2 Mixed-Town Center (MTC)

Recreation (PRC)

Regional Park (PR)

Private Marina (PRM)

Airport (AP)

Cemetery (CEM)

Institutional (INST)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Qllity

of Eetruit

COUNCIL

COUNCIL PR

ESIDENT BRENDA JONES

INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project Type Incentive Type Investment Amount District
Rehabilitation OPRA $500,000 5
- jobs Available
Construction Post Construction
Professional Non? Skilled Non-Skilled Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled
Professional Labor Labor Professional Labor Labor
2 1 _5 1 

 

 

 

 

1. What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

 

 

 

2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e: job type, job
quali?cations, etc.

3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents?

4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential

jobs?

5. When is construction slated to begin?

6. What is the expected completion date of construction?

*Please contact Linda Wesley at (313) 628-2993 or weslevl@detroitmi.qov to schedule a date to attend the
Skilled Trades Task Force.

SEE ADDENDUM ATTACHED.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit. Michigan 48226

(313) 224-1245

Fax (313) 224-4095
I use-E'? Ic-

 

Addendum
INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART

Proiect Type Incentive Type Investment Amt District
Rehabilitation OPRA $500,000 5

JOBS AVAILABLE

CONSTRUCTION JOBS
PROFESSIONAL: 2
SKILLED LABOR: 1

POST-CONSTRUCTION JOBS
PROFESSIONAL: 5
SKILLED LABOR: 1

COMMUNITY OUTREACH

CRED has initiated several meetings with Rivertown businesses and residents to learn
how to engage the community as a whole. This is how CRED team members learned of
the Rivertown Detroit Association. This led to our attendance at a business owners
training and open house hosted by Jefferson East Association. CRED also organized
and hosted an Open House for East Rivertown residents and business owners to
introduce our ourselves and our business to the community.

RELOCATION OPPORTUNITY
Two loft units will be restored on the upper level which will create space for two new
Detroit households.

CONSTRUCTION TIMELINE
PLANNED START DATE: September 1, 2019
EXPECTED COMPLETION DATE: August 30, 2021

PLAN FOR HIRING DETROITERS

Crawford Real Estate and Development (CRED) Holdings LLC was founded and is
family-owned and operated by the Crawford family, native Detroiters, long-time Detroit
residents, DPS graduates, former city workers and Detroit?based business owners.

CRED founders have a long, well-documented history of doing business in the city of
Detroit, contracting with and supporting other Detroit-based businesses and contributing
to the quality of life for Detroit residents through their business ventures, charitable
works and philanthropic contributions.

The Crawford family?s hiring plan will continue along that path by hiring Detroit-based
talent for pre-development and construction through post-construction services.

Addendum
INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART

CRED will rely on a vast network of resource companies, professional associations and
municipal and state government agencies to identify and extend contracts to qualified
Detroit?based businesses. CRED will leverage partnerships it has formed by winning
grants through Motor City Match and undergoing business training with Tech Town and
BUILD Institute. CRED also will utilize its growing network of Detroit business
incubators, accelerators and coworking spaces to inform Detroit contractors about
contractual opportunities. CRED also will engage business resource organizations like
the National Business League and Metro Detroit Chamber of Commerce; professional
associations like the Detroit Construction Connection and the Detroit Association of
Realtors; and, municipal and state government offices like the Michigan Economic
Development Corporation and the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation to connect with
Detroit-based contractors.

CRED will engage neighborhood newsletters and community publications to publish job
announcements and employment training opportunities. CRED will host and invite the
community to attend a grand opening ceremony and from time-to-time a community
Open house wherein announcements will be made about resources available to the
community, including job openings. and job training programs. Local and state media
outlets will be called upon to announce employment and job training opportunities
available to Detroit residents. CRED will participate in Detroit-based job fairs hosted by
community groups, civic organizations, churches, corporate interests and others
seeking to help Detroit residents gain employment and training. CRED will participate in
professional development training designed to help our organization improve upon our
ability to attract, retain and enhance the skills of Detroit residents. CRED will consult
the Detroit Employment Solutions Corporation and Michigan Works agency to announce
employment opportunities and to identify and prepare Detroit residents to fill positions.
CRED will also utilize online recruiting platforms to announce, attract and retain Detroit
talent. CRED will utilize placement services for Detroit based business schools, colleges
and universities to announce openings and acquire talent. CRED will participate in city
and state initiatives, such as the Grow Detroit?s Young Talent and Going Pro initiative to
offer on-the-job training and local talent retention. CRED will also utilize both traditional
and digital news and marketing platforms to announce both contractor bidding and
employment opportunities. As a business incubator, we will help to startup and expand
other companies which will create additional jobs.

CONSTRUCTION JOBS
PROFESSIONAL

PROJECT management. Hire and manage contractors. Oversee
and manage construction project. Lead application for licenses. Liaison to architectural,
interior, graphics design firm. Manage Motor City Match award contract. Monitor
compliance. Funding applications. Create, monitor and administer budget. Sales plan
leader. Manage accounting personnel. Review accounting/quickbooks. Tax return
review and sign-off, confirm tax payments. Review and amend contracts.Ensure

Addendum
INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART

 

compliance with City of Detroit Zoning and Permit regulations. Identify and secure
financing for development plans.

Investor relations. Responsible for new business development.

Monitor accounts receivables/payables

With Sales Manager analyze sales volumes/and adjust product offerings

Review and make contract amendments

Supervise personnel and Independent Contractors

Verify compliance with City of Detroit Zoning and Permit regulations

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT-

Understand and master operation of all technical equipment: Cable TV, Audio sound
system, microphone, heating and a/c, POS (point of sale and inventory) register,
security cameras, coworking software, etc. and provide guidance as required.
Review Quickbooks (online bookkeeping system) daily. Verify and correct entries. Order
reports as required.

Organize digital and physical records, design filing system and train personnel.
Maintain schedule for personnel and routine team business meetings. Prepare and
circulate meeting agenda.

Disseminate sales calls and meeting requests.

Order/pick-up or arrange delivery of office supplies. Refill supply area as needed.
Monitor essential supplies and place reorders for business cards.

Input inventory upon arrival and monitor inventory management system

Monitor correspondence from all digital accounts, including social media, email,
eventbrite and other sales and advertising platforms and distribute as appropriate
Maintain communication with security consultants

Practical knowledge Website operations to supervise consultants

Confirm repair service calls and serve as authorized officer

IT understanding and ability to hire and manage consultants

CONSTRUCTION JOBS
SKILLED LABOR

 

PROPERTY SUPERVISOR-

Help to obtain building permits for planned renovations as coordinated through
executive team

Groundskeeper

Survey exterior grounds daily. Clear property of litter, easily transportable debris
Schedule and supervise contractors as needed to perform property maintenance,
including landscaping, hauling, janitorial, graffiti removal, mechanical installation and
repairs to windows, electrical, heating plumbing, security system, Internet, cable,
etc .

Maintain safe efficient building operations through routine testing and servicing of fire
extinguishers, carbon monoxide alarms, security system, Internet, etc.

Addendum
INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART

Maintain contact with municipal departments to request and report matters related to
garbage pick-up, illegal dumping, order regulatory equipment (ie dumpsters, recycling
containers, etc.)

Security-work closely with executive team, consultants and vendors to select and install
lT (internet technology) security systems to ensure highly secure and remote security
monitoring and alarm systems.

Help to obtain building permits for planned renovations as coordinated through
executive team

Schedule repair services

Manage repair service contractors, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, locksmiths,
landscaping, snow removal, etc.

Schedule, host rental walk-thrus

POST-CONSTRUCTION JOBS
PROFESSIONAL

 

DIRECTOR OF ownership team create and execute business
model, operating systems, protocols, methods, procedures, projections, budgets and
timelines.

Project management.

Hire and manage staff and contractors. 

Oversee construction, interior design and selection, purchase, delivery and installation
of furnishings.

Identify and secure product offerings.

Lead application for Liquor License.

Architectural design.

Administer Motor City Match grant award activities.

Monitor compliance of all grants and funding programs.

Prepare and submit funding applications.

Create, monitor and administer budget.

With Executive Assistant and Sales Manager direct development of Marketing Sales
Plan.

With Ownership Team and Executive Assistant, identify management personnel and
FTE professional skills needs.

Meet with Business Operations and Management team routinely.

Sales plan leader.

Manage accounting personnel. Review accounting/quickbooks. Tax return review and
sign-off, confirm tax payments. Review and amend contracts.

Forecast all operational needs and activities.

Create Action Plan for building operations incorporating, expenses and overseeing
budget

Create Action Plan for business operations

Create Action Plan for Sales incorporating expenses and capturing revenue projections.

EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT-

Addendum

Works closely with the Director of Operations and assumes authority in the D00
absence.

Establish and present protocols. Serve as HR specialist? Work closely with executive
team to establish and instill standard company operating and rental procedures for all
personnel and rental customers. Work closely to incorporate into company business
plan.

Payroll, timekeeping, summer employment, interns, etc.

Maintain communications between all personnel.

Maintain compliance

Supervise personnel and Independent Contractors

Assist with team communication/feedback

Team meetings, introductions, communicate assignments and responsibilities

Set work hours/schedules

Review and propose contract amendments

Supervise personnel and Independent Contractors

Monitor accounts receivables/payables

With Sales Manager analyze sales volumes/and adjust product offerings

Security team lead-Maintain communication with security consultants

Practical knowledge Website operations to supervise consultants

IT understanding and ability to hire and manage consultants

Confirm repair service calls and serve as authoriZed officer

Verify compliance with City of Detroit Zoning and Permit regulations

Team phone nos., emails, addresses and sensitive records

Manuals, procedures- oversight reporting, payroll, etc.

Monitor accounts receivables/payables

With Sales Manager analyze sales volumes/and adjust product offerings

Working knowledge of IT needs

Security (shutters, keyed entrances, emergency exits, emergency kit (procedures)
Review and propose contract amendments

Assist contractors working on site

Assign sales leads and measure and monitor sales progress

Assess sales team?s productivity and provide essential skill development and training
With DOP identify and apply for eligible funding programs and grants

Develop understanding and working knowledge of Quickbooks accounting (accounts
payables/receivables, payroll, sales projections, cash flow) and POS and inventory
programs to guide and oversee daily operations

Coordinate and advance college internship program

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGER-

Provide administrative support to Director and Executive Assistant

Customer service-Answer phone, distribute phone and walk-in messages, schedule
appointments and follow up. Disseminate sales calls and meeting requests.

With property manager-daily office presentation-clean, orderly, signage

Understand and master operation of all technical equipment: Phone and voicemail
operations, printer (scanning, faxing, copies, etc), cable TV, computer streaming, audio

Addendum
INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART

sound system (music operation), microphone, climate control (heating and POS
(point of sale and inventory) register, security cameras, coworking software, etc. and
provide guidance as required.

Review Quickbooks (online bookkeeping system) daily. Verify and correct entries. Order
reports as required.

Organize digital and physical records, design filing system and train personnel.
Maintain schedule for personnel and routine team business meetings. Prepare and
circulate meeting agenda.

Order/pick-up, arrange delivery of office supplies. Refill supplies as needed. Monitor
inventory and place reorders as needed.

Monitor correspondence from all digital accounts, including social media, email,
eventbrite and other sales and advertising platforms and distribute as appropriate
Coordinate deliveries

Provide administrative support to sales, marketing and other specialists

Assist with unpacking, organizing, filing, electronic/online account management
Assist with communications materials

Some lifting, sorting, collating, recording, preserving

As Store Manager-Input inventory upon arrival and monitor inventory management
system

Collect and distribute incoming mail and deliver outgoing mail to post office daily

File and manage customer correspondence, contracts and other important documents
Gain proficient access to computer database comprising rental schedules, input
customer profile, events needs (history) etc.

Obtain sufficient knowledge of customer?s desired vision for event rental to input in
customer database or otherwise relate to executive team, consultants, independent
contractors retained to provide customer support.

Other related duties as assigned

I.T. SUPPORT SPECIALIST-

Understand and master operation of all technical equipment: Phone and voicemail
operations, printer (scanning, faxing, copies, etc), cable TV, computer streaming, audio
sound system (music operation), microphone, climate control (heating and POS
(point of sale and inventory) register, security cameras, coworking software, etc. and
provide guidance as required.

Security cameras

Ring Security System- operation, update, monitor

Cable TV, smart technology

Telephone system operation systems and wireless

Operation of Sonos audio sound system and microphone operation

Internet security

POS system

Printer set up, operation, scanning

Cyber security

Other related duties as assigned

SALES MANAGER-BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

Addendum
INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART

Marketing and business development

Manage all brands

Lead website development and original and ongoing population of content

Lead in the creation of annual and multi-year Sales Plan with sales and revenue
projections consistent with company?s overall Business Plan and model. Identify target
markets. Lead creation of marketing collateral, distribution channels, networking targets,
business pitch training opportunities, lead in developing pitch decks, talks and
presentations

Preserve, protect and reinforce brand

Brand Placement, Brand event sales, Brand merchandise, Brand sponsorships
Signage, landscaping, permits, transformers, dumping, dumpsters

Security, procedures, customer experience

First impression from curb, front door, customer reception, cleanliness, restrooms
Project Manager Execute CRED-related client events

With Store Manager monitor product inventory and notify store manager of restocking
needs

With Store Manager and in accordance with budget, place re-orders and restock as
needed

Manage Event Experience Team

Manage and assign sales/account executive staff

Oversee promotional and events marketing and sales of space for events, pop-ups,
meetings and workspace

Get to know key meeting and events planners representing organizations,
companies . . .

Get to know key events hosts, influencers and promoters

Subscribe to all events planning and activity calendars

Develop account sales leads and follow through

Host walk-thrus

Execute sales plan with leads

Attend networking events

Identify and attend targeted events

Promote products via marketing plan/tools

Make and return sales calls

Utilize social media platforms and all digital marketing tools to create leads and close
sales

Execute CRED-related client events

Respond to incoming phone and online rental space requests. Assign. Schedule
showings for event rental requests.

Prepare customer and sales reports as needed for use by business development and
executive team

Attend professional development workshops, seminars, career enhancement training as
needed

Working knowledge, access and use of records and file management system
Corporate sales

Community organizations

Partnerships and collaborations

Addendum
INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART

Execute CRED-related client events

POST-CONSTRUCTION JOBS
SKILLED LABOR

 

PROPERTY SUPERVISOR-

Help to obtain building permits for planned renovations as coordinated through
executive team

Groundskeeper, landscaping

Survey exterior grounds daily. Clear property of litter, easily transportable debris
Schedule and supervise contractors as needed to perform property maintenance,
including landscaping, hauling, janitorial, graffiti removal, mechanical installation and
repairs to windows, electrical, heating plumbing, security system, Internet, cable,
etc .

Maintain safe efficient building operations through routine testing and servicing of fire
extinguishers, carbon monoxide alarms, security system, Internet, etc.

Maintain contact with municipal departments to request and report matters related to
garbage pick-up, illegal dumping, order regulatory equipment (ie dumpsters, recycling
containers, etc.)

Security-work closely with executive team, consultants and vendors to select and install
IT (internet technology) security systems to ensure highly secure and remote security
monitoring and alarm systems.

Help to obtain building permits for planned renovations as coordinated through
executive team

Schedule repair services

Manage repair service contractors, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, locksmiths,
landscaping, snow removal, etc. .

Maintain security shutters

Minimize and remove graffitti

LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHORITY

149/6! 5 
@4404; ?0 .a Manager or Member of 5?ch .a limited liability company

(the "Company") DO HEREBY CERTIFY that I am a Manager or Member of the Company

 

who has the authority to act as an agent of the Company in executing this Certi?cate of
Authority. I further certify that the following individuals are Managers or Members of the
Company who have the authority to execute and commit the Company to conditions, obligations,

stipulations and undertakings contained in this Agreement between the City and the Cempany:

Jemima. L. 
mp. R. cram It:
tiara. CD. (kaolin?
\Joscf?h 13?.

 

 

 

 

FURTHER, I CERTIFY that all necessary approvals by the Managers or Members of the
Agreement have been obtained with respect to the execution of said Agreement, which is for a
One Hundred twenty (120) month term Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate.

IN WITNESS THEREOF, I have set my hand this lday of 1.3 (dim 019.

CORPORATE SEAL . n,
(if any) M??ag?erx?frmem?r KJ


 

3/

 

gousiqgam: Revitalization Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629



DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 .gov

 

September 11, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate on
behalf of Mitten Capital, LLC in the area of 6432 Woodward, Detroit, Michigan, in
accordance with Public Act 146 of 2000 (Petition 720).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department and Finance Departments have reviewed the
application of Mitten Capital, LLC and find that it satisfies the criteria set forth by P.A. 146 of 2000 and
would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Public Act 146 of 2000 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Exemption Certificate in accordance with Section 8 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a
resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written
notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad
valorem tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Donald Rencher
Director

DR/vf

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Office
K. Trudeau, 
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD
A. Hill, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt resolution
which approves the application of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate within the boundaries of
the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, (APPLICANT) has made application for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate
whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing, at
which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th floor,
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application and be
it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem
tax within the City of Detroit.

(Kitty at Barrett

Janice?M. Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Gavan West
City dark Deputy City Clerk/ChiefofStaff

July 23, 2019

To: Maurice Cox, Director
Flaming and Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 908
Detroit, MI. 48226

Re: Mitten Capital, LLC
Please ?nd attached an application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption

Certi?cate for Property located at 6432 Woodward Ave, Detroit, MI, 48202.
(RELATED TO PETITION #720)

suhmillcd. 



Michael J. O?Connell, Jr. Asst. City Council Clerk
Of?ce of the City Clerk

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
{313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

Michigan Department of Treasury
3674 (Rev. 05-13)

Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

This term to issued as provided by Pubtic Act 146 of 200B as amended. This 'eppliceilon should be filed after the ls established. This protect will
not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tait Commisson. Applications received after October 31 may not be acted upon in the current year.
This application Is subtecl to audit by the State Tax Commission.

INSTRUCTIONS: File the original and two copies at this form and the required attachments with the cleric of the local government unit.
(The State Tart Commission requires two copies of the Application and attachments. The original is retained by the clerk.) Please see
State Tart Commission Bulletin 9 of 2000 for more information about the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption. The following
must be provided to the local government unit as attachments to this application: General de oi the obsolete [agility {year
built. original use. most recent use. number oi stories. square footage]; {bl General description of the proposed use of the rehabilitated
facility. to] Descripiicrn of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken. A descriptive list of the fit-ted building
equipment that will be a part of the ehabtlitated facility. A time schedule for undertaking and completing the rehabi?lai ion of the

facility. if} A statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption. A statement from the assessor of the local unit of
government. describing the required obsolescence has been met for this building. is required with each application. Rehabilitation may
commence alter establishment of district.

iAppiicnnl Home {applicant must he did owd??iimr?
jMIiten Capital. LLC

[company M?aihng'e'ddrus and street. O. Herr, City. State. 555535]

'5430 Carroliton Court. Rochester Hills. Mi. 48307

 

 

 

 

 

'Lmttoo olobaoiotc Identity trio and street. cw. state. are Coda) 
l6432 Woodward Avenue. Detroit. MI 48202 .
:CIiy, Tourist-up. Village [indicate whichi County I 

 

.City of Detroit Wayne County
Data at Commencement oi Rehab Iiiotlon Fianna-d dale eltorrIpIHlion of Rehabilitation


'Elilirmlod Goal of Rehab Nun'bor oi years on ran, died

 

Sohooi?strict when: (entity is located tinctudo school code)
8201 0

All?? Legal description of Obsolete Property on separate
5 ad

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

$600,000.00 12 
Expected protect likelihood (check all that apply): 
El increase Commercial activity Retain employment Revitalize urban areas
increase numbo l? side I i th
it Create em to uni Prevantaloss olam lo ment T0 9 5 9
_l community in which the facility is situated

Indicate the number oftobs to be retained or created as a result at rehabilitating the facility. including expected construction employment _0

'Eactt or. the State Treasurer may approve 25 reduction: of hell he wheel at: cratinp and state education taxes to: a period not to once ad 1le years Check the
Irolo 4g boat ll you with he be considered for this excluded. 


 

CERTIFICATION
The undersigned. authorized of?cer of the company making this application certifies that. to the best othlaiher knowledge. no totem-rattan contained
herein or in the attachments hereto is false In any way and that all of the information is truly descriptive of the property for which this application ls hB-ng
submitted. Further. the undersigned is aware that. If any statement or information provided is untrue. the exemption provided by Public Act $46 oi zone
may be in leopardy.

The applicant certifies that this relates to a rehabilitation program that. when completed. constitutes a rehabilitated facility. as
defined by Public Act 145 at 20nd. as amended. and that the rehabilitation of the faciilty would not be undertaken without the applicant's
receipt of the clamptlon certi?cate.

it is further codi?ed that the undersigned is familiar ith the provisions of Public Act ME of EDDIE). as arnartdud, oi the hitch Egan Laws. and to
the host of hisi'hor knowledge and belief. (other line complied or Will be able to comply with all or the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the
approval of the application by the local unit at government and the issuance of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate by the State

Tax Commission.

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

of Germany Olficer '[no author-ind agents} Tetaphenh Number - . 'Fax Number

Jeff Tripoli {243] 613-6471 I

Mailing ?ddrosu I Address

5430 Carrolton/Celirt. egg?! or Hills. Mi aeaor lieff.trlpoli@rrd.com
Signature of Comp i a I: it agents] Tile

     
   
  
 

 
 

Owner



LOCAL 60 CLERK CERTIFICATION
The Clerk mu also replete Parts 1. 2 and 4 on Page 2. Part 3 Is to be completed by the Assessor.

'Slgnature ?n?mi?mm received 

FOR sane TAX use

Appiiulron Number Date Received LUCI cm.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3674. Page 2

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION

This section Is to be completed by the clerk of the local governing unit before submitting the application to the State Tax Commission. Include a copy of
the resolution which approves the application and instruction items through on page 1. and a separate statement of obsolescence from the
assessor of record with the Slate Assessor's Board. All sections must be completed in order to process.

PART 1: ACTION TAKEN
Action Date:

 

Exemption Approved for

Denied

Dale District Esteb?shuo

 

PART 2: RESOLUTIENS (thetolTowtng statements must be included In resolutions approv?

i A statement that the local unit is a Quali?ed Local Governmental Unit.

A statement that the 0 bsolete Property Rehabilitation District was
legally established Including the date established and the date at
hearing as provided by section 3 of Public Act I46 of 2000.

A statement indicating bother the taxable value of the property
proposed to be attempt plus the aggregate taxable value of property
already exempt under Public Act 146 of 2000 and under Public Act 198
of 1974 exceeds 5% of the total taxable value of the unit.

A statement of the factors. criteria and objectives. ii any. necessary for
extending the exemption. when the certi?cate to for less than 12 years.
A statement that a public hearing was held on the application as
provrded by section 4(2) of Public Act 146 of 2000 including the date at
the hearing.

A statement that the applicant is not delinquent In any taxes related to
the lacility.

II it exceeds 5% (see above). a statement that ex ceeding 5% will not
have the effect at substantially impeding the operation or the Qualified
Local Governmental Unit or oi impairing the ?nancial soundness of an
affected taxing unit.

A statement that all of the items described under 
through it) or the Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Exemption Certificate hevo been provided to the Quali?ed Looai
Govemmentel Unit by the applicant.

PART 3: ASSESSOR RECOMMENDATIONS

 

 

Years. ending December 30.

(not to exceed 12 years)

Tu Ef?e?

School Code

A statement that the application is for obsolete property as de?ned in
section 2th) of Public Act 146 of 2000.

A statement that the cemmencement oi the rehabilitation of the facility
did not occur before the establishment of the Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation District.

A statement that the application relates to a rehabilitation program that
when completed constitutes a rehabilitated facility within the meaning
of Public Act 146 ct 2000 and that Is situated ithin an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation District established in a Local
Governmental Unit eligible under Public Act 146 of 2000 to establish
such a district.

A statement that completion of the rehabilitated facility is calculated to.
and will at the time or Issuance or the certi?cate. have the reasonable
likelihood to. Increase commercial activity. create employment. retain
employment. prevent a loss of employ ment. revitalize urban areas, or
increase the number of residents in the community in which the facility
is situated. The statement about indicate which of these the
rehabilitation Is likely to result In.

A statement that the rehabilitation includes improvaments aggregating
10% or more of the true cash value of the property at commencement
of the rehabilitation as provided by section 2d) of Public Act 146 of
2000.

A statement of the period of time authorized by the Qualified Local
Governmental Unit for completion ol the rehabilitation. 

 

Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of the Obsolete Property. as provided in Public Act 146 at 2000. as amended. for the tax year
Immediately preceding the effective date at the certi?cate (December Stat of the year approved by the STC).

Taxable Value
Buildingls)
n?am?nitmnr 7 


PART 4: CLERK CERTIFICATION

State Eg_u_aiized_Val_ue (say)_

Erato-cincdm on application 'Data at Statement oi?bsolotconce

The undersigned clerk certi?es that. to the best of hislher knowledge, no information contained herein or in the attachments hereto Is false In any way.
Further. the undersigned ls aware that ii any iniormation provided is untrue. the exemption provided by Public Act 146 of 2000 may be in jeopardy.

Ilinme at are Eton: 5.9mm

 

- "Date

 

idiot-'5 Hailing Mil-os?t. 'Cny
iTelephone Number

1 --

'Slate Code

{Fax Number Email Address

Mail completed application and attachments to: Michzgan Department oi Treasury

State Tax Commission

PO. Box 30471

It you have any questions. call (517) 373-2408.

Lansing. Michigan 48909-7971

For guaranteed receipt by the State Tax Commission. it Is recommended that applications and attachments are sent by certi?ed mail.

 

 Il-f ?tr

July 15. 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit. MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act 
Exemption Certi?cate at 6432 Woodward Avenue. Detroit, Michigan 48202 for

Mitten Capital. LLC

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District
(CPRD) Exemption Certificate for the property located at 5432 Woodward Avenue. Detroit,
Michigan 46202. which is referred to herein as the ?Property" and described on Attachment A.
The Property will be rehabilitated by the petitioner and current owner. Mitten Capital. LLC.

Company and Project Synopsis

The goal of Mitten Capital. LLC [the Developer} is to invest and to develop within Detroit. Like
many lifelong residents. I am very encouraged by the recently surge in activity in Detroit and am
passionate about participating in the development and collaborating about the future of our
great city. I will work to ensure that we engage with the community to develop areas that are
consistent with other developments in the area. The ?rst acquisition/project is the former Detroit

Hardware building.

have been a life-long Metro-Detroit resident who was born in Warren. MI in 1974. After
attending public school in Metro Detroit. pursued my bachelor's degree in marketing from
Michigan State University. After receiving my degree In 199?. I immediately started working in
the Detroit area as a Sales and Marketing Representative with a large marketing and printing
company. RR Donneiley. i have spent the last 21 years crafting and executing marketing
strategies for the Domestic OEM Automotive Companies. Ford. GM and FCA. In addition to my
Sales and Marketing career. I have started a few independent enterprises. These include; own
and operate 3 Jet's Pizza Franchises operating as Tripoli Oven LLC. construction and
development in various areas around the US as Tripoli Construction LLC. and more recently

founded Mitten Capital LLC in 2013.

The proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate ("Certificate?) is being
requested for the property located in the New Center neighborhood of Detroit. one mile
northeast of the Art Center District. The Property contains a single approximately 0.085 acre
parcel at 6432 Woodward Avenue and is bounded by Woodward Avenue to the south. East
Milwaukee Avenue to the west. the East Milwaukee Avenue alley to the north. and the property
line to the east. The 0 Line is also extremely assessible as there is a stop directly in front of the
building. The property is occupied by a 2-story commercial building totaling approximately 5,600

Request for Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate at
6432 Woodward Avenue. Detroit. M148202
for Mitten Capital, LLC

square feet. Purchased In May of 2018, the building primarily served as the Detroit Hardware
Company. Extensive repairs are required to bring the building up to electrical code and meet the
future use requirements.

The current building at 6432 Woodward will be renovated into a ?ne dining restaurant which will
feature modern, decor and exposed brick walls.

As part of the rehabilitation, the building Will receive new utilities including electrical and
plumbing. new energy efficient heating, cooling and ventilation systems, a partial new roof. new
flooring on the ?rst floor. and foundation repairs in the basement. The structure will also be
brought up to code per ADA and ?re requirements. which may include an ADA lift and tire
suppression/alarm system if deemed required.

The Necessity for Tax Relief

Substantial investment is necessary to rehabilitate the property into a viable. long-term
development. The overall internal rate of return for the proposed development will be extremely
low without the receipt of the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate. and
therefore. the development would not be possible without it.

The costs associated with the rehabilitation require multiple capital sources including equity
contributed by Mitten Capital members as well as an interim construction loan, and upon
completion. a long-term loan product. In order to secure this ?nancing and a future tenant. the
operating costs of the proposed renovations and redevelopment of the project need to be kept
as low as possible (including property taxes).

The proposed Development included within the request will result in approximately 15
construction jobs and 25 full-time equivalent (FTE) job associated with the ongoing
management and service for the preposed restaurant development.

PA 146 Request
A 12-year abatement is being requested.
Economic Advantages of the Rehabilitation

Upon completion, the Development will return an obsolete property to productive use and will
Increase foot traf?c and density in an area that has suffered dlsinvestment over the years.
Activation of this property will spur further growth and act as a catalyst for future redevelopment
of numerous vacant and blighted properties along Woodward Avenue. East Milwaukee Avenue.
and the surrounding neighborhoods and provide spinoff consumer spending.

The granting of the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate will not result in any
fewer taxes to the City of Detroit in the short-ten'n or long-term. On a short-term basis
approximately 15 construction jobs will be created. The Developer is making strides to hire
Detroit-based contractors that they have used and to ensure Detroit-based contractors and/or
residents can bene?t from the redevelopment.

Request for Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate at
6432 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Ml 48202
for Mitten Capital, LLC

Upon successful redevelopment, the proposed Development will create approximately 25 full-
time equivalent (FIE) job related to the management and service of the property. This new job
creation will generate increased income taxes for the City of Detroit.

Following expiration of the 12?year abatement the building will deliver a significant increase in
tax revenue.

Closing

have had successful experience in commercial/retail Investments and have reached out to
businesses located in the community and have garnered positive feedback.

Mitten Capital is looking forward to pursuing this redevelopment and creating a community
space in Detroit's New Center Neighborhood.

 

Ily So itled.
-

Tripoli
Owner

Mitten Capital. LLC
i eff . tripoli @rrd . com

Attachment A: Detailed Project Description
Attachment B: Parcel Map

Attachment C: Incentive Information Chart
Attachment D: Support Letters

Attachment A

Detailed Project Description

GeneraLQescription

The proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act Exemption Certi?cate is being requested for
the property located in the New Center neighborhood of Detroit. one mile northeast of the Art
Center District. The Property contains a single approximately 0.085 acre parcel at 6432
Woodward Avenue and is loosely bounded by Woodward Avenue to the south. East Milwaukee
Avenue to the west, the East Milwaukee Avenue alley to the north, and the property line to the
east. The 0 Line street car has a stop directly in front of the property, which connects to
Midtown and Downtown Detroit. The property is outlined in the map below.1214$. n? - ..
PF- 

- are

6432 Woodward Ave

       

- .. ark-n .. -.-.

property was his orically occupied by
Detroit Hardware Company since 1924. The
property has been vacant since 2018.

 

The proposed project currently consists of a
complete building rehabilitation to create a
?ne dining restaurant. New entry drives and
surface parking lots will also be created.

The associated address and parcel
identi?cation number can be found below
and a copy of the corresponding legal
description can be found at the end of this
attachment.

 

Attachment A
Page 1 of 4

Description of Proposed Use

The proposed project will create redevelopment an area of New Center that has suffered
disinvestment. Mitten Capital will rehabilitate the current 5.600 square foot building into a ?ne
dining restaurant. The proposed development will include two dining rooms. one on each ?oor.
The restaurant will highlight the building's turn of the century details which include beautiful trim
work. a decorative ceiling on the second ?oor. and a well?built wooden stair case. These historic
features will be accentuated with modern d?cor and exposed brick walls.

An additional adjacent let has also been purchased by the development team and will be
cleared and developed with surface parking to service guests.

Nature and Extent of the Rehabilitation

Significant investment is required to make the building fit for occupancy. As part of the
rehabilitation, the building will receive new utilities including electrical and plumbing. new HVAC
units. a partial new roof, new ?ooring on the first floor. and foundation repairs in the basement.
Additionally, the facade will need to be repaired in such a way to honor the building?s historic
appearance. The structure will also be brought up to code per ADA and Fire Department
requirements, which may include an ADA lift and ?re suppression/alarm system if deemed
required.

The Development will create restaurant space for Detroiters
which will encourage locals and tourists alike to populate the
New Center neighborhood. Developments such as this are
. . crucial to attracting investment in areas that have been slower

to receive investment than those neighborhoods further south

?jig/9W such as Midtown and DowntownMitten Capital LLC intends to apply for a 12-year real property
tax abatement under the provisions of an Obsolete Property

Rehabilitation Act tax abatement.

 

Descriptive List of the Fixed Buildinq Equipmenthenovations
Renovations and new fixed building equipment and materials for the project include;

- Mechanical; plumbing and HVAC

- Electrical; increase size of panel, increase feed

- Structural; support in basement

- Masonry; restore facade

- Finishes; Replace and restore hardwood flooring, replace exterior and interior plaster
Roofing; replace upper roof

Total construction hard cost investment is estimated at approximately $600,000.

Attachment A
Page 2 of 4

Time Schedule

Construction activities are anticipated to commence in 2019. Construction completion is
anticipated for late 2019 through 2"d quarter 2020.

Statement of Economic Advantages

The proposed Development will bring needed investment to Detroit's New Center neighborhood.
Activation of this property will spur further growth and in?ll development, and act as a catalyst
for future redevelopment of numerous vacant and blighted properties along the Woodward
Avenue and the surrounding neighborhoods and provide spinoff consumer spending in New

Center.

The granting of the Certi?cate will not result in any fewer taxes to the City of Detroit in the short-
term or long-term. Upon successful redeveIOpment. the Deveiopment will generate increased
income taxes. through the newjobs consumer spending that the project wiJl create.

On a short-term basis approximately 15 construction jobs will be created. The Developer is
making strides to hire Detroit~based contractors that they have used and to ensure Detroit-
based contractors andr'or residents can bene?t from the redevelopment. The Developer has also
reached out to Midtown Detroit Inc. with whom they have a working relationship with to inquire
about providing references for other Detroit based trades that could provide services for this
development. Programs such as the 132D and Skilled Trades meetings will be utilized as

needed.

On a long-term basis the proposed redevelopment associated with the District will create
approximately 25 full?time equivalent (FTE) jobs.

Additionally, there will be other indirect benefits such as spin off spending in the City that will
contribute to the economic benefits produced by this investment. Investments in the community
such as this that will have long?term effects and provide sustainable principals will retain and
foster community along Woodward Avenue in New Center.

Following expiration of the 12?year abatement the building will deliver a significant increase in
tax revenue. Over time. the successful redevelopment and cultural growth will have a city-wide

impact.

Attachment A
Page 3 of 4

LeqalDesc?p?on

Parcel Number: 01004281
Address: 6432 Woodward Avenue (identi?ed as 6430 Woodward Avenue)

Acres: 0.085

Legal Description:
WOODWARD 30.50 FT OF 100 Fl' 8 EXC 0.50 Fl' OF 46 Fr 8 6.37 FT ON LINE

BG 8 6.24 FT ON LINE OF 100 FT QPATRICK MC GINNIS L4 P93
PLATS. 1/97 36.87 IRREG

Attachment A
Page 4 of 4

Attachment 

Parcel Map

got: .053 Sn: .(mm .mme
.wmw: Jam .momcau tum .Ggimw

 

Ex we 0 no2588

 

 

 

Attachment 

Incentive Information Chart

INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART:

 

Project Type Incentive Tl'ype i Evestma'it Amount District 

?Commercial PA 146 - OPRA I $600.000 (hard cost) New Center Neighborhood
. $1.7 Million (total investment) 

 

 

 

 

 

. Jobs Available

Post Construction
fProfessio_nal Non-ProfessioEI [_?killed Labor! Non-Skilled Labor Professional Non-Professional Skilled Labor Non-Skilled Labor

What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

The developer hasreached out to Midtown Detroit Inc. who they have a working relationship with to inquire about providing

references for other Detroit based trades that could provide services for this development. See below for detailed listing ofjobs that
will be created.

2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e: job type, job qualifications,
etc.

It is anticipated that 25 full?time equivalent (FTE) permanent jobs associated with

the restaurant tenant. Approximately 15
construction jobs are anticipated for the following:

0 Mechanical; plumbing and HVAC
. Electrical
. Structural

. Masonry
. Flnishes
- Roofing

3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents?
There are no current residents at the subject property that will need to be relocated as a result of this development.
4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project andlor any potential jobs?

The developer has received and garnered strong support from Midtown Inc. and local businesses.

5. When is construction slated to begin?
Construction is slated to commence in October! November 2019.
6. What is the expected completion date of construction?

Construction completion is anticipated to take 6?12 months and be complete approx. end of quarter of 2020.

Attachment 

Support Letters


BF




February 14, 2019

Jeffrey Tripoli
32031 Townley
Madison Heights, MI 48072

RE: 6432 Woodward OPRA

Dear Jeffrey,

On behalf of Midtown Detroit, Inc. (MDI), lam pleased to support the project at 6432 Woodward and
your request for an OPRA. As the non?profit community and economic development organization for
New Center, preserving property in this district is important to establishing a connected street wall and

increasing density adjacent to the M1 Rail line.

The proposed project will provide significant investment in a vacant storefront that is in need of interior
and exterior upgrades. New Center for decades has had minimal food and beverage options.
Renovating and converting this property into a new restaurant will bring online a needed amenity for

the neighborhood.

Just a block north, MDI recently acquired an portfolio of property along Woodward. Currently
seven storefronts are under renovation and another three will be underway later this year. The
investment being made by you and your team aligns with our efforts to preserve the character and
fabric of the New Center district and provide space to local entrepreneurs.

MDI is extremely supportive of additional investment in this neighborhood and working with you and
your team.

Sincerely,



Susan T. Mosey
Executive Director
Midtown Detroit, lnc.

MIDTOWN INC. 
3939 Woodward, Ste. 100 i Detroit Ml 48201, p: 313.420.6000

the Plat-For] I I 3011 W. Grand Blvd. Suite #2300 Detroit, MI 48202 theplatformcity

February 21, 2019
To Whom It May Concern:

As a local developer of residential, office, and mixed-use properties throughout the New Center
area and Woodward corridor, The Platform LLC would like to pledge its support for the
proposed redevelopment of the former Detroit Hardware Company site located at 6432
Woodward Avenue, Detroit MI.

Activation of vacant storefronts and the repositioning of architecturally significant buildings in
the City of Detroit not only adds to the vibrancy of neighborhoods, it also stimulates additional
investments into blighted and underutilized commercial corridors. The addition of the proposed
food and beverage operation will stimulate more walkability along Woodward Avenue and
compliment the phased work we are undertaking on Baltimore Station Phases 1 2, located in

close proximity to the subject property.

We believe that additional restaurant and retail users will also provide increased hiring
opportunities for local New Center residents. We are happy to support the increased
revitalization of the corridor and look forward to working with our neighbors to build capacity
and opportunities for local Detroiters.

The Platform is a real estate development company that was established in 2016, following the
acquisition of the Detroit?s iconic Fisher Building. With more than 60 years of collective real
estateexperience in Detroit and other markets, we made a conscious decision to build a
platform that would contribute to the resurgence of the city.

Thank you,

Dietrich A. Knoer
President CEO
The Platform LLC

February 14, 2019

Jeffrey Tripoli
32031 Townley
Madison Heights, MI 48072

RE: 6432 Woodward OPRA

Dear Jeffrey,

On behalf of Midtown Detroit, Inc. (MDI), I am pleased to support the project at 6432 Woodward and
your request for an OPRA. As the non-profit community and economic development organization for
New Center, preserving property in this district is important to establishing a connected street wall and
increasing density adjacent to the M1 Rail line.

The proposed project will provide significant investment in a vacant storefront that is in need of interior
and exterior upgrades. New Center for decades has had minimal food and beverage options.
Renovating and converting this property into a new restaurant will bring online a needed amenity for

the neighborhood.

Just a block north, MDI recently acquired an portfolio of property along Woodward. Currently
seven storefronts are under renovation and another three will be underway later this year. The
investment being made by you and your team aligns with our efforts to preserve the character and
fabric of the New Center district and provide space to local entrepreneurs.

MDI is extremely supportive of additional investment in this neighborhood and working with you and
yourteam.

Sincerely,

94.1.7. 

Susan T. Mosey
Executive Director
Midtown Detroit, Inc.

MIDTOWN DETROIT, INC. 
3939 Woodward, Ste. 100 Detroit MI 48201 p: 313.420.6000

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
3 2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Obsolete Property District (PA 146) at 6432 Woodward
Avenue

DATE: August 19, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

Kevin Schronce, Central Region, Planning and Development

In order to ensure that the issuance of a certificate for an Obsolete Property District is in conformance with
the City?s Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial activity;
create, retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase the number of residents
in a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 146 of 2000 (section 125.2784), the Planning and
Development Department submits the following interpretation. The petitioner for this development is

Mitten Capital, LLC.

Location and Project Proposal: Project seeks to renovate existing 0.085 acre parcel into a fine dining
restaurant. Current property is occupied by a 2-story commercial building totaling approximately 5,600
square feet. Purchased in May 2018, the building primarily served as the Detroit Hardware Company.
Extensive repairs are required to bring the building up to electrical code and meet future use
requirements.

Master Plan Interpretation

The subject site area is designated Major Commercial (CM). Major Commercial areas are generally
distinguished by high-density office buildings with ground floor retail. included within these areas may
be department stores, specialized shops and services catering to area office or residential land uses.
Areas should be accessible to mass transit routes and automobile parking on the street or in structures.
Ground level activity should be pedestrian oriented. Downtown and New Center are Detroit's major

commercial areas.

The following policies of the Middle Woodward neighborhood describe the following recommendations:
- Policy 5.1 Encourage high density mixed uses along Woodward and East and West Grand
Boulevard with uses complimentary to the area's office and theatre anchors
Goal 6 Increase the vitality of neighborhood commercial areas

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 4, Middle Woodward; Map 4-7B

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
7? DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 . 

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

  
  

August 21, 2019

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate Mitten Capital LLC
Property Address: 6432 Woodward Avenue (aka 6430 Woodward Avenue)
Parcel Number: 01004281.

Dear Mr. Cox:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
certificate application for the property located at 6432 Woodward Avenue (aka 6430 Woodward Avenue) in the New Center district
in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for granting Obsolete Property Rehabilitation certificates under PA 146 of 2000, as amended, is based on the
anticipation ofincreased market value upon completion ofnew construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial
property and commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate
additional market value.

The proposed project by Mitten Capital LLC is to renovate the 2-story retail building with 5,574 square feet of total floor area, built
in 1909, on .085 acres of land into a fine dining restaurant featuring modern d?cor and exposed brick walls. Extensive repairs are
needed to bring the building up to electrical code and rehabilitation will include new electrical and plumbing, a partial new roof,
new flooring on the first floor, facade repairs and foundation repairs in the basement. An ADA lift and fire suppression/alarm system
may be included if deemed required.

The 2019 values are as follows;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Building Assessed Building Land Land
Parcel Address Value (SEV) Taxable Value Assessed Value (SEV) Taxable Value
01004281. 6430 Woodward Ave 67.100 67.100 69,600 69.600

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 146 of 2000, as amended. It applies to blighted, functionally obsolete and
contaminated properties. "Rehabilitation," meaning that changes to qualified facilities that are required to restore or modify the
property, together with all appurtenances, to an economically efficient condition.

The property located in the New Center district is expected to increase commercial activity in the area, create employment and
revitalize an urban area.

A field investigation indicated that the property located at 6432 Woodward Avenue (aka 6430 Woodward Avenue) is eligible as it
pertains to the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act under PA. 146 of 2000, as amended.

SincW

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board Of Assessors



 

 

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate Mitten Capital LLC
6432 Woodward Avenue
Page 2

Property Address: 6430 WOODWARD AVENUE (aka 6432 Woodward)

Parcel Number: 01004281.

Property Owner: CAPITAL LLC 

Legal Description: WOODWARD 30.50 FT OF 100 FT 8 EXC 0.50 FT OF 46 FT 6.37 FT ON LINE BG 5 6.24 FT ON LINE
OF 100 FT MC GINNIS L4 P93 PLATS, 1/97 36.87 IRREG

The legal description matches the OPRA certi?cate request.

I, 


IS:



 

COLEMAN A. Youuo MUNICIPAL CENTER
Rights. Irltluslun 2Woonwsno Avanue?umi 1240
and Opportunity DmomMIcHIcAMBzze

PHONE: 313.224.4950

Fax: 313.224.3434

 

Employment Commitment Report for Tax Abatement

This report evidences your commitment to full time employment as stated in the tax abatement
agreement Complete the following based on workers located

 

Company:_ ?113?) Wm- CompanyAddress. 1612 Ql?-?-Obt?i? Cl} Ml

Parcel/FacilityAddress _ub?lfil . W399
Tax AbatementApplied for. k, Length of Abatement: 


Authorized Representative: \aA?Vi Title:

 

 

(Print)
Email:. . Phone: L?fgr 4 3'5? 0931__

Ali questionsshouid be directed to the Authorized Representative? Mes 
If No. specify preferred contact's Name: -1 Phone: 

Email:

. 

03mm

Employment Types Sgilletl Trades 7 than-Skilled Trades Other

 

Authorized Representative's Signature:

 

i

 

 

 

 

Total ii of Employees Applicant is .
Committed to Employing at the

Facility Receiving the Applied
Abatement 
Total ii Detroit Residents Applicant is
Committed to Employing of the Total i
ii of Employees 
Percentage of Detroit Residents 1

laggin?mnluei . 

lfother please specify: 

Emelesunenttlem?zc.

Will your facility be: Owner Occupied Leased to Tenant Both

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- Please provide a description of your deveIOpment, including but not limited to the proposed use. when
construction is set to begin and end. and positions offered?

I if the facility will be leased to tenants. what methods. tools. or resources will you utilize to market lease
vacancies to Detroit Businesses and/or how you will promote tenants to hire Detroit residents?

I Ifthe facility is owner occupied. what methods, tools, or resources will you utilize to fulfill the hiring
commitments stated in the tax abatement agreement?

(See Sample Employment Narrative on Reverse of This Form)

Employment Narrative

1. The current commercial building at 6432 Woodward will be renovated into a fine dining restaurant
which will feature modern, decor and exposed brick walls. The building was previously occupied
by Detroit Hardware.

As part of the rehabilitation, the building will receive new utilities including electrical and plumbing,
new energy efficient heating, cooling and ventilation systems, a partial new roof. new flooring on
the ?rst floor, and foundation repairs in the basement. The structure will also be brought up to
code per ADA and fire requirements, which may include an ADA lift and fire suppression/alarm
system if deemed required.

Approximately 10-15 jobs are anticipated with the construction and include mechanical, plumbing.
HVAC, electrical. structural, masonry, finishes and roofing. Once initial development is done, the
tenant is expected to finish the restaurant space with local contractors and development
managers. Approximately 20-25 full time equivalent jobs are anticipated with the restaurant
propose and include, kitchen and serving staff as well as management.

Construction is slated for 2019 with a completion goal of spring 2020

2. The applicant is the owner and proposed landlord for the project. The tenant the applicant has
sought is a Detroit-based business looking to expand into New Center. The applicant has been
working closely through Midtown Inc. for references to Detroit based trades that could provide
services on the project. Additionally the applicant is working with the proposed tenant to solicit
Detroit residents to hold future positions.

OBSOLETE PROPERTY REHABILITATION EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE
AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT (this ?Agreement"), by and between the City of Detroit (the
?City"), a Michigan municipal corporation acting by and through its Planning 
Development Department with an of?ce at 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808, Detroit, MI
48226 and Mitten Capital, LLC (the ?Applicant?) with an of?ce at 5480 Carrollton
(lint. Rocmter Hill_s,Ml 48307 is made this _day of September

2019_.

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, Public Act 146 of 2000, as amended, also known as the Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation Act (the (1) provides for the establishment of obsolete
property rehabilitation districts by local govemmental units, (2) provides for the
abatement or exemption from certain taxes for quali?ed obsolete property owners, and
(3) allows local governmental units to levy and collect a speci?c tax from the owners of
an obsolete property, among other provisions; and

WHEREAS, the Applicant has submitted an Application (the ?Application?) for
an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate for the property

located at: 6432 Woodward Avenue Dgtroita Ml 48202 (the ?Property?). A copy of the

Application is attached hereto as Exhibit A and made a part hereof; and

WHEREAS, the City has previously approved an obsolete property rehabilitation
district pursuant to the Act, and the Property is located in such district; and

WHEREAS, the Applicant has committed to complete a Rehabilitation of the
Property, as de?ned in the Act, and to hire or retain a certain amount of ?ill-time
employees at the Property during the Term (as de?ned below); and

WHEREAS, the City has approved the Application by adopting a resolution
granting the OPREC to the Applicant, contingent upon the representations contained
herein and pending approval by the Michigan State Tax Commission. A copy of the City
resolution granting the OPREC is attached hereto as Exhibit and made a part hereof;
and

NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
suf?ciency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

General.

a. Unless earlier revoked as provided for in Section 12 of the Act, being MCL 125.2792,
or as provided for in this Agreement, the term of the OPREC and the term of this
Agreement (collectively, the ?Term?) will be twelve I2 years,
beginning on the certi?cate beginning date stated in the OPREC issued by the
Michigan State Tax Commission.

b.

The Applicant will complete the Property Rehabilitation, as de?ned in the Act and as
set forth in the Application, no later than May 15'? . 2020

The Applicant shall create, or cause to be created, at least 
0 (the ?Employee Commitment Number?) full-time employees at the
Property within one (1) year of the effective date of the Agreement.

 

The Applicant will recruit and hire City of Detroit residents in accordance with
speci?ed targets as set forth in the City of Detroit Resident Employment Plan
(?Employment Plan") submitted by the Applicant to the City as part of the
Application and approved by the City of Detroit Civil Rights, Inclusion and
Opportunity Department Throughout the Term, the Employment Plan may
be modi?ed in sole discretion. CRIO will monitor the Applicant?s
compliance with the Employment Plan on an annual basis throughout the Term. Upon
notice from CRIO of a discrepancy between the Applicant?s commitment in the
Employment Plan and the actual number of City of Detroit residents employed at the
Property, Applicant shall submit a correction plan setting forth the Applicant?s plan to
bring the number of City of Detroit residents employed at the Property back up to the
speci?ed targets as set forth in the Employment Plan. Applicant?s correction plan
must be approved by CRIO. Applicant shall be required to ?Jl?ll the terms of such
correction plan in the timeline set forth in the correction plan.

For purposes of this Agreement, a ??rll-time employee? is de?ned as a person: 1)
who is employed by the Applicant or its af?liates on a salary, wage, commission, or
other basis for a minimum period of forty (40) hours a week and 2) from whose
compensation the Applicant or its af?liates, including a staf?ng agency, are required
by law to withhold City of Detroit income taxes. Af?liates may include Applicant?s
tenant(s) that lease space at the Property.

2. Applicant Representations.

In compliance with the Act, and in order to induce the City to grant the OPREC to the
Applicant, the Applicant represents that:

a.

The Applicant is the owner of the Property at the time of the Application and this
Agreement.

The Property is an ?Obsolete Property? as de?ned under the Act.

During the Term, no portion of the Property will be used as a professional sports
stadium.

During the Term, no portion of the Property will be used, owned or operated by a
casino or af?liated company, as de?ned in the Act.

The Applicant would not have considered accomplishing Rehabilitation of the
Property without an OPREC.

Rehabilitation of the Property did not start prior to establishment of the obsolete
property rehabilitation district in which the Property sits.

There are no delinquent taxes owed on the Property.
The Applicant will pay any applicable taxes on the Property as they become due.

The Rehabilitation and planned ?xture operation of the Property is in compliance with
the City of Detroit Zoning Ordinance and Master Plan.

If the Rehabilitation of the Property will include the provision of housing at the
Property, the Applicant agrees to: 1) comply with Fair Housing Practices that meet
the guidelines set forth by the U.S. Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 through 3619);
and 2) comply with the Affordability Requirements set forth on Addendum 2,
attached hereto.

Community Bene?ts Requirements.

Pursuant to City of Detroit Ordinance 35-16 (?Ordinance?), also known as the
Community Bene?ts Ordinance, if the Property involves a Tier 2 Development Project
(as de?ned by the Ordinance), then the Applicant will:

a.

Partner with the City and, when appropriate, a workforce development agency to
promote the hiring, training and employability of Detroit residents, consistent with
State and Federal Law.

Partner with the Director of the Planning Development Department to address and
mitigate negative impacts that the Tier 2 Development Project may have on the
community and local residents. The Applicant will adhere to the mitigation
requirements, if any, stated in the attached Addendum 1 4. b. Requirements, which
is incorporated herein by reference.

Reporting to the City by the Applicant.

Applicant agrees to provide the City with suf?cient information, subject to review and
audit by the City, in order to determine compliance with this Agreement. At a minimum,
the Applicant shall provide the City with the following during the Term:

a. Upon request, the Applicant shall provide the Planning Development Department

copies of all construction plans, building permits and certi?cates of occupancy related
to the Rehabilitation of the Property. These documents, along with periodic site visits
to the Property by the City, will serve to establish whether the Applicant is
completing the Rehabilitation to the Property as required by the Act and this
Agreement.

Within two (2) weeks after the ?rst year of the Term and for each year of the Term
thereafter, Applicant shall submit to the Flaming Development Department a

3

certi?ed status report (?Status Report?) signed by an authorized of?cer of the
Applicant. The Status Report shall set forth for the previous year: 1) the
Rehabilitation work completed at the Property; 2) Applicant?s ?nancial investment in
the Property for that year; and 3) the number of full-time employees at the Property
for that year.

0. Within two (2) weeks after the last day of the ?rst year of the Term and each year of
the Term thereafter, the Applicant shall submit to CRIO the Annual Employment
Report for Tax Abatements (the ?Status Report?), including copies of proofs of
residency that have been accepted by CRIO.

Revocation of OPREC and Termination of this Agreement.

The City may, in its sole discretion and by resolution of Detroit City Council, revoke the
OPREC if the City ?nds that: l) the completion of Rehabilitation of the Property has not
occurred in the time or manner authorized by this Agreement; or 2) that the Applicant has
not proceeded in good faith with the Rehabilitation of the Property in a manner consistent
with the purposes of the Act, taking into account any circumstances that are beyond the
control of the Applicant.

Good faith efforts include, but are not limited to, the following: 1) Applicant is actively
working with an agency or City Department to hire and ascertain methods of recruiting
and employing Detroit residents at the Property, and 2) Applicant is actively working
with the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, the City?s Planning Development
Department, and CRIO to ascertain methods of obtaining resources to improve
Applicant?s business in a manner that will allow for compliance with this Agreement.

Payment of Exempted Taxes for Shortfall of Employment.

If the average number of full?time employees at the Property for any given year of the
Term is less than the Employee Commitment Number, the Applicant agrees to pay to the
City, in addition to the Obsolete Properties Tax due under the OPREC, an amount equal
to the difference between the amount of ad valorem tax that would be due on the Property
without the OPREC, and the amount of Obsolete Properties Tax due on the Property
under the OPREC, for that given year, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the shortfall in the number of hill-time employees indicated in the Status Report, and the
denominator of which is the Employee Commitment Number. Prior to taking any action
to require the Applicant to pay an amount to the City pursuant to this Section, the City
must afford the Applicant an opportunity to present reasons for the employment shortfall
at a public hearing.

In the event that the Applicant fails to report the number of full-time employees at the
Property for a given year of the Term in either the Status Report or Employment Plan, the
number of full-time employees at the Property for purposes of this Section shall be
deemed to be zero (0).

10.

Notice to City of Discontinuance of Operations.

If during the Term the Applicant intends to discontinue operations at the Property, the
Applicant will provide thirty (30) days? prior written notice of such shutdown of
operations to the Director of the Planning Development Department.

Reservation of Remedies.

The City and the Applicant agree that each of the rights and remedies provided by this
Agreement may be exercised separately or cumulatively, and shall not be exclusive of
any other rights and remedies provided by law. Invalidation of any of the provisions
contained in this Agreement by operation of law, judgment, court order or otherwise shall
not invalidate any of the other provisions of this Agreement.

Transfer.

Neither the OPREC nor this Agreement may be transfen'ed or assigned by the Applicant
to a new owner of the Property unless the City, in its sole discretion, approves such
transfer or assignment upon application by the new owner.

Headings.

The headings contained in this Agreement are for descriptive purposes only, and do not
alter or govern the substantive content of the provisions of the Agreement.

[Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the Applicant, by and through their authorized of?cers
and representatives, have executed this Agreement as follows:

APPLICANT:

#7 M11712.

 
 

 

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPT.

By:

 

Print:

 

Its:

 

THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT EFFECTIVE OR VALID UNTIL AN OBSOLETE
PROPERTY REHABILITATION CERTIFICATE IS APPROVED BY THE MICHIGAN
STATE TAX COMMISSION

ADDENDUM 1
4. b. Requirements


Affordability Requirements

1. Affordable Housing Undertaking. The Applicant, as develoPer of the

mixed-use project (the ?Project?) on the Property, will

implement during the Term the following affordable housing plan for the planned
residential apartments to be included within the Project.

a. The Applicant will offer for lease apartment units (?Affordable Units") to
those earning not more than 80% of the Detroit SMSA area median income
based on the Income limits most recently published by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development Rental rates will be
based upon occupancy of 1 person in a studio and 1.5 people per bedroom for all
other rental unit sizes.

b. Applicant will verify the income of any individual(s) who apply to lease an
Affordable Unit.

c. In the event that the income of a tenant of an Affordable Unit becomes more than
80% of AMI, such tenant?s unit shall be considered to comply with paragraph 1
above until the termination of the lease such unit, including during any extensions
thereof.

(1. Applicant currently intends to offer studios, one-bedroom units,

two-bedroom units and three-bedroom units as Affordable Units.
Applicant may alter this unit mix in its discretion.

e. A vacant unit offered for rent pursuant to this paragraph counts toward satisfaction
of Section la above.

f. The commitments set forth herein may be terminated in the event an anus-length
lender forecloses on a mortgage secured by the Project.

2. Payment for Exempted Taxes for Violation of Undertaking. If Applicant is not in
compliance with its obligations under paragraph 1 of this Addendum and fails to cure its
non-compliance within 60 days of written notice from the City, the Applicant shall pay to
the City, in addition to the Obsolete Properties Tax due under the OPREC on the
Property, an amount equal to the difference for the year of non-compliance between the
amount of ad valorem tax otherwise due on the Property without the OPREC and the
amount of the Obsolete Properties Tax due on the Property with the OPREC, multiplied
by a fraction, the numerator of which is shortfall of the number of units that are not in
compliance and the denominator of which is . Prior to taking any action to require
the Applicant to pay any amount to the City pursuant to this paragraph 2, the City shall
afford the Applicant an opportunity to present at a public hearing reasons for the shortfall
by the Applicant in its compliance with this Addendum.

 

I In the event that the AMI decreases in a subsequent year, the prior year AMI shall continue in effect for
the Project until and to the extent the AMI level later increases.

EXHIBIT A
Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate

EXHIBIT 
Detroit City Council Resolution
Granting the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate

32.

Housingand Revitalization Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
Department 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629

CITY OF 

DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

September 1 l, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate on behalf
of MINI MOWGLI, LLC in the area of 9321 Rosa Parks Boulevard Detroit, Michigan, in
accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005 (Petition #570).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning Development Department and Finance
Department have reviewed the application of Mini Mowgli, LLC, and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set
forth by RA. 210 of 2005 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master
Plan.

Public Act 210 of 2005 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate in accordance with Section 3 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a resolution
to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of
the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem
tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

4

Donald Rencher
Director

DR/vf

Cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
K. Trudeau, PDD
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD
A. Hill, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act 210 of 2005 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a resolution
approving the application of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate within the boundaries of
the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, Mini Mowgli, LLC has made application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto;
and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing, at
which a Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application
and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem
tax within the City of Detroit.

(Eitp of Eettoit

Janice M- 'W'Infrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caverl West
City Clerk Deputy City derk/ChiefofStaff

August 2, 2019

To: Maurice Cox, Director
Flaming and Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 908
Detroit, MI. 48226

Re: Mini Mowgli, LLC

Please ?nd attached an application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate
for Property located at 9321 Rosa Parks Blvd. Detroit. (RELATED TO PETITION

#570)

Respectfully submitted,

x.

Nathan Shafer,/
Jr. Asst. City Council Committee Clerk
Of?ce of the City Clerk

1'

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 - Fax (313) 224-1466

 

.7 . i
A. . Reset Form I
Michigan Department ofTreasury

4507 (Rev. oeoe) STATE USE ONLY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

issued under authority of Public Act 210 ot2005. as amended.

Read the instructions page before completing the form. This application should be filed after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 1, 2 and 3 and file one original application form (with required attachments)
and one additional copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LG U) Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC) Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon in the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC.

PART 1: OWNER IAPPLICANT INFORMATION (applicant must complete all fields)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applicant {Company} Name (applicant must be the owner ofthe Facility) NAICS or SIC Code
Mini Mowgli LLC 722513
Facility's Street Address City State ZIP Code
9321 Rosa Parks Detroit 48206
Name ofCity, Township or Village (taxing authority) County School District Where Facility is Located
Detroit 
a ne 82010
El City Township DViliege 
Date of Rehabilitation Commencement Planned Date of Rehabilitation Completion 
06/01/2019 11/01/2019
Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation Number onears Exemption Requested (1-10)
805111 9 00 10
Expected Project Outcomes (check all that apply)
Increase CommercialActivity El Retain Employment Revitalize Urban Areas
Create Employment [3 Prevent Loss of Employment Increase Number of Residents in Facility's Community

 

No ofjobs to be created due to facility?s rehabilitation No ofjobs to be retained due to facility's rehabilitation No. of construction jobs to be created during rehabilitation

6. 3 5

 

 

 

PART 2: APPLICATION DOCUMENTS

 

Prepare and attach the following items:

General description ofthe facility (year built, original use, most recent use,

Statement ofthe economic advantages expected from the exemption
number of stories. square footage)

Description ofthe qualited facility's proposed use El Legal description

Description ofthe general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken Description ofthe area? (Qualified Retail 
Establishments only)

Descriptive list of the fixed building equipment that will be a part ofthe qualified Facility El Commemjaj Rehabff?-a?on Exemption Cemj?cate forQua??ed Rafa); Food
Establishments (Form 4753) (Qualified Retail Food Establishments only)

El Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility's rehabilitation

 

PART 3: APPLICANT CERTIFICATION

 

 

 

Name ofAuthorlzed Company Olficer (no authorized agents) Telephone Number
Emily Peterson 716-640-4267
Fax Number E-mail Address
petersoneh @gmail. com
Street Address City State Code
1951 Chicago Detroit MI 48206

 

 

 

 

certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the information contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted Further, am familiar with the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended, and to the best of my knowledge the
company has complied or will be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prereqursite lo the approval of the application by the local
governmental unit and the issuance ofe Commercial Rena til/lie lion Exemption Certi?cate by the State Tax 

further certify that this rehabilitation program, when completed. will constitute a rehabilitated facility as de?ned by Public Act 210 of2005, as amended,
and that the rehabilitation of facility would not he as been undertaken Without my necelpt of the exemption certificate

 

Signature el'Authorizad Company Olticer (no authorized agents) Title Date

Member 7/18/19

 

 

 

 

 

Form 4507, Page 2

 

PART 4: ASSESSOR RECOMMENDATIONS (assessor of LGU must complete Part 4)

Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of Commercial Property. as provided in Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended. for the tax year
immediately preceding the effective date of the certi?cate (December 31 of the year approved by the STC).

 

 

Taxable Value State Equalized Value (SEV)

 

Land

 

Buildingls)

The property to be covered by this exemption may not be Included on any other speci?c tax roll while recewing the Rehabilitation For Bumme-
property on the Eligible Tax Reverted Property (Land Bank) speci?c tax roll cannot be granted a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption that Would also putthe same property

on the Commercial Rehabilitation speci?c tax roll.

 

 

 

By checking this box I certify that. if approved. the property to be covered by this exemption will be on the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption speci?c tax roll
and not on any other speci?c tax roll.

 

Name of Local Government Body

 

Name otAssassor (first and last name} Telephone Number

 

Fax Number E?marl Address

 

 

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the information contained in Part 4 of this application is complete and accurate.
Date

 

Assessor's Signature

 

 

PART 5: LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION (clerk of LGU must complete Part 5)

Action Taken By LGLI (attach a codi?ed copy of the resolution):

 

Exemption approved for years, ending December 30, (not to exceed 10 years)

El Exemption Denied

Date District Established (attach resolution for district] Local Unit Classification Identi?cation Code School Code

 

 

 

 

PART 6: LOCAL GOVERNMENT CLERK CERTIFICATION (clerk of LGU must complete Part 6}

 

 

 

 

 

Clerk's Name (?rst and last) Telephone Number

Fax Number E-mail Address

Mailing Address City State ZIP Code
LGU Contact Person for Additional Information LGU Contact Person Telephone Number Fax Number

 

 

 

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the information contained in this application and attachments is complete and accurate and hereby request
the State Tax Commission issue a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate. as provided by Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended.

Dale

 

Clerk's 

 

 

 

The clerk must retain the original application at the local unit and mail one copy of the completed application with attachments to:

State Tax Commission
PO. Box 30471
Lansing. MI 48909

 

Instructions for Completing Form 4507
Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

The Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate was created by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended. The application is initially ?led,
reviewed, and approved by the LGU and then reviewed and approved by the State Tax Commission. According to Section 3 of Public Act 210
of 2005, as amended, the LGU must establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District. Rehabilitation may commence after establishment of

the Commercial Rehabilitation District.

Owner I Applicant Instructions
1. Complete Parts 1, 2 and 3 of application
2. Prepare and attach all documents required under Part 2 of the application:
a. General description of the facility (year built, original use, most recent use, number of stories. square footage)
Description of the quali?ed facility?s proposed use
Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken
Descriptive list of the ?xed building equipment that will be a part of the quali?ed facility
Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility?s rehabilitation
Statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption

9-957

Legal description of the facility
. Description of the ?underserved area? (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

3. Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments:
a. Complete Part 1 ofthe Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cation for Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments
(Form 4753). Submit to LGU clerk along with application.
b. Describe the ?underserved area? and provide supporting documentation to show how the project area meets one or more of
the following requirements:
i. An area that contains a low to moderate income census tract(s) which, based on per capita income, are tracts below the
66.67 percentile ($23,643 in 1999 dollars) and a below average supermarket density
ii. An area that has a supermarket customer base with more than 50% living in a low income census tract(s) which based on
the per capita income, are tracts below the 66.67 percentile ($23,643 in 1999 dollars)
An area that has demonstrated signi?cant access limitations due to travel distance and has no Quali?ed Retail
Food Establishments within two miles of the gee-center for an urban area or has no Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments
within nine miles of the goo-center for a rural area.
For assistance in determining the project area?s eligibility, visit and click on
Commercial Rehabilitation Act.

rcpt-so

4. Submit the application and all attachments to the clerk of the LGU where the property is located.

LGU Assessor Instructions
Complete and sign Part 4 of the application.

LGU Clerk Instructions
1. After LGU action, complete Part 5 of the application.

2. After reviewing the application for complete and accurate information, complete Part 6 and sign the application to certify the
application meets the requirements as outlined by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended.

3. Assemble the following for a complete application:
a Completed Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate (Form 4507)
b. All required attachments listed under Part 2
c. A copy of the resolution by the LGU establishing the district
A certi?ed copy of the resolution by the LGU approving the application
e. Complete Form 4753 (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)
4. Submit the completed application to: State Tax Commission, PO. Box 30471, Lansing, MI 48909

Application Deadline

The State Tax Commission must receive complete applicatiOns on or before October 31 to ensure processing and certi?cate issuance for the
following tax year. Applications received after October 31 may not be processed in time for certi?cate issuance for the following tax year.
For guaranteed receipt by the State Tax Commission, send applications and attachments via certi?ed mail.

If you have questions or need additional information or sample documents, visit or call
(517) 373-2408.

Mini Mowgli, LLC
1951 Chicago Blvd, Detroit, MI 48206

July 18, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate at
9321 Rosa Parks Blvd., Detroit, MI 48206

Honorable City Council:

Paragraph #01
Please accept this letter as a request to establish a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate

for the property located at 9321 Rosa Parks Blvd., Detroit, MI 48206 and described on
Attachment A.

Paragraph #02
My husband and are the sole members of Mini Mowgli, LLC, the owner of 9321 Rosa Parks.

We have lived 1n the Boston Edison neighborhood since 2014. We have observed this abandoned
church on 9321 Rosa Parks go unused for many years and it was quickly falling into disrepair,
creating an unwanted eyesore tor our area that was once a th11ving commercial district In the 12 
and Clairmount neighborhood, adjacent to Boston Edison and Virginia Park residential
communities. This project serves to bring new life into the abandoned building and vacant lots

that would bene?t the entire community.

In 2016, we successfully rezoned the proposed area to (Special Development District 
Small- Scale, Mixed- Use) zoning to accommodate new development and reinvestment within the
community. The abandoned church' 15 approximately 5,400 sq ft. It' 15 a splitlevel building with a
usable basement ?oor. The ?rst ?oor will be the home of The Congregation, which will serve as
a caf? for community members to interact and engage with one another. The basement or sub-
level will be considered as an event space for community use. This change will promote an
increase in population density and encourage more walkable areas for residents of Boston-Edison,
Atkinson Avenue, Clairmount, and surrounding communities. It will also' 1ncrease community
interaction as it builds points of connectivity for the places and locations outlined' in this proposal.
The new life for the church will create a fundamental base that allows for further expansion and
growth in the neighborhood and other parcels in the Commercial Rehabilitation District.

Paragraph #03
The project is eligible for a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate under MCL 207.844 Sec. 4.

and because the facility is quali?ed under MCL 207.842 Sec. 2. to identify how your
facility is quali?ed

Paragraph #04

We are ?tlly dedicated to the success of this project and the lasting impact it will have on our
community. However, rehabilitating the properties would not be undertaken without the receipt of
the exemption certi?cate. We are pioneers in a new frontier who are motivated by Sparking
economic development in an area that has long been ignored and in desperate need of amenities.

It is reasonable to think that our efforts will not be heavily rewarded from a pro?tability
standpoint, but rather from a social return and, thus, needs the tax relief via the exemption
certi?cate to proceed with the project in Detroit.

The total project will cost approximately $805,120. This new opportunity will provide 6 new jobs
for the neighborhood and construction jobs for 5 people.

Paragraph #05
A ten-year exemption is being requested which will give us the opportunity to develop the project
and demonstrate opportunity for greater economic impact.

Paragraph #06

Community gathering spaces play a critical role in community resiliency and civic engagement.
Rebuilding a community that is centered in both grassroots and entrepreneurial spirits is uniquely
aligned with many of the extensive projects that the city is currently undertaking. Further, it will
provide the interdependence necessary to sustain the current growth and in?ux of community
development that this area, and the city at large, is witnessing. It helps create a fundamental base
that allows for further expansion and growth. The entire area will be stronger and healthier with
greater economic vitality providing a glimpse into the future of empowering and shaping
communities that will have a regional impact. This further aligns with the 20-minute
neighborhood philosophy adopted by Mayor Duggan and Maurice Cox in Planning 
Development.

Paragraph #07

My husband and are proud Detroiters who have lived in the neighborhood for several years. We
both share the knowledge, passion, and commitment to make this project a success. The tax
exemption is an important part of achieving the overall project goals. Please feel free to contact
me with any questions or concerns 4L- . and (716) 640-4267.

Thank you for your time, consideration, and assistance in restoring the preperties to economically
ef?cient conditions.

Respectfully submitted,

Emily Peterson

Attachment A: Site Map that includes the parcel(s) of property Legal Description
Attachment B: Paid Receipt of Current Taxes
Attachment C: Image of the Church as it currently stands

cc: K. Bridges, DEGC
N. Marsh, DEGC
V. Farley, HRD

Attachment A
Site Map: See Attached

Legal Description:
City of Detroit Parcel: 08002811
Description: ATKINSON 681-682 JOY FARM SUB L32 P40 PLATS, WCR 8/128

91.85 IRREG
Sq Feet: 5,400

Built: 1920

Original Use: church

Most Recent Use: church until 2013
Stories: 1.5

Proposed Use: Renovation of an existing 4,500 sq ft former church into a coffee shop
and community space. A new exterior deck will provide additional seating and
ingress/egress as well as an ADA ramp from grade to interior finished floor.

Extent of the Rehabilitation: The property has been completely gutted including roof,
landscaping and grading. The church will be completely renovated and restored to protect
the historical integrity of the church, the stain glass window that has been cinder blocked
for years and was the focal point of the church will be re-installed with an artistic homage
to its original grandeur. Additionally, there will be an added development of outdoor

patio seating area.
Fixed Building Equipment: See Attached

Time Schedule: The property was acquired by 2016, rezoning took 9 months, historical
approval took 3 months, PA 210 process took 18 months for approval. The rehabilitation
should be complete by November 1, 2019.

 I
ill-J ?'nhtSite Map

 

 

  
  
  

 

. .Vacant Church

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

l-lw .M

in.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Key:

l:l - Parcels applying for a tax exemption change
- - Gordon Park that received city improvement dollars

. . - Lots that were taken over for the expansion of Rosa Parks Ave.

- The blue denotes the location ofthe blind pig at the comer of 12"1 and
Clairmount where a police raid triggered the 1967 Rebellion.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


i I

3!
*1 .- L'i. . .. .
lPiEQUIPMENT PLAN-

 

 

 

 

Attachment 
(Recent Tax Payments)

1*rrmt; 2 {an t' 

 

Step 3: Con?rmation and Receipt

Result: Payment Authorized
Confirmation Number: 53007025






 
   

Customer Information

Moro-emu 1N1GHIGAGOEVD

Adamo une 2

cm: DETROIT
m: Moth-n
le code: 45206

mum 7105404261
Err-"Minn Wm

Payment Information
011062019
CamType: Mum:
Card Number. 

 

 

 

Attachment 
The Congregation

A Cammunlty Space and 0an In the Boston Edison Area

 

 

 

 

 

 



i


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




   

u? I. I-

    

"has.

I
:1


1L ..




I


Fin. H- 1-

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project Type Incentive Type Investment Amount District
JSDEAEHPU ?5
Jobs Available
Construction Post Construction
Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled
Professional Labor Labor Professional Labor Labor
What isthe plan for hiring Detroiters? (LU. <1?pr USU bum} 01W l?l-c 
\bLm/o? Wm
2. Please give a detailed description of the jo 5 available as listed In the above chart i. e: job type, 110an 

quali?cations, etc. Wm Md?rt WSWK PM
wad?H2433 \wa. WW. t. 5; Wars. MW Lb.) 5:;th bwas?tug 
3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents? 

4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential
jobs? New UL ?moi. co 
uci P13 01) 305W Wail

Ema-0w Wm
5. When is construction slated to begin? Pv??dm 
6. What IS the expected completion date of construction? 0 d?b?n a I, Cl 

*Please contact Linda Wesley at (313) 628-2993 or to schedule a date to attend the
Skilled Trades Task Force.

Real Estate Summary Sheet

herein deemed reliable but not 

08/29/2019 9:21

 

Parcel: 08990477.0 1

Current Class:
Previous Class:

251.251-COMMERCIAL PERSONAL
251.251-COMMERCIAL PERSONAL

 

 

 

 

Owner's Name: MINI MOWGLI LLC Gov. 01 CITY OF DETROIT
08

Property Addresm 9321 ROSA PARKS School: 32010 DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Neighborhood: PERS PERSONAL-NO LAND VALUES

Liber/ Page: Created: 08/01/2019

Split: Active: Active

Public Imor.: Paved Road. Storm Sewer. Sidewalk. Water. Sewer. Electric. Gas. Street Liohts. Standard Utilities

Topography: Level, Low

Mailing Address:

MINI MOWGLI LLC

1951 CHICAGO BLVD.

DETROIT MI 48206

Most Recent Sale Information

None Found

Most Recent Permit Information

None Found

Physical Property Characteristics

2020 S.E.V.: Tentative 2020 Taxable: Tentative Lot Dimensions:

2019 S.E.V.: 0 2019 Taxable: 0 Acreage: 0.00

Zoning: Land Value: Tentative Frontage: 0.0

PRE: 100.000 (MBT Com. Land Impr. Value: Tentative Average Depth: 0.0

Improvement Data

None

 

Image

 

 

 

 

COLMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313)224-1339. TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224?1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

 

TO: Adena Hill, Housing and Revitalization Department

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning Development Department

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Commercial Rehabilitation District at 9321 Rosa Parks Blvd.
DATE: September 3, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

Kevin Schronce, Central Region, Planning and Development
Garrick Landsberg, Historic Preservation, Planning and Development

In order to ensure that the issuance of a certificate for a Commercial Rehabilitation District is
consistent with the City?s Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase
commercial activity; create, retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase
the number of residents in a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 210 of 2005 (section
207.844), the Planning and Development Department?s Planning Division submits the following
interpretation. The Petitioner is Mini Mowgli, LLC.

 

Project Proposal

The project proposal seeks to rehabilitate an abandoned church, approximately 5,400 square feet. The
first floor will house a community caf?, and the basement or sub?level will be considered as an event
space for community use. This project is in a Historic District.

Master Plan Interpretation

The Master Plan Future General Land Use Designation for the site is Low/Medium Density Residential
(RLM). RLM areas should have an overall density of 8 to 16 dwelling units per net residential acre. The
areas are often characterized by two or four family homes with small yards, on-street parking, or
garages with alley access. The residential classifications allow for neighborhood-scale commercial
development. For instance, in a Low/Medium Density Residential area, small scale commerce 
convenience stores) should exist to serve residents' day-to-day needs.

Project program supports goals and policies outlined for Neighborhood Cluster 6 in the Durfee and Rosa
Parks that identify Master Plan desire to increase residential density, increase retail and local services,
increase the vitality of neighborhood commercial areas, and to improve the appearance of commercial
areas. Additionally, recently completed Neighborhood Framework Plan in Rosa Parks-Clairmount and
the Neighborhood Retail Opportunity Study completed by the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
(DEGC) highlight need to connect to the historic districts to capture a larger customer base and
development opportunities on the east side of Rosa Parks Boulevard to meet the area?s retail demand.

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map(s): Neighborhood Cluster 6; Map 6-1B Durfee

    

 

Highland Park

 

Map 5'13 Neighborhood Cluster 6
City of Detroit DUI-fee

Master Plan of
Policies

 

 

 

 

 

 

Future Land Use

Low Density Residential (RL) Thoroughfare Commercial (CT) Mixed - Town Center (MTC)
Low Medium Density Residential (RLM) Special Commercial (CS) Recreation (PRC)

- Medium Density Residential (RM) General industrial (IG) ?3 Regional Park (PR)

- High Density Residential (RH) Light Industrial (IL) E2 Privala Marina (PRM)

Major Commercial (CM) Distribution Port Industrial (IDP) Airport (AP)

?2 Retail Center (CRC)
Neighborhood Commercial (ON)

Mixed - Residential (Commercial (MRC) Cemetery (CEM)
Mixed - Residenlial (Industrial (MRI) Institutional (INST)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

 
 
 

September 4, 2019

Katy Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate Mini Mowgli LLC
Property Address: 9321 Rosa Parks Blvd.
Parcels Number: 08002811.

Dear Ms. Trudeau:

The Office of the Chief Financial Of?cer, Of?ce of the Assessor, has reviewed the Commercial Rehabilitation certi?cate application
for the property located at 9321 Rosa Parks Boulevard in the Virginia Park area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for issuing Commercial Rehabilitation certi?cates under PA 210 of 2005, as amended, is based on the anticipation of
increased market value upon completion of new construction and /or signi?cant rehabilitation of existing commercial property and
commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate additional market
value.

The proposed project by Mini Mowgli LLC Is to renovate the existing vacant 2,709 square foot church built in 1920 on .279 acres of
land into a coffee shop with community space. Renovations include new interior ?nishing to the gutted church, new roof, new
stained glass windows, ADA ramp and an exterior deck. The project is expected to increase commercial activity, create employment,
increase the number of residents in the area and revitalize an urban area.

The 2019 values are as follows:

 

 

Building Assessed Land AsseaeadValue Land
Parcel Add rs Value (SEV) Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
8002811. 9321Fiosa Parks Blvd. 23,100 23,100 2,500 2,500

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 210 of 2005, as amended. It applies to a building or a group of contiguous
buildings, a portion of a building or group of contiguous buildings previously used for commercial or industrial purposes, obsolete
industrial property, and vacant property which, within the immediately preceding 15 years, was operating as a commercial business
enterprise.

A review of the general plans, along with the criteria set forth under the Commercial Rehabilitation Act, indicated that the proposed
project located at 9321 Rosa Parks Boulevard is eligible as it pertains to the Commercial Rehabilitation certificate criteria under PA
210 of 2005, as amended.

Sin ely

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate
Mini Movvgli LLC
Page 2

Property Owner: MINI IVIOWGLI LLC.

Property Address: 932.]. ROSA PARKS BLVD

Parcel Number: 08002811.

Legal Description: ATKINSON 681-682 JOY FARM SUB L32 PAID PLATS, WCR 8/128 91.85 IRREG

The legal description on the assessment roll matches the legal description on the petition.

oaonzaso?

03002351. -

"?rmer? . 155-35;

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
-. Civil Rights, Inclusion 2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 1240
a" .- and Opportunity DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

DETROIT PHONE: 313.224.4950
FAX: 313.224.3434

Decision Regarding Employment Clearance for Tax Abatement

 

August 5. 2019

Tax Abatement Type: Commercial Rehabilitation [Public Act 210)
New Renewal CI
Duration of Abatement: 10

Development: Rehabbing an abandoned church on 9321 Rosa Parks to be mixed use with a caf? and
community event space.

Parcel [Facility Address: 9321 Rosa Parks
Applicant/Recipient: Mini Mowgli. LLC

Applicant Contact: Amy Peterson
[716] 640-4267

t- i
Developer Occupied Tenant Occupied
Total Employment: 10
Detroit Resident: 10 (or 100%]

Detroit Resident Hiring Strategies: Two leased spaces make up the building. The caf? is operated by
a Detroit resident and is committed to hiring all Detroiters. Any new tenant will be required to make
hiring Detroiters as a priority. A partnership has been created with DEGC to approve their space as a
top business location for Motor City Match. To ful?l hiring commitments positions will be available on
community app, Boston Edison website and flyers in the facility.

The Applicant/Recipient has provided the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity

Department required information in accordance with Speci?c current and future employment data and
commitments as part of a tax abatement agreement with the City of Detroit.

Therefore my signature below grants Conditional Approval of the above tax abatement
application/renewal based upon annual reports to and appraisals by this agency of the recipient?s
employment measures projected and achieved for the duration of the abatement.

{a 52 212M

Charity Dean Date
Director, Civil Rights Inclusion and Opportunity

COMMERCIAL REHABILITATION EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE
AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT (?Agreement?). by and between the City of Detroit a Michigan
municipal corporation acting by and through its Planning Development Department with an
of?ce at 2 WoodWard Avenue, Suite ans, Detroit, MI 4322!: and Mini Mowull, LLC
(?Applicant?) with an of?ce at 932! Rosa Parks Blit?htrolt, Ml 48206 is made this 

day em. 2051.
WITN ESSETH:

WHEREAS, Public Act 210 of 2005 as amended, also known as the Commercial
Rehabilitation Act (1) provides for the establishment of commercial rehabilitation
districts by local governmental units, (2) provides For the abatement or exemption from certain
taxes for quali?ed facility owners, and allows local governmental units to levy and collect a
speci?c tax from the owners of certain quali?ed facilities, among other provisions; and

WHEREAS, the Applicant has submitted an Application for Commercial Rehabilitation

Exemption Certi?cate ("Application") for the property located at:

q?fp'll EMA. (?Property?). A copy of the Application is
attached hereto as Exhibit A and made a part hereof; and

WHEREAS, the City has previously approved a commercial rehabilitation district
pursuant to the Act and the Property is located in such district; and

WHEREAS, the Applicant shall complete a Rehabilitation of the Property and the
Applicant shall hire or retain a certain amount of hill time employees within the City of Detroit
during the term oi?the and

WHEREAS. the City has approved the Application by adopting a resolution granting the
Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate pending apprt'wal also by the
Michigan State Tax Commission. A copy of the City resolution granting the CREC is attached
hereto as Exhibit and made a part hereof: and

NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and suf?ciency of
which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

1 . General.

a. Unless earlier revoked as provided for in Section 12 of the Act, being MCL 207.852,
or as provided for in this Agreement, the CREC term and the term of this Agreement
shall be for a period of te_n 10 years beginning on the certi?cate beginning date
stated in the CREC issued by the Michigan State Tax Commission.

b. The Applicant will complete the Property ?Rehabilitation? as de?ned in the Act and
as set forth in the Application by

 

version 06-28-2018 i

C.

The Applicant shall create, or cause to be created, at least
7.0011 if "l Full time employees at the Property within
two (2) years of the effective date of the Agreement.

The Applicant will take action to recruit and hire City of Detroit residents in
accordance with speci?ed targets as set forth in an initial City of Detroit Resident
Employment Plan (?Employment Plan?) submitted by the Applicant to the City and
approved by the Human Rights Department as part of the CREC application process.
The Employment Plan shall be updated or modi?ed annually throughout the term of
this Agreement.

For purposes of this Agreement, a ?full-time employee? is de?ned as a person: 1)
who is employed by the Applicant or its af?liates on a salary, wage, commission, or
other basis, for a minimum period of forty (40) hours a week and 2) from whose
compensation the Applicant or its af?liates, including a staf?ng agency, are required
by law to withhold City of Detroit income taxes. Af?liates may include Applicant?s
tenant(s) that lease space at the Property.

The Applicant will comply with the attached Addendum 2 - Affordability
Requirements, which is incorporated herein.

Applicant Representations.

In compliance with the Act and intending to induce the City to grant a CREC to the
Applicant, the Applicant represents that:

a.

b.

The Applicant is the owner of the Property at the time of the Application.
The Property is a ?Quali?ed Facility? as de?ned under the Act.
The Property will not include property to be used as a professional sports stadium.

The Property will not include property to be used, owned or operated by a casino or
af?liated company as de?ned in the Act.

The project would not have been considered without a CREC.

Rehabilitation of the Property has not started earlier than six (6) months before the
Applicant ?led the Application for the CREC.

There are no delinquent taxes owed on the Property.
The Applicant will pay any applicable taxes on the Property as they become due.

The Rehabilitation and operation of the Property is in compliance with the City of
Detroit Zoning Ordinance and Master Plan.

version 06?28-201 8

j. if Rehabilitation of the Property will result in the provision of multifamily residential
use, the Applicant must agree to Fair Housing Practices that meet guidelines set forth
by the US. Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 through 3619).

3. Community Bene?ts Requirements.

Pursuant to City of Detroit Ordinance 35-16 (?Ordinance?), also known as the
Community Bene?ts Ordinance, if the Property involves a Tier 2 Development Project as
de?ned by the Ordinance, then the Applicant shall: 

a. Partner with the City, and when appropriate, a workforce development agency to
promote the hiring, training and employability of Detroit residents consistent with
State and Federal Law.

b. Partner with the Director of the Planning Development to address and mitigate
negative impact that the Tier 2 Development Project may have on the community and
local residents. Applicant shall adhere to those mitigation requirements, if any, stated
in the attached Addendum 1 4. b. Requirements, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

4. Reporting by the Applicant to the City.

Applicant agrees to provide the City with suf?cient information, which is subject to
review and audit by the City, in order to determine compliance with this Agreement. At a
minimum, the Applicant shall provide the City with the following during the CREC term:

a. Upon request, the Applicant shall provide the Planning Development Department
copies of all construction plans, building permits and certi?cates of occupancy related
to Rehabilitation of the Property. These documents, along with periodic site visits to
the Property by the City, will serve to establish whether the Applicant is making the
Rehabilitation to the Property as required by the Act and this Agreement.

b.

a.
b. Within two (2) weeks after the ?rst year of the CREC term and for each year

thereafter, Applicant shall submit to the Flaming Development Department a
certi?ed status report (?Status Report?) signed by an authorized of?cer of the
Applicant. The Status Report shall set forth for the previous year: 1) the
Rehabilitation work completed at the Property and the Applicant?s financial
investment in the Property for that year and 2) the number of full-time employees at

the Property for that year.

0. Within two (2) weeks after the last day of the ?rst year of the CREC term and each
year of the CREC term thereafter, the Applicant shall submit to the Civil Rights,
Inclusion and Opportunity Department the Detroit Residents? Annual
Employment Veri?cation Report with copies of proofs of residency that have been

version 06-28-2018

accepted by CRIO. The Applicant shall also submit an updated Employment Plan on
forms acceptable to the City.

(1. During any construction on the Property for the term of the the Applicant
shall report to with copies of certi?ed payroll information for such
construction in order for the ('ity to verify that Prevailing Wages have been paid.

5. Revocation of CREC and Termination of Agreement.

The City may. in its sole discretion and by resolution of Detroit City Council. revoke the
CREE it the ('in linds that the completion ol' Rehabilitation of the Property has not
occurred within the time authorized by the City in this Agreement or within a duly
authorized extension ol" that time, or that the Applicant has not proceeded in good faith
with the operation of the rehabilitated Property in a manner consistent with the purposes
of the Act and in the absence of circumstances that are beyond the control of the
Applicant.

Good faith efforts include, but are not limited to. the Following: t) Applicant is actively
working with an agency or City Department to hire and ascertain methods of recruiting
and employing Detroit residents, and 2] Applicant is actively working with the Detroit
liconotnie (irowth Corporation, the City's Planning tit, Development Department. and
CRIO to ascertain methods of obtaining available resources to improve Applicant?s
business in a manner that will allow for compliance with this Agreement.

6. Payment of Exempted Taxes for Shortfall of Employment.

If the average number of full-time employees at the Property for any given year is less
than the number of lull-time employees set forth in Section 1. c. above, the Applicant
agrees to pay the City. in addition to the Commercial Rehabilitation Tax due under the
CREE on the Property. an amount equal to the difference bctWeen the amount of ad
valorem tax otherwise due on the Property without the and the amount of
Commercial Rehabilitation Tax due on the Property under the for that given year,
multiplied by a Fraction, the numerator of which is the shortfall in the number of full?time
employees indicated in the Status Report, and the denominator of which is the total
number of full-time employees set forth in Section 1. e. above. Prior to taking any action
to require the Applicant to pay an amount to the City in addition to the Commercial
Rehabilitation Tax pursuant to this Section. the City must afford the Applicant an
opportunity to present at a public hearing reasons for the employment shortfall.

In the event that the Applicant fails to report the number of full-time employees at the

Property for a given year in either the Status Report or Employment Plan, the number of
full-time employees at the Property for purposes of this Section shall be deemed zero (0).

version 06-28-2018 4

7. Notice to City of Discontinuance of Operations.

If during the term of the CREC the Applicant discontinues operations at the Property, the
Applicant will take affirmative steps to provide thirty (30) day prior written notice of
such shutdown of operations to the Director of the Planning Development Department.

8. Reservation of Remedies.

The City and the Applicant agree that each of the rights and remedies provided by this
Agreement may be exercised separately or cumulatively, and shall not be exclusive of
any other rights and remedies provided by law. Invalidation of any of the provisions
contained in the Agreement by operation of law, judgment, court order or otherwise shall
not invalidate any of the other provisions of the Agreement.

9. Transfer.

The CREC may be transferred and assigned by the Applicant to a new owner of the
Property if the City, in its sole discretion, approves transfer of the CREC after application
by the new owner. For purposes of this Section, a transfer of the Property shall include
any sale of the Property or any lease of more than ?fty percent of the total usable
space of the Property for a period longer than ?ve (5) years.

10. Headings.

The headings contained in this Agreement are for descriptive purposes only, and do not
alter or govern the substantive content of the provisions of the Agreement.

i'r'm'l'rm 06-28-2018 5

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the Applicant, by and through their authorized of?cers
and representatives, have executed this Agreement as follows:

?Mali 
BY: 

Print: 

rrs: Mm?

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPT.

BY:

 

Print:

 

ITS:

 

THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT EFFECTIVE OR VALID UNTIL A COMNIERICAL
REHABILITATION EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE IS APPROVED BY THE

NIICHIGAN STATE TAX COMMISSION

version 06-28-2018

ADDENDUM 1
4. b. Requirements

EXHIBIT A
Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate

EXHIBIT 
Detroit City Council Resolution
Granting the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908

Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.5330

am. ?apartmem Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT 

Housing and Revitalization

 

September 12, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate
on behalf of 4405 P, LLC in the area of 1401 Vermont, Detroit, Michigan, in accordance
with Public Act 146 of 2000 (Petition #778).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department and Finance Departments have reviewed the
application of 4405 P, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth by PA. 146 of 2000 and
would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Public Act 146 of 2000 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental
unit, shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate in accordance with Section 8 and other provisions of this act.
Prior to acting upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City
Clerk must provide written notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of
each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for
the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a
resolution establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted.

Donald Rencher
Director



cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, 
D. Rencher, HRD
A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt
resolution which approves the application of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate within
the boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, 4405 P, LLC has made application for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate
whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public
Hearing, at which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at
which Public Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the
City, or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the . 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, l3th
?oor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described
application and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and
shall give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad
valorem tax within the City of Detroit.

Gift)? of Iatroit

Janice M. Wleer OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk/0119f 1' Staff
August 2, 2019

To: Maurice Cox, Director
Planning and Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 908
Detroit, MI. 48226

Re: 4405P, LLC

Please ?nd attached an application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate for Property located at 1401 Vermont Street Detroit. (RELATED TO

PETITION #778)

Respectfully submitted,


-, 




1-

if. 
K. M51-
,5 

Michael J. O?Connell,
Jr. Asst. City Council Committee Clerk
Of?ce of the City Clerk

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(3131224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

Ii/ilohigan Department of Treasury
oer-i (Rev 05-13]

Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate

This form is issued as proirided by Public Act Hi3 at 2000 as amended This application should be ?led after the district is established. This project will
not incisive tax bene?ts until approved by the Slate Tait Commisston. Applications received alter October 31 may not be acted upon in the Current year

This application is subject to audit by the State Tax Commission.

File the original and two copies of this form and the repaired attachments with the cleric of the local government unit.
(The State Tax Commission rennires two copies of the Application and attachments. The original is retained by the clerk.) Please see
State Tax Commission Bulletin SI of 2000 tormore inlormation about the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption. The following
must be provrded to the local government unit as attachments to this application General de scription of the obsolete facility {year
boilt. original use. most recent use. number of stories square footage}. General description of the proposed use of the rehabilitated
facility. to} Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken. A descriptive list of the fitted 
equment that will be a part of the ehabllitated facility. A time schedule for undertaking and completing the rehabililat ion of the
facility. {it A statement of the economic advantages expected {rpm the exemption. A statement from the assessor of the local unit of
government. describing the required obsolescence has been met for this building. is with each application. Rehabilitation may
commence after establishment of district

applicant {Company} Home [applicant must be the OWNER of the facility}

4405P, LLC

footprint; Mailing address (No. and street. O. Box. CityryaleT??PW 
42 Watson Street. Suite C. Detroit. Ml 48201
Emitmof and street. City. Sl?lt: Code)

1401 Vermont Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City. \i'iitonm?o which} County 
Detroit Wayne
Date oi Commencement of Rehabilitation Plant-Sic: date of Completion of Rehabilitation School District where facility is Iocalcd {include school code)
at .
07/07/2019 10/29/2019 Detrott
Cost of Number at years exemption requested it'lItach Legal description of Obsolete Propeny on separate
5 eat

$1,123,725.00 12
Expected project likelihood (check all that apply):

increase Commercial activity Retain employment Revitalize urban areas

Create em to ment Prevent a loss of em to ment Increasenu-mber 0f residents in the
If] community in which the laoility is situated

 

 

Indicate the number of jobs to be retained or created as a result of rehabilitating the facility. including expected construction employment
lion lair?es for a period not to exceed six years. Grit-at the

 

Encl?tyU?bi?. the State Treasurer in?? approve all Iioit thematic" state aduca
following box if you wish to be considered lei this exclusion. 



 

 

 

 

 

 

APPLICANTS 

The undersigned. authorized officer of the company making this application certi?es that. to the best cihisiher knowiadgo. no information contained
herein or in the attachments hereto is false in any way and that all of the is truly descriptive oi the property tor which this application is be=ng
submitted. Further. the undersigned is aware that if any statement or inlermeiion provided Is untrue. the exemption provided by Public Act 146 of 2000
may be in ieopardy

The applicant certifies that this application relates to a rehabilitation program that. when completed. constitutes a rehabilitated facility. as
delinod by Public Act tits at zone. as amended. and that the rehabilitation of the facility would not be undertaken without the applicant's
receipt oi the exemption certlilcato.

It l5 further certified that the undersigned l3 familiar ilh the provisions at Public Act MS of 2000. as amended. at the new igan Compiled Laws. and to
the best of his/her knowledge and belief. tsine has complied or will be able to comply uriIh all of the requirements thereof which are prerequisno to the
approval oi?the application by the local unit of government and the issuance of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the State

Tait Commission.

Emu Company-Ollicer [no rimmed agun?v Telephone Number? Fair Humour
4405p, LLC (248) 496-6737

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mailing Address 

42 Watson Street. Suite C. Detroit, MI 48201 marcgnassif?yahoo.com

Signature ot?ompah?l?u?cmfno homoerotic-gm) Title 
ff - .L- . 1- Member

 

 

.

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ,d NIT CLERK CERTIFICATION
The Clerk must also complete Parts 1. 2 and on Page 2. Part 3 is to be completed by the Assessor.
Date application received

anature

 

 

- .- 

FOR sure TAX use

Application Number Date Received LUCI Code

 

 

 

 

 

. 

 

3574, Page 2

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION

This section is to be completed by tho cterl-t ol the local governing unit beture submitting the application to the State Tax Commission. include a copy of
the resolution which approves the application and instruction items to) through on page 1. and a separate statement of obsolescence [tom the
assessor at record with the Slate Assessor's Boarr! All section: must be completed in order to process.

PART 1: ACTION Tangy

Action Date:

Exemption Approved for Years. ending December 30, (not to exceed 12 years)

 

 

i?i Denied

Data DistrictEstEii-s-h?cd

 

 

LUCI Code s?TCode

 

 

 

PART 2: RESOLUTIONS {the follovvi?ngtatements must be included in resolutions approving)

I A statement that the local unit is a Quali?ed Local Governmental Unit. A statement that the application is for Obsolete prOpertv as de?ned in
r's statement that the bsoiete Property Rehabilitation District was section 2th) of Public 146 ?2000' .
legally established including the date egi?blmhed and the date of A statement that the commencement ol the rehabilitation of the tacrlity
"(3mm as provided by Section 3 of Public Act ?5 ul 2000. did not occur before the establishment of the Obsolete Property

Rehabilitation District.

 

in statement indicating bother the taxable value at the property - 
.. new
already exempt under Public Act 140011000 and under Public Act 198 at Pubiit" 140 at ?300 and that 'm on 
i 1974 {lFT'si exceeds 5% attiie total taxable value at lite ?mtFrupurty RL?hahiili?lt?? Disihct established in a 0 cannot! Local
A statement at the factors criteria anti objectives, if any. necessary tor Governmental Unit eligible under Public Act 146 of 2000 to establish
extending the Exemption, when the certi?cate is for less than 12 years. i such a district.
A statement mm a public bee?ng was hettl on the applicatltin as Astatament that completion of the rehabilitated facility is calculated to
provided by section 4(2) of Public Act 140 at 2000 including the date at and will at the time of issuance of the certi?cate. have the reasonable -
the hearing. to. increase commercial activity. create employment. retain
. . . . enipo merit. raven: atoas i: am to meni. revitalize urban areas. or
A statement that the applicant '5 not delinquent any taxes related to increage the oi residents IE lite community in which the facility
the facility. t5 Situated. The statement shout Indicate which at these the
if it exceeds 5% (see above), a statement that ex seeding 5% will not rehabilitation is likely to result In.
have the e?eci of substantially impacting the Operation oi the (Justi?ed A statement that the rehabilitation includes Improvements aggregating
Local Governmental Unit or of impairing the ?nancial soundness of an 10% or more at the true cash value at the property at commencement
affected taxing of the rehabilitation as provided by section 2th at Publlc not 145 of
A statement that all at the items described under "Instructions" 2000-
'thU00 it} Application tor Obsolete Property Rehabilitation A statement of the period of lime authorized by the Quali?ed Local
Exemption Certi?cate have been provided to the Quali?ed Local Gmammentgt Unit lor completion of the rehabilitation.

 

 

 

Governmental Unit by the applicant.

PART 3: ASSESSOR RECOMMENDATIONS
Provide the Taxable Value and State Eolialited Value of the Obsolete Property. as prowded in Public AC1 145 of 2000, as amended. tor the tax year
immediately preceding the attractive date at the certi?cate (December 31st oi the year approved by the STE.)

Taxable Value State Equalized Value 

 

 

Building(s)

Name of Governmental Unit_ 1 ?an oi Action on application Date 01 Statement at Obsolescence

 

 

 

 

 



PART 4: CLERK CERTIFICATION

The undersigned clerk certi?es that. to the best of his/her knowledge. no information contained herein or in the attachments hereto is false in any way.
Further. the undersigned is aware that if any information provided is un?ie. the tiemption provided by Public Act 146 of 2000 may be in teopardy.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eran}! Clan-l T51mh3rgnoturo? Dale
Clot-It's Mailing Address? Eta?tn? EIP Code
Telephone Number Fax Number Email nddronr.

 

 

 

 

Mall completed application and attachments to: Michigan Department of Treasury
State Tax Commission If you have any questions, call (517) 373-2408.
PO. Box 30471
Lansing. Michigan 48909-7971

For guaranteed receipt by the State Tax Commission. it Is recommended that applications and attachments are sent by certified mail.

Exhibit A

A) Property Description: The building was built in two phases, with the ?rst

B)

C)

occurring in the early 1930?s as a print shop. Later, sometime between 1955?1958
an addition was added to the building on the northern side. The building was
owned and operated from its original construction until 2011 with the current
seller (Ponyride) acquired it. Since 2011 the seller has subleased portions of the
building to a variety of tenants. Over the last eight years Ponyride has tied the
building to local and national artists through the commissioning of interior and
exterior murals. It is our hope and desire to maintain the existing artwork. In 2018
the seller decided to vacate and sell the building (please see attached letter
verifying the sale was voluntary and best for the ?nances of Ponyride).

Pr0posed Use: Upon completion of the proposed renovation the subject will be
used mainly as of?ce and showroom space. We have been approached by a
number of restaurants to occupy the building. We are targeting business that will
provide a positive bene?t to the community. In one case we are working with a
?rm that does adult bootcamp style coding training to help adults enter tech
positions. In another case we are discussing options for two ?rms currently
located in the suburbs to move to Detroit and help ?rst-time home owners.

Proposed Renovation: The renovation will include a full demolition of the
interior, recon?guring and new construction of all interior partitions, renovation
or replacement of the existing elevator, painting and repairing the murals on the
exterior of the building, a partial roof replacement (over the 1950?s portion of the
building), new windows on the ground ?oor, and exterior work including

repairing the parking lot.

D) Building Equipment Detail: Very little to none of the existing personal property

E)

P)

will remain in place at the subject. We are planning on retaining some compressed
air lines at the property for future use, but little to no other personal property will

remain.

Project Timeline:

a. Acquisition: February 2019

b. Seller Move-out: May 2019

c. Interior Demolition: June 2019

d. Interior Build-out: June August 2019

e. Tenant Move-In: August September 2019

Legal Descriptions:
a. 1401 Vermont: VERMONT 152-155-158 159 162 SUB OF PT OF

0 NO 1 LAFFERTY FARM L1 P305 PLATS, 8/20 163.7 130
b. 1435 Vermont: VERMONT 149 SUB OF PT OF 0 NO 1
LAFFERTY FARM L1 P305 PLATS, 8/20 30 130

C.

1442 Wabash: WABASH PT OF 154SUB OF PT OF 0L 1 LAFFERTY
FARM L1 P305 PLATS DESC AS BEGAT SE COR SD LOT
154TH ALG SELY LINE SD LOT 67D 05M17S W12.86 FT TH 55D
14M OIS W118.09 FT TH 67D 13M 73.52 FTTH ALG ELY LINE
SD LOT 22D 47M 99.70 FT TO 8/20 7,030 SQ FT

1443 Vermont: VERMONT 146 SUB OF PT OF 0 NO 1
LAFFERTY FARM Ll P305 PLATS, 8/20 30 130

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 43225

(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224?1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Obsolete Property District (PA 146) at 1401 Vermont Street
DATE: August 19, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

Kevin Schronce, PDD Central, Planning and Development

In order to ensure that the issuance of a certificate for an Obsolete Property District is in conformance with
the City's Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial activity;
create, retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase the number of residents
in a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 146 of 2000 (section 125.2784), the Planning and
Development Department submits the following interpretation. The Petitioner of this project is Nassif
Holdings LLC.

Location and Project Proposal: 1401 Vermont Street; Project seeks to renovate existing structure and
site that honors the structure?s unique history while also creating a modern and safe work environment
that targets professionals that wish to support professional skills/development, home ownership
resources, or services that support community and resident good. Project will provide office and
showroom space. Project will also repair and maintain exterior and interior art installations.

Existing Site Information: The building was built in two phases, with the first occurring in the early
19305 as a print shop. Later, between 1955-1958 an addition was added to the building on the northern
side. The building was owned and operated from its original construction until 2011 with the current
seller (Ponyride) acquired it. Since 2011, the seller has subleased portions of the building to a variety of
tenants. Over the last eight years Ponyride has tied the building to local and national artists through the
commissioning of interior and exterior murals. In 2018, the seller (Ponyride) decided to vacate and sell
the building.

Interpretation

impact on Surrounding Land Use

According to the Master Plan Future Land Use Map, the project site is bounded by areas designated as
Light Industrial (IL). The zoning of the project site is M4 (Intensive Industrial District), to the north and
the east of the project site is also classified as to the west of the subject site the block is zoned M3
(General Industrial District) and M2 (Restricted Industrial District). The project site is surrounded by
large "big box? operations and fenced perimeters. The proposed project would help the area?s public
aesthetic by injecting a set of neighborhood-friendly operations than what currently exists in the area

impact on Transportation

The project site has access to one bus line and a MoGo bike-share station on Bagley Street to the north
and access to one bus line along Rosa Parks Blvd. The project site?s proposal could attract ridership to
these existing bus lines. Contingent on the number of employees and emerging volume of
retail/restaurant/hospitality destination interests in the area of Corktown bounded by the rail line,
Bagley, Sixth Street, and Fort DDOT may consider adding a stop on Rosa Parks at Porter Street to
further support access to surrounding businesses.

 

 

Master Plan Interpretation

The subject site area is designated Light Industrial (IL). Light Industrial areas should generally consist of
industrial uses of low intensity that have minimum undesirable effects on adjacent residential or
commercial land uses. Small-scale industrial uses may include machine shops, small scale assembly or

packaging, warehousing or technology parks.

While the proposed project is not industrial by nature, the proposed uses on the .77 acre site will not
negatively impact nor drastically change the character of the current surroundings. As neighborhood
destinations continue to emerge in the area, a Master Plan Amendment may be explored in the future
to better align with anticipated future land uses and future planning recommendations. In the interim,
further discussion regarding the future land uses of this area will be explored during the City?s upcoming
Corktown Neighborhood Planning Process.

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 4; Corktown; Map 4-23

 

0] Vermont St' i

?4 . 



Windsor,
Ontario

 

 

Map 4-23

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Neighborhood Cluster 4
Corktown

 

 

 

 

Future Land Use

 

Low Density Residential (RL)

Low] Medium Density Residential (RLM)
Medium Density Residential (RM)

High Density Residential (RH)

Major Commercial (CM)

Retail Center (CRC)

Neighborhood Commercial (CN)
Thoroughfare Commercial (CT)

Special Commercial (CS)
(IG)

Light Industrial (IL)

 

I Dislribution I Port Industrial (IDP)

Mixed - Residential I Commercial (MRC)
Mixed - Residential i industrial (MRI)
Mixed - Town Center (MTC)
Recreation (PRC)

Regional Park (PR)

Private Marina (PRM)

Airport (AP)

Cemetery (CEM)

Institutional (INST)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

34. 2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824

    

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
ASSESSOR 

September 3, 2019

Katy Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate - 4405P LLC
Property Address: 1401 Vermont
Parcel Numbers: 08008679-83

Dear Ms. Trudeau:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
certificate application for the property located at 1401 Vermont in the West Side Industrial area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for granting Obsolete Property Rehabilitation certificates under PA 146 of 2000, as amended, is based on the
anticipation of increased market value upon completion of new construction and /or significant rehabilitation ofexisting commercial
property and commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate
additional market value.

4405P LLC plans to rehabilitate the building for use as mainly office and showroom space. The two-story building at 1401 Vermont
is currently vacant, has 28,363 square foot office building area, built 1928 with additional building area added in 1955, and situated
on .489 acres of land. Rehabilitation will include a full demolition of the interior, reconfiguring and new construction of all interior
partitions, renovation or replacement of the existing elevator, partial roof replacement, new windows on the ground floor and
exterior work including repairing the parking lot.

The 2019 values are:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Land
Building Assessed BUildinQ Assessed Value Land
Parcel Address Value (SEV) Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
08008679?83 1401 Vermont 309.000 64.574 201.300 42.067

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 146 of 2000, as amended. It applies to blighted, functionally obsolete and
contaminated properties. "Rehabilitation," meaning that changes to qualified facilities that are required to restore or modify the
property, together with all appurtenances, to an economically efficient condition. The project is expected to increase commercial
activity, create employment opportunities, and revitalize an urban area.

Rehabilitation will include improvement of buildings to conform to Michigan Building Code required to meeting minimum floor
loads and other standards; new heating, ventilation, plumbing, lighting and fire suppression systems; improved structural support
for new roof mounted equipment, building penetrations and building signage; new roof structure; new interior wall placement,-
and installation of modern facilities to restore the obsolete property to new standards suitable for restaurant, retail and
residential apartments. The project is expect to increase commercial activity, create employment, revitalize an urban area and
increase the number of residents in the community.

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate
4405P LLC
Page 2

A field investigation indicated that the property located at 1401 Vermont is eligible as it pertains to the Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Act under P.A. 146 of 2000, as amended.

Sincerely,

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

 

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate
4405P LLC
Page 3

Property Owner: 4405P LLC

Property Address: 1401 Vermont

Parcel Number: 08008679-83

Legal Description: VERMONT 152 155 158 159 162 SUB OF PT OF 0 NO 1 LAFFERTY FARM L1 P305 PLATS, 8/20 163.7

130

The legal description matches the OPRA certificate request.

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
RIghts. Incluslon 2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 1240
?nd DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY 0' 

DETROIT PHONE: 313.224.4950

 

FAX: 313.224.3434
Decision Regarding Employment Clearance for Tax Abatement

September 10, 2019

Tax Abatement Type: Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act (Public Act 146)
New Renewal 

Duration of Abatement: 12

Abatement Value: $1 14,288

Development: Building renovation to convert vacant space into office, showroom, and classrooms
that will be rented to tenants that prepare adults for tech positions.

Parcel/Facility Address: 1401 Vermont Street
Applicant/Recipient: 4405P, LLC

Applicant Contact: Marc Nassif
(248) 496-6787

(I

Developer Occupied x/Tenant Occupied
Total Employment: 1

Detroit Resident:

Detroit Resident Hiring Strategies: Only hiring Management Company, which will be BeanStalk,
a business based in Detroit.

The Applicant/ Recipient has provided the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity

Department required information in accordance with specific current and future employment data
and commitments as part of a tax abatement agreement with the City of Detroit.

Therefore my signature below grants Wei the above tax abatement
application/renewal based upon annual reports to and appraisals by this agency of the recipient's

employment measures projected and achieved for the duration of the abatement.

Charity Dean Date
Director, Civil Rights Inclusion and Opportunity

COLEMAN A Youm: MUNICIPALCENTER
Civil Rights, Inclusion 2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 1240
and OPP Dr?unlly Demon. MICHIGAN 48226



DETROIT Piimie: 313.224.4950
Fax: 313.224.3434

 

Employment Commitment Report for Tax Abatement

This report evidences your commitment to full time employment as stated in the tax abatement

agreement. Complete the following based on workers located 


 

 

 

 

Company 4405P LLC Company Address 42 _Watso_n_Street. Suite Detroit MI 48201
Parcel [Facility A dress 1401 Vermont Street. Detroit MI 
Tax Abatement fl?: OPRA - Length 
Authorized Representative: Marc Title: 
(Print)
Email' r_n__ar_cgnassif_@yahoo. com Phone: 248-496-6787
All questions should be directed to the Authorized Representative? EYes No
?No, specify preferred contact's Name: n/a Phone: ?li?
Email: 
Authorized Representatives Signature: Date:
7 ShilledTratEs_ Trades?l Other - Totals
Total?ii of Employees Applicantis Ar I 7
Committed to Employing at the 1 Managemeqltb 2
. company WI 
Facility Receiving the Applied 1 Detroit based
Abat_ement 1 l- . 
Total? ii Detroit Residents Applicant is 0 0
Committed to Employing ol'the Total 0
#of Employees 
Percentage ofDetroit Residents 0% 0% 0%
beingErnpioyed l. .L

 

 

 

. Most skilled labor will be during construction. Retainment of preofessionai labor currently in city is goal.
lfother please specrl?y: 

Emplment?atcatiec.
Will your facility be: Owner Occupied Leased to Tenant Both

 

I Please provide a description ofyour development. including but not limited to the proposed use. when
construction is set to begin and end, and positions offered?

I lfthe facility will be leased to tenants. what methods, tools. or resources will you utilize to market lease
vacancies to Detroit Businesses and/or how you will promote tenants to hire Detroit residents?

- lfthe facility is owner occupied. what methods. tools, or resources will you utilize to ful?ll the hiring
commitments stated in the tax abatement agreement?

(See Sample Employment Narrative on Reverse of This Form)

QEitp nfgiirnit

CITY COUNCIL

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project Type Incentive Type Investment Amount District
Real Estate Development OPRA 54.500.000
Jobs Available 
Construction Post Construction
Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled
Professional Labor Labor Professional Labor Labor
20will work with tenants, some of whom have already registered with Detroit, to make is
available to City residents. In addition. the GC will be encouraged to hire Detroit residents
as much as possible.

Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e: job type, job

quali?cations, etc. The construction jobs outlined will be generated by our GC and their sub contractors. The post?construction
iobs will be generated by the property management and leasing ?rms (both of which are Detroit based) firms

working {in the asset. . .
Will this development cause any re ccation that Will create new Detr0it reSIdents?
Yes, we anticipate the job creation and housing-based tenants will cater towards residents living nearby.

Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential
jobs? The developer acquired the property from Ponyride, a non-pro?t community based organization. We have extended the opportun
for existing tenants to remain in-place and have extended short-term leases as requested by tenants.

What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

When is construction slated to begin? Construction is slated to begin in May 2019.

What iS the expected c0mp eti0n date of construction? Construction is expected to last approximately 70 days.

*Please contact Linda Wesley at (313) 628-2993 or wesleyl?detroitmic0v to schedule a date to attend the
Skilled Trades Task Force.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 224-4095

n?IEE?icl

RESOLUTION OF CORPORATE AUTHORITY

Marc G. Nassif, Corporate Secretary of 4405P, LLC a Michigan Corporation ("the Company?) do hereby
certify that the following is a true and correct excerpt from the minutes ofthe meeting ofthe Board of Directors
duly called and held on September 1, 2019 and that the same is now in full force and effect:

"Resolved, that Marc G. Nassif, hereby is authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the Company and under its Corporate Seal; or otherwise, any agreement or other
instrument or document in connection with any matter of transaction that shall have been
duly approved: the execution and delivery of any agreement, document, or other instrument



by any such officers to be conclusive evidence of such approva .

I further certify that Marc G. Nassif, representing Nassif Holdings, LLC is the sole member of 4405P, LLC and is
thereby authorized to act on its behalf.

I further certify that any of the aforementioned officers, of the Company are authorized to execute or
guarantee and commit the Company to the conditions, obligations, stipulations, and undertakings contained
in the Agreement entered into between the City of Detroit and the Company for the One Hundred Forty Four
(144) month term for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate and that all necessary
corporate approvals have been obtained in relationship thereto.

In witness thereof, have set my hand this 11th day of September, 2019.

CORPORATE SEAL
(here) 
A) Signatur

Corpor Secretfy/

OBSOLETE PROPERTY REHABILITATION EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE
AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT (this ?Agreement?), by and between the City of Detroit (the ?City?),
a Michigan municipal corporation acting by and through its Planning Development
Department with an of?ce at 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808, Detroit, MI 48226 and 44051?.
(the ?Applicant?) with an of?ce at 42 Watson Street. Suite C, Detroit MI is made this
ch day of September, 202.

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, Public Act 146 of 2000, as amended, also known as the Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation Act (the (1) provides for the establishment of obsolete
property rehabilitation districts by local governmental units, (2) provides for the abatement
or exemption from certain taxes for quali?ed obsolete property owners, and (3) allows
local governmental units to levy and collect a speci?c tax from the owners of an obsolete
property, among other provisions; and

WHEREAS, the Applicant has submitted an Application (the ?Application?) for an
Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate for the property
located at: 1401 Vermont Street. 1435 Vermont Street, 1443 Vermont Street and 1442
Wabash Street, Detroit, (the ??Property?). A copy of the Application is attached hereto
as Exhibit A and made a part hereof; and

 

WHEREAS, the City has previously approved an obsolete property rehabilitation
district pursuant to the Act, and the Property is located in such district; and

WHEREAS, the Applicant has committed to complete a Rehabilitation of the
Property, as de?ned in the Act, and to hire or retain a certain amount of full-time employees
at the Property during the Term (as de?ned below); and

WHEREAS, the City has approved the Application by adopting a resolution
granting the OPREC to the Applicant, contingent upon the representations contained herein
and pending approval by the Michigan State Tax Commission. A copy of the City
resolution granting the OPREC is attached hereto as Exhibit and made a part hereof; and

NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
suf?ciency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

General.

a. Unless earlier revoked as provided for in Section 12 of the Act, being MCL 125.2792,
or as provided for in this Agreement, the term of the OPREC and the term of this
Agreement (collectively, the ?Term?) will be twelve years, beginning on the
certi?cate beginning date stated in the OPREC issued by the Michigan State Tax
Commission.

b.

The Applicant will complete the Property Rehabilitation, as de?ned in the Act and as
set forth in the Application, no later than June 30, 2020.

The Applicant shall create, or cause to be created, at least tw_o (2) (the ?Employee
Commitment Number?) full-time employees at the Property within one (1) year of the
effective date of this Agreement. Employment will be created through the hiring of a
Detroit-based property management ?rm.

The Applicant will recruit and hire City of Detroit residents in accordance with
speci?ed targets as set forth in the City of Detroit Resident Employment Plan
(?Employment Plan?) submitted by the Applicant to the City as part of the Application
and approved by the City of Detroit Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity
Department Throughout the Term, the Employment Plan may be modi?ed
in sole discretion. CRIO will monitor the Applicant?s compliance with the
Employment Plan on an annual basis throughout the Term. Upon notice from CRIO of
a discrepancy between the Applicant?s commitment in the Employment Plan and the
actual number of City of Detroit residents employed at the Property, Applicant shall
submit a correction plan setting forth the Applicant?s plan to bring the number of City
of Detroit residents employed at the Property back up to the speci?ed targets as set
forth in the Employment Plan. Applicant?s correction plan must be approved by CRIO.
Applicant shall be required to ful?ll the terms of such correction plan in the timeline
set forth in the correction plan.

For purposes of this Agreement, a ?full?time employee? is de?ned as a person: 1) who
is employed by the Applicant or its af?liates on a salary, wage, commission, or other
basis for a minimum period of forty (40) hours a week and 2) from whose compensation
the Applicant or its af?liates, including a staf?ng agency, are required by law to
withhold City of Detroit income taxes. Af?liates may include Applicant?s tenant(s)
that lease space at the Property.

2. Applicant Representations.

In compliance with the Act, and in order to induce the City to grant the OPREC to the
Applicant, the Applicant represents that:

a.

The Applicant is the owner of the Property at the time of the Application and this
Agreement.

The Property is an ?Obsolete Property? as de?ned under the Act.

During the Term, no portion of the Property will be used as a professional sports
stadium.

During the Term, no portion of the Property will be used, owned or operated by a casino
or af?liated company, as de?ned in the Act.

The Applicant would not have considered accomplishing Rehabilitation of the Property
without an OPREC.

Rehabilitation of the Property did not start prior to establishment of the obsolete
property rehabilitation district in which the Property sits.

There are no delinquent taxes owed on the Property.
The Applicant will pay any applicable taxes on the Property as they become due.

The Rehabilitation and Applicant?s current and planned future operation of the Property
are in compliance with the City of Detroit Zoning Ordinance and Master Plan.

If the Rehabilitation of the Property will include the provision of housing at the
Property, the Applicant agrees to: l) comply with Fair Housing Practices that meet the
guidelines set forth by the U.S. Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 through 3619); and
2) comply with the Affordability Requirements set forth on Addendum 2, attached
hereto.

Community Bene?ts Requirements.

Pursuant to City of Detroit Ordinance 35-16 (?Ordinance?), also known as the Community
Bene?ts Ordinance, if the Property involves a Tier 2 Development Project (as de?ned by
the Ordinance), then the Applicant will:

a.

Partner with the City and, when appropriate, a workforce development agency to
promote the hiring, training and employability of Detroit residents, consistent with
State and Federal Law.

Partner with the Director of the Planning Development Department to address and
mitigate negative impacts that the Tier 2 Development Project may have on the
community and local residents. The Applicant will adhere to the mitigation
requirements, if any, stated in the attached Addendum 1 4. b. Requirements, which is
incorporated herein by reference.

Reporting to the City by the Applicant.

Applicant agrees to provide the City with suf?cient information, subject to review and
audit by the City, in order to determine compliance with this Agreement. At a minimum,
the Applicant shall provide the City with the following during the Term:

a.

Upon request, the Applicant shall provide the Planning Development Department
copies of all construction plans, building permits and certi?cates of occupancy related
to the Rehabilitation of the Property. These documents, along with periodic site visits
to the Property by the City, will serve to establish whether the Applicant is completing
the Rehabilitation to the Property as required by the Act and this Agreement.

Within two (2) weeks after the ?rst year of the Term and for each year of the Term
thereafter, Applicant shall submit to the Planning Development Department a
certi?ed status report (?Status Report?) signed by an authorized of?cer of the

3

Applicant. The Status Report shall set forth for the previous year: 1) the Rehabilitation
work completed at the Property; 2) Applicant?s ?nancial investment in the Property for
that year; and 3) the number of full-time employees at the Property for that year.

0. Within two (2) weeks after the last day of the first year of the Term and each year of
the Term thereafter, the Applicant shall submit to CRIO the Annual Employment
Report for Tax Abatements (the ?Status Report?), including copies of proofs of
residency that have been accepted by CRIO.

Revocation of OPREC and Termination of this Agreement.

The City may, in its sole discretion and by resolution of Detroit City Council, revoke the
OPREC if the City ?nds that: l) the completion of Rehabilitation of the Property has not
occurred in the time or manner authorized by this Agreement; or 2) that the Applicant has
not proceeded in good faith with the Rehabilitation of the Property in a manner consistent
with the purposes of the Act, taking into account any circumstances that are beyond the
control of the Applicant.

Good faith efforts include, but are not limited to, the following: 1) Applicant is actively
working with an agency or City Department to hire and ascertain methods of recruiting and
employing Detroit residents at the Property, and 2) Applicant is actively working with the
Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, the City?s Planning Development Department,
and CRIO to ascertain methods of obtaining resources to improve Applicant?s business in
a manner that will allow for compliance with this Agreement.

Payment of Exempted Taxes for Shortfall of Employment.

If the average number of full-time employees at the Property for any given year of the Term
is less than the Employee Commitment Number, the Applicant agrees to pay to the City,
in addition to the Obsolete Properties Tax due under the OPREC, an amount equal to the
difference between the amount of ad valorem tax that would be due on the Property without
the OPREC, and the amount of Obsolete Properties Tax due on the Property under the
OPREC, for that given year, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the shortfall
in the number of full-time employees indicated in the Status Report, and the denominator
of which is the Employee Commitment Number. Prior to taking any action to require the
Applicant to pay an amount to the City pursuant to this Section, the City must afford the
Applicant an opportunity to present reasons for the employment shortfall at a public
hearing.

In the event that the Applicant fails to report in the Status Report the number of full-time
employees at the Property for a given year of the Term, the number of full-time employees
at the Property for purposes of this Section shall be deemed to be zero (0).

Notice to City of Discontinuance of Operations.
If during the Term the Applicant intends to discontinue operations at the Property, the

Applicant will provide thirty (30) days? prior written notice of such shutdown of operations
to the Director of the Planning Development Department.

10.

Reservation of Remedies.

The City and the Applicant agree that each of the rights and remedies provided by this
Agreement may be exercised separately or cumulatively, and shall not be exclusive of any
other rights and remedies provided by law. Invalidation of any of the provisions contained
in this Agreement by operation of law, judgment, court order or otherwise shall not
invalidate any of the other provisions of this Agreement.

Transfer.

Neither the OPREC nor this Agreement may be transferred or assigned by the Applicant
to a new owner of the Property unless the City, in its sole discretion, approves such transfer
or assignment upon application by the new owner.

Headings.

The headings contained in this Agreement are for descriptive purposes only, and do not
alter or govern the substantive content of the provisions of the Agreement.

[Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the Applicant, by and through their authorized of?cers
and representatives, have executed this Agreement as follows:

APPLICANT: .
By: 

CITY OF DETROIT

PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPT.
By: 6&3? ?aw
Print: M1 de CW

I 0
Its: Diff. 0+0 

THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT EFFECTIVE OR VALID UNTIL AN OBSOLETE
PROPERTY REHABILITATION CERTIFICATE IS APPROVED BY THE MICHIGAN
STATE TAX COMMISSION

ADDENDUM 1
4. b. Requirements

ADDENDUM 2
Affordability Requirements

1. Affordable Housing Undertaking. The Applicant, as developer of the
mixed-use project (the ?Project?) on the Property, will
implement during the Term the following affordable housing plan for the planned
residential apartments to be included within the Project:

 

a. The Applicant will offer for lease apartment units (?Affordable Units?) to
those earning not more than 80% of the Detroit SMSA area median income
based on the income limits most recently published by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development Rental rates will be
based upon occupancy of 1 person in a studio and 1.5 people per bedroom for all
other rental unit sizes.

b. Applicant will verify the income of any individual(s) who apply to lease an
Affordable Unit.

c. In the event that the income of a tenant of an Affordable Unit becomes more than
80% of AMI, such tenant?s unit shall be considered to comply with paragraph 1
above until the termination of the lease such unit, including during any extensions
thereof.

(1. Applicant currently intends to offer studios, one-bedroom units,

two-bedroom units and three-bedroom units as Affordable Units.
Applicant may alter this unit mix in its discretion.

e. A vacant unit offered for rent pursuant to this paragraph counts toward satisfaction
of Section 1a above.

f. The commitments set forth herein may be terminated in the event an arms-length
lender forecloses on a mortgage secured by the Project.

2. Payment for Exempted Taxes for Violation of Undertaking. If Applicant is not in
compliance with its obligations under paragraph 1 of this Addendum and fails to cure its
non-compliance within 60 days of written notice from the City, the Applicant shall pay to
the City, in addition to the Obsolete Properties Tax due under the OPREC on the Property,
an amount equal to the difference for the year of non-compliance between the amount of
ad valorem tax otherwise due on the Property without the OPREC and the amount of the
Obsolete Properties Tax due on the Property with the OPREC, multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which is shortfall of the number of units that are not in compliance and the
denominator of which is . Prior to taking any action to require the Applicant to pay
any amount to the City pursuant to this paragraph 2, the City shall afford the Applicant an
opportunity to present at a public hearing reasons for the shortfall by the Applicant in its
compliance with this Addendum.

 

1 In the event that the AMI decreases in a subsequent year, the prior year AMI shall continue in effect for
the Project until and to the extent the AMI level later increases.

12%
Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

EXHIBIT 
Detroit City Council Resolution
Granting the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate

DW at Detroit

Irvin Corley, Jr.

Executive Policy Manager CITY COUNCIL
2:23:33; ?3,113? LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Deputy Director D6tl'01t, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

TO: The Honorable Detroit City Council

FROM: David Whitaker, Direct 
Legislative Policy Division Staff

DATE: September 12, 2019

RE: Secondary Street Sign Process

3

I .
?Ll Christopher Gulock, AICP
t3: Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Kimani Jeffrey
Anne Marie Langan
{If Jamie Murphy
I Carolyn Nelson -
I i Kim Newby
Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley
Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter
Theresa Thomas
Underwood

Wilson, Ashlev

Council President Brenda Jones requested that the Legislative Policy Division (LPD) opine on
the Administration?s request to install secondary street signs in recognition of Anne Parsons,
President and CEO of the Detroit Orchestra, given that the ordinance establishing a
process for requesting secondary street naming was recently repealed by City Council.

The City has long addressed the process for establishing secondary street names in
honor/memory of individuals of prominence through an ordinance in Chapter 50 of the Detroit
City Code. The ordinance was intended to provide an orderly process to address requests
initiated by citizens? petitions or directly by City Council. In recent years, requests for
secondary street naming from members of the community have increased substantially,
necessitating revision of the ordinance. To that end, the ordinance was repealed by Council last
spring and a new ordinance is being drafted to replace it. Currently, no process for citizen
initiated requests exists.

As discussed in July 1, 2019 memorandum to City Council, entitled 12?? Street Secondary
Street Naming, the City?s power to name and rename streets emanates from the Home Rule City
Act (the Act), MCL 117.4h, which reads,

Each city may in its charter provide:
(1) For the use, regulation, improvement and control of the surface of its streets,
alleys and public ways, and of the space above and beneath them;

(2) For a plan of streets and alleys within and for a distance of not more than 3
miles beyond its limits;

July report explained further:

The Act states that the City may in its charter provide for the use, regulation,
improvement and control of the surface, as well as for a plan of streets and alleys
within its limits. This is a grant of authority to the City to provide in the charter
the mechanism for carrying out these provisions. Pursuant to Section 117.4h, the
City has exercised its grant of authority by enacting in its Charter, Article VII,
Chapter 4, Public Works, Section 7-401, which provides in pertinent part:

The Department of Public Works shall:
(3)Provide for the construction, maintenance, demolition and
engineering design of streets, alleys and public building.

The City further exercises the authority granted by the Home Rule City Act, by
implementing the City Code provisions under Article VII, Opening, Closing,
Extending, Widening, Vacating, Naming and Renaming Streets, and Assigning
Secondary Names t0 Streets; Division 2-Renaming Streets, setting for the
requirements for renaming streets; and Division 3-Secondarjy Naming of Streets,
setting forth the requirements for providing secondary names to streets.

Although the City exercised its authority under the Home Rule Act by adopting Charter
provisions relative to control of streets, and an ordinance addressing requests for secondary
street naming by citizens, the absence of such an ordinance is not fatal to the Administration?s
own power to propose naming, renaming, or secondary naming, subject to approval of City
Council.l The Administration?s authority is covered by the broad language of the Home Rule
City Act and the Charter.

From a public policy standpoint, however, a secondary street naming effectuated by the
Administration with the concurrence of City Council during a period when the ordinance has
been essentially vacated and the process is being revamped, could appear as selective,
preferential treatment afforded to some, and an end run around long-established City process.
Although legally defensible, all efforts to put in place a fair process as established through
traditional ordinance-making is, of course, the desired method, and the draft ordinance should be
moved toward enactment expeditiously.

If the Honorable City Council should have any further questions or concerns regarding this
subject, LPD will be happy to provide further research and analysis upon request.

 

In the case of the 12th Street secondary street naming request, the petition was initiated by the community
(although supported by the Administration) while the ordinance was still in effect, and sought a renaming to
commemorate an event rather than an individual, as required by the then applicable ordinance. LPD opined that
City Council lacked the authority to grant the petition where the ordinance did not extend to events.

2

3

Christopher Gulock, AICP

'dWh' . 32.; .
0:21am Ita er sq Gilt? of Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Irvin Corley, Jr. - -

Executive Policy Manager CITY COUNCIL but: Klmanl Jeffrey
"o A 

Mas-e" .R- T?d? LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION ..-.. 
Senior City Planner my. Jamie Murphy
Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A Young Municmal Center :13 Carolyn Nelson
Deputy Director Detr01t, Michigan 48226 If: Kim Newby
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336 .15; Analine Powers, pm),
Alexander Jennifer Reinhardt
LaKisha Barclift, Esq. Sabrina Shockley
M. Rory Bolger, AICP Thomas Stephens Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter
"Slim SODWEII Theresa Thomas
10 or rumb Underwood
George Etherldge Ashlev A. Wilson

Deborah Goldstein

TO: Detroit City Council

FROM: David Whitaker, Directu
Legislative Policy Division

DATE: September 13, 2019

RE: City Council Appointmentment to the Detroit Land Bank Authority Board
of Directors

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has been requested by Council Member Castaneda-Lopez
to provided a report with regard to the ability of the City Council to make an appointment to the
Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA), Board of Directors.

The Board of Directors of the DLBA is made up of live (5) board members that are selected pursuant
to the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Detroit (City) and the Michigan Land Fast
Track Authority and also as outlined in the bylaws of the DLBA. Under the First Amended and
Restated Intergovernmental Agreement, appointment of the ?ve (5) board members were appointed

was as follows:

One (1) member appointed by the City Council.
One (1) member appointed by the Mayor

One (1) member appointed by the Mayor, selected from a list of ?ve (5) individuals
submitted by the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, subject to approval by
City Council. However, if the City Council does not disapprove of the appointment
within thirty (30) days after submission by the Mayor, the appointment is
con?rmed.

One (1) member appointed by the Executive Director of the Michigan State
Housing Development Authority.

DLBA Bylaws by removing the recently appointed person or one of the other currently appointed
board members and appoint a new City Council nominee for service on this important board!l

If we can be of further assistance please call upon us.

 

Section 4.03 of the intergovernmenal agreement provides that a board member appointed by the Mayor can be
remove at anytime by the Mayor without cause. This language is also mirrored in the DLBA Bylaws.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224?1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   

 

September 12, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Amendment to Development Agreement
655 W. Willis

Honorable City Council:

On July 05, 2016, your Honorable Body adopted a resolution authorizing the sale by development
agreement of 639, 645 and 655 W. Willis, which was combined into 655 W. Willis, to 655 Willis
LLC (the ?Developer?? for the purpose of constructing a four-story mixed-use development with
parking and appropriate landscaping (the ?Project?). The City closed on the sale on January 08,
2019 and a development agreement dated January 8, 2019 was executed and recorded (the
?Development Agreement?).

Since the closing, the Developer has needed to extend certain deadlines in the Development
Agreement to account for complications related to construction ?nancing. The City and the
Developer now anticipate construction to commence by November 1, 2019 and be completed by
September 20, 2021. Furthermore, Developer has restructured its corporate entity into 655 
Willis Partners, LLC (?New Entity?) and now wishes the City?s consent to assign the Development
Agreement to this New Entity for completion of the development work.

In anticipation of closing on the construction ?nancing and commencement of construction of the
Project, the Developer has requested that: l) the commencement and completion dates be modi?ed
in the Development Agreement to re?ect the new Project completion schedule and 2) the
Development Agreement be assigned to the New Entity.

We hereby request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution authorizing an
amendment and assignment of the Development Agreement to re?ect the above referenced
Developer requests.

Respectt?ull submitted,

226%

Katharine G. Trudeau
Deputy Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, on July 05, 2016, your Honorable Body adopted that certain resolution that approved
the sale by development agreement of certain real property now known as 655 W. Willis, Detroit,
M1 (the ?Property?) to 655 Willis LLC (?Developer?), a Michigan limited liability company; and

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, through its Planning and Development Department 
entered into that certain development agreement with Developer dated January 8, 2019 (the
?Development Agreement?) in furtherance of development of the Property; and

WHEREAS, the Developer now wishes to: I) extend certain dates and deadlines in the
Development Agreement consistent with a revised project schedule and 2) receive consent from
the City to assign the Development Agreement to 655 Willis Partners, now therefore be
it

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to
execute an amendment to the Development Agreement that: 1) extends any dates and deadlines in
the Development Agreement to revised dates that are to the satisfaction of the Director, or
his authorized designee, 2) assigns the Development Agreement to 655 Willis Partners, LLC
and 3) allows the Director, or his authorized designee, to further extend any dates and
deadline in the Development Agreement at any time in the Director?s or his authorized
designee?s sole discretion; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate amendments or changes to the Development
Agreement consistent with the resolution; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, any amendment to the Development Agreement will be considered con?rmed when
executed by the Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation
Counsel as to form.

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 6! I

DI-rl IttII'l. Mtt'ftthAN 4822a
CITY OF Demon (3131224490: 
4.. DEPARTMENT OF PunLIc WORKS (MEI-2144404
ADMINISTRATION DIVISION 
September 12, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

Re: Secondary Street Name Sign Request that the Intersection of Woodward and
Pal?ms?be assigned a seconds";r streetiname sign honoring Anne Parsons

 



The Department of Public Works has reviewed the documentation and in accordance with
the authority provided in Chapter 50 of the 1934 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks,
and Other Public Places, Article WI, Opening, Closing, Extending, Vacating, Naming,
and Renaming of Streets and Assigning Secondary Streets, we are submitting to City
Council a resolution to honor Ms. Anne Parsons with a secondary street name sign at the
intersection of Woodward and Parsons, where the Detroit Orchestra Hall is located.

Ms. Anne Parsons was named president of the Detroit Orchestra in 2004.
Since that time, she has overseen the visionary launch of ?Live from Orchestra Hall",
which has resulted in the worldwide engagement of audiences through live HD webcasts
and the expansion to include ?Classroom Edition" in 2014 which provided an opportunity
for DSO to reach tens of thousands of students throughout Detroit and around the world
each year.

It is for the work outlined above, as well as Ms. Parsons lifelong commitment to use
music to ful?ll the lives of others, especially young people in Detroit, that the
Department of Public Works is requesting City Council to approve the attached
resolution for a secondary street name sign to be erected in her honor.

Res ectfully Submitted,

  

Ror?t?mndidge, Direct

Department of Public orks

Cc: Alexis Wiley, Mayor's Of?ce
Stephanie Washington, Mayor's Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Planning and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13th
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday . 2019 at
am, for the purpose of considering the Detroit Orchestra and the
Department of Public Works request to honor Ms. Anne Parsons with a secondary street
name sign at the intersection of Parsons and Woodward Avenue, to be also called ?Anne
Parsons Way?. Any costs associated with this request will be borne by the requestor.

