A): u) Buy/0355

74746:.

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

?dtarwrzakal ?d??l?tmii
Verdine Day

Retired Detroit Fire?ghter

ii'!


WHEREAS the members of the Detroit City Council are delighted to honor an outlsitanding woman
that has made a great impact in the Detroit Fire Department and her community for
thirty-three and a half years; and 

s)



WHEREAS during her tenure, Verdine served in many capacities; from being an aide to the
Department Chief, Deputy Chief and Administrative Assistants to rising through the
ranks to become the ?rst black female Fire Engine Operator and on to Senior Fire
Engine Operator. Through her esteemed work ethic and heroism, she also earned two
citations for the rescue of civilians; and

WHEREAS Verdine served as an elected union of?cial with the Detroit Fire Fighters Association for
fourteen years as an Battalion Director. Secretary, Vice President and currently holds
the position of Treasurer. During those terms she chaired the Political Action
Committee, the Joint Health and Safety Committee, Public Relations, Human Relations
and Grievance committees. Her dedication to fair and just treatment was also
instrumental in adopting a pregnancy policy for women of the department; and

WHEREAS for nineteen years, Verdine orchestrated the ?Engine 40 Back to School Backpack
Project?, securing thousands of backpacks loaded with school supplies for our youth and
she led the ?Fill the Boot ampaign? for fourteen years, which raised money for
children from the Muscular Association. Through her desire to serve,
Verdine also coordinated with Gleaners to provide breakfast for children in the summer,
served as camp coach at Burn Camps and lent herself to the Junior Fire Cadet Program;
and

WHEREAS for her tireless commitment and outstanding service, Verdine was appointed by the
Commissioner to the PTSD Team and named the 2019 Woman of the Year? for Women
in Blue; and

WHEREAS in her spare time, Verdine enjoys traveling, riding and has played softball
since 1968, earning her a spot in the Michigan Hall of Fame; THEREFORE,
LET IT BE

RESOLVED That Councilwoman Janee? L. Ayers and the entire Detroit City Council express our
sincere appreciation and joins in the retirement celebration of Verdine Day, truly one of
Detroit's ?nest treasures.



   
 

 

 

 
 

?iL l'tlEltIBER

 

 

Submitted by Council
Member Casta?eda-L?pez
9/11/2019

 

 

?92th LIL

INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF METROPOLITAN DETROIT

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

  

The Institute
CENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY


The International Institute Of Metropolitan Detroit (herein referred to as ?The Institute?) will m'til'k
100 Years of bridging differences, ful?lling dreams and building better tomorrows for nearly three
million refugees immigrants, refugees and asylees; ?ve generations who, in turn, have enriched us all
with their priceless contributions from two hundred different languages and cultures around the world;
and

The Institute, originally founded in 1919 as part of the nationwide settlement house initiative,
is now an independent 501.c3 charitable organization. It is part of the US. Committee for Immigrant
Refugees? network, accredited by the US. Department of Justice, Board of Immigrant Appeals,
credentialed by the Council on Accreditation of Service for Families and Children, Inc. The Institute is
recognized as a historic organization by the Michigan Historical Society and the State of Michigan
Historical Commission; and

The Institute maintains its commitment to the guiding principles of our four original pillars, as relevant
today as 100 years ago: cultivating ethnic identity and leadership; supporting inclusion; teaching
democracy and self-reliance; and, advocating for diversity as essential to the unity and vitality of our
American culture; and

The Institute has recognized and upheld the inclusion of all nationalities, ages, genders, and races since
1919 by building a governing board, staff, and programs relevant to and representative of the home
cultures and heritage languages of its diverse client base and its surrounding community, as well in
advance of the dictates of legislation, policy, or present-day social norms; and

The Institute continues, in this its Centennial year, to prepare potential new Americans for successful,
productive participation in the broader community through ESL/Citizenship classes, legal services,
employment skills training, and economic empowerment opportunities offered on-site at its 70 year-old
headquarters in Detroit?s Cultural center, in the City?s Warrendale and Corktown districts, and at satellite
locations in Canton, Troy, Pontiac, Auburn Hills, and Hamtramck?s Banglatown; and

The Institute promotes the value of diversity for all members of the community. It offers foreign
language classes, children?s programs, traveling exhibits, guest presentations and cultural arts and
artifacts displays at local libraries, in K-l2 classrooms and community centers. Over the past 100 years,
these community-based events and special programs have impacted thousands of members of the
community. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

The Detroit City Council and the Of?ce Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez congratulates The
International Institute of Metr0politan Detroit, its leadership, staff and volunteers on 100 years of
service to ?ve generations of Michiganders. We commend them on their unwavering commitment to
equity, inclusion and the value of diversity. Looking forward to 100 years more!



COUNCIMSIDENT

 

 

COUNCIL 

    

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

September 1-2, 2019

DATE

 

Ln

Testimonfai Resolution In Memorfam a% February 1.9, 1.929 - September 4, 201.9
Submitted by Counc?member Gabe Leland

WHEREAS Arthur Simons was born in Jemison, Alabama as the youngest of 11 children. His family relocated
to Detroit, Michigan when he was 15 years old; and

WHEREAS Mr. Simons graduated from Detroit Northern High School and earned a Bachelor of Business
Administration Degree from the Detroit Institute of Technology. His commitment to country and community
began in earnest with two years spent in the United States Army. In 1966, Arthur joined the Barton McFarlane
Neighborhood Association and in 1968 he became the Association?s ?rst African-American President; and

WHEREAS Mr. Simons brought together his business background as a direct distributor for National Safety
Associates and sales manager for the Stroh Brewery Company with his many years of leadership with the Barton
McFarlane Neighborhood Association, in addressing zoning, master plan, economic development, housing, and
public policy issues across the 139 square miles of the city of Detroit? from expansion of City Airport on the
city?s northeast side to southwest Detroit?s Public Safety Mall; from the new Super Kmart store in northwest
Detroit to the far east side?s controversial Graimark project; from the Eight Mile Gateway Mall project to the siting
of temporary and permanent casinos in downtown Detroit; and

WHEREAS Mr. Simons concern for the impact of proposed projects on neighborhood residents is best evidenced
by his statements at Commission meetings, such as ?How to get truck parking enforced?? in considering
amendments to the Zoning Ordinance for processing blight violations; in asking ?What is the impact of reducing
or increasing commercial?? in a McDougall Hunt master plan amendment; and requesting to ?Limit the hours to
reduce the impact on the neighborhood? in the case of the Home Depot Seven Mile/Meyers project; and

WHEREAS Mr. Simons supported Commission initiatives in establishing a partnership with Wayne State
University for evaluation of the Community Development Block Grant and Neighborhood Opportunity Fund
programs; undertaking a comprehensive revision of the Zoning Ordinance; creating a Youth Matrix to evaluate the
impact of development projects on children; and starting the D.O.C.T.O.R. program to help build capacity of
community-based organizations; and

WHEREAS Arthur leaves to cherish his memory, his loving and devoted wife of 65 years, Amanda; two children
Sabrina and Gregory, a granddaughter Loren, and a host of family, friends and his Barton McFarlane Family.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED That Councilman Gabe Leland and Members of Detroit City Council hereby join family and friends
in celebrating the life and legacy of MR. ARTHUR SIMONS. May the memories of his love, faith, and hard work
be cherished always and continue to fill the hearts of his many love ones. In his heart a man plans his course, but
the Lord determines his steps. Proverbs 16:9 (N IV)

09.14.19 - 

