Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ. Chair
WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary

II

Ul

JONATHAN T. SWAIN. Commissioner

LANCE GOUGH,Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Boaixl of Eiectbn Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
July23,2019, 9:30 a.m.

69 West Washlr^ton Street, Bth Floor Conference Roonv Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman
William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T, Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

James P. Allen, Communications Director

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Opal Walls, Purchasing Agent
Bill Perez, Hispanic Outreach Coordinator
LaCretia Dandridge, Manager-Human Resources
Sarita Villarreal, Consultant

Gary Rycyzyn
Trupti Patel, Law Clerk
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Gueste:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magnus, Rainbow P.U.S.H.
Geoff Ryan, ES&S
John Poulus, Dominion Voting
Sandy Hed, Election Works
Veronica H. Leonard, Documentors

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 9:35 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present.

III.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented.

IV.

Approval of Minutes:
A.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 11,2019: Commissioner Swain moved to
approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 11, 2019. Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion. The motion passed and the Minutes were approved by 3:0 vote of the
Board.

V.

Executive Director's Report
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027

chicagoelections.com •cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting -July 23, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

• Executive Director Lance Gough, along with the group that will be reviewing the new voting
equipment Request for Proposal(RFP)responses have a meeting scheduled for Thursday. They
are hopeful that they will have a report to the Board by the end of July.

• Illinois State Senate Bill 2090(SB2090) passed. SB2090 addresses pre-trial detainee voting and
provisions for providing persons released from jail with information on their voting rights. The
ACLU will give pamphlets to those released. We have been working with the ACLU regarding the
pamphlets. The ACLU wants us to be present when the Governor signs the bill. The time and
location have not yet been determined.

The International Association of Government Officials(l-GO) held a meeting in Houston. Assistant
Executive Director Charles Holiday and General Counsel Adam Lasker attended and took classes

during the conference. Mr. Gough met with each of the members of the Election Assistance
Commission (EAC).

We are attempting to set a meeting with the Postmaster General here in Chicago regarding
services for our voting materials.
A.

Assistant Executive Director Mr. Charles Holiday reported:

• He attended the l-GO conference, and found it very enlightening.
• Voter histories have been processed for the February and April 2019 elections.

• Responses from Aldermen/Committeepersons regarding precinct reduction has been
slow. If there is no reply, we may want to consider reducing a smaller number of
precincts.

Mr. Gough added that we had sent out maps regarding redistricting. We have had
little response, but some elected officials have asked why we are redistricting
precincts before the census.

Commissioner Swain confirmed that three reasons we are trying to reduce the
number of precincts is 1)to have more Judges of Elections turn out per precinct, 2)
to help eliminate partially accessible polling places, and 3)the continuing issue of
finding polling place locations. Commissioner Swain stated he was surprised as to
the low response. It will be best, and smarter, to have this done by 2020.
Mr. Gough added that we may have to knock on doors.
Mr. Holiday stated that locations with Judges of Election shortages are being brought
to the attention of the elected officials.

• Mr. Holiday reiterated that there will be a meeting on Thursday regarding new voting
equipment.
B.

Communications Director. Jim Allen reported:
•

We are currently working on 4 projects:

1. Canvass mailing/email solicitation mailing

Mr. Allen provided samples to the Board members for their critique. All of the
Board members agreed that the sample with blue on the right-hand side that
encourages the voter to email is the best of the samples.
Mr. Allen stated that the bid for printing will be opened later this week and will
poll each Board member in order to have the mailing out around April 22"'', a
little before Labor Day. Mr. Gough added that he wants the mailing out before
Page 2 of 4

 Regular Board Meeting - July 23, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

petition filing. Mr. Allen stated that for the statutory 90 day limit, we don't have
to do the canvass until October or early November.

2. Continuity/contingency plan. We are continuing to meet and develop continuity
and contingency plans.

3. Webpage content. We should be done updating webpage content in the next
two days, but they will still need to be translated.

4. Budget documents for Cook County. We are preparing budget documents to
submit to the Cook County Board.
VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes In Election Administration: Already discussed.

B.

Electronic Poll Books: Mr. Holiday stated that ES&S is still having weekly meetings with us

to finalize ADA data with the e-poll books.
C.

Voting Equipment: Already discussed.

D.

Legislation. General Counsel Adam Lasker reported:

• As mentioned,SB2090 was passed regarding pretrial detainees. Messrs. Holiday and
Lasker are meeting with Jail and County Clerk representatives to coordinate
implementation. Now that the Cook County Jail will be an actual polling place, poll
watchers will be allowed to attend during voting. However,the new law allows the
jail to screen poll watchers. As such, organizations that receive credentials will have
to know that the Jail may conduct some screening, and the organizations and
campaigns will have to coordinate their poll watchers with Jail officials.

• The Governor signed into law legislation that prohibits any municipality or other local
government which introduces term limit restrictions from including years of service
prior to the term limit being put into place.

E.

Professional Services Agreement between Board of Election Commissioners for the City

of Chicago and JPA Consulting Group, Inc.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve a Professional Services Agreement between the

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago and JPA Consulting Group, Inc.
for the purpose of media issues, public relations, strategic planning, community outreach
and community services as directed by the Board for the period of July 1,2019-through
June 30,2020 at a rate of $12,500/month, in addition to any reimbursement for
expenses incurred when performing business for the Board. Commissioner Swain
seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous vote of the Board.
VII.

New Business: None.

VIII.

Legal Report. General Counsel Adam Lasker reported:

• Last week oral arguments in the Ward 5 election contest were heard. Judge Clay-Herron ruled in
favor of the Board. Mr. Lasker received indication thatCalloway may appeal.

• We have been receiving calls regarding candidate petitions(which cannot begin circulating

before September 3'^'. The Illinois State Board of Elections (ISBE) expects to publish their calendar
Page 3 of 4

 Regular Board Meeting - July 23, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

and guides in mid-August. We get Information for our calendar from the ISBE and from the Cook
County Clerk's publications.
IX.

Financial Report

A.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the City of Chicago-2019 Appropriation -19-03

dated July 23,2019 in the amount of $ 1,630,020.76. Commissioner Swain moved to approve the
Balance Sheet and Voucher Listing. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion
passed by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
X.

Public Comment: None

XI.

Executive Session: None

XII.
Adjournment. Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn until the next regularly scheduled meeting
of August 13'*^ at 9:30 a.m. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous
vote of the Board. The meeting adjourned at 9:57 a.m.

Submitted,

Commissioner William J. Kresse
Secretary

Page 4 of4

 