BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Real Estate Operations Development Committee Meeting
Charles Hayes Family Investment Center
4859 S. Wabash, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
9:10 a.m.

AGENDA

I.

Roll Call

II.

Approval of minutes for the Real Estate Operations Development Committee meeting of July
16, 2019.

III.

Resolutions
Item No. 4

Recommendation to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the
Regional Housing Initiative and adopt the supplemental Administrative Plan –
Cheryl Burns, Chief Housing Choice Voucher Officer

Item No. 5

Recommendation to approve Housing Assistance Payments Contracts with
Renaissance Partners – Cheryl Burns, Chief Housing Choice Voucher Officer

Item No. 6

Authorization to proceed with the application process for Renaissance North
Apartments under the Rental Assistance Demonstration Program – Eric
Garrett, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 7

Authorization to proceed with the application process for the Emmett Street
Project utilizing Transfer of Assistance from Julia Lathrop Homes under the
Rental Assistance Demonstration Program – Eric Garrett, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 8

Authorization to extend and to provide additional compensation for the Service
Agreement between the CHA and the Gordian Group to manage Section 3 Job
Order Contracting (JOC) Mentoring Program in an amount not-to exceed
$2,060,000 – Eric Garrett, Chief Property Officer

Item No. 9

Recommendation to submit a Disposition Application for property in the
Pullman Community Area – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Item No. 10

Authorization to submit Disposition Application and amend Board Resolution
Number 2018-CHA-89 to provide CHA funds not-to-exceed $13,000,000 for the
first phase of development of Parkside 4 Phase 2 – Ann McKenzie, Chief
Development Officer

Item No. 11

Recommendation to approve the assignment of the Ground Lease of the Archer
Courts Site to RAHF IV Archer Courts, LLC – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development
Officer

 Item No. 11A Authorization to approve CHA Community Support Corporation’s Ownership
interest in Southbridge Phase 1A and 1B – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development
Officer
IV.

Adjournment

2

 