State Board of Health
June 6, 2019
11:00 AM
Draft Minutes
Locations
Illinois Department of Public Health
69 W. Washington Street
Director’s Conference room
Chicago, Illinois 60602

Illinois Department of Public Health
535 W. Jefferson St.
5th Floor Conference Room
Springfield, Illinois 62761

Minutes
1. Call to Order—11:00am
a. SBOH Members Present:
i. In Person: Vince Bufalino, John Herrmann, Margaret Kirkegaard, Jerry Leikin
ii. By Audio: Julie Adkins, David Banaszynski, Beth Fiorini, Karen Phelan
b. SBOH Members Absent: Jorge Girotti
c. IDPH Staff Present:
i. In Person: Jason Boltz, Erin Conley, Conny Moody, Allison Nickrent, Evonda Thomas-Smith
ii. By Audio: Kevin Stroud
d. Guests: Jared Taylor, Ann Mednick
2. Public Comment
a. Jared Taylor
i. Mr. Taylor provided oral testimony regarding his multiple petitions submitted to IDPH to
add osteoarthritis to the list of debilitating conditions eligible for the Medical Cannabis
Pilot Program (MCPP). He expressed a desire for a written response from IDPH in regard
to his requests.
b. Ann Mednick
i. Ms. Mednick provided oral testimony in which she echoed Mr. Taylor’s comments and
expressed the same desire for a response from IDPH to all petitioners for their various
petitions. Ms. Mednick’s personal concerns surround osteoarthritis and intractable pain.
3. Unfinished Business
a. Board is curious as to whether there is county data for vaccinations for the whole population,
rather than just schools.
b. Review of public comment
i. IDPH will be responding to petitioners in the manner prescribed by law.
c. By-laws, including standing committees, will be reviewed at the next meeting in September.

 4. New Business
a. IDPH Updates
i. Method of payment for board members will be different moving forward. Members will
now be responsible for accounting for the taxes associated with these earnings when
filing your income tax return.
ii. Updated W-9s will be requested from certain members.
iii. Those interested in appointment or re-appointment to the State Board of Health should
submit
their
application
to
the
Governor’s
Office
at
this link:
https://www2.illinois.gov/sites/bac/Pages/NominateForm.aspx.
b. Conny Moody provided Board members with an overview of the pending recreational cannabis
bill. It was requested that a further update be added as an agenda item for the Board’s September
meeting.
i. The legislation contains provisions for IDPH to facilitate the Adult Use Cannabis Health
Advisory Committee, advise on health messages and other health issues related to
recreational use, as well as other regulatory responsibilities.
ii. In addition, the Medical Cannabis program is currently working on a CME program for
providers.
c. Changes to the plumbing code are still at First Notice.
d. IPLAN rules have been withdrawn.
5. Review of Admin. Rules
a. 77 IAC 100 Practice and Procedure in Administrative Hearings—Board recommends filling with
Secretary of State for First Notice.
b. 2 IAC 1127 Access to Records of the Department of Public Health—Board recommends filling with
Secretary of State for First Notice.
6. Next meetings:
a. State Board of Health - 11:00 - 1:00 PM
i. Thursday, September 12, 2019
ii. Thursday, December 5, 2019
b. State Board of Health - Policy – 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM
i. Thursday, August 8, 2019
ii. Thursday, November 14, 2019
c. State Board of Health – Rules – 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM
i. Thursday, August 8, 2019
ii. Thursday, November 14, 2019
7. Adjournment—12:45

 