BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT

William F. Conlon, Chair
Zaid Abdul-Aleem
David L. Daskal

Dr. Daisy S. Lezama
Hon. Barbara McDonald

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT

II.



IV.

Nancy C. Andrade
Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson

BOARD OF ETHICS

OPEN SESSION MINUTES

JULY 19, 2019, 12:11 P.M.
740 North Sedgwick, Suite 500

STAFF PRESENT

Steven 1. Berlin, Executive Director
Lisa S. Eilers, Deputy Director
Richard Superfine, Legal Counsel
Ana Collazo, Attorney/Investigator
Edward Primer, Program Director
Paully Casillas, Staff Administrator

GUESTS ATTENDING

Holly Demuth, City Bureau
Erica Knox, City Bureau
Daniel Wolk, Represent Us

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

The Board VOTED 4-0 (Nancy C. Andrade, Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to approve the open session
minutes of the Board's meeting oqune 14, 2019.

The Chair welcomed the guests at the meeting and asked everyone to introduce themselves.

REPORT

The Chair thanked the guests present for their interest, and said that he believes the Mayor has momentum
on ethics changes, and reminded everyone present that the Board has already submitted dozens of changes
to the Mayor and City Council.

REPORTS

None

EXECUTIVE REPORT
A. Amendments to the Ordinance
On Wednesday, July 17, I testified for two hours before the newly-formed City Council?s Committee

on Ethics and Government Oversight on the proposed package of ethics reforms. The package
passed unanimously and will be presented to the full Council for a final vote on July 24, 2019.

Open Session Minutes

July 19, 2019
Page 2

Assuming it passes as is next week, it would: extend the jurisdiction of the Inspector General
to all City Council committees and give the IG authority to audit these committees (a question
raised at the Committee hearing was whether the IG could audit individual aldermen, a question to
which I do not know the answer, and stated so on the record], and commence investigations with or
without a complaint, and enable it to commence investigations based on anonymous complaints; (ii)
enable the to work with the Law Department to enforce its own subpoenas; enable the IG to
investigate ethics violations that occurred not more than five years after the most recent alleged
bad act, as opposed to two (2) years under current law; (iv) amend the definition of lobbyist so that
a person who lobbies on behalf of any non-profit would need to register if compensated for this
activity, or if the person undertakes to lobby on behalf of any non-profit as a matter of professional
engagement, even if pro bone, but would also enable the Board to waive the registration fees for
lobbyists who are paid but lobby only on behalf of a single 501(c)(3) non-profit; prohibit
alderman and other City elected officials and employees from representing or deriving any income
or other tangible benefit from the representation of persons in any judicial or quasi?judicial
proceedings: where the City is an adverse party; or that may result in an adverse effect on
City revenue or finances, or the health, safety, welfare or relative tax burden of any City residents;
[vi] prohibit City employees and officials from deriving income from providing opinion evidence
against the City; and [vii] raise the maximum fine for ethics violations (other than for late filing, late
training or late lobbyist registration] to $5,000, from the current $2,000. (This Board had
recommended, among many other things, that the maximum fines be raised to $20,000.]

The 1G and increased penalty provisions would take effect 10 days after passage and publication; the
representation provisions 90 days after passage and publication, and the lobbying provisions on
January 1, 2020.

We are gearing up for a large educational initiative for the non-pro?t community.

As to the Board?s own suggested amendments, they were published on May 30, and there have been
several media accounts about them. The Mayor has said on several occasions that the current round
of ethics amendments is not necessarily the last round of such amendments.

Education

Classes and Other Presentations

Since the Board?s last regularly scheduled meeting, 58 employees and officials attended classes here
on June 20 and July 9 and 18. There are 80 scheduled for classes here on July 23 and August 8, 20
and 27.

All Board classes cover sexual harassment.

On June 17, I presented a class to 8th Ward Alderman Sawyer and his staff; on June 25 I presented a
class to 50 senior officials from the Department of Business Affairs 8; Consumer Protection at the
request of its Commissioner; on June 28 I presented a class to 38th Ward Alderman Sposato and his
staff; on July 8th I presented a class to 45th Ward Alderman Gardner and his staff; and on July 9th I
presented a class to 47th Ward Alderman Martin and his staff.

On July 17, at the invitation of the Clerk of the City of Evanston, I participated in a panel discussion
with the Chair and a member of Evanston's Board of Ethics. The discussion focused on lobbyist
registration, whistleblower protection, and duty to report corrupt activity provisions.

 

Open Session Minutes

July 19, 2 0 19
Page 3

On July 25th I will present a class to 1st Ward Alderman LaSpata and his staff.
Classes for all other newly elected aldermen and their staff are currently being scheduled.

On August 21, at the request of the Mayor?s Of?ce and U.S. State Department, I will make a 60 minute
presentation to a group of visiting ethics and transparency specialists from Afghanistan, Antigua 8:
Barbuda, Armenia, Belize, the Czech Republic, India, Kosovo, Liberia, Malawi, Mexico, Moldova,
Nepal, Nigeria, North Macedonia, Pakistan, Romania, Slovenia, South Africa, Tunisia and Ukraine.

I will also speak on campaign financing at the ABA's State and Local Government Section?s Fall CLE
Conference, in St. Paul, MN, on October 11.

On-Iine Training
For a ointed lcials

We completed a PowerPoint for all appointed officials, including members of this Board, and will
email it to all appointed officials, and have them complete it, with the assistance of the Office of
Intergovernmental Affairs (which is responsible for coordinating the appointments of all
Mayoral appointees appointed officials].

For lobbyists

The deadline for lobbyists to complete their 2018-2019 training was before July 2. Seven did
not comply and, after affording them the opportunity to present a valid reason for their lateness,
we determined that they violated the Ordinance and posted their names and Violations on our
website on July 17. They all completed the training before the fine period commenced, which
was July 17.

For all employees and aldermen

We began drafting this training, but have delayed it, due to Ordinance amendments.

Council on Governmental Ethics Laws 

2019 annual conference will be here in Chicago, at the Michigan Avenue Marriott, from
December 15-18. We are working closely with the Mayor's Office, City Council, and Budget Office to
ensure a successful conference. We expect about 450 ethics, campaign financing, lobbying, freedom
of information, and election administration officials from across the U.S. and Canada to attend, plus
private practitioners and academics. We serve on the conference's program committee, and have
already reached out to various elected and appointed of?cials, attorneys, public ?gures, and media
personnel to serve on panel discussions or otherwise contribute to the Conference. We will co-host
the Conference with our colleagues at the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners, Illinois State
Board of Elections, and Illinois State Executive Ethics Commission, and possibly other local agencies
involved in ethics or freedom of information administration.

As President-elect of COGEL, I also serve on the Program and Host committees, and continue to Chair
the Publications committee. The 2019 Conference is an opportunity to showcase our agency, our
mission, our Mayor?s dedication to ethics, campaign financing, and lobbying reforms, and those of
our colleagues at the County and State levels. And I am hoping that our Board members will lend
support to make the 415: Conference nonpareil.

 

Open Session Minutes

july 19,2019

Page 4

D.

Executive Editorship - Public IntegrityZGuardian Issue

I am a member of the Executive Editorial Board of the journal Public Integrity, which is affiliated
with the American Society for Public Administration. It is published by Taylor Francis six (6)
times a year. We are in the midst of a joint project between this journal and the COGEL Guardian to
bridge gaps between academics and practitioners. The first edition of the 2019 COGEL Guardian was
published on May 31. The next issue will be published around August 30.

Sister Agency Ethics Officers

We met on june 27 with our ethics counterparts at other local governmental agencies: the Cook
County Board of Ethics and the Ethics Officers from the Chicago Public Schools, City Colleges of
Chicago, and Chicago Housing Authority. The next quarterly meeting is scheduled for October 3.

2020 Budget

We are in the process of preparing our agency's 2020 budget request. We are asking for no
increases, and will come in below our 2019 appropriation, which is $866,882. Because the
2020 COGEL Conference will be in Atlanta, and 2019's is here, we are asking for an increase in our
travel appropriation, but were able to make up for that increase by decreasing our professional and
technical services account request.

Office Furniture

I'm pleased to announce that the Board will receive about 20 chairs for the boardroom, to replace
the current swivel/adjustable height chairs, which we have had since 1998. The Law Department
accepted a gift of about 800 chairs from the law firm of Holland Knight, which the firm no longer
needs, and has graciously offered us these chairs.

2019 Statements of Financial Interests

On March 1, we sent filing notices to 3,688 City employees and officials (via email and US. ?rst class
mailO notices regarding their requirement to file their 2019 Statements of Financial Interests before
lune 1. This includes individuals identified by each Ward or alderman who fall under the de?nition
in the Ordinance of "City Council employee? even though they are paid as independent contractors.
42 employees and officials were determined to have violated the Ordinance for late filing. We posted
their names on our website, after they were afforded the opportunity to present a valid excuse for
their late filings. As of this writing, all but one (1) has filed. To date we have assessed $7,500 in
fines; the fine period began june 17. Fines are $250 per day until filing.

Forms are posted on our website as soon as they are processed by staff our goal is to have all filed
forms posted within 24 hours of when they are filed. Once posted, they reside on our website for
seven (7) years from the date of filing, after which they are removed and destroyed, pursuant to the
Board?s Document Retention Schedule kept with the Illinois Secretary of State and Local Records
Commission of Cook County.

 

Open Session Minutes

July 19, 2019
Page 5

Advisory Opinions

Since the Board's last meeting on June 14, we have issued 353 informal advisory opinions. The
leading categories were, in descending order: Gifts; Travel; Lobbying; Outside Employment;
Campaign Financing; City Property; and Statements of Financial Interests.

The leading City departments from which requesters came in this period were (in descending
order): City Council; Mayor?s Office; Chicago Police Department; Department of Law; Of?ce of
Inspector General; Department of Public Health; and Department of Business Affairs and Consumer
Protection.

Informal opinions are not made public but are logged, kept, and used for training and future
advisory purposes. (This same practice occurs with our colleagues at the New York City Con?icts of
Interest Board, who issue roughly the same number of informal opinions.) They form the basis for
much of our annual and periodic educational programs. Formal opinions are made public, in full text,
with names and other identifying information redacted out.

 

Every formal Board opinion issued since 1986 is posted on the Board?s website (more than 905 of
them), redacted in accordance with the Ordinance?s confidentiality provisions. Redacted opinions
are posted once issued by or reported to the Board. Further, summaries and keywords for each of
these opinions are available on the Board?s searchable index of opinions. Only a handful of other
ethics agencies have comparable research tools.

We are unaware of jurisdictions that make their informal opinions public?though others issue them
con?dentially and enable requesters to rely on them in the event of an investigation or enforcement.

Waivers

Since July 1, 2013, the Board has had authority to grant waivers from certain provisions in the Ethics
Ordinance. The Board has granted three (3), each involving a former City employee. By law, we make
these waivers public.

Summa Index of Board-Initiated Re ula or Actions Ad'udications rte-2013
Investigations

We post the summary index of all investigations, enforcement and regulatory actions undertaken by
the Board since its inception in 1986 (other than those for violations of filing or training
requirements or campaign financing matters). It includes an ongoing summary of all regulatory
actions the Board has undertaken where no IG factual investigation is necessary.

The Board makes public the names of all violators and penalties it assesses where authorized by law
to do so. There have been, to date, 122 such matters (including two (2) on today?s agenda), but only
in those that occurred after July 1, 2013 can the Board release the names of those found to have
violated the Governmental Ethics Ordinance. Since July 1, 2013, alone, there have been 49 such

 

Open Session Minutes

july 19, 2019
Page 6

matters. Eight (8) of these matters have involved apparent campaign financing violations; 34 have
involved unregistered or undisclosed lobbying.

Summary Index of?ngoing [gigLIG Investigations[Ag?jugigations

We post and continually update, on our website, an ongoing investigative record showing the status
of every completed investigative report brought to the Board by both the 16 (a total of eight (8) since
july 1, 2013, the last of which is on today?s agenda for final disposition) and the former Office of the
Legislative Inspector General since Ianuary 1, 2012, and the status of all 50 petitions to
commence investigations presented to the Board by the LIG. It is updated as appropriate, consistent
with the Ordinance's confidentiality provisions.

Whenever the IG presents the Board with a completed ethics investigation in which the IG believes
there have been violations of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance, the procedure that follows is
governed by ?2-156-385(3) and (4) of the Ordinance: the Board reviews the report,
recommendations, and the entirety of the evidence submitted in its completed ethics investigation,
including a review to ensure that the IG conformed with the requirement that it complete ethics
investigations within two (2) years of commencing them (unless there is evidence that the subject
took affirmative action to conceal evidence or delay the investigation), and that ethics investigations
were commenced within two (2) of the last alleged act of misconduct.

Then, if the Board finds that the evidence presented warrants a primafacie finding of probable cause
to believe the subject violated the Ordinance, it notifies the subject of the allegations and affords the
subject the opportunity to present written submissions and meet with the Board, together with an
attorney or other representative present. The Ordinance provides that this meeting is ex parte no
one from the City?s Law Department or is present. Note that the Board may request clarification
from the IG as to any evidence adduced in its investigation before making a probable cause finding
(and indeed has done so). The Board cannot administer oaths at this meeting, but can and does
assess the subject?s credibility and the validity and weight of any evidence the subject provides.

If the subject is unable to rebut the Board?s prima facie probable cause finding, the Board may enter
into a settlement agreement all settlement agreements are made public or the Board or subject
may decide to proceed to a merits hearing that is not open to the public. That hearing would be held
before an administrative law judge (ALI) appointed by the Department of Administrative Hearings.
The City would be represented by the Law Department (or a specially hired Assistant Corporation
Counsel for that purpose), and the subject by his or her attorney. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the submits his or her findings of fact and law to the Board, which can accept or reject them,
based solely on the written record of the hearing. The Board will then issue a public opinion in which
it finds one or more violations of the Ethics Ordinance (or finds none) and impose appropriate fines.

This process may seem cumbersome. However, it was added to the Ordinance and became effective
on july 1, 2013, based on specific recommendations of Mayor Emanuel?s Ethics Reform Task Force in
Part II of its 2012 Report - the primary purposes being to guarantee due process for all those
investigated by the IG (or former (ii) to ensure that only the Board of Ethics could make
determinations as to whether a person investigated by the IG or L1G violated the Ordinance, given
the Board's extensive jurisprudence and unique expertise in ethics matters; and to balance due
process for those investigated by the IG with an accurate and precise adjudication by the Board of
Ethics and the public?s right to know of ethics violations.

On our website, we have a publication that describes this process in detail: 


 

Open Session Minutes

july 19, 2019
Page 7

After today, there may be no pending IG matters. Specifically:

In Case No. 18039.1G (corresponding to 1G Case 17-0082], the final investigative report was sent to
our office on November 30, 2018. The case involves prohibited gifts offered to a current and a now-
former City employee from a City subcontractor. At the Board?s February 2019 meeting, it
determined that the subcontractor and current City employees committed minor violations. Staff
sent a detailed explanation to the IG explaining the Board?s determination. The Board found
probable cause to conclude that the former City employee violated the Ordinance, and a subject
meeting was held on lune 14, though the Board had no quorum and was unable to render a
determination. The matter is on the agenda for today's meeting. The subject, a former employee,
could be subject to a fine between $1,001 and $5,000.

There are no other pending investigations from the IG.

Please note finally that, in all matters adjudicated or settled on or after july 1, 2013, the Board makes
public the names of all violators and penalties assessed, or a complete copy of the settlement
agreement.

Disclosures of Past Violations

Iuly 2013 amendments to the Ordinance provide that, when a person seeks advice from the Board
about past conduct, and discloses to the Board facts leading it to conclude that he or she committed a
past violation of the Ordinance, the Board must determine whether that violation was minor or non-
minor. If it was minor, the Board, by law, sends the person a confidential letter of admonition. If it
was non-minor, then, under current law, the person is advised that he or she may self-report to the
or, if he or she fails to do so within two (2) weeks, the Board must make that report.

Since the time this provision became effective on July 1, 2013, the Board has
advised three (3) aldermen, two aldermanic staffers, one (1) mid-level City employee in an
operating department, one (1) department head and one former department head that their past
conduct violated the Ordinance. In three (3) of these cases, one (1) involving an alderman, the
second an aldermanic staffer, and the third a former department head, the Board concluded that the
apparent violations were not minor or technical, and the aldermen and aldermanic staff self-
reported to the former LIG, and the former department head self-reported to the IG. Since the time
that all matters involving the former LIG were consolidated with the IG, the IG has informed us that
it has no record that the LIG ever commenced an investigation in the matter involving the alderman,
and that the matter involving the aldermanic staff was closed, apparently without further
investigation by the LIG.

As noted above, the Board received a completed investigative report from the 1G on May 26, 2017,
with a petition for a probable cause finding. The case was based on the Board?s earlier conclusion
that the subject appeared to have committed a non-minor past violation of the Ordinance, then
advised the subject of the self-reporting-to-the-IG provisions in the Ordinance. After the 10
investigated and confirmed the Board's earlier conclusion, the matter was settled for a $1,500 fine.
The agreement is posted on our website.

In the three (3) cases in which the Board determined that minor violations had occurred, the Board
sent confidential letters of admonition, as required by Ordinance.

 

Open Session Minutes
July 19, 2019

Page 8

VI.

There is no legal requirement imposed on the 1G to report back to the Board on any actions it takes
on matters or persons referred to it by the Board, unless the IG completes an investigation and
submits a petition for a finding of probable cause to the Board based on that investigation. This is
unlike the arrangement in New York City between its Con?ict of Interests Board and Department of
Investigation.

0. Lobbyists-Regulation and Enforcement

To date for 2019, there are 758 registered lobbyists. We have collected $402,950 in lobbyist
registration fees.

Second Quarter lobbying activity reports are due before Tuesday, July 23. On Iune 28, all lobbyists
were sent reminders of their deadline via email. As of this writing, 490 have filed their reports.

P. Freedom of Information Act

Since the last regularly scheduled Board meeting, the office has received two new requests under
the Freedom of Information Act. The first request was for all subpoenas received by the Board since
January 1, 2017 from Federal law enforcement offices and any documents turned over by the Board
pursuant to the subpoenas. After consulting with the Law Department, the Board responded to the
requestor by producing one subpoena and the materials turned over to the United States Attorney?s
Office pursuant to that subpoena. The second request was for intergovernmental agreements; the
Board responded that it was the wrong department to whom to direct such a FOIA request.

PUBLIC COMMENTS

A member of the public, Daniel Wolk, read aloud and submitted written comments, which are attached. He
had two questions: why hasn?t the Mayor forwarded to the City Council two (2) changes recommended
by the Board, namely the additional restrictions on campaign contributions by real estate developers, and
raising the maximum fines for substantive ethics ordinance violations to $20,000 per violation?; and (ii)
would he be considered a lobbyist if he were to advocate various changes to the City's zoning code for an
article he might do for a scholarly publication?

The Executive Director responded, as to the Mayor has stated publicly several times that this ethics
reform package is just the beginning, and he has heard nothing to the contrary, so the Board will work to
ensure that these and other of its suggestions become part of the next package; and as to (ii) we would need
to know more facts in order to advise him under the proposed amendments, such as whether he would
receive any compensation for lobbying, and on whose behalf he would engage in these actions, and that kind
of discussion would be best handled in a confidential consultation.

OLD BUSINESS

Status of Amendments to the City's ethics laws

The Executive Director reported on the substance of the amendments to be voted on by City Council at its
July 24 meeting.

 

Open Session Minutes
july 19, 2019
Page 9

VII. NEW BUSINESS
None

At 12:23 the Board VOTED 5-0 (Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent] to adjourn into
Executive Session under: 5 ILCS 120 to discuss the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including
hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the
public body to determine its validity. However, a meeting to consider an increase in compensation to a speci?c
employee of a public body that is subject to the Local Government Wage Increase Transparency Act may not be
closed and shall be open to the public and posted and held in accordance with this Act; [ii] 5 ILCS 120/ to
hear and discuss evidence or testimony in closed hearing as specifically authorized pursuant to Governmental
Ethics Ordinance Sections 2-156-385 and -392, and the Board?s Rules and Regulations, 4., as amended, effective
Ianuary 5, 2017, presented to a quasi-adjudicative body, as defined in the Illinois Open Meetings Act, provided that
the body prepares and makes available for public inspection a written decision setting forth its determinative
reasoning; and 5 ILCS 120/2(c] (21) to discuss minutes of meetings lawfully closed under this Act, whether for
purposes of approval by the body of the minutes or semi-annual review of the minutes as mandated by Section 2.06.

The guests were excused.

At 1:31 the Board VOTED 5-0 [Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to reconvene into open
session.

The guests returned to the open session of the meeting.

MATTER CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN EXECUTIVE SESSION
APPROVAL OF THE EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES

The Board confirmed its discussion in executive session, VOTING 5-0 [Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie
Cox-Batson, absent] in open session, to approve the executive session minutes of the june 14, 2019 meeting.

IX. CASEWORK

At 1:32 Chair William Conlon recused from participation or voting on the following case and left the
Board room.

A. Board Consider i :1 an Determ'na ion Aft 'n with Res ondent
1. Case No. 18039.1G.2. Gifts. Use of City Resources

At its February 2019 meeting, the Board found probable cause to conclude that respondent
violated the City property and travel provisions of the Ordinance. The respondent and the
respondent?s attorney attended a subject meeting with the Board in june 2019. However,
because there was no quorum at the june meeting on this matter, the Board could not vote on
it. Board members David Daskal and Daisy Lezama, who were present at the Iune subject
meeting, reported to the rest of the Board. The Board VOTED 4-0 (Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson,

 

Open Session Minutes
July 19, 2019
Page 10

Nancy Andrade, absent and William Conlon recused] that respondent? violation was minor in
nature and directed staff to issue a letter of admonishment.

At 1:34 Chair William Conlon returned and joined the meeting in open session.

B. Board Meetings m?th Respondent Recipients of Probable Cause Notices Issued Pursuant to 
156-245 of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance Based upon Publicly-available Documents

2. Case No. 19018.C.2. Unregistered Lobbying

The Board VOTED 5-0 (Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent] to dismiss this
matter due to a of lack of sufficient evidence to demonstrate the actions of the respondent rose
to the level of unregistered lobbying because the respondents actions were of a perfunctory
and ministerial nature and part of a larger procedure to be followed by the respondent and set
forth by the City of Chicago.

3. Case No. 19018.C.4. Unregistered Lobbying

The Board VOTED 5-0 (Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox?Batson, absent) to dismiss this
matter due to a lack of sufficient evidence to demonstrate the actions of the respondent rose to
the level of unregistered lobbying because those actions were not clearly covered by the
definition of lobbying set forth in the Governmental Ethics Ordinance.

At 1:36 the Board VOTED 5-0 (Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to adjourn the meeting.

bd-minutes-9-13-19-osz

 

Public Comments Presented to the Chicago City
Council Committee on Ethics and Government
Oversight
Regarding the Proposed ?Amendment of Municipal
Code Chapters 2?56 and 2?156 regarding
government ethics?

Daniel P. Wolk
dannowolk@gmail.com
Twitter: @qariwa

July 17, 2019

My name is Daniel P. Wolk. I am here today with the Chicago Chapter of Represent-
US. We applaud the new Mayor and the members of this committee for getting serious
about cleaning up What many derisively call ?the Chicago Way.? It is not just Chicago.
The problem is pervasive. According to a leading political theorist, Mark E. Warren,
corruption in democracy is all about ?duplicitous exclusion.? The public-at?large fears
that politicians make their decisions behind their backs ?under cover of darkness?
as our Mayor so aptly put it leaving out ordinary people and only listening to those
who can ?pay-to-play.? The result is that the public now has ?generalized distrust? for
politicians. They are suspicious of all of them all of you! no matter how clean and
exemplary your ethics may in reality be.

The Board of Ethics requested the Mayor to propose an ethics reform package. I
am proud to say that two important items in the Board of Ethics? own reform package,
delivered to the Mayor, originated with us: (1) to curtail campaign contributions by real
estate developers, and (2) to increase the fines the Board can impose far ethics violations
from its current $2,000 to $20,000. We find much to commend in the Mayor?s current
proposed amendment, especially its provisions to prevent con?icts of interests by elected
of?cials and to eliminate the protections against inspector general investigations that
previous members of the City Council ignominiously awarded themselves.

That said, we urge the Committee to strengthen the amendment in line with the Ethics
Board?s suggestions. That includes the reduction in the amount that real estate developers
may donate to political campaigns.

 

Whether justi?ed or not, most Chicagoans believe that it is real estate developers,
together with their associates and other rich buddies, who run this city from the shad-
ows, and that elected of?cials are their mere puppets. That is why it is imperative to
adopt strong reforms that disabuse the public of this impression. The approach the Board
of Ethics took, at our suggestion, to expand the definition of ?doing business with the
City? to include developers who have any proposed land use changes before the City is
a good approach. The Los Angeles Ethics Commission was empowered to make an ex-

tensive investigation on this issue of real estate developers insinuating themselves into
?Citymb??siness, and urged powerfm?it?oi?fmmsu?f??i apply not only to real estate developers 

themselves, but also to their ?principals?, including lawyers, architects, subcontractors,
and above all funders, some of whom invest dark money in real estate and then pull
strings with elected of?cials. They also proposed curtailing ?behested payments?, that is
charitable contributions to elected of?cials? pet charities at their behest. The Los Angeles
City Council is well on the way to passing these reforms. We strongly urge Chicago to
take inspiration from Los Angeles.

 

