Mia) BublwaSS



INTERNAL
OPERATIONS
STANDING
COMMITTEE

lo

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-3400
Mayor 5 Office 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 1126 Fax 313-224-4128

I cm 0; Detroit. Michigan 48226 
DETROIT

 

September 11, 2019

The Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Appointment to the Elected Of?cials Compensation Commission.

Dear Honorable City Council Members:

It gives me great pleasure to present for your approval Angela Baldwin as our appointee to the Elected
Of?cials Compensation Commission. Her resume and a resolution are attached.

If you have any questions or concerns please contact please contact Elisa Malile at (313) 628?2285.
Sincerely,

Wished?

Michael E. Duggan,
Mayor

cc: Alexis Wiley, Chief of Staff, Mayor?s Of?ce
Elisa Malile, Deputy Chief of Staff, Mayor?s Of?ce

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-3400
Mayor 5 Office 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 1126 Fax 313-224-4128

or Detroit. Michigan 48226 
DETROIT

 

September 11, 2019

Angela L. Baldwin
158 Keelson Dr.

Detroit, MI 48209
Dear Ms. Baldwin:

It gives me great pleasure to appoint you to the Elected Of?cials Compensation Commission. Your term
begins upon con?rmation by City Council and expires on September 1, 2026.

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk, will contact you to provide meeting schedules and other pertinent board and
membership information.

Thank you in advance for serving the citizens of Detroit. I look forward to working with you.

Should you have any questions or need additional information, please contact Elisa Malile at (313) 628-2285.
Sincerely,

67%.

Michael E. Duggan,
Mayor

cc: Alexis Wiley, Chief of Staff, Mayor?s Of?ce
Elisa Malile, Deputy Chief of Staff, Mayor?s Of?ce

 

Angela L. Baldwin

 

Angela L. Baldwin is a litigation and transactional attorney for The
Miller Law Firm Detroit where her practice focuses on complex
business litigation, class action matters, public contracting and
regulatory law, corporate transactions, and election law.

Attorney Baldwin comes to the practice with signi?cant experience
in the corporate world, having spent nearly a decade as an Executive
for PepsiCo and its subsidiary brands Gatorade, Tropicana and Propel
at company plants in Florida, Texas, California, and
Illinois, teaming to oversee supply-chain, sales forecasts, and
intermodal/trucking operations. Attorney Baldwin?s expertise in
election law is notable and expanding. She has represented one of the country?s leading
foundations for education on election law and campaign ?nance-related matters involving a school
reform ballot initiative. She is actively involved in representing Judges, State Legislators, County
Commissioners, as well as Michigan Governor Whitmer (General Counsel to Gubernatorial
campaign), Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel (Transition Team), and cities and counties
across the state.

 

Attorney Baldwin has excelled in this area. She led one of the most dif?cult election law
Constitutional cases tried in Grand Rapids, in the US. District Court for the Western District of
Michigan, on behalf of a candidate for the US. House of Representatives in Michigan?s 6th
Congressional District. She is experienced in arguing election matters before the Board of State
Canvassers at the State Capitol in Lansing, as well as the Wayne County, Michigan Board of
Canvassers. She authored an Opinion for the City of Harntramck, Michigan, on an important
ballot-access Constitutional question and successfully argued same.

Prior to joining The Miller Law Firm, Attorney Baldwin served as an Assistant Corporation
Counsel for the City of Detroit, litigating complex commercial matters in the Federal and State
courts on behalf of Mayor Mike Duggan?s Administration, the Detroit City Council, Police and
Fire and Transportation agencies in matters alleging constitutional violations, 28 U.S.C. Section
1983 matters, and other claims. Further, Attorney Baldwin handled cases arising out of the City
of Detroit?s post-Chapter 9 Bankruptcy, and adherence to the Plan of Adj ustment, the requirements
of the Financial Review Commission, and related matters involving the City?s emergence from
Receivership.

Born and raised in Southwest Detroit, she cares deeply about our City. The Detroit Bar Association
recognized Attorney Baldwin?s leadership credentials when it presented her with its prestigious
?One to Watch? award. She was also featured by Michigan State University Law School?s
?Spartan Lawyer? publication in its Summer 2018 edition.

Attorney Baldwin presently serves on the State of Michigan?s Hispanic Latino Commission by
appointment of Michigan?s Governor, and she is a City of Detroit Mayoral appointee to the Detroit
Recreation Advisory Board. She was recently appointed as Manager for Youth and Non-Profit

ANGELA L. BALDWIN

158 Keelson Dr., Detroit MI 48209 (248) 843-9700 angela.l.baldwin@gmail.com

 

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

The Miller Law Firm, Detroit, MI, 09/2017-Present

Attorney, Business Litigation Corporate Transactions

0 Represents business and individuals on complex business litigation, class action matters, public contracting and
regulatory law, corporate transactions, and election law matters. Actively involved in representing Michigan
Governor Whitmer (General Counsel to Gubernatorial campaign) and Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessell
(Transition Team) and cities across the state on election law and campaign ?nance-related matters, including
school reform ballot initiatives.

0 Led one of the most dif?cult election law Constitutional cases tried in Grand Rapids, in the US. District Court for
the Western District of Michigan, on behalf of a candidate for the US House of Representatives in Michigan?s
6?h Congressional District. Experienced in arguing election matters before the Board of State Canvassers at the
State Capitol in Lansing, and Wayne County, Michigan Board of Canvassers. Authored an Opinion for the City of
Hamtramck, Michigan, on an important ballot-access Constitutional question and successfully argued same.

City of Detroit, Law Department, Detroit, MI, 09/2017-Present

Assistant Corporation Counsel, Commercial Tort Litigation

- Litigated complex commercial matters in the Federal and State courts on behalf of Mayor Mike Duggan?s
Administration, the Detroit City Council, Police and Fire and Transportation agencies in matters alleging
constitutional violations, 28 U.S.C. Section 1983 matters, and other claims. Handled cases arising out of the
City of Detroit?s post-Chapter 9 Bankruptcy, and adhered to the Plan of Adjustment, the requirements of the
Financial Review Commission, and related matters involving the City?s emergence from Receivership.

Third Circuit Court of Michigan, Detroit, MI, 08/2016?09/2017

Business Court Judicial Attorney for the Honorable Judge Edward Ewell, Jr.

0 Issued opinions and memorandums for the business court docket and researched legal issues in areas such as breach
of contract, tort, and equitable claims, commercial property, trademark infringement, employment, shareholder,
and supplier contract disputes. Conducted scheduling, status, settlement and facilitation conferences pertaining to
the above issues.

Michigan Attorney General?s Of?ce, Lansing, MI, 05/2015?05/2016

Legal Intern, Consumer Protection Charitable Trust Departments

0 Performed regulatory compliance checks on charity applications, ensuring that applicants followed the statutory
requirements. Analyzed and reviewed trusts and wills, leading to the closing of hundreds of ?les.

Michigan State University Food Law Clinic, East Lansing MI, Semester: 01/2016-05/2016

Student Attorney

Provided legal services to nonpro?ts and businesses that work with urban agriculture, including contract drafting,
business restructuring, and negotiations.

Alvin L. Storrs Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic, East Lansing MI, Semester: 08/2015-12/2015

Tax Clinician

. Represented clients in United States Tax Court to resolve tax controversies involving nonpayment or late payment,
inability to pay, and innocent or injured spouse relief. Corresponded with Internal Revenue Service, Michigan
Department of Treasury, and Michigan Accounts Receivable Collection System on behalf of clients and drafted
applications for offers in compromise and installment agreements.

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-3400
Mayor 5 Office 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1126 Fax 313-224-4128
0, Detroit. Michigan 48226 

DETROIT

 

BY ALL COUNCIL MEMEBERS

RESOLVED, that the appointment by The City of Detroit, of the following individual to serve on the
Elected Of?cials Compensation Commission for the corresponding term of of?ce indicated be and the same is
hereby approved.

MEMBER ADDRESS TERM EXPIRES
Angela L. Baldwin 158 Keelson Dr. September 2026
Detroit, MI 48209

Adopted as follows:

Yeas:

 

 

Nays:

 

 

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
September 13, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002343 100% City Funding To Provide Temporary Technical Staf?ng
Resources for Specialized Skills Related to New or Legacy Systems and to
Complete the Necessary Work Volume. Contractor: MadDog
Technology, LLC Location: 1001 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, MI
48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through September
23, 2022 Total Contract Amount: $3,750,000.00. INNOVATION AND

TECHNOLOGY

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER MCCALISTER

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002343 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated September 13, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

IZ

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

September 13, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002344 100% City Funding To Provide Temporary Technical Staf?ng
Resources for Specialized Skills Related to New or Legacy Systems and to
Complete the Necessary Work Volume. Contractor: OpTech Location:
5440 Corporate Drive Suite 260, Troy, MI 48098 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval through September 23, 2022 Total Contract
Amount: $3,750,000.00. INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER MCCALISTER

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002344 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated September 13, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

/3

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
September 13, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002345 100% City Funding To Provide Temporary Technical Staf?ng
Resources for Specialized Skills Related to New or Legacy Systems and to
Complete the Necessary Work Volume. Contractor: Data Consulting
Group, Inc. Location: 965 Jefferson, Detroit, MI 48207 Contract
Period: Upon City Council Approval through September 23, 2022 Total
Contract Amount: $3,750,000.00. INNOVATION AND

TECHNOLOGY

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER MCCALISTER

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002345 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated September 13, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
September 13, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002559 100% City Funding To Provide Temporary Technical Staf?ng
Resources for Specialized Skills Related to New or Legacy Systems and to
Complete the Necessary Work Volume. Contractor: Blue Chip Talent 
Location: 43252 Woodward Avenue Suite 240, Bloom?eld Hills, MI

48302 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through September
23, 2022 Total Contract Amount: $3,750,000.00. INNOVATION AND

TECHNOLOGY

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER MCCALISTER

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002559 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated September 13, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505 
LAW DEPARTMENT 

   

 

 

SEPTEMBER 10, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: CITY OF DETROIT v. HANG T. NGUYEN 10721 MACK, DETROIT, MI
et al.
FILE NO. L18-00195

We have reviewed the above-captioned lawsuit, the facts of which are set forth in a con?dential
memorandum that is being separately hand-delivered to each member of your Honorable Body.

From this review, we are of the opinion that the City of Detroit?s acceptance of conveyance and
title to certain real property at 10721 MACK, DETROIT, MI as settlement of the outstanding
demolition costs.

We, therefore, request authorization of your Honorable Body to settle this matter by adopting the

attached resolution.

Respectfully submitted,

 

ONGH
Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

APPROVED: SEP 10 2019

LAWRENCE T. GARCIA
Corporation Counsel

Attachments



RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, through its Law Department, is seeking settlement of the matter
given in the foregoing communication, which includes acquisition of certain real property at 10721 Mack,
Detroit, MI (the ?Property?) by the City of Detroit after a tax foreclosure sale to the owner; and now
therefore be it;

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves settlement of the above referenced
matter; and be it further;

RESOLVED, the Detroit City Council hereby approves acquisition of the Property free and clear
of all liens and encumbrances as part of such settlement; and be it further;

RESOLVED, that the Housing Revitalization Department and/or the Planning and Development
Department Director, or his/her authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to accept and record a deed to the
Property to the City of Detroit, as well as execute any such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate
transfer of the Properties to the City of Detroit; and be it further;

RESOLVED, that conveyance and transfer of ownership of the Property to the City of Detroit
shall be in full satisfaction of all outstanding demolition costs incurred by the owner of the Property and
that the deed of conveyance be accepted and recorded by the City of Detroit upon completion of the
properly executed documents, approved by the Law Department.

APPROVED:

LAWRENCE T. GARCIA

Cmporation Counsel . 
Wt f/ f. ..

BY: --
STANLEY L. de ONGH
Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

 



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

September 11, 2019

   

 

 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Greater Lakes Surgical Center, et al. and ISpine, PLLC (Kenyetta Carter) v. City of Detroit
Case No: 18-009222-NF
File No: (Greater Lakes Ambulatory Surgical Center, et a1.) (RG)

L18-00659 (ISpine, PLLC) (RG)

On September 1 1, 2019, a case evaluation panel evaluated the above-captioned lawsuit and
awarded Fifty-Three Thousand Hundred Dollars and NOlCents in favor of the
plaintiffs. The parties have until October 9, 2019, to either accept or reject the case evaluation.
Failure to ?le a written acceptance or rejection within this period constitutes a rejection.

Based upon our review of the facts and particulars of this lawsuit, which are set forth in a
con?dential memorandum that is being separately hand-delivered to each member of Your
Honorable Body, it is our considered opinion that a settlement in the amount of Fifty-Three
Thousand Hundred Dollars and No/Cents is in the best interest of the City of
Detroit.

We, therefore, request Your Honorable Body to authorize acceptance of the case evaluation
award; and, in the event plaintiff accepts the award, to deem such acceptance as a settlement and
to direct the Finance Director to issue a draft in that amount payable to Greater Lakes Surgical
Center in the amount of Thirty-Five Thousand Dollars and NO/Cents Tox Testing
in the amount of One Thousand Dollars and NO/Cents Paragon Diagnostics in the
amount of Seven Hundred Dollars and N0/Cents and Meds Direct Pharmacy in the
amount of One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars and N0ICents and their attorney,
Puzio Law, to be delivered upon receipt of properly executed Releases, Stipulation and Order of
Dismissal entered in Lawsuit No. and, where deemed necessary by the Law
Department a properly executed Medicare/CMS Final Demand Letter.

We additionally, request Your Honorable Body to authorize acceptance of the case
evaluation award; and, in the event plaintiff accepts the award, to deem such acceptance as a
settlement and to direct the Finance Director to issue a draft in that amount payable to ISpine,
PLLC in the amount of Fifteen Thousand Dollars and NO/Cents and their attorney,
Grove and Associates, P. C. ,to be delivered upon receipt of properly executed Releases, Stipulation
and Order of Dismissal entered 1n Lawsuit and, where deemed necessary by?
the Law Department a properly executed Medicare/CMS Final Demand Letter.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

Respect ll ubmitted,

  
 

1?
Raymond Garant
Assistant Corporation Counsel

'11 2019
APPROVED:

LAWRENCE T. GARCIA
Corporation Counsel

BY: 

James . 
Superv ing As/sistant Corporation Counsel

Attachments 

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLVED, that settlement of the above matter be and is hereby authorized in the amount
of Fifty?Three Thousand Hundred Dollars and NO[Cents and be it ?irther

RESOLVED, that in the event Plaintiff accepts the case evaluation, that such acceptance
is deemed a settlement, and that the Finance Director be and is hereby authorized and directed to
draw a warrant upon the proper account in favor of Greater Lakes Surgical Center in the amount
of Thirty-Five Thousand Dollars and NO/Cents Tox Testing in the amount of One
Thousand Dollars and NOICents Paragon Diagnostics in the amount of Seven
Hundred Dollars and NOlCents and Meds Direct Pharmacy in the amount of One
Thousand Five Hundred Dollars and NO/Cents and their attorney, Puzio Law, and
ISpine, PLLC in the amount of Fifteen Thousand Dollars and N0ICents and their
attorney, Grove and Associates, PC, in full payment for any and all claims which Greater Lakes
Ambulatory Surgical Center, Tox Testing, Paragon Diagnostics, Meds Direct Pharmacy, and
ISpine, PLLC may have against the City of Detroit and any other City of Detroit employees by
reason of alleged injuries sustained on or about April 5, 2017, and otherwise set forth in Case No.
18-012077-NI, that said amount be paid upon receipt of properly executed Releases, Stipulation
and Order of Dismissal entered in Lawsuit No. and, where deemed necessary by

the Law Department a properly executed Medicare/CMS Final Demand Letter.

APPROVED:
LAWRENCE T. GARCIA
Corporation Counsel

BY: CW

James D. Noseda 
Supervising Assist; In rporation Counsel

Approved by City Council:

 

Approved by the Mayor:

 

Qtitp of Eetrm?t /7

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

Janice M. Winfrey Andre P. Gilbert 
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk

September 12, 2019

Honorable City Council

. .

-
I r_ 

- g-f

RE: Petition N0. 1081: Global Detroit a nonprofit organization, requests a
resolution from your Honorable Body in support of a charitable gaming license.

On this date, your Honorable Body referred the above petition to this office for
investigation. Petitioner wishes to be recognized as a nonprofit organization
operating in the community for purposes of obtaining a gaming license from the
Bureau of State Lottery.

Be advised that the organization meets the criteria for such recognition as established
by the city Council on May 15, 2012.

Therefore, approval of this petition is recommended and an appropriate resolution is
attached.

Respectfully submitted,

Janice M. Winfrey

MW:cj

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

RESOLUTION

By Council Member:

 

Whereas, Global Detroit (4444 Second Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48201)
requests for recognition as a nonprofit organization operating in the community for
the purpose of obtaining a charitable gaming license from the State of Michigan,
and

Whereas, the organization meets the criteria for such recognition as established by
the City Council on May 15, 2012.

Therefore Be it Resolved, the Detroit City Council recognizes Global Detroit
(4444 Second Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48201) as a nonprofit organization
operating in the community for the purpose of obtaining a charitable gaming
license from the Bureau of State Lottery.

QCitp? of Detroit
OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

Janice M. Winfrey Andre P. Gilbert ll
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Thursday, September 12, 2019

T0: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From. Janice M. Win?ey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

CITY CLERK

1081 Global Detroit, request resolution from your Honorable Body for a charitable
gaming license.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1465

 

.37.- - .: 

1:19J31 :51: 

'1 \r 

?i?w will} Kg) t?i-?l "w 

tTi" ?thl?t?f'i?x?a?r'n '4

September 10, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 13'? Floor
Detroit. Ml 43226

Re: Petition no Detroit City Council for Recognition as Charity for State of. Michigan
One?Day Charitable Raffle License

To Your Honorable Body:

Please. allow:r this letter to serve as Global Detroit's petition for recognition as a known charitable
organization in the community for purposes of attaining a charitable raffle license i'orour
annual event on October 3 201% at the jam Handy in Detroit.

Global Detroit was launched in 2010 as a regional economic development initiative to build :a too to
inclusive: and prosperous community- Glohal Detroit was (initially incorporated as ti Michigan
nonpro?t corporation with corporate ol?ces in Detroit in 2012 and received is recognition as a
charitable tnx-exem pt urge niration under Sedinn of the Internal Revenue Code inn 2003?

Global DctroiL is a regional economic and community development organization. We develop and
implement immigrant-inclusive strategies to drive the growth. revitalization Hiltl broadly shared
prosperity of Detroit and Southeast Michigan. With programs focused on talent retention,
entrepreneumh ip. opportunity neighborhoods. inclusive institutions and research, we help build
inclusive economies and vibrant communities.

Cities and regions that are welcoming to immigrants are vibranL They have strong neighborhoods,
competitive companies, successful small businesses, and a rich and diverse cultural life. By
intentionally Including immigrants In our economic development strategies, we will spark growth
revitalization and sustained proslaerity in Detroit and throughout South emit iChigan. Global
Detroit has been a proud member of the Detroit City Council immigration 'l'aslc Force and key
collaborator with the City of Den'oit's Mayor Of?ce ot?lmm igrant A?'airs. We have worked with
thousands of families in Detroit neighborhoods to can nect residents with be menwnomhip and
protection opportunities, foreclosure prevention, business support services, one rgy ef?ciency
grants, anti minor home re pair dollars, in addition to assisting in building more inclusive
neighborhood and community development efforts and institutions.

On October 3, ?3.019, Global Den'oit will host its annual event at the ]om Handy in Detroit,
honoring fire regional champions. of immigrant economic inclusion. We have received a Li berry
Watch donation from Shinnln and wish to ruf?e offthe item with proceeds going to our nonpro?t
work. The State oi?i?o?llchignn's Charitable Gaming Division requires a resolution from the local
governing hotly [the Detroit titty.r Council} that our tiqzani?tntion "he recognized as: .1 nonpro?t

4-444 Second Avenue. Detroit, MI 43201 i-rv.--.v.globaldotrou com I [313"; Gal-4675

organization operating in the. community? for charitable purposes. Global Detroit's Dot-ruivhascd
programs target neighborhoods where approximately 50% of the residents live at or below the
poverty level and in corn mu nities that have seen and blight. We are working to
improve the quality of life for all residents in those neighbodioodsz, including immigrant residents
and their Af?rm-American and Latino neighbors.

1r?our support is greatly appreciated. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions.

Sincerely.
a? 



Still"? Tobocman
Executive Director
i 
(313)516-9681

 101E ledale. mi
lemma. ?thqu 43909

Long; Lilit?i-ZZTM QUALIFICATION INFORMATION 

Complete this form and submi! with [he required qua??caliun documenls listed on me attached Quali?caIian chwements
sheet. A Bingo. Raf?e, or Charity GameT-ckul: license npplica?on and I?ee may 3150 be submitted w?h mm information See
DO: 115 below for mailing 

ram-If? mum: 6.1mm Dr-iso? .mmal 

1 ORGANIZATION INFORMATION

(Jr?fw'r'tlr cu? Name 
?cbdl_L?irwI?__ 

Physical 



 

563,:an ?U??vOurz;

(ital:

0?9 ?r WL. I 

Organrzat'vcn Maiing mares:

Ll SE ?0.13 
sme-
hymn}

I
Orngizaliun Teiephonc Numb-:1
-. Ora; 
2. ORGANIZATION PURPOSE
BfiE-Ilg.? daecnbc the purpose at your organizaiinn
IoLval He Inn-m? 1?3 a Ewtv-Ip'f yarn he 

50 Emir: 130-me
if 320 L. ?4sz 6?

?San-Ic m: Phy?t?af?dm??

Lilly

 

 

.5er c-m: '7 "mum,


Li 2 2.0 I I

 

 



'l'l'm?t I5 buIl?Lv-Ij ?1 marl. rf-gInnal ??o.1c.hy_

. 3. LICENSE APPLICATION I

 

 

 

EncIosed Isa application and Ice far E?mpo W?Ra?k: Charity (Lame 11cm linens-I
Make checks Wat?: lo STATE OF MICHIGAN 
4 AUTHORIZED CONTACT PERSON
I Hrs-t Namn Lacs? Name PastiorIIROIe Wnt'fiI-t 'l
6+Eve- Ebobm?y] EXQC- 

 

 

 

MaiIngAddrE?s

i Seam; Ave; not: 

lulu an Coma Nu-rwtom lrcicpnune 
H3201 

_l



 

By aiming new, I that the Informanon. and chin presenbad are Imc. and campiulu to We hear-:5
my knOuEdge Ithl Ic- IrulI-Iruny. coraneIcIy. and acwmlew could pmdude me organ-station Irnm an
to Oman 3 gmn?ng license.

'Authori-rt; EDBIC - 
Ada/{X . q} .

Print mxlvarized Sigh"! Ram: and 
EEOWA I )(eg Uf?ve Owe 

5. MAILING INSTRUCTIONS
?l?ld! ::vrrIJ:--Hi I :II'crr'In?an ?Aunt-fl mind Or ?2 Rqui-I'Ir: 1r: smut I
can?t-lath?. rm .qu gator Inn lil? ulzo cup-yup Tar r. gun-In; 503nm: 14m. 90 Eu?: I mum;
{.11 455.35: II .?vml an: (Fuzz-n etc 1., mm! In IUI 2.7.11 Luvs 10. 4392?:



 

  

 

 

 

 

I'Ilrlf?cl?lx' Int! I:f Ilsa Put?: 0.3: 5f 

CLERK 2Ell?3 1'2 

 Grnn; Gunter.
1 ]1 llilme': 710'! 1007-:

Lanes-g Mum-yummy LOCAL CIVIC ORGANIZATION

 

aw. igan omit}:

ism Hater-Tan QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS

 

 

ii the organization has never subritiII-ftd :ualiiyi'l-gj internment: :33 lo organizatiun. the

to! outrun; infomrntion snail oe submitted :n the some of the urgenzotion prior to being approved to
song-4;: a mngn, milinna-ie rattle. oi shanty game A or qunltied organization nay be
ginning-d subm't updated qualification information to neon-"e It:- continued eligiitiTiiy under the: not.

A Signed and detect copy of the organization?s current bylaws or constitution. Including
membership criteria.

2. A complete copy of the organization 5 Notes of incorporation that have one? ?led
the Corporations and Secuntree Bureau, if the organtntion is incorporated.

3. A copy of the letter from the IRS stating the organization is exempt from federal tax

under IRS code 5010:)
DR

copies of one bank statement per year for the previous five years, excluding the
current year-

4. i5. pro-xsion in he bylaws. constitution. orArt-c?ee of incorporation that states
shoe-It; the diesotve. all assets. and real and personal property will revert:

A It exempt under 501(c)3, to another 501 (c313 organization-
8. If not exempt under 501(ct3. to the local government-

5. A revenue and expense statement for the 1-2 month Dt'r'ii?d to prove n?l assets. are
used for charitable purposes, i.e. 990?s. treasurers report. oucl't Do 1* reenn ewe-l.
regimen; or cancelled checks. Explain the porn tencl ?:litore reed-:- on
Zrir?iuic?um. Once the organization has conducted linen sen gaining events. ire au'neu
may require the organization to prowde admitonal proof inn: eli ossete are being .sed for
charitable purposes.

6. A copy of a resolution pee-med by the local body of government stating the organimtion is a
recognized nonpro?t organization in the community [form attached)

A in the bylaws, constitution. or Articles of incorporation indicating the
organization will remain nonprofit forever.

Additional Information may be requeSted after the initial documents submitted have been reviewed
If you have any questions or need further assistance. please call our office at (517?; 335-5730

no: 382 3f the nets. 29372. 4:5 allurinu'ed, de?ne: a luuzil mic organizezion or. :m organization "that a organized 
[Hi-rurqu pro-I51. mot lit a or national that is by ree'niu'nun rut-iota: :5
u-r; t. .3..1 .u-zlrn n? ?'thh the on Tet-duck; il:: acttu tics. whence duller

til-3;. it Lula-an an: :3 a - rm Ilw: ;-erpe:untiur: oi the organizer-Du up licrpro?l 
whose negate are. used for cinnamon: purposes; and wnuee- conettution, d?lhiI-f?' articles of ire-upomzinn. or all 
amt: .1 :73? sign that all assets. reel and pe'scrul property eha?ii to the bene?t of the tonal governmental
on ?51 granted the :?osnlu'mn upon crounlmm of organization 

th'iL ?Vi-lain?? . 

MODEM: CiiuliluBl-L' C?mmtg Damian

8-3- acre-3 lamnq, MI 45909
GWFIMILEHI DELIVERY

Len-mug xii-139315
335654590

LOTTERY aww WIFE:

 

LOCAL GOVERNING BODY RESOLUTION FOR CHARITABLE GAMING LICENSES
(Reuuimd by MCLAM 103cm?;

 

 

 

At a meeting of the

on CITY remain .WALRILI
called to murder by 0n 

EMT
at a mJ'pm. the follovwng resolution was offered
Tull
Moved by and supported by 
the! the request from GIG I7 135%!" II- Of 
nnm? 0F mar-mutant" 
counly of 8 . asking lhal they be recognized as a
can! 

nonpro?t organization operating in the community forthe purpose of obtaining charitable

gaming licenses. be considered for



APPROVAL DI SAPPROVAL
Yeas Yeas;
Nays: Nays:
Absent Absent:

 

I hereby certify that the foregoing IS a true and complete copy of a resolution offered and
adopted by the at a

(:il?f (311'! COUNCILJMIARD In turn." cut mew

meeting held on

 



SIGNED

 

 

CLERK

 

 

MINI. MD TITLE

 

 



I link Illurin.?

'lnv-rn. w'lnri

BYLAWS
OF

GLOBAL DETROIT
(A Michigan Nonpro?t Corporation)

ARTICLE I
OFFICES

SECTION 1. REGISTERED OFFICE. The initial registered of?ce shall be in the City
of Detroit, County of Wayne, and State of Michigan.

SECTION 2. OTHER OFFICES. The corporation may also have of?ces at such other
places both in and outside the State of Michigan as the board of directors may from time to time
determine or the business of the corporation may require.

ARTICLE II
PURPOSE

SECTION 1. GENERAL. The purposes of the corporation are as set forth in Article II
of the articles of incorporation of the corporation.

ARTICLE 
DIRECTORS

SECTION 1. FUNCTIONS Except as Speci?cally provided in the corporation?s articles
of incorporation or these bylaws, all rights, powers, duties and responsibilities relative to the
management and control of the corporation?s property, activities and affairs are vested in the
board of directors.

SECTION 2. NUMBER AND TERM OF DIRECTORS. The number of directors that
shall constitute the whole board shall be not less than three (3) or more than twenty-one (21).
The ?rst board shall consist of three (3) directors. Thereafter, the number of directors which
shall constitute the board of directors for each ensuing year shall be determined at the regular
annual meeting by vote of the board of directors prior to such election; provided, however, that if
a motion is not made and carried to increase or decrease the number of directors, the board shall
consist of the same number of directors as were elected for the preceding year. The board of
directors may also increase or decrease the number of directors at any meeting of the board of
directors or by a written consent in lieu thereof. The ?rst board of directors shall hold of?ce
until the ?rst regular annual meeting of the board of directors. At the ?rst regular annual
meeting of the board of directors and at each regular annual meeting thereafter, the board of
directors shall elect their successors to hold of?ce until the succeeding regular annual meeting,
except in the case of classi?cation of directors as permitted by the Michigan Nonpro?t

Corporation Act (the A director shall hold of?ce for the term for which he or she is
elected and until his or her successor is elected and quali?ed, or until his or her resignation or
removal. Directors may serve for continuous terms.

SECTION 3. VACANCIES. Unless otherwise limited by the articles of incorporation,
or bylaws, if a vacancy, including a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of
directors, occurs in the board of directors, the vacancy may be ?lled by the affumative vote of a
majority of the remaining directors though less than a quorum; provided, however, that in the
event that if a vacancy occurs in the board of directors while there is only one director, the
vacancy may be ?lled by the person designated by the sole director to be his or her successor, or
if no such designation is made, by the then living children of the director whose of?ce has
become vacant.

SECTION 4. REMOVAL. Any director may be removed at any time, with or without
cause, by vote of a majority of the directors of the corporation.

SECTION 5. RESIGNATION. A director may resign by written notice to the
corporation. The resignation is effective upon its receipt by the corporation or a subsequent time
as set forth in the notice of resignation.

SECTION 6. LOCATION OF MEETINGS. Regular or special meetings of the board of
directors may be held either in or outside the State of Michigan.

SECTION 7. REGULAR MEETING OF BOARD. The regular annual meeting of board
of directors for election of directors and of?cers and for such other business as may properly
come before the meeting, commencing with the year 2013, shall be held with or without notice
on the second Thursday of February, and if a legal holiday, then on the next business day
following, at 4:00 pm, local time, or at such other date and time as shall be determined From
time to time by a majority of the board of directors, unless such action is taken by written
consent as provided in Section 11 of this Article. Any other regular meeting of the board of
directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as shall from time to time be
determined by the board.

SECTION 8. SPECIAL MEETING OF BOARD. Any special meeting of the board of
directors may be called by the chief executive of?cer, or by a majority of the persons then
comprising the board of directors, at any time by means of notice of the time and place thereof to
each director, given not less than twenty-four hours before the time such special meeting is to be

held.

SECTION 9. COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS. The board of directors may designate
one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the
corporation. The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any
committee, who may replace an absent or disquali?ed member at a meeting of the committee. In
the absence or disquali?cation of a member of a committee, the members thereof present at a
meeting and not disquali?ed from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may
unanimously appoint another member of the board of directors to act at the meeting in the place
of any such absent or disquali?ed member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the
resolution of the board of directors creating such committee, may exercise all the powers and
authority of the board of directors in the management of the business and affairs of the

ii

corporation. A committee does not have the power or authority to amend the articles of
incorporation, adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommend to the board of
directors the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation?s property and
assets, recommend to the board of directors a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a
dissolution, amend the bylaws of the corporation; fill vaCancies in the board of directors, or ?x
compensation of the directors for serving on the board of directors or on a committee. Any such
committee and each member thercof, shall serve at the pleasure of the board of directors.

SECTION 10. QUORUM AND REQUIRED VOTE OF BOARD AND COMMITTEES.
At all meetings of the board of directors, or of a committee thereof, a majority of the members of
the board then in of?ce, or of the members of a committee thereof, constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business unless the articles of incorporation, these bylaws, or in the case of a
committee, the board resolution establishing the committee, provide for a larger number. The
Vote of the majority of members present at a meeting at which a quorum is present constitutes the
action of the board of directors or of the committee, unless the vote of a larger number is
required by the Act, the articles of incorporation, or these bylaws, or in the case of a committee,
the board resolution establishing the committee. Amendment of these bylaws by the board of
directors requires the vote of not less than a majority of the members of the board then in office.
If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the board of directors, the directors present
thereat may adjourn the meeting li'mn time to time, without notice other than announcement at

the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.

SECTION 11. ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT. Action required or permitted to be
taken to authorization voted at a meeting of the board of directors or a committee
thereof, may be taken without. a meeting it', before or alter the action. all members ol'the board or
of the crm'nnitlce consent thereto in writing. The written consents shall be tiled with the minutes
of the proceedings of the board of directors or committee. The consent has the same effect as a
vote ofthe board of directors or committee for all purposes.

SECTION 12. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. The board of directors, by
af?rmative vote of a majority of directors in of?ce and irrespective of any personal interest of
any of them, may establish reasonable compensation of directors for services to the corporation

as directors or of?cers.

SECTION 13. PARTICIPATION IN MEETING BY TELEPHONE. By oral or written
permission of a majority of the board of directors, a member of the board of directors or of a
committee designated by the board may participate in a meeting by means of conference
telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in
the meeting can hear each other. Participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section constitutes

presence in person at the meeting.
ARTICLE IV
NOTICES
SECTION 1. NOTICE. Whenever any notice or communication is required to be given
by mail to any director under any provision of the Act, or of the articles of incorporation or of

these bylaws, it shall be given in writing. except as otherwise provided in the Act. to such



director at the address designated by him or her for that purpose or, if none is designated, at his
or her last known address. The notice or communication is given when deposited, with postage
thereon prepaid, in a post of?ce or of?cial depository under the exclusive care and custody of the
United States postal service. The mailing shall be registered, certi?ed or other ?rst class mail
except where otherwise provided in the Act. Written notice may also be given in person or by
electronic mail, and such notice shall be deemed to be given when the recipient receives the
notice personally. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, a regular or
special meeting of the board of directors need be speci?ed in the notice of the meeting.

SECTION 2. WAIVER OF NOTICE. When, under the Act or the articles of
incorporation or these bylaws, or by the terms of an agreement or instrument, the corporation or
the board of directors or any committee thereof may take action after notice to any person or
after lapse of a prescribed period of time, the action may be taken without notice and without
lapse of the period of time, if at any time before or after the action is completed the person
entitled to notice or to participate in the action to be taken submits a signed waiver of such
requirements. Attendance of a director at a meeting constitutes a waiver of notice of a meeting,
except where a director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction
of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.

ARTICLE 
OFFICERS

SECTION 1. SELECTION. The board of directors, at its ?rst meeting and at each
annual meeting, shall elect or appoint a president, a secretary, and a treasurer. The board of
directors may also elect or appoint a chairman of the board, one or more vice presidents and such
other of?cers, employees and agents as it shall deem necessary who shall hold their of?ces for
such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from
time to time by the board. Two or more of?ces may be held by the same person, but an of?cer
shall not execute, acknowledge or verify an instrument in more than one capacity if the
instrument is required by law or the articles or bylaws to be executed, acknowledged or veri?ed
by two or more of?cers.

SECTION 2. COMPENSATION. The salaries of all of?cers, employees md agents of
the corporation shall be ?xed by the board of directors; provided, however, that the board may
delegate to the of?cers the ?xing of compensation of assistant of?cers, employees and agents.

SECTION 3. TERM, REMOVAL AND VACANCIES. Each of?cer of the corporation
shall hold of?ce for the term for which he or she is elected or appointed and until his or her
successor is elected or appointed and quali?ed, or until his or her resignation or removal. The
board with or without cause may remove an of?cer elected or appointed by the board of directors
at any time. An of?cer may resign by written notice to the corporation. The resignation is
effective upon its receipt by the corporation or at a subsequent time Speci?ed in the notice of
resignation. The board of directors shall ?ll any vacancy occurring in any of?ce of the

corporation.

SECTION 4. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. If the board of directors desires to elect
or appoint a chief executive of?cer, the board shall designate the chairman of the board or

iv

president as such of?cer at the ?rst meeting of each newly elected board of directors; provided,
however, that if a motion is not made and carried to change the designation, the designation shall
be the same as the designation for the preceding year; provided, further, that the designation of
the chief executive of?cer may be changed at any special meeting of the board of directors. The
president shall be the chief executive of?cer whenever the of?ce of chairman of the board is
vacant. The chief executive of?cer shall be responsible to the board of directors for the general
supervision and management of the business and affairs of the corporation and shall see that all
orders and resolutions of the board are carried into effect. The chairman of the board or
president who is not the chief executive of?cer shall be subject to the authority of the chief
executive of?cer, but shall exercise all of the powers and discharge all of the duties of the chief
executive of?cer during the absence or disability of the chief executive of?cer.

SECTION 5. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. If the board of
directors elects or appoints a chairman of the board, he or she shall be elected or appointed by,
and from among the membership of, the board of directors. He or she shall preside at all
meetings of the board of directors and of any executive committee. He or she shall perform such
other duties and functions as shall be assigned to him or her from time to time by the board of
directors. He or she shall be, ex of?cio, a member of all standing committees. Except where by
law the signature of the president of the corporation is required, the chairman of the board of
directors shall possess the same power and authority to sign all certi?cates, contracts,
instruments, papers and documents of every conceivable kind and character whatsoever in the
name of and on behalf of the corporation which may be authorized by the board of directors.
During the absence or disability of the president, or while that of?ce is vacant, the chairman of
the board of directors shall exercise all of the powers and discharge all of the duties of the

president.

SECTION 6. PRESIDENT. During the absence or disability of the chairman of the
board, or while that of?ce is vacant, the president shall preside over all meetings of the board of
directors and of any executive committee, and shall perform all of the duties and functions, and
when so acting shall have all powers and authority, of the chairman of the board. He or she shall
be, ex of?cio, a member of all standing committees. The president shall, in general, perform all
duties incident to the of?ce of president and such other duties as may be prescribed by the board

of directors.

SECTION 7. VICE PRESIDENTS. The board of directors may elect or appoint one or
more vice presidents. The board of directors may designate one or more vice presidents as
executive or senior vice presidents. Unless the board of directors shall otherwise provide by
resolution duly adopted by it, such of the vice presidents as shall have been designated executive
or senior vice presidents and are members of the board of directors in the order speci?ed by the
board of directors (or if no vice president who is a member of the board of directors shall have
been designated as executive or senior vice president, then such vice presidents as are members
of the board of directors in the order speci?ed by the board of directors) shall perform the duties
and exercise the powers of the president during the absence or disability of the president if the
of?ce of the chairman of the board is vacant. The vice presidents shall perform such other duties
as may be delegated to them by the board of directors, any executive committee, the chairman of

the board or the president.

SECTION 8. SECRETARY. The secretary shall attend all meetings of the board of
directors and of any executive committee, and shall preserve in the books of the corporation true



minutes of the proceedings of all such meetings. He or she shall safely keep in his or her custody
the seal of the corporation, if any, and shall have authority to affix the same to all instruments
where its use is required or permitted. He or she shall give all notice required by the Act, these
bylaws or resolution. He or she shall perform such other duties as may be delegated to him or
her by the board of directors, any executive committee, the chairman of the board or the
president.

SECTION 9. TREASURER. The treasurer shall have custody of all corporate funds and
securities and shall keep in books belonging to the corporation full and accurate accounts of all
receipts and disbursements; he or she shall deposit all moneys, securities and other valuable
effects in the name of the corporation in such depositories as may be designated for that purpose
by the board of directors. He or she shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be
ordered by the board of directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall
render to the president and the board of directors whenever requested an account of all his or her
transactions as treasurer and of the financial condition of the corporation. If required by the
board of directors, he or she shall keep in force a bond in form, amount and with a surety or
sureties satisfactory to the board of directors, conditioned for faithful performance of the duties
of his or her of?ce, and for restoration to the corporation in case of his or her death, resignation,
retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and property of
whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the corporation.
He or she shall perform such other duties as may be delegated to him or her by the board of
directors, any executive committee, the chairman of the board or the president.

SECTION 10. ASSISTANT SECRETARIES AND ASSISTANT TREASURERS. The
assistant secretary or assistant secretaries, in the absence or disability of the secretary, shall
perform the duties and exercise the powers of the secretary. The assistant treasurer or assistant
treasurers, in the absence or disability of the treasurer, shall perform the duties and exercise the
powers of the treasurer. Any assistant treasurer, if required by the board of directors, shall keep
in force a bond as provided in Section 9 of this Article. The assistant secretaries and assistant
treasurers, in general, shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the secretary or
by the treasurer, respectively, or by the board of directors, any executive committee, the
chairman of the board or the president.

SECTION 11. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY AND DUTIES BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS. All of?cers, employees and agents shall, in addition to the authority conferred, or
duties imposed, on them by these bylaws, have such authority and perform such duties in the
management of the corporation as may be determined by resolution of the board of directors not
inconsistent with these bylaws.

ARTICLE VI
INDEMNIFICATION

SECTION 1. INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS: CLAIMS BY
THIRD PARTIES. The corporation shall, to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by the Act
or other applicable law, as the same presently exists or may hereafter be amended, indemnify a
director or of?cer (the ?Indemnitee?) who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to
a threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative, or investigative and whether formal or informal, other than an action by or in the

vi

right of the corporation, by reason of the fact that director, of?cer,
employee, nondirector volunteer or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of
the corporation as a director, of?cer, partner, trustee, employee, nondirector volunteer or agent of
another foreign or domestic corporation, business corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, or
other enterprise, whether for pro?t or not for pro?t, against expenses, including attorneys? fees,
judgments, penalties, ?nes, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by
the Indemnitee in connection with the action, suit, or proceeding, if the Indemnitee acted in good
faith-and in a manner the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best
interests of the corporation, and with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, if the
Indemnitee had no reasonable cause to believe the conduct was unlawful. The termination of
any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo
contendere or its equivalent, does not, of itself, create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not
act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not
opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and with respect to any criminal action or
proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that the conduct Was unlawful.

SECTION 2. INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS: CLAIMS
BROUGHT BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF THE CORPORATION. The corporation shall, to the
fullest extent authorized or permitted by the Act or other applicable law, as the same presently
exists or may hereafter be amended, indemnify an Indemnitee who was or is a party to or is
threatened to be made a party to a threatened, pending, or completed action or suit by or in the
right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that the
Indemnitee is or was a director, of?cer, employee, nondirector volunteer or agent of the
corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, of?cer, partner,
trustee, employee, nondirector volunteer or agent of anothe1 foreign or domestic corpor,ation
business corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, or other enterprise, whether for pro?t or
not, against expenses, including actual and reasonable attorneys? fees, and amounts paid in
settlement incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the action or suit, if the Indemnitee
acted in good faith and in a manner the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be' 1n or not opposed
to the best interests of the corporation. However, indemni?cation under this Section shall not be
made for a claim, issue, or matter in which the Indemnitee has been found liable to the
corporation unless and only to the extent that the court in which the action or suit was brought
has determined upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all
circumstances of the case, the Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemni?cation for
the expenses which the court considers proper.

SECTION 3. ACTIONS BROUGHT BY THE INDEMNITEE. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Sections 1 and 2 of this Article, the corporation shall not indemnify an Indemnitee
in connection with any action, suit, proceeding or claim (or part thereof) brought or made by
such Indemnitee; unless such action, suit, proceeding or claim (or part thereof) was authorized
by the board of directors of the corporation, or (ii) was brought or made to enforce this Article
and such Indemnitee has been successful in such action, suit, proceeding or claim (orpait

thereof).

SECTION 4. APPROVAL OF INDEMNIFICATION. An indemni?cation under
Sections 1 or 2 of this Article, unless ordered by a court, shall be made by the corporation only
as authorized in the speci?c case upon a determination that indemni?cation of the Indemnitee is
proper in the circumstances because the Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct

vii

set forth in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article. This determination shall be made in any of
the following ways:

By a majority vote of a quorum of the board consisting of directors who were not
parties to the action, suit, or proceeding.

If the quorum described in subdivision is not obtainable, then by a majority
vote of a committee of directors who are not parties to the action. The committee shall
consist of not less than two disinterested directors.

By independent legal counsel in a written opinion.

SECTION 5. OF EXPENSES. Expenses incurred in defending a
civil or criminal action, suit, or proceeding described in Sections 1 or 2 of this Article shall be
paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of the action, suit, or proceeding upon
receipt of any undertaking by or on behalf of the to repay the expenses if it is
ultimately determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemni?ed by the corporation.
The undertaking shall be by unlimited general obligation of the person on whose behalf advances
are made but need not be secured.

SECTION 6. PARTIAL INDEMNIFICATION. 'If an Indemnitec is entitled to
indemni?cation under Sections 1 or 2 of this Article for a portion of expenses including
attorneys? fees, judgments, penalties, ?nes, and amounts paid in settlement, but not for the total
amount thereof, the corporation shall indemnify the Indemnitee for the portion of the expenses,
judgments, penalties, ?nes, or amounts paid in settlement for which the Indemnitee is entitled to

be indemni?ed.

SECTION 7. INDEMNIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES, NONDIRECTOR
VOLUNTEERS AND AGENTS. Any person who is not covered by the foregoing provisions of
this Article and who is or was an employee, nondirector volunteer or agent of the corporation, or
is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a trustee, director, of?cer, employee,
nondirector volunteer or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, business corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust, or other enterprise, whether for pro?t or not for pro?t, may be
indemni?ed to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by the Act or other applicable law, as
the same exist or may hereafter be amended, but in the case of any such amendment, only to the
extent such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemni?cation rights than
before such amendment, but in any event only to the extent authorized at any time or from time
to time by the board of directors.

SECTION 8. OTHER RIGHTS OF INDEMNIFICATION. The indemni?cation or
advancement of expenses provided under Sections 1 to 7 of this Article is not exclusive of other
rights to which a person seeking indemni?cation or advancement of expenses may be entitled
under the articles of incorporation, these bylaws, or a contractual agreement. However, the total
amount of expenses advanced or indemni?ed from all sources combined shall not exceed the
amount of actual expenses incurred by the person seeking indemni?cation or advancement of
expenses. The indemni?cation provided for in Sections 1 to 7 of this Article continues as to a
person who ceases to be a trustee, director, of?cer, employee, nondirector volunteer or agent and
shall inure to the bene?t of the heirs, executors, and administrators of the person.

SECTION 9. LIABILITY INSURANCE. The corporation Shall have the power to
purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, of?cer,



employee, nondirector volunteer or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of
the corporation as a trustee, director, of?cer, employee, nondirector volunteer or agent of another
corporation, business corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any
liability asserted against the person and incurred by the person in any such" capacity or arising out
of the person?s status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify
the person against such liability under the provisions of the Act.

SECTION 10. CONTRACT WITH THE CORPORATION. The right to
indemni?cation conferred in this Article shall be deemed to be a contract between the
corporation and each director or of?cer who serves in any such capacity at any time while this
Article is in effect, and any repeal or modi?cation of any such law or of this Article shall not
affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore
existing or any action, suit or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought or threatened based in
whole or in part upon any such state of facts. In the event this Article is repealed or modi?ed,
the corporation shall give written notice thereof to the directors and of?cers and any such repeal
or modi?cation shall not be effective for a period of sixty (60) days after such notice is delivered.

SECTION APPLICATION TO A RESULTING OR SURVIVING CORPORATION
OR CONSTITUENT CORPORATION. The de?nition for ?corporation? found in Section 569
of the Act, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended,.is and shall be, speci?cally excluded
from application to this Article. The indemni?cation and other obligations of the corporation set
forth in this Article shall be binding upon any resulting or surviving corporation after any merger
or consolidation of the corporation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein
or in Section 569 of the Act, unless determined otherwise by the board of directors no person
shall be entitled to the indemni?cation and other rights set forth in this Article for acting as a
director, of?cer, partner, trustee, employee, nondirector volunteer or agent of another corporation
prior to such other corporation entering into a merger or consolidation with the corporation.

SECTION 12. DEFINITIONS. ?Other enterprises? shall include employee bene?t
plans; ??nes? shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee
bene?t plan; and ?serving at the request of the corporation? shall include any service as a
director, of?cer, employee, nondirector volunteer or agent of the corporation which imposes
duties on, or involves services by, the director, of?cer, employee, or agent with respect to an
employee bene?t plan, its participants or bene?ciaries; and a person who acted in good faith and
in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and
bene?ciaries of an employee bene?t plan shall be considered to have acted in a manner ?not
opposed to the best interests of the corporation? as referred to in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article.

SECTION 13. SEVERABILITY. Each and every paragraph, sentence, term and
provision of this Article shall be considered severable in that, in the event a court ?nds any
paragraph, sentence, term or provision to be invalid or unenforceable, the validity and
enforceability, operation, or effect of the remaining paragraphs, sentences, terms, or provisions
shall not be affected, and this Article shall be construed in all respects as if the invalid or
unenforceable matter had been omitted.

ix

ARTICLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 1. RESERVES. The board of directors shall have power and authority to set
apart such reserve or reserves, for any proper purpose, as the board in its discretion shall
approve, and the board shall have the power and authority to abolish any reserve created by the

board.

SECTION 2. VOTING SECURITIES. Unless otherwise directed by the board of
directors, the chairman of the board or president, or in the case of their absence or inability to
act, the vice presidents, in order of their seniority, shall have full power and authority on behalf
of the corporation to attend and to act and to vote, or to execute in the name or on behalf of the
corporation a consent in writing in lieu of a meeting of shareholders or members or a proxy
authorizing an agent or attorney-in-fact for the corporation to attend and vote at any meetings of
security holders of corporations in which the corporation may hold securities, and at such
meetings he or she or his or her duly authorized agent or attorney?in-fact shall possess and may
exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the OWnership of such securities and which, as
the owner thereof, the corporation might have possessed and exercised if present. The board of
directors by resolution from time to time may confer like power upon any other person or
persons.

SECTION 3. CHECKS. All checks, drafts and orders for the payment of money shall be
signed in the name of the corporation in such manner and by such of?cer or of?cers or such
other person or persons as the board of directors shall from time to time designate for that

purpose.

SECTION 4. CONTRACTS, CONVEYANCES, ETC. When the execution of any
contract, conveyance or other instrument has been authorized without speci?cation of the
executing of?cers, the chairman of the board, president or any vice president, and the secretary
or assistant secretary, may execute the same in the name and on behalf of this corporation and
may af?x the corporate seal thereto. The board of directors shall have power to designate the
of?cers and agents who shall have authority to execute any instrument on behalf of this

corporation.

SECTION 5. CORPORATE BOOKS AND RECORDS. The corporation shall keep
books and records of account and minutes of the proceedings of its board of directors and
executive committees, if any. The books, records and minutes may be kept outside this state.
Any of the books, records or minutes may be in written form or in any other form capable of
being converted into written form within a reasonable time. The corporation shall convert into
written form without charge any record not in written form, unless otherwise requested by a
person entitled to inspect the records.

SECTION 6. FISCAL YEAR. The ?scal year of the corporation shall be ?xed by
resolution of the board of directors.

SECTION 7. SEAL. If the corporation has a corporate seal, it shall have inscribed
thereon the name of the corporation and the words ?Corporate Seal? and ?Michigan.?

ARTICLE 
AMENDMENTS

SECTION 1. The board of directors, by the af?rmative vote of a majority of the directors
then in of?ce, may amend or repeal the bylaws or adopt new bylaws. Such action may be taken
by written consent or at any meeting of the board of directors; provided that if notice of any such
meeting is required by these bylaws, it shall contain notice of the proposed amendment, repeal or

new bylaws.

I certify that the foregoing Bylaws were adopted by the
corporation, effective October 1, 2012.

Rami I?althoml
Rami Fakhoury, Secretary

20,273,379. l\066667-0020]

xi

INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
P. 0. BOX 2508
CINCINNATI, OH 45201

MAR 2020?

Date:

GLOBAL DETROIT

THOMAS LINN

150 JEFFERSON AVE STE 2500
DETROIT, MI 48226

Dear Applicant:

DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

Employer Identification Number:
38?3880502
DLN:
17053059324033
Contact Person:
DEL TRIMBLE 31309
Contact Telephone Number:
(877) 829-5500
Accounting Period Ending:
December 31
Public Charity Status:
170(b)(l)(A)(Vi)
Form 990 Required:
Yes
Effective Date of Exemption:
July 10, 2012
Contribution Deductibility:
Yes
Addendum Applies:
No

We are pleased to inform you that upon review of your application for tax
exempt status we have determined that you are exempt from Federal income tax
under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to you are
deductible under section 170 of the Code. You are also qualified to receive

tax deductible bequests, devises,

transfers or gifts under section 2055, 2106

or 2522 of the Code. Because this letter could help resolve any questions
regarding your exempt status, you should keep it in your permanent records.

Organizations exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Code are further classified
as either public charities or private foundations. We determined that you are
a public charity under the Code section(s) listed in the heading of this

letter.

Please see enclosed Publication 4221-PC, Compliance Guide for 501(c)(3) Public
Charities, for some helpful information about your responsibilities as an

exempt organization.

Letter 947 

GLOBAL DETROIT

We have sent a copy of this letter to your representative as indicated in your
power of attorney.

Holly O. Paz
Director, Exempt Organizations
Rulings and Agreements

Enclosure: Publication 4221-PC

Letter 947 

PAGE 2 OF 8

07/10/2012 7:10:10 PM -0400 DELEG FAXCOM

Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs

Filing Endorsement

This is to Certify that the ARTICLES OF - NONPROFIT
for
GLOBAL DETROIT
lD NUMBER: 711526

received by facsimile transmission on July 10, 2012 is hereby endorsed

Filed on July 10, 2012 by the Administrator.

The document is effective on the date filed, unless a
subsequent effective date within 90 days after
received date is stated in the document.

in testimony whereof, ihave hereunto set my


3:11-4- Illgp- 
. ?drz.? t. if?
5' hand ene affixed the Seal of the Department,
in the City of Lensmg, this 10TH day


I of July, 2012-

Director

Bureau of Commercial Services



07/10/2012 7:10:10 PM ?0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 3 OF 8
Ju .lO. 2012 No.0537 2

ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
OF
GLOBAL DETROIT

 

 

These Articles of Incorporation are signed by the incorporator for the purpose of forming
a non-pro?t corporation pursuant to the provisions of Act 162, Public Acts of 1982, as
follows:

ARTICLE I
The name of the corporatiOn is Global Detroit;

1. The purpose for which the Corporation is organized is to revitalize
southeast Michigan's economy by pursuing strategies (including research and education)
thatstrengthen the region's connections to the world and make the region more attractive
and welcoming to immigrants, internationals, and foreign trade and investment as a
means to produce jobs: and regional e00notnio growth.

2. The Corporation is organized and Operated exclusively to perform those
charitable religious, educatiOnsi, and scienti?c purposes permitted under Section
501(c)(3) of the luietuui Revenue Code of rose, as mended,- or correSponding
provisions of any future Federal tax code (the ?Code?).

3" Notwithstanding any other provision of these Articles, the Corporation
shall not carry on any activity not permitted to be carried an. by an organization which is
(1) described in Section 501 of the Code, and which is exempt from Federal
income tax under'Se-ction 501 of the Code or (ii) by an organization, contributions to
which are deductible under Section 170 (2) 0f the Code.

4. No substantial part of the activities of the corporation shall be to carry on
propaganda or othetwise attempt ?to in?uence legislation.

5. The Corporation shall not participate in or intervene in (including the
publishing or distribution of statements) any political campaign on behalf 0r against any
candidate for public of?ce.

6. No substantial part of the activities of the Corporation shall consist of
providing commercial type insurance.

ARTICLE 
I. he Corpomtion is organized upon a nonstook basis.
2. The assets which the Computation possesses are:

07/10/2012 

07/10/2012 7:10:10 PM ?0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 4
Jul. 10. 2012 No. 0537

Real Property? Non-e
Personal Property- None

. 3. The Corporation is to be ?nanced by connibution's from ,eorporations,
charitable foundations and government grants.
4. The Corporation is orgaxti?zed? on a directorship basis.
Elli?7M
l. The address of the initial registered o?'ice is:

150 West Jefferson Avenue, Suite 2500
Detroit, Ml 48226

The mailing address of the registered 'of?ce is:

150 West Jefferson Avenue, Suite 2500
Benoit, 

2. The name of the residentegent at the regisrered off: cc is: Thomas W. Linn
ARTICLE 

The name and address of the i'neorporator is as follows:

Name liliejttoes Adore-?
Thomas Linn. 150 West Jefferson AVenue
Suite 25 00
Detroit; MI 48226
Milli?LEE}

1. No part: of the net earnings of the corporation shall be distributed to, or
inure to the bene?t of, any director or officer of the corporation, contributor or individual
as prohibited by Section 50l ol? [la-c Code, except that the Cnmtil'illitm shall be
authorized and empowered. to pay reasonable noinpeusntirm for sen/lees rendered and to
make payments and distributions in furtherance of the lel'POSes of the corporation.

ARTICLE VII

1. To the Fullest extent permitted tinder Section 209(0) of the Miehignn
(Communion Act [the .15 the some presently or 1111}; hereafter
be a volunteer director :1an :1 ot'iieer of the Corporation Shall not he
personallyr liable to the Corporation or its members for daunting-:5 for breach of
the director?s or of?cer?s ?duciary duty. However, this provision does not eliminate 01"
limit the liability of a director or an of?cer for any ofthc following:

07/10/2012 

P.

0F
3

6

07/10/2012 7 10 10 PM ?0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 5 OF 8
Jul.10. 2012 No.0537 P. 4

a breach of the directOr?s or of?cer's duty of loyalty to the
Corporation or its members;

. acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional
misconduct or a knowing Violation of law;

(0) a violaiimi OfSecil'On 531(1) Of the 

a transaction from which the director or of?cer derived an
improper personal bene?t;

an act or omission occurring before the date that this Article
becomes effective in accordance with the pertinent provisions of the
or

(st) an actor omission that is grossly negligent.

2. To the fullest extent permitted under Section 20901) of the MNCA, as the
same presently exists or may hereafter be amended, the Corporation assumes all liability
to any person other than the Corporation or its members for all acts or omissions of a
volunteer director o?ecturing on or after the date this Article becomes effective in
accordance with the pertinent provisions of the MNCA, incurred in the good faith
performance of the volunteer direcmr?s duties as such. Pursuant to section 541(4) of the
MNCA, as the same presently exists of may hereafter be amended, a claim fer monetary
damages for a breach of a volunteer director?s duty to any person other than the
C0rporation 01': its members shall not be brought or maintained against a volunteer
director; but such a claim shall be brought or maintained instead against the Corporation,
which shall be liable for the breach of the. Volunteer director?s ditty.

in addition to the Corporation?s assumption of liability pursuant to
subsection 2 above, to the fullest extent pennittedunder Section 2090:) of the MNCA, as.
the-same presently exists or may hereafter be amended, the Corporation assumes the
liability for all sets or omissions of each volunteer director, each volunteer of?cer and
any other volunteer occurring on or after the date that this Article becomes effective in
accordance whit the pertinent provisions ofuthe if all of the following are met:

the volunteer was acting or reasonably believed he. or she was
acting within the scope of his or her authority;

the volunteer was acting in good faith;

the volunteer?s conduct did not amount to gross. negligence or
willful and wanton misconduct;

the Volunteer?s conduct was not an intentional tort; and

the volunteers conduct was nota tort arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, or use of a motor vehicle for which tort liability may be

07/10/2012 10:31th 

07/10/2012 7:10:10 PM ?0400 DELEG FAXCOM PAGE 6 OF 6
Jul. to. 2012 No. 053] P. 5

imposed as provided in SectiOn 3135 of the Insurance Code of 1956.

Personnt to Section 556 of the MNCA, as the same presently exists or may
hereafter be. amended, a claim for monetary damages for a volumeer director's, volunteer
officer?s, or other volunteer?s acts or emissions shall not be brought or maintained against
a Volunteer director, volunteer of?cer or other volunteer. The claim shall be brought and
maintained against the Corporation.

4. The term. ?volunteer director? shall have the same definitions as set forth
in Sections 110(2) of the MNCA, as the same presently exists or my hereafter be
amended.

The term ofli oer" means an individual, other that a volunteer director,
who has been elected or appointed as an of?cer of the Cerporation President, Vice
President, Secretary, treasurer, Assistant Secretary and Assistant treasurer) and Who does
not receive compensation or any other type of consideratiOn for the services other than
reiinbmsement for expenses actually incurred.

5. Any repeal, amendment or other modi?cation of this Article shall not
adversely affect any right or protectirm of a. director or of?cer of the Corporation existing
at the time of such repeal, amendment or other modi?cation. It? the MNCA is amended
after this Article becomes effective, then the liability of directors or of?cers shall be
eliminated or limited to the fut-lest extent permitted by the MNCA as so amended.

Article 

1. In the event of the dissolution of the (importation, all of the corporation?s
assets, real and personal, shall be distributed to smile ?charitable organizettjen or
organizations as the Board of Directors may select, which are exempt from federal
inCOme tax Under Section 301(c)(3) of the Code or corresponding provisions of any
subsequent federal income tax laws or shall be distributed to the federal government or to
a state or local government. Any such assets not so disposed of, for whatever reason,
shall be disposed of by cider of the Circuit Court fer the Coonty of Wayne to such
organization or organizations, as said Court shall which are organized and
operated exclusively for purposes described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code (or
corresponding provision of any subsequent income tart laws) or shall be distributed to the
federal government or to a state 0: local government.

1, the incorporator, sign my name this 10th day of July, 2012.



[If 3?

. pawl?H.

 

--

w. Linn



07/10/2012 

2019-09-12

1081

1081 Petition of Global Detroit, request
resolution ?om your Honorable Body
fora charitable gaming license.

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

CITY CLERK

(titty of %etroit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

RAQUEL LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER

 

DISTRICT 6
MEMORANDUM
TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Council
THRU: Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez 

DATE: September 12, 2019

RE: Unbiased Provision of City Services Legislation

 

I request that the Law Department review the attached proposed ordinance amendment and approve
it as to form.

Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions or concerns.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison, Mayor Duggan?s Office
Tonja Long, Law Department
City Clerk

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


COUNCIL MEMBER CASTANEDA-LOPEZ:

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 27 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Human Rights,
Article IX, Bias Based Policing and Solicitation of Immigration Status, consisting of
amending the title of the article to encompass the provision of non-police City services,
by amending Section 27-9-2 to clarify that the definition of criminal offense means a
?violent felony? as defined by the Michigan Penal Code, MCL and excludes
misdemeanor offenses, and to add a definition of municipal identi?cation card, amending
Section 27?9-4 to specifically refer to criminal suspects, and amending Section 27-9-5 to
delete an exception to the prohibition on solicitation of immigration status by public
servants for purposes of the issuance of a subpoena. The ordinance is amended
throughout to include English language pro?ciency and perceived national origin as
protected personal characteristics. Section 27-9-7 is amended to include a complaint
process. IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. That Chapter 27 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Human Rights,
Article IX, Bias Based Policing and Solicitation of Immigration Status, be amended as
follows:

ARTICLE IX. 
UNBIASED PROVISION OF CITY SERVICES

Sec. 27-9-1. Statement of purpose. It is the policy of the City of Detroit to
respect the rights of, and provide equal services to, all persons regardless of appearance,

English language pro?ciency, ethnicity, immigration status, manner of dress, national

 

origin, perceived national origin, physical characteristics, race, religious beliefs, sexual

orientation, or gender identity or expression; to ensure the enforcement of rights under
the United States Constitution, including due process and equal protection; to promote
community safety; to encourage victims of crime and witnesses to cooperate with law
enforcement authority without regard to immigration status; to prevent bias-based
policing; and to promote acceptance. In order to permit members of immigrant
communities to access services that are provided by the City of Detroit government to
which they are entitled; and to ensure that city public servants are acting consistent with
federal law regarding local governments cooperating with federal immigration
authorities, the City of Detroit enacts this article as an effective way to guide city public
servants in adhering to rights under the United States Constitution, including due process
and equal protection, and under federal law, while protecting the safety and health of all
members of the Detroit community.

See. 27-9-2. - De?nitions.

For purposes of this article the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Blight violation means any unlawful act, or any omission or failure to act, which
is designated by this Code as a blight violation pursuant to Section 41(2) of the Michigan
Home Rule Cities Act, being MCL 

City means the City of Detroit.

Civil infraction means an act or omission that is prohibited by this Code, which is
not a crime as defined in Section 5 of the Michigan Penal Code, being MCL 750.5, and

for which civil sanctions may be ordered.

Criminal offense means a violent. felony Hammer 
Hate?law as de?ned bv the Michigan Penal Code, MCL 750.543blh1'. eneieyLeFdinanee,

but does not mean a misdemeanor or a blight violation or civil infraction as defined in

 

this section.

Gender identity or expression means a an actual or perceived gender-related

 

identity, appearance, expression, or behavior of an individual, regardless of the
designation of gender on one?s birth certi?cate, driver?s license, or state or municipal
identification.

Mimicipui curd means an individual resident?s current identi?cation
card that is issued bv the Citv pursuant to Chapter 27, Human Rights, Article X. of the

1984 Detroit Citv Code.

 

Person means any individual, but not limited to, victims and witnesses of crimes.
Police of?cer means a sworn member of whence agency
within the Citv of Detroit.

Public servant means the mayor, members of the city council, the city clerk, any
member of any city agency, board, commission, or other voting body that is established
by the +99me Charter or by this Code, and any appointee, any employee, or
any individual who provides services to the City of Detroit within or outside of its of?ces

or facilities pursuant to a personal services contract.

 

The Michigan Penal Code, Public Act 328 of 1931, de?nes ?violent felony? as follows: MCL
750.543b(h) - ?Violent felony? means a felony in which an element is the use, attempted use, or threatened
use of physical force against an individual, or the use, attempted use, or threatened use of a harmful
biological substance, a harmful biological device, a harmful chemical substance, a harm?ll chemical
device, a harmful radioactive substance, a harmful radioactive device, an explosive device, or an incendiary
device.

Sexual cries-Hanna means a person?s actual or perceived states?as?hetereseaeel;
Went physical or sexual attraction to other personsLor lack thereof. on
the basis ol'gender, recognizing the continuum of sexual orientation. which includes, but
is not limited to, heterosexuality, homosexuality, bisexuality, asexuality, and

Sec. 27-9-3. - Bias?based policing by public servants, who are police of?cers, 011 the
basis of appearance, English language pro?ciency, ethnicity, immigration status, manner
of dress, national origin, perceived national origin, physical characteristics, race, religious
beliefs, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression prohibited; exception.

A public servant, who is a police of?cer, shall not exercise differential treatment of
individuals in rendering police services based on a person?s appearance, English language
pro?ciency, ethnicity, immigration status, manner of dress, national origin, perceived
national origin, physical characteristics, race, religious beliefs, or sexual orientation, or
gender identity or expression. A public servant, who is a police officer, shall not base
reasonable suspicion for an investigative detention, probable cause for an arrest, or any
other police action, on a person's appearance, English language nroliciencv, ethnicity,
immigration status, manner of dress, national origin, perceived national origin, physical
characteristics, race, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression.
A public servant, who is a police of?cer, may take into account the reported appearance,
etlanieityrimmigsatien?statns; manner of dress, nationakesigim physical characteristics,
height, Weight, and race, wgendeiqdentmr
expression for the purpose of identifying a described individual. A municipal

identi?cation card or a passport shall he accepted as identi?cation and shall not subiect

the person to a hiahcr level of scrutiny or dit'lerent treatment than if the person had
provided a State of Michigan driver?s license.

Sec. 27-9-4. - Solicitation of immigration status by public servants, who are police
of?cers, prohibited; exceptions.

(a)A public servant, who is a police of?cer.

(l)Shall not solicit information concerning immigration status for the purpose of
ascertaining a person?s compliance with federal immigration 

(2) Shall not solicit information concerning immigration status from a person who is
seeking police services, or is a victim, or is a witness.

Shall accept a municipal identification card or a passport as identification and
shall not subiect the person to a higher level of serutinv or different treatment than if the
person had provided a State of Michigan driver?s license.

(b)Notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in subsection of this section, public
servants, who are police officers, are expressly pennitted to wgage?in?tlie?Fellewing




effenseg?or

{Q?t?Srelieitatien?et information concerning immigration status from the subject
of an investigation only when relevant to the investigation or prosecution of a criminal
offense as de?ned in this article, or when processing an arrested person on suspicion of
committing a criminal offense as de?ned in this article. which shall not constitute a

violation of this article.

Sec. 27-9-5. - Solicitation of immigration status by public servants who are not police

of?cers prohibited; exceptions.

A public servant who is not? a police officer is prohibited from inquiring into the

 

immigration status of any person, or engaging in activities designed to ascertain the
immigration status of any person, while acting within the scope of his or her authority, or
employment, as a public servant. A municioal identi?cation card or a passport shall be
accepted as identification and shall not stthiect the person to a higher level ofscrutinm
different treatment than if the person had provided a State of Michigan driver?s license.
Notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in subsection of this section, public
servants who are not police of?cers are expressly permitted to engage in the following
activities, which shall not constitute a violation of this article:

(1) Solicitation of information concerning immigration status where speci?cally
required by any federal, state, or city law or program as a condition of eligibility for the
service sought; or

(2) Solicitation of information concerning immigration status for the purpose of
completing 1-9 Forms, and, when relevant, in making hiring and payroll withholding
decisions, including, but not limited to, completing 1-9 Forms, questioning a person to
complete the 1-9 Form, obtaining documents that support the 1-9 Form, and allowing

federal authorities to audit an 1-9 Form in accordance with law; or






eel-1 tha'ssHeSL?or

Sec. 27?9-6. - Implementation of article.

This article shall be implemented by the ?human Bresources Qdepartment and the
human resources divisions of any through ongoing training and educational
programs to inform public servants regarding its prohibitions and requirements. All City
entities shall include relevant educational material in the training of new public servants
in addition to ongoing annual training for all personnel regardina? the prohibitions and
requirements ot'this article.

 






Any?elseel 



 

Sec. 27?9-7. Reporting requirements.

On or before April of each vent. the Department ot'Civil Rights, Inclusion and
OpportunitLand anv other City entitv whose duties and responsibilities include receipt of
complaints pursuant to Section 27-9-8 oi" this article. shall issue a report to the City
Council including the number of complaints of bias in the provision of City services
received during, the preceding calendar vear. a general description of the complaints. as

well as a description oFthe disposition ot'lhc complaints.

before April [st of each year, the I luman Resources Department and the
human resources diyision of any City entity whose duties and responsibilities include
trainine pursuant to this article. shall report to the City Council with respect to the nature.
frequency, attendance requirements. and outreach initiatives undertaken for training city
personnel on the prohibitions and requirements of this article.

Sec. 27-9-8. Violations and penalties.

Where a public servant is alleged to have violated this article. a complaint may be
?led with either the Department ot? Civil Riahts. inclusion and Opportunity, the Detroit
Police Department. the Board of Police Commissioners. or as appropriate, the matter
shall he referred; its?appropriate. to the Ceity Ceouncil in accordance with section 2-
ltl'i'tQC] of the 4?9947?Deaeit?Giey Charter. or to the department director or agency head.
for reyiew. investigation. and disposition. Any disciplinary action shall be carried out in
accordance with the proyisions of the Wit?DeHeit?Gity Chatter and other laws. city
personnel rules. civil service rules, union contracts. or other departmental or agency rules
and regulations.

{hi Where a complaint is referred to City Council in accordance with section 3-107
(C) of the Charter. City Council shall exercise its powers of investigation pursuant to
sections 4-109 and 4?1 10 of the Charter to hold hearings and investigate the matter.
Where issues of failure to comply with reporting. requirements. insul?licient response to
complaints, or other 1riolations of this article by City departments arise. City Council may
exercise its powers ot?inyestiaation pursuant to sections 4-109 and 4-110 of the Charter.
Secs. 27-9-9?27-9-10. - Reserved.

Section 2. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance

10

11

12

13

14

are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public
peace, health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. In the event that this ordinance is passed by a two-thirds majority
of the City Council Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become
effective upon publication in accordance with Section 4-118 of the Charter. Where this
ordinance is passed by less than two-thirds majority of the City Council Members
serving, it shall become effective no later than thirty (30) days after enactment in
accordance with Section 4-118 of the Charter.

Approved as to form:

 

Lawrence Garcia

Corporation Counsel

