Transportation Committee Minutes
Thursday, September 12th, 8:30 – 10:20 AM
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce – 1414 N. Ashland Ave.
In attendance: Joe Hall (Committee Chair), Mary Tamminga (Voting Member)
Guests: Jason Jenkins (Vendor – Dero)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
1. 2019 Budget Update
a. GK discussed the current 2019 budget that will now be attached to each
committee agenda
b. While it does appear that Transportation Committee has not spent all budgeted
money in each line, many initiatives from other committees have gone over in
2019 so the budget is tighter than it looks
2. Wayfinding
a. Kiosks/Blade signs
i. Permits are currently going through City Council. We should have more
updates by next month’s meeting.
b. Kiosk Art Work
i. Staff has received a couple submissions and will bring them to Art
Committee to be reviewed.
ii. Staff was delaying on this since the permitting process has been delayed.
c. Art Plaques
i. The plaques have begun fabrication and should be arriving soon.
3. Bike Racks
a. 36 Bike Racks (18 branded, 18 unbranded) have been ordered
b. JJ from Dero suggests putting the order on hold until Spring to prevent any
winter damage as SSA and Dero wait to figure out who knew bike parking liaison
for CDOT it
4. Benches
a. Staff will be posting an RFP for a new bench vendor.
b. JJ presented the DERO brochure which includes different models for benches.
c. JH and the committee would like to remain consistent with the current model
but were interested in other colors included in the original SSA #33 color palette.
5. Parklet/People Spot
a. Picante at 2018 W. Division St. reached out to Alderman’s office with interested
to host

 b. The committee discussed different neighborhoods successes and failures with
these types of people spots.
c. JJ presented Dero’s parklet which is priced around $12,000.
d. The committee would also need to budget for proper furniture and planters for
this project.
i. JH suggests using the old blue lounge project furniture.
6. Polish Triangle Planters
a. MT would like to invite Drew Bayley (Polish Triangle Coalition) to discuss the
location of the planters.
b. GK expressed willingness to work with Polish Triangle Coalition but reiterated
that SSA Commission would prefer to stick with orange planters consistent with
SSA brand

 