ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JB Pritzker • Governor Charles Schmadeke • Chairman Marcus Fruchter • Administrator

160 North LaSalle ♠ Suite 300 ♣ Chicago, Illinois 60601 ♥ tel 312/814-4700 ♦ fax 312/814-4602

Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes – Casino and Video Gaming
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
August 8, 2019
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting – Casino and Video – on Thursday,
August 8, 2019 at approximately 9:00 A.M. in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board office on the 5th
Floor of the Michael Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, IL pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5
ILCS 120/1 et seq.
A roll call was taken. The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Charles Schmadeke,
Member Steve Dolins, Member Ruben Ramirez and Member Dionne Hayden. Four members of the Board
being physically present, a quorum was satisfied.
The new Board Chairman, Charles Schmadeke, began the meeting by thanking Governor Pritzker for the
honor and privilege of the appointment to the Illinois Gaming Board and thanked the Governor’s staff for their
assistance in the appointment process. The Chairman also thanked Administrator Marcus Fruchter for his
assistance in the orientation process and noted that he looks forward to with working with him, IGB staff and
fellow Board members in accomplishing the important mission that the Governor and the General Assembly
bestowed upon them. The Chairman noted that the Board is facing many important challenges in the months
ahead including the implementation of gaming expansion in the State of Illinois. The Chairman further noted
as the Board undertakes these challenges, the goals will be three fold; assisting economic development,
promoting Illinois tourism and increasing State and local government revenues. He also stated these goals
will only be achieved if the public has confidence and trust in the credibility and integrity of gaming
operations in this State and maintaining that confidence and trust will be at the heart of his tenure on this
Board.
At approximately 9:04 A.M., Member Dolins moved that the Board go into closed session pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat
Gambling Act to discuss items on the closed session agenda relating to specific personnel, the closed session
minutes, investigations, and pending litigation. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote. Thereafter, the Board moved from the Conference Room on the 5th
Floor of the Michael Bilandic Building to the Conference Room on the 3rd Floor of the building for a closed
session meeting; the minutes of which are separately recorded.
At approximately 10:10 A.M., the Board returned to the Conference Room on the 5th Floor of the Michael
Bilandic Building Center, in Chicago, Illinois to reconvene its Regular Meeting – Casino and Video Gaming –
of Thursday August 1, 2019 pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Charles Schmadeke, Member Steve Dolins,
Member Ruben Ramirez and Member Dionne Hayden. Four members of the Board being physically present,
a quorum was satisfied.

1

 Member Ramirez moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting of
Thursday, June 13, 2019. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via
voice vote.

CHAIRMAN COMMENTS
For the benefit of those who were not present earlier, the Chairman reiterated the comments he made at
the outset of the open session.
ADMINISTRATOR REPORT
Administrator Fruchter thanked the Chairman for his kind words and noted that he echoes his sentiments
regarding the importance of the Board’s mission. With regard to a new Chicago casino, Administrator
Fruchter noted that the retention of a consultant to complete the City of Chicago feasibility study that was
required by the Illinois Gambling Act was procured in accordance with the law and that the study is
expected to be delivered to the Illinois Gaming Board on August 12, 2019. He further noted that the
study will be delivered to stakeholders and released to the public in compliance with the statute. With
respect to gaming expansion rules, the Administrator noted that the Board’s agenda includes requests that
the Board delegate authority to the Administrator to promulgate emergency rules to implement provisions
of the Illinois Gambling Act, Video Gaming Act and the Sports Wagering Act. He noted that these
emergency rules are necessary and appropriate to effectuate the swift and efficient implementation of the
gaming expansion bill. The Administrator further stated that at today’s meeting and at the meetings
ahead, he expects that concurrent with the promulgation of emergency rules by the Administrator, staff
with be asking the Board to propose for publication with the Secretary of State, permanent rules that will
track and be coordinated with the emergency rules that are adopted. Lastly, the Administrator noted that
there are now 31, 949 VGTs currently in operation at 6,991 locations in the State of Illinois.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
The Board entertained comments from the following speakers: Anita Bedell, Executive Director Illinois
Church Action on Alcohol and Addiction Problems; John Alan Bryk, Illinois Coordinator Stop Predatory
Gambling and Ivan Fernandez, Executive Director Illinois Gaming Machine Operators Association.
CASINO
RULEMAKING
Emergency Rules
Member Hayden moved that the Board delegate authority to the Administrator to promulgate
Emergency Rules to implement provisions of the Illinois Gambling Act, as amended by Public Act 1010031, effective June 28, 2019. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
via voice vote.
Proposed Permanent Rulemaking – Independent Outside Testing Laboratories
Member Ramirez moved that the Board approve for submission to the Index Department of the
2

 Secretary of State on First Notice, the proposed Rule to license independent outside testing laboratories
under the Illinois Gambling Act. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration, Key Persons:


Eric L. Golebiewski – Key Person – Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a
Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises, LLC d/b/a
Harrah’s Metropolis Casino –Vice President of Enterprise Security Operations

Member Dolins moved that the Board find Eric L. Golebiewski suitable as a Key Person of Des Plaines
Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel and Southern Illinois Riverboat
Casino/Cruises LLC d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino in his role as Vice President of Enterprise
Security Operations for Caesars Entertainment Corporation. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously via voice vote.


Randall Wayne Kelley – Key Person – Casino Queen, Inc. – Director of Casino Queen, Inc. and
CQ Holding Company, Inc.

Member Ramirez moved that the Board find Randall Wayne Kelley suitable as a Key Person of Casino
Queen, Inc. in his role as Director of Casino Queen, Inc. and CQ Holding Company, Inc. Member
Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.


Terrence Lloyd Hanger – Key Person – Casino Queen, Inc. – President and Director of Casino
Queen, Inc. and CQ Holding Company, Inc.

Member Ramirez moved that the Board find Terrence Lloyd Hanger suitable as a Key Person of
Casino Queen, Inc. in his role as President and Director of Casino Queen, Inc. and CQ Holding
Company, Inc. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 1 Licenses – Approvals and Denials:


Corrine L. Slinde-Mally – Level 1 – Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino/Cruises LLC d/b/a
Harrah’s Metropolis Casino – Staff Internal Auditor.

Member Dolins moved that the Board approve Corrine L. Slinde-Mally as a Level 1 Occupational
Licensee in her position as Staff Internal Auditor for Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino/Cruises LLC
d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.


David James Ruefer – Level 1 – The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino & Hotel
– Controller.

Member Ramirez moved that the Board approve David James Ruefer as a Level 1 Occupational
Licensee in his position as Controller for The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino & Hotel.
Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
3

 

Faith Ellen Forkell – Level 1 – Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino
– Internal Auditor.

Member Hayden moved that the Board approve Faith Ellen Forkell as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee
in her position as an Internal Auditor for the Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel
Casino. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.


Julie Ann Perhay – Level 1 – Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel Casino
– Director of Finance.

Member Hayden moved that the Board approve Julie Ann Perhay as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee in
her position as Director of Finance for the Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel
Casino. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials:
Member Hayden moved that the Board approve 49 Level 2 and 96 Level 3 occupational licenses and
authorize the Administrator to issue a Notice of Denial to:


Bob Dale Martin

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals:
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Level 1, 2, and 3 licenses of individuals who were
licensed or renewed in July and August 2018 and who have properly updated their applications, timely
paid their annual fees, and are in compliance with the requirements of the Illinois Gambling Act and the
Board's Rules. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
DISCIPLINARY COMPLAINTS
Member Ramirez moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Level 3
occupational license of Andrea Marie Sadler, revocation taking effect 21 days after the Notice of
Disciplinary Complaint is served unless she properly files an answer within that timeframe in
accordance with Rule 1125. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via
voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Level 3
occupational license of Timothy Alan Smith Jr., with said action taking effect 21 days after the Notice
of Disciplinary Complaint is served, unless an answer is properly filed within that timeframe in
accordance with Rule 1125. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via
voice vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Level 3
occupational license of Joseph Henry Miller, with said action taking effect 21 days after the Notice of
4

 Disciplinary Complaint is served, unless an answer is properly filed within that timeframe in accordance
with Rule 1125. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.

Upon completion of the Casino portion of the agenda, the Board took a short recess before beginning the
Video Gaming portion of its meeting. Immediately following the return from recess, Chairman
Schmadeke informed all those in attendance that he was voting on all the motions that were made during
the meeting, but due to inaudibility concerns he confirmed for the record that in each of the votes taken,
he had voted “Yea.”
VIDEO GAMING
RULEMAKING
Member Hayden moved that the Board delegate authority to the Administrator to promulgate
Emergency Rules to implement the Video Gaming Act as amended by Public Act 101-0031. Member
Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that the Board approve for submission to the Index Department of the Secretary
of State on First Notice, the proposed rules and amendments to the Video Gaming Rules to implement
the Video Gaming Act as amended by Public Act 101-0031. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
VIDEO GAMING MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR & SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the following Video Gaming Supplier licenses for a period
of one year, retroactive to July 2019, and expiring in July 2020.
1.
2.

CountR GMBH
M3 Technology Solutions, LLC

Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board renew the following Video Gaming Manufacturer, Distributor,
and/or Supplier licenses for a period of one year, expiring in August 2020:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

American Vending Sales, Inc.
Aristocrat Technologies, Inc.
Bally Gaming, Inc.
H. Betti Industries, Inc.
IGT
JCM American Corporation
Konami Gaming, Inc.

Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
5

 TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Licenses


Winner’s Choice Gaming, LLC

Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Terminal Operator license to Winner’s Choice Gaming,
LLC for a term of one year, expiring in August 2020, as the applicant has demonstrated its
qualificationsand suitability for licensure. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.


Action Video Gaming, LLC

Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Terminal Operator license to Action Video Gaming, LLC
for a term of one year, expiring in August 2020, as the applicant has demonstrated its qualifications and
suitability for licensure. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via
voice vote.
License Renewals
Member Hayden moved move that the Board renew the following Terminal Operator licenses for a
period of one year, retroactive to July 2019, and expiring in July 2020.
1.
2.
3.
4.

FJC Technologies LLC
G.F.M. Gaming, LLC
Illinois Gaming and Coin-Op LLC
Pocket Aces Gaming Inc.

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that the Board renew the following Terminal Operator licenses for a period of
one year, expiring in August 2020:
1.
2.
3.
4.

A1_Keshav Krupa LLC
Donico Gaming, LLC
Game On Entertainment, LLC
Veterans VGT, LLC

Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
TECHNICIANS & TERMINAL HANDLERS
Initial Licenses – Approval and Denials
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve 2 Technician licenses and 73 Terminal Handler licenses,
and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to the following individuals:
1. Joseph Amaro, Jr.
2. Adam Miller Whitlock
6

 3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Anderson Clayborn Brooks
Brandy Sharise Brooks
Randall David Adams
Lyndale Tawon Parker
Robert Lee Creath, Jr.
Firandos Lonzo, Jr.

Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Technician and Terminal Handler licenses that were
licensed or renewed in July and August 2018 and who have properly updated their applications, timely
paid their annual fees, and are in compliance with the requirements of the Video Gaming Act and the
Board's Rules. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT APPLICATIONS
Initial Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Ramirez moved that the Board approve 83 Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, for a
period of one year, expiring in July 2020, subject to licensee’s payment of the applicable licensing fee
on or before August 31, 2019; and further authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to the
following applicants:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Bullheads Steakhouse LLC d/b/a Bullheads Steak House
C-Store Development Company d/b/a Creve Coeur Shell
Napoli Cucina L.L.C. d/b/a Canta Napoli
Priya Tobacco Inc. d/b/a The Tobacco Shop
Sauced Pub, Inc. d/b/a Sauced Pub
Shivansh Inc. d/b/a Livingston IGA
Tacos San Jose, Inc. d/b/a Tacos San Jose
The Big BM Inc. d/b/a Hoppers
ZZA Factory Inc. d/b/a ZZA Factory

Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that Board waive the 1,000 foot location restriction requirement pursuant to
Section 25(h) of the Video Gaming Act and further that the Board grant an establishment license to J&Z
Food Basket Inc. d/b/a J & Z Food Basket. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
License Renewals
Member Ramirez moved that the Board renew the licenses of Retail Establishments, Truck Stop
Establishments, Veteran Establishments and Fraternal Establishments that were licensed or renewed in
July and August 2018 and that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fee, and
are otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the Video Gaming Act and the Board's Rules.
Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
7

 REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing
Member Hayden moved that the Board deny the hearing request submitted by Richard Martin Miller.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that that the Board deny the hearing request submitted by Ward Eugene
Williams. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Requests to Reapply
Member Ramirez moved that that the Board grant El Nuevo Vallarta Sports Bar and Grill, Inc. d/b/a
El Nuevo Vallarta Sports Bar and Grill’s request to reapply. Member Hayden seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board grant Lou’s Tap Inc., Inc. d/b/a Louie’s Tap House’s request
to reapply. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
LITIGATION/SETTLEMENTS
Member Hayden moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to enter into a settlement agreement
with Mexican Honorary Commission. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to enter into a settlement agreement
with Terrence Maloney, an agreement which may include granting applicant a hearing. Member Dolins
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to enter into a settlement agreement
with The Bullpen Inc. d/b/a The Bullpen Bar & Grill. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to enter into a settlement agreement
with Qwikx One Convenience Store, Inc. d/b/a Shar's Armanetti Fine Wine & Spirits regarding the
pending revocation. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice
vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to rescind disciplinary complaints
DC-V-18-174 against Karco Inc. d/b/a Rollnup #16 Smoke Shop & Liquor and DC-V-18-175
against Eureka Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Universal Gaming Group. Member Hayden seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board rescind the denial and grant Jameson Pub, INC. d/b/a Skooter's
Roadhouse an establishment license. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
8

 Member Ramirez moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to enter into a settlement agreement
with Veterans VGT, LLC regarding disciplinary complaint DC-V-19-04. Member Hayden seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to enter into a settlement agreement
with Leisure Time Gaming & Amusements, Inc. for $7,500.00. Member Hayden seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board authorize the Administrator to enter into a settlement agreement
with Slager's on 47th d/b/a Slager's on 47th for $5,000.00 and if appropriate rescind the disciplinary
complaint. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board adopt Administrative Law Judge’s recommended findings of fact
in Payal Gas & Food, Inc., d/b/a Payal Gas & Food (18-GB-007), reject his conclusions of law in the
matter, and issue a final order fining the location establishment $5,000.00. Member Ramirez seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board adopt the Administrative Law Judge’s recommended findings of
fact In re: Denial of Springfield Pub d/b/a The Dublin Pub (18-GB-037) except for finding number
18 and issue a final order denying the location establishment Applicant a license. Member Ramirez
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board adopt Administrative Law Judge’s recommended finding of fact
in Porkchop Glenwood LLC d/b/a Porkchop (18-GB-029) and issue a final Board order denying
Applicant a license. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice
vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board adopt Administrative Law Judge’s recommended findings of fact
in Justin Laumbattus d/b/a Em’s Tavern (18-GB-042) and Ulises Garcia-Leonardo (19-GB-020)
and issue final Board orders revoking their respective licenses. Member Hayden seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.

SPORTS WAGERING
RULEMAKING
Member Dolins moved that the Board delegate authority to the Administrator to promulgate Emergency
Rules to implement the Sports Wagering Act as enacted by Public Act 101-0031. Member Ramirez
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
ADJOURN
Member Dolins moved to adjourn the meeting. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously via voice vote.

9

 