Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
July 16, 2019, 8:00 a.m.
Minutes for July 16, 2019
Commissioners present: Neville Reid, John Cooke, Juan Morado, Jr., Everett Rand and Cory
Foster
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage, Gina Oka, Kate Schellinger,
Tom Strachan, Denielle Mathys (Court Reporter), Jeanne Cotini, Judy Salgado, Nicole Vahl,
Jessica Caffrey, Larry Brozek, Gregory Kirsch, John Roberson, Benjamin Schuster, Dominick
Zota
Approval of Minutes
President Reid called the meeting to order and took the roll call of Commissioners.
Commissioner Rand moved and Commissioner Foster seconded that the minutes from the last
meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Public Comments
Greg Kirsch, Chairman of the Tri-Taylor Community Association, introduced himself. Mr.
Kirsch made a public comment as to the commitment of the Tri-Taylor Community to
preserve the historic nature of the community. Mr. Kirsch thanked the Commission for its
communication and collaboration.
Jessica Caffrey, Director of Real Estate for Cook County, introduced herself. Ms. Caffrey made
a public comment as to the zoning ordinance known as PD30. Ms. Caffrey requested a meeting
between Cook County and IMD to discuss PD30 authorizations.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney introduced the new General Counsel, Gina Oka. Dr. McKinney then provided
the following report:
Opportunity Zones – Workshop that the IMD joined with the City Clerk, Chicago
Community Trust and Accelerator for America. An Opportunity Zone lies within the District’s
boundaries.
Market Study – Kaufman Hall has been conducting a market study of the IMD for purposes of
evaluating the market opportunity for health innovation, with a particular focus on the District’s
Opportunity Zone.

 IMD Foundation – Mission and vision statement for the Foundation have been established.
Members of the Foundation Board have been identified. Regular updates will continue to be
provided to the Commissioners.
Financial Report
Mr. Strachan provided a financial report and noted the following:
•
•
•

Cash and cash equivalent have dropped;
Payables have declined;
Accounts receivable have declined.
Old Business

No old business to report.
Executive Session
Upon motion by President Reid, seconded by Commissioner Rand, the Commission went into
executive session pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2 (c) (1) and (11).
Open Session (Resumed)
The Commission returned to open session.
New Business
No new business to report.

Commissioner Rand moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was seconded
by Commissioner Morado and approved by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Neville Reid
President

 