Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes

Date:

September 5, 2019

Time:

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

Co-Chairs:
MBAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Greg Piland

Federal Highway Administration

Deloris Lucas

Far South Region Rep

Jon Mickles

Chicago Dept of Finance

Margarita Reina

CDPH

John O’Neal

CMAP

Jose Abonce

West Region Rep

Todd Wyatt

CMAP

Sean Wiedel

CDOT

Garth Katner

West Town Bikes

David Smith

CDOT

Jeremy Glover

MPC

Joe Sislow

Northwest Region Rep

Jacob Peters

North Region Rep

Brendan Daley

Chicago Park District

Melanie Eckner

Far North Region Rep

Maurice Perkins

Far Southwest Region Rep

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:08 pm by Sean Wiedel
June MBAC meeting minutes were approved.

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Bicycle Crash Fatality Update –
a) Zero fatalities through end of August. Unfortunately, a person on a bicycle was fatally hit at the beginning of
September in Garfield Park. This incident was a hit & run. b) Injuries are down compared to date last year
and 18% down compared to our five-year period. c) Overall traffic fatalities are down 30% compared to this
time last year.

David Smith

City Updates a) Vision Zero - Both the Operations Group (composed of City Agencies) and the Advocacy Group
(composed of stakeholders) have already met. New working groups: Data, Policy & Marketing have
met a few times already. A World Day of Remembrance planning committee has been organized to
coordinate efforts for this year’s event. A soft release of the Vision Zero West Side Plan took place at
the end of July. Funding for the Vision Zero Northwest High Crash Area has been secured. An RFP
for Vision Zero South Side has been released; engagement for this High Crash Area is planned to
begin next year.
b) Projects - Extending bike lanes on State St. from 95th to 119th St. Next year this project will further
extend to 127th. Other improvements are taking place along 104th St in West Pullman {ark to create
access points to the Major Taylor Trail. As part of the Riverdale multimodal plan, 130th St will get
bike lanes to connect with Major Taylor, including a sidepath. New improvements along 55th Street
are in the pipeline - CDOT wants to work with the Southeast Region Community Rep to engage the
community around this project - part of this project includes a protected bike lane connecting to
South Shore Community Center. Bike lanes along Harrison St. and other improvements were
primarily funded by UIC - a bike lane on Loomis connecting to Polk St will be extended to Ashland this project is also in collaboration with Rush University. Also, there are new protected bike lanes on
Wood. New Madison Street bike lanes from Pulaski to Garfield Park with curb extensions. New 5’
bike lanes installed on Clark St in the far north region - speed was also reduced along this corridor to
20 mph and there were also painted bump-outs installed.

Sean Wiedel

David Smith

 Mayor’s Bicycle Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Lyft Update a) Expansion area comprises a total of 15 sq. miles across the South Side. b) The boundaries are the
following: North- W 79th St; South - E 113th St; East - S Doty Ave; West - S Western Ave. c)This area is
only the first step of the overall expansion to the entire city d) There will be less stations in the expansion
area: 30 new stations. e) Criteria considered when identifying locations for new stations: based on
community feedback; suggest a divvy station (http://suggest.divvybikes.com/page/about); near existing transit
hubs; near recreation areas; Aldermanic review + feedback f)The bulk of the expansion will take place
between this year and 2021. g) E-bikes will help close the gaps where there are no stations close by. h)
Hubs are considered virtual stations. e)Divvy is working with the City to draft policies about geo-fencing bikes
around city boundaries. j) The Chicago Park District is evaluating the design of the trail and the policies on
allowing E-bikes along the Lakefront Trail - The public can share feedback with the Park District through this
link: https://www.chicagoparkdistrict.com/parks-facilities/lakefront-trail
k) Divvy is prioritizing community engagement to build relationships, educate the community and connect with
new opportunities. l) As part of this engagement Divvy is running a bike mechanic boot camp, this is a youth
program that provides career counsel to youth, personal finance training, and the opportunity to interview at
Divvy for a mechanic position. m)Community Grants have been provided to organizations across the City.
n) Roundtables will provide opportunities for more focused conversations with stakeholders, these events will
be scheduled soon.
Far North Region a)The Far North Side has always modeled a sustainable lifestyle. b) This presentation focuses primarily in
Uptown where there has been consistent negative narratives about the community. c)Challenges in this
area: Lakefront train as a destination for all Chicago; traffic volume; accidental arteries - very narrow streets
that were never designed to handle the volume of traffic currently circulating there; distrust of government.
d)Priorities: coordinate, connect & protect all modes of active transportation; focus on most vulnerable users;
resolve conflicts along Lakefront Trail; extend Glenwood Greenway to improve Rogers Park biking safety.
Southeast Regiona) The Gateway to black Chicago- landmark for the Great Migration. b) Challenges: access to the Lake;
facing gentrification and displacement; issues accessing other assets in the community such as McCormick
Center.

Ron Burke & Jon
Stiffler

Community Reps Contact Information

Email

Melanie Eckener - Far North Region

farnorthmbac@gmail.com

Southeast Region

southeastmbac@gmail.com

Joe Sislow - Northwest Region

northwestmbac@gmail.com

Jacob Peters - North Region

northmbac@gmail.com

Jose Abonce - West Region

westmbac@gmail.com

Lynda Lopez - Southwest Region

southwestmbac@gmail.com

Deloris Lucas - Far South Region

farsouthmbac@gmail.com

Maurice Perkins - Far Southwest Region

farsouthwestmbac@gmail.com

Melanie Eckner

Dan Black

Public Comment & Announcements
a)
b)
c)

Roll N Peace - Friday September 13 at 7 pm - meet at 63rd St & Ashland
Uniting Communities for Peace Ride - Saturday September 14 at 9 am meeting at Build Chicago - 5100 W. Harrison
Uniting Communities for Peace Ride - Saturday September 21 at 9 am meeting at NWSHC -5233 W Diversey

Adjournment at 4:40 pm
Video Recording for this meeting can be found here: https://www.bikelaneuprising.com/chicago

 