Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Thursday, June 20, 2019 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1950 W.
Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Koetting called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Mike Koetting and Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim; Robert G. Reiter, Jr.; and Layla P.
Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (4)

Directors Mary B. Richardson-Lowry and Sidney A. Thomas, MSW
Telephonically
Present:
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio)
Absent:

Director Hon. Dr. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Cathy Bodnar – Chief Corporate Compliance and
Privacy Officer
Ryan Caldwell - RSM
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Operations
Pat Kitchen - RSM
II.

Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – Director of Internal Audit
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive
Officer (telephonically)

Public Speakers
Chair Koetting asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (Attachment #1)
Cathy Bodnar, Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer, provided an overview of the information
contained in the Report and related action items under Agenda Item IV(A). The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
The report included information on the following subjects:
• Metrics/Annual Reports:
- Cook County Health as a Provider of Health Care Services
- CountyCare Medicaid Health Plan
• Work Plan Activity
• Action – Review and Approvals (Agenda Item IV(A))
- Code of Ethics (Review Only)
- Audit and Compliance Committee Charter
- Corporate Compliance Governance Reporting
- Corporate Compliance Hot Line Charter

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, June 20, 2019
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (continued)
With regard to the Corporate Compliance Hot Line Charter, Ms. Bodnar noted that it is being brought to the
Committee for approval at this time, but because it is an operational charter, she recommends that the future
state for this Charter be managed through Cook County Health’s Compliance Executive Committee.
During the review of the information on slide 7 of the presentation, regarding projects involving
safeguarding protected health information, Director Richardson-Lowry suggested that staff look for federal
grant funding opportunities that could provide additional resources for those projects.

IV.

Action Items
A. Corporate Compliance Action Items
• Receive and File Code of Ethics for Cook County Health (Attachment #2)
• Approval of Audit and Compliance Committee Charter (Attachment #3)
• Approval of Policy on Corporate Compliance Reporting to the Governance Authorities of Cook
County Health (Attachment #4)
• Approval of Corporate Compliance Hot Line Charter (Attachment #5)
Director Reiter, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to approve the Audit and
Compliance Committee Charter; the Policy on Corporate Compliance Reporting to
the Governance Authorities of Cook County Health; and the Corporate Compliance
Hot Line Charter. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, March 15, 2019
An amendment was made to the minutes to correct an error. Within the minutes, Director Suleiman
Gonzalez was listed as making the motion to approve the Internal Audit Charter; however, she was absent at
that meeting. That motion now properly reflects that Director Reiter made the motion to approve.
Director Reiter, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to approve the minutes of
the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of March 15, 2019, as amended.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
C. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Report from Director of Internal Audit
B. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Director Reiter, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to recess the open meeting
and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific
employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing
testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, June 20, 2019
Page 3

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(29),
regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and governmental audit
committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion involves
internal control weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or
suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards of the United States of America.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a
roll call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chair Koetting and Directors Gugenheim and Reiter (3)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Directors Deer and Suleiman Gonzalez* (2)
* Director Suleiman Gonzalez was not present when the roll call on the motion
to go into a closed meeting was taken, but was present during the closed
meeting.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee convened into
a closed meeting.
Chair Koetting declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The Committee
reconvened into the open meeting.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Koetting declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Mike Koetting, Chair
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Requests/Follow-up:
There were no requests for follow-up at this meeting.

 