Eetruit legal 3}?th
Wednesday, September 4. 2019

a7;44;/?

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Planning Commission in the Com-
mittee of the Whole Room. 13th Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center,
Tlvo Woodward Avenue. Detroit. Michigan 48226. on

William-diam.

to consider the request of the City of Detroit Planning and Development Department
to amend Article XVII. District Map No.45 oi the 1984 Detroit City Code. Chapter 61.
Zoning. by showing a M3 (General Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where n2
(Two-family Residential District) and B4 (General Business District) zoning
classifications currently exists on one-hundred forty-seven (147) parcels. generally
bounded by the W. Warren Avenue to the north. the I-94 Edsel Ford Expressway lo
the south and east. and 35th Street and Parkdeie Avenue extended to the west.

The location of the proposed rezoning is speci?cally Indicated as the shaded area
on the accompanying map.

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow tor the establishment
of a highimedlum-impect manutacturlng automotive supplier. The proposed
highfmedium-Impact manulacturing or processing facility would be permitted on a by-
right in the proposed M3 zoning classification.

The pertinent zoning district classifications are described as follows:
H2??i?wo-lamlly Residential District

The district is designed to protect and enhance those areas developed or likely to
develop with single- or two-family dwellings. The district regulations are designed to
promote a suitable environment for homes and for activities connected with family
life. The only principal uses permitted by right are single- and two-iamily dwellings.
Additional uses are conditional.

Bot?General Business District

The B4 General Business District provides lor business and commercial uses of
thoroughiare-orianled nature. in addition to these uses. other businesses. which
may benefit by drawing part of their clientele trom passing traffic are permitted.
Additional uses. which may be successlully blended with permitted by?right uses.
are conditional.

his?General Industrial District

This district is composed of property so situated as to be suitable tor industrial
development. but where the modes of operation of the Industry may aifect any
nearby residential uses. The purpose at this district Is to permit the normal
operation of a majority oi industries. sublect only to those regulations needed to
control congestion and to protect nearby residential districts. No new residential
construction is permitted in this district with the exception of left conversions of
existing buildings and of residential uses combined in structures with permitted
commercial uses. These requirements are to protect residences from an undesir-
able environment and to ensure reservation of adequate areas for industrial development.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval at the City Council atter
a public hearing and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City
Planning Commission. This Zoning Ordinance map amendment request is being
considered consistent with the provisions of Article Division 3 of Chapter 61 oi
the 1984 Detroit City Code. the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing. by
authorizing others to represent you. or by writing to this oillce prior to the hearing: 2
Woodward Avenue. Ftoom 288. Detroit. Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336).
Because it is possible that some who are aliected by this proposal may not have
been notified. it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so that they too
may express their positions If they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days. the City oi Detroit will provide
interpreter services at public meetings. including language translation and
reasonable ADA accommodations. Please contact the Civil Rights, inclusion and
Opportunity Department at W. through the TTY number 711. or email
to schedule these services.

For further information on this proposal or the public hearing. please call (313)
224-6225.

. 


 

     
     
  

 
   
   
   

    

 

31

r. if ..

F.m

Proposed Rezoning trom H2 and to M3
City Planning - 30

