POLICE BOARD
CITY OF CHICAGO
REPORT OF COMMUNITY INPUT RECEIVED
AT THE PUBLIC MEETING ON AUGUST 22, 2019
Seventeen members of the public spoke during the public comments portion of the meeting. See
the transcript of the meeting, posted on the Board’s website, for a complete report of each
speaker’s remarks.
The Chicago Police Department responded to the remarks made by Octavia Mitchell, John
Perryman, Jennifer Edwards, June Norfleet, Matthew Brandon, Sharon-Banks Pincham, Loretta
Turner, Alonzo Anderson, and Barney Barnhart (see below).
The Civilian Office of Police Accountability responded to the remarks made by Flora Suttle,
Kimberly Howell-Gilmore, and David Dewar (see below).
The Office of the Police Board determined that the remarks made by Crista Noel, Lee Bielecki,
Queen Sister, George Blakemore, and Robert More did not require a response in addition to that
provided at the meeting.

  

Lori Lightfoot Department of Police - City of Chicago Eddie T. Johnson
Mayor 3510 S. Michigan Avenue - Chicago, Illinois 60653 Superintendent of Police

 

September 19, 2019
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL

Max A. Caproni

Executive Director

Chicago Police Board

30 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1220
Chicago, IL 60602
Max.Caproni@cityofchicago.org

Re: Response to Community Input Received at the Augus122, 2019 Police Board
Meeting

Dear Mr. Caproni,

Thank you for forwarding the transcript of the August 22, 2019 Police Board Meeting so
that the community comments can be reviewed, and the Chicago Police Department (CPD) can
provide a report of the work it has done on this topic. This report is speci?cally in response to
the public comments from Octavia Mitchell, John Perryman, Jennifer Edwards, June Nor?eet,
Matt Brandon, Sharon Banks-Pincham, Loretta Turner, Alonzo Anderson and Barney Barnhart.
The Department appreciates these individuals taking the time to appear at the Police Board
Meeting and raise these important issues which we continue to evaluate and attempt to resolve.
The Bureau of Patrol and the Bureau of Detectives were consulted in drafting this response.

Octavia Mitchell

Ms. Mitchell spoke about DNA swabs taken from her son Izael Jackson. These DNA
swabs were released to ISP at the request of COPA. During her comments Ms. Mitchell stated
what she was told by an employee of the Illinois State Police Department (ISP), the Chicago
Police Department was not part of that conversation and cannot speak to what Ms. Mitchell was
told by ISP. According to Chicago Police Department records, Inventory Number 11996604 
cotton swabs for DNA recovered from the weapon, was received by the Evidence Recovery and
Property Section on May 6, 2010 from the Forensic Unit. Inventory Number
1 i1996604 remained at ERPS until it was released to ISP at the request of COPA on May 21,

 

Lori Lightfoot Department of Police - City of Chicago Eddie T. Johnson

3510 S. Michigan Avenue - Chicago, Illinois 60653 Superintendent of Police

 

2019. The Department cannot speak to any testing that has been completed by ISP since that
date.

John Pergyman

John Perryman spoke to raise concern about a troubled business in his community that he
hoped to have shut down. The Chief of Patrol has asked a Sergeant from the Troubled Buildings
Unit to keep in contact with Mr. Perryman and give him regular updates as to this business. As
of the last status provided by the Sergeant this business was in the process of moving and the
store-front was about 80% empty. The Department understands that much of Mr. Perryman's
frustration arose from a lack of communication and will work to be better at communicating
status of these complaints moving forward. That said, the Department is working with the
constraints of its resources and must act in a manner to provide for the safety of the entire
community.

Jennifer Edwards. Jg?l?ior?eet. Matt Brandon

These three individuals combined their time to offer a proposal amending the
Department's Cadet Program. The proposed amendment is very thoughtful and thorough and the
Department appreciates the time this group took in creating this proposal. In reviewing the
proposal it appears to be a combination of the Chicago Police and Fire Training Academy and
the Police Cadet Program. First, it is important to note that the Cadet program was re-
implemented in 2018 with the hire of 20 Cadets. These Cadets are paid minimum wage and are
required to be enrolled in college. In order to raise the salary to that suggested by these
individuals and to increase the number to 100 the Department would need an increase in its
budget. The Department will consider the proposal's suggestion that these Cadets be included in
a community policing capacity.

mum Banks?Pinchar_n. Loretta Turner. Alonzo Anderson

These individuals spoke about a community policing program active in the West
Chester?eld Community. They propose expanding the now existing surveillance camera
program and giving access to these cameras to the Department. They estimate that this program
would cost approximately $20-25 Million. The Department does not have the budget for this
program at this time, but in this vein has recently contracted with Ring Doorbell to utilize their

 

Lori Lightfoot Department of Police - City of Chicago Eddie T. Johnson
Mayor 3510 S. Michigan Avenue - Chicago, Illinois 60653 Superintendent of Police

 

community access. According to this agreement the Department has access to the community
forum on the Ring platform which allows the Bureau of Detectives to send a request to
individuals in a particular area to share video that they have from a certain day and time. These
citizens each purchase their own Ring cameras and voluntarily agree to provide this video to the
Department for their investigation.

Barney Barnhart

With respect to Mr. Barnhart's complaints about an open air drug market in his
neighborhood, the Bureau of Patrol and the Bureau of Organized crime are working together to
create a mission in this area to address his concerns.

sincerely,
Om??t?d?

Dana M. O'Malley
General Counsel
Of?ce of the Superintendent

COPA Remarks Regarding Citizen Comments
Chicago Police Board Meeting
August 22, 2019
During the August 22, 2019 Chicago Police Board (Board) meeting the speakers listed below made
statements related to COPA investigations or matters under its jurisdiction. Below is a summary of
COPA’s follow-up with each person based upon those statements.
I.

Ms. Flora Suttle requested guidelines for requesting a case be re-opened.
- August 22, 2019:
Immediately following the Board Meeting, COPA Public Information Officer (PIO) Ephraim
Eaddy provided Ms. Suttle his email address and asked her to direct her request and any
additional relevant information to him to ensure for prompt attention.
- September 6, 2019:
COPA received an email from Ms. Suttle to which she attached a letter requesting the
investigation be re-opened. The email is forwarded to COPA’s General Counsel, who advises
COPA’s First Deputy of the request. COPA Legal and Investigation Divisions began to
coordinate their review of Ms. Suttle’s request and the information provided.
- September 17, 2019:
Mr. Eaddy received a message from Ms. Suttle attaching copies of her prior correspondence.
Mr. Eaddy confirmed receipt of the email with Ms. Suttle and followed - up with COPA’s
General Counsel regarding status of the review.

II. Ms. Kimberly Howell-Gilmore requested an update on a case that involves her son.
- August 22, 2019:
Immediately following the Board Meeting, COPA PIO Ephraim Eaddy obtained Ms. HowellGilmore’s contact information.
- August 23, 2019:
PIO Eaddy contacted Ms. Howell-Gilmore to obtain the log number of her son’s case.
- September 12, 2019:
A COPA Case Liaison contacted Ms. Howell-Gilmore to provide a status update.
III. David Dewar alleged officers made false statements and reports concerning him.
- August 22, 2019:
Immediately following the Board Meeting, PIO Eaddy provided Mr. Dewar with COPA
contact information and explained how to file a complaint.
- September 17, 2019:
No complaint has been received from Mr. Dewar as of this date.
1615 WEST CHICAGO AVENUE, 4TH FLOOR, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60622
312.743.COPA (COMPLAINT LINE)   312.746.3609 (MAIN LINE)   312.745.3598 (TTY)   WWW.CHICAGOCOPA.ORG

 