Illinois Board of Examiners (ILBOE) Meeting
Board Minutes-April 18, 2018-10:00 AM
1120 E Diehl Rd., Room 105
Naperville, IL 60563
Members Present:

James Kelly, CPA, Chair; Jeannie Folk, CPA; Sheldon Holzman, CPA; Thomas
Homer, J.D; Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA (participated by phone); Simon Petravick,
CPA, Kent Reeves (participated by phone) and Larry Wojcik, CPA, JD

Absent:

Howard Engle, CPA; Sara Mikuta, CPA, Vice Chair

Guests:

Mr. Marty Green, VP Government Affairs, Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS)
Mr. Todd Shapiro, President and CEO, ICPAS

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director of Certification
Matthew Hoffman, Business Manager
Carla Ratchford, Assistant Director of Evaluation Services

Call to Order
Chairperson Kelly called the meeting to order at 10:05 AM.

1. Approval of January 10, 2018 Minutes
ACTION

Mr. Holzman motioned to accept the January 10, 2018 board meeting minutes as amended. Ms.
Folk seconded the motion. Motion passed on unanimous voice vote.

2. Report of the Chair-Mr. James Kelly
ACTION

a.

Chairperson Kelly, Mr. Green, Mr. Shapiro and the Board discussed the candidates referred
by the Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS) to replace two members whose terms expire at the end
of July and for one public member seat currently vacant. Mr. Friedewald will submit
acclamation.

b.

Chairperson Kelly stated that Mr. Friedewald’s mid-year evaluation was completed as was
the succession plan which will be included in the Board Manual.

c.

Chairperson Kelly and the Board discussed possible locations for future meetings.

3. Legislative Update-Mr. Marty Green
Mr. Green discussed the following matters: the committee deadline for chamber orders, the
absence of any bills addressing the Illinois Public Accounting Act, areas of focus for accountingglobal & professional licensing issues, sexual harassment training, the Military Family Licensing
Act (expedited licensure for spouses), human resources issues addressed in HB5354, biometric
and data breach issues, the Comptroller’s office no longer accepting cash-based accounting audits,
three amended statues, HB2717 (questionable professional standards & integrity) and Mr. Green
stated that bill tracking is available at www.icpas.org and their e-newsletters, among other sources.

 4. Report of the Executive Director-Mr. Russ Friedewald
ACTION

ACTION

a.

Chairperson Kelly and the Board approved the 1Q18 scores and Mr. Friedewald discussed
related data.

b.

Mr. Friedewald initiated discussion regarding the blockage of scores related to the provisional
approval process. The Board stated that the process will remain the same.

c.

Mr. Friedewald stated that Nettitude’s penetration test finding issues, which were presented
to Micropact, have been resolved. The Executive Committee suggested that the testing
be conducted annually. Members agreed that an annual penetration test should be
conducted and that Mr. Friedewald request bids from vendors including Nettitude.

d.

Admin Rule Update-No Report

e.

Mr. Friedewald updated the Board by stating that the current website has been active for three
years and a proposal for redesign has been received from the current designer. Mr.
Holzman stated that proposals from additional companies are needed due to fiduciary
responsibility.

f.

Mr. Friedewald, Chairperson Kelly, Ms. Folk, Mr. Holzman and Mr. Shapiro discussed the
current and possible diversity efforts for the ICPAS and ILBOE.

g.

Mr. Friedewald stated that the Auditor General’s office has contacted the ILBOE and the
entrance interview is scheduled for Thursday, April 19, 2018. Updates to the Board will
be forwarded by Mr. Friedewald.

h.

Mr. Friedewald reminded the Board to submit any outstanding Ethics completions.

i.

Mr. Friedewald confirmed the score card conversion project is near completion. Once
complete, a report will be sent to the Board and the cards will be destroyed. Mr. Holzman
suggested to also save the newly-converted data in “the cloud” (cloud computing).

j.

Mr. Friedewald also discussed the following “other matters”: an amendment to the ILBOENorthern Illinois University (NIU) contract resulting in a reduction in costs to NIU’s fees
received, ILBOE newsletter diagnostics data and potential in-house electronic record
storehouse software providers.

k.

Mr. Friedewald stated that the ILBOE’s Strategic Plan is complete and included in the Board
Manual..

ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS

5. American Institute of CPAs (AICPA) Board of Examiners-Mr. Shelly Holzman
Mr. Holzman reported that the AIPCA Board of Examiners’ meeting is scheduled for the end of
May, 2018. A finance call is scheduled in two weeks and testing of the exam’s new platform
rolled out without any issues.
Mr. Shapiro and the Board also discussed details surrounding the possible alternative pathways for
candidate testing based on the fact the accounting profession is changing, i.e., an increase in
students majoring in data analytics and firms hiring fewer CPAs.

 6. Administrative Committee-Mr. Larry Wojcik
No Report
7. Candidacy Committee-Mr. Simon Petravick
Dr. Petravick requested the addition of appeal responses from all Committee members to be
included in future Committee Appeals Report handouts. Mr. Friedewald explained the appeal
process.
8. Education Advisory Task Force-Mr. Simon Petravick
a.

Dr. Petravick discussed specific details for the upcoming Educators’ Conference scheduled
for April 27, 2018 including travel plans for guests, logistics and agenda.

b.

Ms. Folk, Mr. Holzman, Dr. Petravick, Ms. Ratchford and Mr. Friedewald discussed the
issues surrounding the newly-implemented approval process for college templates and the
breakdown of the integrated coursework.

9. Finance Committee-Ms. Sara Mikuta & Mr. Matt Hoffman
Mr. Hoffman and the Board discussed the financials for the current month, current year-to-date,
previous month and previous year-to-date in addition to the data relating to incoming applications.
10. Strategic Planning-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
No Report

AICPA/NASBA COMMITTEE REPORTS
11. CBT Administration Committee-Mr. Russ Friedewald
No Report
12. Communications Committee- Chairperson Jim Kelly and Mr. Sheldon Holzman
The various services, which are tailored to each individual state board, offered by the
Communications Department at NASBA were discussed.
13. Compliance Assurance Committee-Mr. Larry Wojcik
Mr. Wojcik discussed advised there is an upcoming call scheduled with the Committee and he
informed the Board of information discussed at the previous Peer Review meeting.
14. Diversity Committee-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
Ms. Kodjayan reported her Committee has been discussing minority involvement in societies,
committees, etc. The Committee is reviewing state board data and diversity initiatives, minority
testing data and working to correct problems that occur before college that keep minorities from
sitting for the exam.

Unfinished Business- None
New Business-None

 Chairperson Kelly adjourned the meeting at 1:24 PM.

