 

MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY LAND BANK AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

June 21,2019

Board of Directors 01? the Cook County Land Bank Authority met pursuant to notice on June 21.
2019 at 10:00 AM at the Cook County Administration Building. 69 West Washington. 22nd Floor.
Suite Chicago. Illinois 60602.

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
Chairman Gainer called the meeting of the Board of Directors to order.

 

Present: Directors Friedman. Gainer. Holmes. Monocchio. Ostenburg. Sherwin. Smith. Ware (8)
Absent: Directors Limas. Planey.- Richardson (3)
Also Present: Robert Rose (CCLBA Executive Director)

Others Present: Michelle Abreu Kimp (Chicago Communitt' Loan Fund). Bob Benjamin (Cook
(.?ountyt' Treasurer Anthony Blakely (Cook County Land Bank Authoritt'). Sabina
Bokhari (Rise Strategt' Group). Cora Buckle (Famdt? Pride Rea/tr). Natasha M. Cornog (Cook
County Land Bank Authoriti?). Derek Covington (20). Christian Del Aguila
(Concerned Citizen). Dominic Diorio (Cook (.?ounty Land Bank Authority). Darlene Dugo (Cook
County Land Bank Authority). Cicely Fleming (C'ommissioner Suffredin's Office). Rickey
Flournoy (Family Pride Realty). Cassidy Harper (Cook County Land Bank .1 uthority). Gene
Kelley (Cook County Land Bank Authority). Tameka Lewis (Real Peopte Nykea
Pippion-MCG riff (Rise Strategr Group). David Rudd (Rudd Resources). Elisha Sanders (Cook
County Land Bank Authority). Claudette Shivers (Cook Counlvt' Land Bank Authority). Alex
Simmons (Cook Comm Land Bank Authoritv). Andrew Williams (Cook County ()[fiee of
Inspector General). Cindy Williams (Cook County Land Bank .iut/?toritw

ll. Public Speakers
Chairwoman Gainer noted there was no public speaker:

 

111. Executive Director?s Report (Robert Rose)
Director Rose gave an overview of announcement

0 Two CC LBA Board of Directors resigned: David Reifman and Jay Stewart and
one CCLBA employee. Mustafaa Saleh

0 Rise Strategy and Rudd Resources were awarded contracts as new
media teams

0 CCLBA received $250000 award from IHDA for Abandoned Preperty Program
Round 4

0 CCLBA hosted the second annual ?Women 8.: Real Estate" luncheon

0 3rd annual luncheon will be held July 9. 2019 at the Hilton Hotel

cclba 

Recognition
Director Rose acknowledged Candice Payne one of developers who won 

Project ofthe Year award last year for rehabbing a very challenging condo in Bronzeville.
During the polar vortex Ms. Payne rented 70 hotel rooms to remove the homeless people offthe
streets. Ms. Payne?s care and compassion for the community goes beyond ?ipping houses: it?s a
deep desire to change and transform the community. CCLBA has donated a house that was in
inventory for Ms. Payne?s homeless non-profit.

Core Business Activities

CCLBA has reached the mid-year point. After discussion with Land Transactions
Committee around what is happening in the overall housing environment a decision was made to
revise 2019 goals. CCLBA will acquire 500 properties instead of800 and dispose of200 properties
versus 400 properties: CCLBA is currently at 50% ofthe revised disposition goal.

Cumulative Core Business Activites

Community wealth is generated once the house has been acquired. rehabbed and sold to a
homeowner. Through this intervention cumulatively $57.2 million dollars of community wealth
has been created based on 450 rehabs and 402 reoccupied homes.

work via the tax sale has generated $8.6 million dollars in redemptions: bringing 733
properties back on the tax roll.

CCLBA has completed 450 rehabs: and will celebrate a milestone of the 500?h rehabbed home.

Acquisitions Breakdown

CCLBA is currently working with three (3) municipalities as it relates to Flood Mitigation Buyout
Programs 

Riverside Lawn finishing up soon 23/46 home purchased and demolished

Leyden? Wheeling all eight (8) acquisitions have been completed: working on demolitions
Franklin Park ?just starting 31 prospective properties

Dispositions Breakdown

The chart reflects various groups CCLBA is working with to sale properties. CCLBA was working
mostly with community developers; CCLBA has a signi?cant number of homebuyer through the
Homebuyer Direct Program.

Application Breakdown
The Application process is the first step to acquiring CCLBA property. has received a
cumulative total of 12.846 applications between second quarter.

Community Engagements
CCIBA Director/Staff meet with different individuals. organizations. and municipalities to give
an understanding of CCLBA's role and ways in which to work together.

    

ba






Current Commercial Projects

Chicago Rebuild Program will acquire. rehab. and re?occupy single family properties in Police
Districts 7. 10. and 11. Four CCLBA properties have been award with another three pending


6429 S. Stewart 46?unit multi-tamily courtyard building that was awarded to WPD Management.
Transaction closed on June 14. 2019.

Riverside Lawn Voluntary buyout program in unincorporated Cook County. 23 homes purchased
and 20 have been demolished. This project is nearing the end.

Washington Bank Building Property awarded to Revive 6300. developer working to secure
?nancing

 

Harvev Hotel Demolition completed. roadway has been secured. RDA is ?nalized. anticipate
closing in third quarter 2019.

Land Bank Agreements
CCLBA currently have three (3) land banking agreements: CNI. IFF. Bern-'y'n Development
Corporation.

Tax Certi?cate Program
CCLBA have received 4.674 applications related to the tax certi?cated properties as of May 31.
2019.

Financial Report
100% total revenue is coming from earned income as opposed to grant funding. There

is some grant funding that needs to be reimbursed from the Riverside Lawn and Leyden? Wheeling
buyout programs. CCLBA fund balance is at a net positive.

IV. Approval of Cook County Land Bank Authoritv Resolution to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with Illinois Housing Development Agencv for Abandoned
Property Program Round Four
Director Holmes seconded by Director Planey moved to approve the Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Illinois Housing Development Agency. The motion carried unanimously.

V. Approval of Cook Countv Land Bank Authoritv Resolution to enter into an Purchase
Sales Agreemwnt with U.S. Up?tters for the Matteson Auto Mall-5355 Miller Circle Drive,
MattesonI 
Director Monocchio. seconded by Director Planey moved to approve to enter into a Purchase Sales
with US. Up?tters for the Matteson Auto Mall?5355 Miller Circle Drive. Matteson.

The motion carried unanimously.

VI. Consent Agenda
Director Planey. seconded by Director Planey. moved to approve the consent agenda which
includes:
a. Approval of March 15. 2019 Cook County Land Bank Board ot? Directors meeting
minutes. The motion carried unanimously.

cclba 

VII. Chairman Report (Commissioner Bridget Gainer)
Congratulated CC LF for achieving $100 million in assets
- Welcomed Rudd Resources and Rise Strategy Group for partnering CCLBA to help build
brand. Thanks to everyone for your time with helping to choose a media
consultant team
CCLBA needs to replace some board members; if you know of someone please share

X. Adiournment
Director Holmes, seconded by Director Ware moved to adjoum. The motion carried

unanimously and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted.
1r ctors ofthe Cook County Land Bank Authority

  

 

Attest.

@qu

irector Secretary 

 

