Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
Board Minutes-January 17, 2014-10:00 AM
550 W Jackson Blvd, Building Meeting Room
Chicago, IL 60661
Members Present:

Dr. Penelope Yunker, Chair, CPA; Howard Engle, Vice-Chair, CPA; Claireen L
Herting, CPA, JD; James G Kelley, CPA; Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA; Sara Mikuta,
CPA; Sharon Morrow; Simon Petravick, CPA & Thomas W Winkler, CPA, JD
Note: Shelly Holzman listened by phone

Guests:

Marty Green, Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS) (participated by phone)

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director
Matthew Hoffman, Business Manager

Call to Order
Chairperson Yunker called the meeting to order at 10:02 AM. Dr. Yunker reminded the members
that as a phone participant, Mr. Holzman would not be voting on any action requiring a vote.
Introduction of Matthew Hoffman
Mr. Friedewald introduced Matthew Hoffman, newly appointed business manager to the board.
ACTION 1. Approval of October 7, 2013 Minutes
Chairperson Yunker motioned to accept the October 7, 2013 board meeting minutes with a
clarification regarding matters discussed in executive session. Mr. Holzman did not vote.
2. Report of the Chair-Dr. Penny Yunker
Dr. Yunker discussed the NASBA Annual Meeting & mentioned the Massive Open Online
Courses (MOOCs) in relation to accepted credit on transcripts.
3. Report of the Executive Director-Russ Friedewald
ACTION

a. Mr. Friedewald reviewed the 4Q13 scores with the board and circulated the reports for
signature approval.
b. Mr. Friedewald updated the board on office staffing, current work flow processes and
NASBA's recommendations for increased efficiency and productivity. Details regarding
the positions as "in-house" Information Technology (IT) held by Ric Rose, ILBOE and
Khaled Nafea, Micro Systems International were also discussed.
c. Mr. Friedewald stated that the upgrade of the in-house system, Versa Regulation (VR), was
installed and went "live" on December 11, 2013.
d. Mr. Friedewald stated that recommendations from NASBA have been implemented regarding
the foreign evaluation work flow process. The decision to continue having NASBA
review foreign transcripts versus "in-house" foreign evaluators is still under review.
NASBA has been contracted to perform foreign evaluations on an emergency
interim basis due to the retirement of the board’s foreign evaluator.

 e. Mr. Friedewald mentioned that college curriculum templates are still being received from
colleges for students to reference from the board’s website..
f. Mr. Friedewald stated that Ethics training certificates are to be completed by all board members
pursuant to Illinois law by the end of April, 2014.
g. Mr. Friedewald updated the board on the current status of the Auditor General's audit. This
included the status on the lease for the former office in Champaign, the build-out in
Naperville and remaining funds with the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign.
4. Legislative Update-Mr. Green
Mr. Green stated that the downstate scheduled Town Hall Forums sponsored by ICPAS are
complete. He also gave updates regarding the current status and amendments of specific
acts.
Administrative Hearing
Candidate/Petitioner: Ms. Robyn Whiteman
Location: 550 W Jackson, Chicago, IL
Candidate appealed to the Candidacy Committee on record regarding approval to sit for the
Certified Public Accounting (CPA) exam under the previous requirements in effect before July 1,
2013. The Candidacy Committee denied the appeal and the candidate requested a
hearing before the full board.
The candidate was advised the administrative hearing decision is final and that she would be
notified within 15 days of the hearing date via certified mail.
ACTION Executive Session
Following the hearing, board members went into executive session to discuss the details of the
administrative hearing. Following the executive session, the board voted in open session to uphold
the denial of the candidate’s appeal. Mr. Holzman did not vote.
ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
5. Administrative Committee-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler stated that the initial meeting for rewriting the rules is scheduled for February 17,
2014.
6. Candidacy Committee-Ms. Herting
Ms. Herting discussed the committee's activity (see handout).
7. Education Advisory Task Force-Mr. Petravick
Mr. Petravick stated that notification regarding the Education Advisory Task Force meeting
scheduled for April 4, 2014 has gone out. The agenda draft was also discussed. The board
approved reimbursing attendees for mileage or train expenses incurred while traveling
to/from the conference as has been the practice for previous educator conferences. Ms.
Morrow voted no to allowing expenses for conference attendees.
8. Financial Committee-Mr. Engle
Mr. Engle deferred this report until the financials are complete.

 9. Nominating-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler advised the members to send in letters of interest, biographies and recommendations
for possible board appointees. Board member renewal terms were also discussed. A meeting date
is TBD.
10. State Liaison Committee-Ms. Morrow
No Report
11. Strategic Planning-Mr. Holzman
No Report. The committee will proceed once the Administrative Committee meets.

NASBA Committee Reports
12. Bylaws Committee-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler discussed the possible upcoming structural changes regarding NASBA committees.
13. CBT Administration Committee-Ms. Walker
No Report
14. Communications Committee-Mr. Kelley
Mr. Kelley discussed redundancies in communication.
15. Ethics & Strategic Issues Committee-Mr. Holzman
Mr. Holzman discussed the support of the AICPA's ethics rules as well as a possible conflict of
interest relating to the Exposure Draft.
16. Global Strategies Committee-Mr. Engle
Mr. Engle stated that an agenda is forthcoming and the meeting date is TBD.
17. Nominating Committee-Ms. Herting
Ms. Herting discussed the selection of the new Vice Chairman and that applications have been
received.
18. AICPA/BOE-Mr. Winkler, Mr. Friedewald
Mr. Winkler and Mr. Friedewald briefly discussed the exam design process.
Unfinished Business-None
New Business-None

Dr. Yunker adjourned the meeting at 3:05 PM.

 