Board of Examiners
Board Minutes- April 24, 2012
Illinois CPA Society, Building Conference Room
550 W. Jackson, Chicago, IL

Board members present: Gary Fish, Kenneth Hull, Thomas Winkler, Richard York, Claireen Herting,
Sharon Morrow, Myra Swick, Penelope Yunker and Cheryl Wilson
Absent: Margaret Cartier
Staff present: Russ Friedewald
Guests: Marty Green, ICPAS

Chairman Fish called the meeting to order at 10:00 AM
Action

1. Mr. Hull moved to accept the January 17,2012 minutes. Ms. Swick seconded the motion and the
motion passed by unanimous voice acclamation.
2. Report of the Chair—G. Fish
a. Status of NIU proposal- Dr. Fish began the discussion regarding our status with Northern
Illinois University and the revised agreement that is to be submitted to the university board of trustees
for approval. Following a discussion regarding the revised agreement, the Board determined no
substantial changes were made and that if the university provides a reasonable explanation for the
changes, there should be no reason not to proceed.
b. WIU discussion – Dr. Fish asked Dr. Yunker to update the board on any possible approach
with Western Illinois University (WIU). Dr. Yunker reported WIU had indicated they were interested in
us. She asked WIU how soon a decision could be made to accept or reject our proposal. The Provost
suggested a meeting be held on April 30th to discuss our proposal. Dr. Yunker agreed to set up the
meeting and advise the Executive Committee of the time and location. Mr. Winkler made a motion that
the Executive Committee be authorized to negotiate with Western Illinois University with terms
substantially the same as those already agreed to with Northern Illinois University and proceed with
either Northern Illinois University or Western Illinois University as the Executive Committee deems
appropriate contingent on a legal opinion that the Board is under no current contractual obligation to
Northern Illinois University. The motion was seconded by Dr. Yunker and passed by unanimous voice
acclamation.

3. Report of the Executive Director- R. Friedewald
Action

a. Mr. Friedewald presented the scores for the first quarter window for acceptance and
signature. The scores were approved by unanimous voice acclamation.

 b. Mr. Friedewald shared the reviews of the Educators Advisory Task Force (EATF) meeting with
the board and reported they were generally very favorable. Expenses for the meeting totaled $4,614.
Members suggested that Dr. Fish reserve the room at the Alumni Center for the second Friday after
April 15th of next year. Dr. Fish agreed to do so.
c. Mr. Friedewald presented the Auditor General report to the board. Following discussion of
the findings, Dr. Fish requested Mr. Friedewald to prepare responses for distribution to Ms. Morrow,
Mr. Hull and Ms. Swick for their review and edit. Ms. Swick will distribute to Ms. Wilson for additional
review. Mr. Friedewald will contact the Auditor General’s office to set up an exit conference prior to the
submission of our official responses.
d. Mr. Friedewald reported the Iron Data project continues with a “go live” date in June.
4. ICPAS legislative review- Marty Green, V.P., Illinois CPA Society
Mr. Green reported the Society was conducting new board member orientation today. He also advised
that Mr. Sheldon Holtzman had recently been appointed to the Public Accounting Registration
Committee. He also reported the Governor had repaid the 3.2 million dollars that had been borrowed
by the Governor earlier. Mr. Green reminded the board that the Registered Certified Public Accountant
License will no longer be available after June 30. Among his other remarks, Mr. Green reported he had
been working with the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation on several issues including
continuing professional education and sunset bill language. Lastly, Mr. Green addressed the board
regarding senate bill 3794 which establishes a five member board to assist the legislative audit
commission, the Governor and the Auditor General in improving timeliness, transparency and the
process of financial reporting for state agencies.
The ILBOE Committee and Task Force Reports
5. Administrative Committee- T. Winkler
No report
6. Candidacy Committee- P. Yunker
a. Report of Appeals- Dr. Yunker presented a report of candidate’s appeals.
b. Approval of international candidates—Ms. Herting led a discussion about how international
candidates are evaluated. The board has very firm policies on the review and evaluation of international
credentials and Mr. Friedewald reminded the board that “for profit” evaluation companies are more
liberal in their evaluations because they are working for the candidate. Mr. Friedewald advised the
board he would poll other states for their evaluation criteria and would report back to the board. Ms.
Swick requested that he also discuss the situation with our international evaluator in view of the fact
that the requirements for sitting for the exam have changed (150 hours) since the policy was originally
established.

 7. Education Advisory Committee- C. Wilson
Comments were covered during Mr. Friedewald report
8. Finance Committee- T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler gave a report on the March Financials and reported our expenses to date are down
primarily due to reduction in office expense.
9. Nominating Committee- K. Hull
Mr. Hull reported the Nominating Committee met to nominate board replacements to the governor and
nominations for board vice chair. Mr. Hull reminded the board that Richard York, Myra Swick and
Margaret Cartier are to be recommended for replacement. Mr. Hull reported that Rhonda Kodjayan will
be nominated to replace Mr. York, Simon Petravick will be nominated to replace Ms. Cartier. The
committee has yet to nominate a replacement for Ms. Swick. Mr. Hull reported he will contact other
possible nominees and call a meeting of the committee to make a nomination to the Governor to
replace Ms. Swick. Mr. Hull confirmed Phyllis Walker will again be the nominee for public member to
complete the term vacated by Dennis Bielke. Mr. Hull asked for a motion to accept the nominations as
presented and to present the nominations to the Governor for appointment. The motion was seconded
and passed by voice acclamation.
Mr. Hull advised the board that nominations had been made for Chair and Vice Chair to be elected at
the July meeting.
Mr. Hull accepted the names of Jim Kelly, Sara Makuta, Bill Flowers and Brian Whitlock as possible
nominees for consideration by the Nominating Committee to replace Ms. Swick.

10. State Liaison Committee- S. Morrow
No report
11. Strategic Planning Committee- K. Hull
No report

NASBA/AICPA Committee Reports
12. Audit Committee- K. Hull
Mr. Hull reported the Chair of the audit committee this year is our regional board member, Kim
Tredinnick. Mr. Hull also reported the committee met this week and they had an introductory meeting
with the auditors. The auditors explained their plan for moving forward and the committee expressed
their expectations.

 13. Bylaws Committee- C.Herting
Ms. Herting reported the committee will be re-numbering the bylaws and that North Carolina is still
interested in discussing terms of office.
14. St. Board Relevance & Effectiveness Committee- C. Wilson
Ms. Wilson advised the board the committee will be meeting soon in Dallas.

15. Nominating Committee- C. Herting
Ms. Herting reported Carlos Johnson from Oklahoma had been nominated as Vice Chair of NASBA.
16. BOE & BEC- Internationalization of Exam- G. Fish
Dr. Fish reported the AICPA had paid the examination development debt earlier than scheduled and the
committees are continuing to meet regularly.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS- None
NEW BUSINESS
Dr. Fish requested the July 24th meeting location be left undetermined at this time, but directed Mr.
Friedewald to schedule a room at the Illinois CPA Society as a contingency.
Dr. Fish adjourned the meeting at 2:55 PM

 