April 28, 2010
Board Minutes
Il. CPA Society, Bldg. Conf. Room
550 W. Jackson, Chicago, IL

Present:
Board Members: Margaret Cartier, Gary Fish, Claireen Herting, Kenneth Hull, Myra
Swick, Cheryl Wilson, Richard York, Penelope Yunker
Staff:
Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Vicki Van Uithoven, Asst. Director
Guest:
Marty Green, ICPAS
Ms. Swick called the meeting to order at 10:15 am.
1. Ms. Cartier moved to accept the minutes with corrections. Mr. Hull seconded the
motion. Motion passed by voice acclamation.
2. Report of the Chair (M. Swick)
a. Ms. Swick announced Mark Harris has been nominated as vice chair of
NASBA. He will be the incoming vice chair. Ms. Swick yielded the Chair to Ms. Cartier
for discussion of NASBA nominations. Following a brief discussion, Dr. Fish moved to
recommend the nomination of Ms. Claireen Herting as Director at Large. Dr. Yunker
seconded the motion and the motion passed by voice acclamation with Ms. Swick
abstaining.
b. Ms. Swick led a discussion regarding nominations for the William Rensselaer
Award, the Distinguished Service Award and the Lorraine P. Sachs Standard of
Excellence Award. Following a brief discussion the Board agreed not to recommend
anyone for the awards.
c. Ms. Swick briefly reminded the Board the reason for our low return on
investments is due in large measure to investors purchasing short-term CDs in
anticipation of economic recovery.
d. Ms. Swick polled members of the Board regarding attendance at the Eastern
Regional Meeting in June. All members indicated they would be attending except Ms.
Cartier.
e. Ms. Swick reminded members of the Board that the CPA Banquet is June 15
with the scheduled Board meeting to follow on June 16. Ms. Swick also advised the
Board that AICPA will be conducting a regional examination update in Dallas on May 27
and that Mr. Friedewald and Mr. Hull would be attending.

 3. Report by Executive Director (R Friedewald)
a. Mr. Friedewald clarified with the Board the procedure for denial of Provisional
Candidates.
b. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that four employees would be taking
advantage of the retirement incentive offered by the University. These employees will be
retiring effective July 31, 2010. Mr. Friedewald is working with the University to
employ immediate replacements for at least two of the retiring employees.
c. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that VERSA would be demonstrating the
upgrade to their new system on June 1.
d. Mr. Friedewald discussed the ICPAS Regulation and Legislation Update with
the Board and shared that the Society had introduced legislation to delay the elimination
of the Registration of CPAs for two years. If passed, the Registration process would end
on June 30, 2012.
e. Mr. Friedewald provided the scores for the first quarter of 2010. Following the
Board’s review, Ms. Cartier moved to accept the scores. Dr. Yunker seconded the
motion and the motion passed by voice acclamation.
f. Mr. Friedewald advised there have been no updates to the Board Manual and
would welcome input/suggestions from members of the Board.
IBOA COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
4. Finance Committee report (M. Cartier)
a. Ms. Cartier reported there were no outstanding issues with the financial reports.
b. Ms. Van Uithoven reported we are ahead of forecasting regarding applications
received to date.
c. Mr. Friedewald and Ms. Van Uithoven advised the Board that the final report
of the Auditor General should be released in early May.
d. Ms. Van Uithoven reported that a vendor, OJC, has been selected to develop
the Board’s website. A meeting is scheduled for May 3 to begin work on the project with
a launch date scheduled for June 12.
5. Administrative Committee (C. Wilson)
a. Ms. Wilson led a discussion regarding the Board office delaying issuance of the
letters regarding the Registration legislation. Once the legislation is signed by the
Governor, the Board office will post a notice on the website.
b. Ms. Wilson opened the discussion regarding the effective date for the
educational rules amendment. Mr. Friedewald advised there were approximately 80
letters received in support of delaying the implementation until at least January 1, 2013
with most suggesting July 1, 2013. Dr. Yunker led a discussion dealing with several
dates for implementation. Following the discussion, Dr. Yunker moved to have the
effective date as July 1, 2013. Ms. Wilson seconded the motion. Motion passed by voice
acclamation with Dr. Fish dissenting.
c. Ms. Wilson advised the board that Jeannie Folk has been approved for
sabbatical for the Fall term. It is planned that she will review ethics requirements for
Illinois candidates and what other states and NASBA are doing relating to ethics. She
will report the results of her findings to the Board. Ms. Wilson also suggested Ms. Folk

 work to develop a template for implementation of integrated coursework that can be used
by colleges and universities in meeting the changes to the education requirements. A
decision will need to be made at a future Board meeting as to which committee Ms. Folk
will report.
6. Candidacy Committee (R. York)
a. Mr. York reminded Mr. Friedewald to renew the letters for Prometric site visits.
b. Mr. York reported there were two candidates appealing to the committee the
denial of their applications and one candidate appealing the voiding of scores as a
provisional candidate that did not submit transcripts within the 120 day requirement. Mr.
York reported the Candidacy Committee upheld the denial of the applications as well as
the voiding of scores.
7. Education Advisory Task Force (P. Yunker)
Dr. Yunker reviewed the meeting schedule for the EATF meeting/reception
scheduled for the Hilton, Chicago on June 15th. The meeting is scheduled from 3:30 pm
until 5:00 pm with refreshments being served. Mr. Friedewald will contact the Hilton to
make sure internet capability is available for the meeting.
8. Nominating Committee (C. Herting)
a. Ms. Herting reviewed the Nominating Committee meeting. Ms. Herting
advised that Mr. Friedewald would submit a letter to Governor Quinn nominating the
following individuals for appointment to the Board of Directors; Ken Hull, Gary Fish and
Penelope Yunker for a term of three years, for a term of two years, Myra Swick and
Claireen Herting and for a term of one year, Margaret Cartier, Cheryl Wilson and Richard
York. Additionally, the Committee recommended new appointment nominations for Mr.
Thomas Winkler for a two year term, Ms. Sharon Morrow for a two year term and Mr.
Dennis Bielke for a one year term.
b. Ms. Herting advised the Board that the Committee nominated Mr. Ken Hull as
Chair and Dr. Gary Fish as Vice-Chair for the period 2010-2011.
9. State Liaison (G. Fish)
Dr. Fish reported there had been two conference calls of the Regulation and
Legislation Committee of the Illinois CPA Society since our last Board meeting. The
primary focus of the meetings was the discussion of the elimination of the Registered
CPA option on June 30, 2010. Dr. Fish expressed support for delaying the elimination
until June 30, 2012. The Society introduced legislation for the delay.
10. Strategic Planning (K. Hull)
Mr. Hull reported the Strategic Planning Committee met by phone on April 26th.
Mr. Hull discussed the review the committee made of the goals and the adjustments made
in the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT). Mr. Hull noted this
was informational only and that any comments on his discussion should be submitted to
him within the next thirty days. The Strategic Planning Committee should have a
new/revised plan in place by the end of June or July.

 NASBA/AICPA COMMITTEE REPORT
11. Audit (K. Hull)
Mr. Hull had no report of the Audit Committee.
12. By-laws (C Herting/M Swick)
Ms. Herting reported the Bylaws Committee presented changes to the NASBA
Board of Directors meeting on January 15, 2010. The first change was for clarification of
time one can serve as Director at large. The second change related to qualifications and
limitations and the third proposal related to delegates. All three proposals from the ByLaws Committee were accepted.
13. Education (P Yunker)
Dr. Yunker reported that Mark Harris, Chair of the NASBA Education Committee
informed the committee of their charge for the year. The committee will be divided into
three groups which will each be assigned a task related to the report by the Treasury
Department’s Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession. Specifically, each team
will review some of the recommendations in the section of the report dealing with Human
Capital.
14. BOE & BEC-- Internationalization of the CPA Exam (G. Fish)
a. Dr. Fish advised that the BOE has not met since the last Board meeting. Dr.
Fish did remind Dr. Craig Mills that there had been no standard setting session in quite
some time. Dr. Mills agreed and indicated a meeting will be held in November.
b. Dr. Fish advised the BEC will meet again in June.
15. State Board Relevance & Effectiveness Committee (M. Cartier- Budget
Subcommittee/ C. Wilson- Template Subcommittee)
a. Ms. Wilson reported the Template Subcommittee had met February 1, March
18 and the April 19 meeting has been rescheduled to May 3. The Template
Subcommittee has completed draft documents for a model act for a self governing board
of accountancy and at its May 3 meeting will hear input from Noel Allen, NASBA’s legal
counsel, Carlos Johnson, SBR&E Committee Chair, and final review comments from
members of the Template Subcommittee. The Template Subcommittee will issue a draft
discussion paper, “Developing a Template for Self Governing Boards of Accountancy” to
the entire Committee and other NASBA interested parties during the week of May 7,
2010. When comments have been addressed and incorporated, as appropriate, another
Template Subcommittee meeting will be called and then the draft position paper will be
ready for discussion at the NASBA regional meetings in June (a presentation is on the
agenda).
b. Ms. Cartier reported the Budget subcommittee designed a survey to be sent out
to all state boards soliciting information regarding the boards' budgets. Ms. Cartier
believes it may not provide very useful information however, because board structures
are so different that general questions won't get to the underlying information the survey
really seeks.

 16. Relations with Member Boards (C Herting)
Ms. Herting reported there had been no meeting since our last Board meeting.
Ms. Herting also reported on issues relating to the recent NASBA Board meeting.
Ms. Herting related that the major focus of the meeting dealt with Mr. Costello’s
retirement. It was determined that there would be a 10 person search committee chaired
by John Pease. Mr. Costello will recommend one replacement and the search committee
will send three names to the Executive Committee. A final decision will be made by the
full Board.
Ms. Herting reported the ERB will be restructured, bringing the current number of
members from 15 to 5.
Ms. Herting advised the Board the NASBA Expo ran a deficit, but the loss was
recovered by cutting other expenses and adding additional receipts from Prometric.
Ms. Herting reported there were 2 more mobility states.
17. Nominating Committee (M. Swick)
Ms. Swick reported on the meeting of the Nominating Committee.
Unfinished Business
Ms. Swick discussed her approach to NASBA about the Center for the Public Trust as
it pertains to the development of a membership program in which the Board could
contribute financially. Ms. Swick reported that NASBA intends to develop a
membership program in which they will provide service to member Boards rather
than simply solicit funding. NASBA will seek input from Boards as to what services
would be most beneficial. Additional information will be forthcoming.
New Businessa. Ms. Swick reported there will be an International Forum in Spain, but that due
to travel restrictions, no one from our board would be attending.
b. Ms. Swick asked Mr. Friedewald to assume the responsibilities of the
Communications officer and provided information relative to performing that function.
Dr. Fish motioned to adjourn. Ms. Swick concluded the meeting at 3 PM.

Submitted by Russ Friedewald, Executive Director

 