Illinois Board of Examiners
Board Minutes, July 22, 2009
Il. CPA Society, Room A
550 W. Jackson, Chicago, IL

Present:
Board Members: Margaret Cartier, Gary Fish, Claireen Herting, Kenneth Hull, Myra
Swick, Cheryl Wilson, Richard York, Penelope Yunker
Staff:
Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Vicki Van Uithoven, Asst. Director
Robbin Burge, Asst. Director
Debbie Knight, Foreign Credential Evaluator
Guest:
Marty Green, ICPAS
1. Ms. Herting called the meeting to order at 10 am. Ms. Wilson moved to accept the
May 18, 2009 minutes. The motion was seconded by Ms. Yunker. Motion carried to
accept the minutes with changes
2. Report of the Chair (C. Herting)
Ms. Herting reported on the recent Board of Directors meeting. NASBA announced the
awarding of the William Van Rensselaer Public Service Award to Martin Baldwin, the
Distinguished Service Award to Ellis Duncum and the Lorraine P. Sachs Standard of
Excellence Award to Bill Treacy.
Ms. Herting reported that NASBA is negotiating with the AICPA to extend the
examination contract through the year 2024. The contract will include a 5 year review to
ensure all parties are satisfied with performance. The agreement with Prometric will be a
five year agreement.
Ms. Herting reported the BOE now has a NASBA majority and that psychometricians
will no longer be able to vote. Only board members will now be allowed to vote.
Ms. Herting reported on the Mobility task force –there are only four states that do not
have mobility. Ms. Herting indicated that some states are staying provincial even though
they have mobility.
Ms. Herting reported that there was a long discussion at the Board of Director’s meeting
regarding the International Exam. The determination was that there are still a lot of
issues yet to be resolved.
Ms. Herting reported the results of the Nominating Committee-

 Chair will be Billy Atkins; Vice Chair will be Michael Daggett.
Ms. Herting also announced the Directors-at-large.
Directors-at-large will be Walter Davenport, Mark Harris and Carlos Johnson.
Ms. Herting spoke at the Board meeting on the bylaws and that changes are being
proposed. Ms. Herting also related that the Enforcement Committee was working hard at
getting enforcement across the country.
3. Executive Director’s report (R Friedewald)
Mr. Friedewald reported that for the Q209, we had a total of 2496 candidates and 3511
sections taken. Mr. Friedewald reported that the number of candidates who passed all
four parts within that window was 432.
Mr. Friedewald presented a sample wall certificate that NASBA can provide to state
boards at a cost of $25 per certificate. The certificates can be customized for individual
states. Discussion ensued about whether the Board of Examiners will be issuing
certificates after July, 2010 with the change to a single tier licensure in Illinois. The
question has been assigned to the Administrative Committee.
Mr. Friedewald addressed the issue of foreign evaluations as it relates to our evaluations
in house versus for profit foreign credential evaluators. He explained that our evaluations
are consistent and that different for profit companies often differ in their evaluations of
the same program. Mr. Friedewald advised the board that Debbie Knight, the Board’s
foreign credential evaluator was in attendance and would address further questions later
in the meeting.
Mr. Friedewald reported on changes in operations at the Board Office. Mr. Friedewald
advised that a review of job functions has been undertaken and that changes are being
implemented to improve work flow in the office.
Mr. Friedewald shared an enforcement report acquired from the enforcement division of
IDFPR.
4. Debbie Knight-IBOE foreign credentials evaluator.
Ms. Knight provided discussion relative to foreign evaluations and explained how
standards are applied consistently for foreign evaluation. Ms. Knight covered the basic
criteria for how evaluations are made and how she keeps up with general trends and
changes in evaluation criteria. Ms. Knight addressed questions raised by board members.
5. Margaret Cartier-CPA exam – entry level vs two tier.
Ms. Cartier began a discussion about whether the current CPA examination was relevant
for CPAs entering the workforce and performing audits. The question is whether the
profession should be looking to a two tier examination approach. A general discussion
followed with no formal recommendation.
12:15—The Board adjourned for lunch

 12:55 – The Board reconvened
IBOA COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS

6. Administrative Committee (K Hull) –
Mr. Hull reported he had updated the rules following input from educators. Mr. Hull
presented minor changes to the agreed upon educational requirements including requiring
24 SCH in accounting. Questions still remain regarding how to count internship hours.
This topic was assigned to the Administrative Committee for clarification. Mr. Hull will
make revisions to rules as discussed by the Board and then forward the document to the
Administrative Committee for clarification of the internship issues. In addition to the
internship issue, the Administrative Committee will work on integration, communication
and ethics. Motion was made by Mr. Hull to authorize the Administrative Committee to
finalize agreed upon changes to the rules. Motion was seconded by Ms. Wilson and
approved by voice vote.
7. Candidacy Committee ( P. Yunker)- Ms. Yunker reported on an appeal from
Tatiana Wood who is an applicant from Riga International School of Economics and
Business Administration (RISEBA) in Latvia. Ms. Wood’s school was approved two
years after she began at RISEBA. Her application had been denied. The Candidacy
Committee agreed to approve her application based on the fact that no accreditation was
available at the time Ms. Wood began the program.. Motion was made by Ms. Cartier to
accept the Committee recommendation, seconded by Ms. Wilson. Motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
8. Education Advisory Task Force (P Yunker) –Dr. Yunker distributed the agenda for
the Education Advisory Task Force Meeting which is to be held on October 23rd, 2009 on
the campus of Illinois State University in Bloomington. Following a brief discussion of
the agenda, minor revisions were agreed upon.
9. Finance Committee (M Swick)- Ms. Swick presented the proposed budget for FY10.
Following discussion, motion was made by Ms. Cartier to accept the budget and was
seconded by Mr. York. Motion carried by unanimous voice vote.
Ms. Swick presented the May financial statement. Additionally, the board was advised
that final settlement for the previous Executive Director had not been made pending
clarification of vacation/sick leave.
10.. Infrastructure (M Swick)- No Report
11. Nominating (C. Wilson)- No report
12. State Liaison (P Cartier)- No report

 13. Strategic Planning ( G. Fish)
Dr. Fish reported on the Strategic Planning Committee’s conference call on July 13th.
Mr. Hull reviewed with the Board suggested changes to the plan as well as suggested
changes to the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT). Dr. Fish
and Mr. Hull also suggested the Board dedicate space on the website for attracting
international candidates to Illinois.
NASBA/AICPA COMMITTEE REPORT
14. Audit (K. Hull)- No report
15. Bylaws (C Herting/M Swick)- No report
16. Education (P Yunker)- Dr. Yunker discussed the contents of an e-mail previously
sent to board members regarding the NASBA document “International Administration of
the CPA Exam which was distributed at the regional meeting. Among other things, Ms.
Yunker is concerned about the proposed informed consent form for International Exam
candidates. Dr. Yunker feels that all candidates, both foreign and domestic, should be
held to the same testing requirements Dr. Yunker expressed other concerns about the
NASBA document and wants to be sure the Board has the opportunity to respond to any
exposure documents prior to implementation.
17. Internationalization of the CPA Exam (G. Fish)- Dr. Fish’s comments were
included with Dr. Yunker’s discussion.
18. Model Board Committee ( M. Cartier)- No report
19. Relations with Member Boards (C Herting)- No report
Unfinished Business- none
New Business• The Board was advised that Ms. Wilson and Ms. Swick will attend the NASBA
Forum of International Accountancy Regulators conference in San Francisco in
September. The registration fees were waived for both members.
•

Ms. Herting advised she may attend the CPE conference in San Antonio in late
September.

•

All board members plan to attend the NASBA national conference in Phoenix in
November.

 •

Mr. Friedewald will coordinate a conference call with Executive Committee to
discuss the payout of Ms. Vician’s final compensation once that information
becomes available.

•

The Administrative Committee will work on clarifying the wording to the Rules
as it relates to internship hours. Changes will be e-mailed by Ms. Wilson for
concurrence by the Board before the EATF meeting on October 23rd.

The next meeting date will be October 26th in Chicago from 10:00 am. until 3:00 pm.
Motion to adjourn was made by Dr. Yunker and seconded by Ms. Wilson. Motion passed
by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 3:05 p.m.

Submitted by Russ Friedewald, Executive Director

 Illinois Board of Examiners
Board Minutes, July 22, 2009
Il. CPA Society, Room A
550 W. Jackson, Chicago, IL

Second meeting- Election of Officers
The meeting was called to order by Ms. Herting at 3:05 PM
Election of Chair and Vice-Chair for 2009-2010 (Cheryl Wilson)
Ms. Wilson presented the nominations for Chair and Vice-Chair for FY 2010. Ms.
Wilson made a motion to elect Myra Swick as Chair and Margaret Cartier as Vice-Chair
for FY 2010. Ms. Wilson also moved to make a provision in the election that should Ms.
Cartier not be re-appointed by the Governor, that Ken Hull assume the position of ViceChair. Motion seconded and carried by unanimous voice vote.
Meeting dates and Committee assignments (Myra Swick)
Ms Swick reviewed the meeting dates for the coming year. They will be:
October 26, 2009
January 21, 2010
April 22, 2010
June 17, 2010
July 29, 2010
Ms. Swick suggested the committee members review the roles of their respective
committees for any changes and give them to Mr. Friedewald. An updated roster of
board members was included in the board distribution packet.
Ms. Swick and Ms. Wilson acknowledged the service of Ms. Herting as outgoing Chair .
Motion was made by Dr. Fish and seconded by Mr. York to adjourn. Motion passed by
acclamation. Meeting adjourned at 3:10 pm.

Submitted by Russ Friedewald, Executive Director

 