October 26, 2009
Board Minutes
Illinois CPA Society, Conference Room A
550 W Jackson,
Chicago, IL

Present:
Board Members: Gary Fish, Claireen Herting, Kenneth Hull, Myra
Swick, Cheryl Wilson, Richard York, Margaret Cartier
Staff:
Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Vicki Van Uithoven, Assistant Director
Robbin Burge, Assistant Director
Not Present: Penelope Yunker

1. Ms. Swick called the meeting to order at 10:03 AM.
Ms. Wilson moved to allow the chair to adjust the agenda as
necessary. Mr. Hull seconded. Approved by voice acclamation.
Motion was made by Ms. Wilson to approve the July 22, 2009 minutes
of both meetings as submitted. The motion was seconded by Mr. York
and approved by voice acclamation.
2.

Report of the Chair (M Swick) –
2009 Forum of International Regulators
Ms. Wilson reported on the forum that she and Ms. Swick attended.
Ms. Wilson reported that the NASBA State Board Report included a
summary of the forum and the key points. Ms. Wilson indicated that
26 countries were represented at the Forum. Ms. Wilson reported on
the SEC position on IFRS and indicated that the position of the SEC
is that the US should be proactive with convergence. Ms. Wilson
shared that the meeting was very worthwhile.
BOE lunch
Ms. Swick reported that she and Mr. Friedewald had been invited to
the AICPA luncheon in conjunction with the AICPA BOE Board meeting.
Ms. Swick advised that Mike Daggett is going off the board. Ms.
Swick shared that members wanted to know if we were supporting the
international exam and Ms. Swick indicated we were.
Participation at CPA review sponsored events
Ms. Swick led a discussion regarding the Board’s participation at
exam review provider sponsored events and whether or not it is a
conflict of interest. The general consensus was that this could be
viewed as a conflict of interest and that a policy should be drafted
to reflect the Board’s position.
Ms. Swick designated the
Administrative Committee to draft a policy regarding participation
at review sponsored events. The discussion turned to the
appointment of Dr. Fish to the ICPAS Regulation & Legislation
Committee as a non voting member. The ICPAS believes having a Board
of Examiners member as a voting member could be in conflict with the

 State Officials and Employees Ethics Act. The Board agrees that Dr.
Fish should not be a voting member. Dr. Fish moved that all members
resign as legislative contacts with the Society in agreement with
the Society’s position on ethical conflict. Ms. Herting seconded
the motion and the motion passed by voice acclamation. Ms. Swick
will write to the Society expressing appreciation that two members
of the Board of Examiners will be represented on the Regulation &
Legislation Committee; the other being Mr. Friedewald. Ms. Swick’s
letter will also advise the Society that all Board members will be
resigning as legislative contacts with the Society.
3. Report of the Executive Director (R Friedewald) –
Focus Question Responses
Mr. Friedewald shared with the Board the compilation of the Focus
Questions as presented to NASBA. Mr. Friedewald also shared the
responses to the same questions from the Department of Financial &
Professional Regulation.
Telecom update
Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that we are in the final phases of
selecting a new telecom vendor. Mr. Friedewald advised that we have
been looking at three different vendors and a follow up meeting is
scheduled with one of the vendors on October 28th to see software
upgrades. Once that meeting concludes, a decision will be made on a
vendor. The current budget includes funds for this change.
Meeting with Registrar
Mr. Friedewald advised the Board of a meeting scheduled for October
28th with the Registrar at the University of Illinois at Urbana. The
purpose of the meeting is to discuss ways to effectuate the
electronic transfer of transcripts to the BOE office in a secure
manner. It our goal to accomplish this with all Illinois colleges
within a year.
Scores 09Q3
Scores for the third quarter of 2009 were presented. Mr. Friedewald
advised that there were a total of 2746 candidates taking 4179 parts
during the third quarter window and that 527 candidates had passed
all parts within the window. Motion was made by Mr. York to accept
the scores as presented. Motion was seconded by Mr. Hull and
approved by voice acclamation.
4.
Finance Committee report-M. Cartier
Ms. Van Uithoven distributed copies of the financial statements for
the year ended June 30, 2009 and for the period ending September 30,
2009. Following brief discussion, motion was made by Ms. Herting to
accept the report for the year ended June 30, 2009. The motion was
seconded by Mr. Hull and approved by unanimous voice vote. The
Board approved the final payout of sick and vacation compensation
for former Executive Director, Joanne Vician.
Ms. Cartier reported that the Board is a little behind in revenues
as reported in the September financial statement. Ms. Cartier
shared that expenses are also under budget due to having a temporary
evaluator at the present time instead of a full time evaluator.
The website and revisions thereto were discussed. The Board
requested a report in January including a time-line and cost
estimate.

 Auditor General Updates
Ms. Van Uithoven reported on the status of the Auditor General
Compliance Audit. Ms. Van Uithoven advised they have delivered
initial exceptions and we have responded to those, but we have not
heard from the Auditor General yet on the preliminary findings. One
of the issues raised by the Auditor General dealt with approval of
Board travel. For clarification, Ms. Swick directed that Mr.
Friedewald would sign off on Board travel and that the current Board
Chair would approve the Executive Director’s travel.
5. CLEAR Update – G. Fish
Dr. Fish reported he attended the CLEAR conference in Denver in
September with Mr. Friedewald. Dr. Fish Met with Tom Gottlieb of
VERSA regarding the Board’s intention to purchase a new system and
why we dropped the maintenance contract with VERSA. Dr. Fish also
shared session information that he received at the conference
including a session on fraud and a session on changes in exam
structure.
The Board adjourned for lunch at 12:05 pm
The Board reconvened at 12:45 pm
ILBOA Committee and Task Force Reports
6. Administrative Committee- C. Wilson
1490.00 Rules
Ms. Wilson reported that the Education Advisory Task Force (EATF)
meeting provided some excellent input. Ms. Wilson reviewed the
input and offered some possible changes to the rules. Mr. Hull
suggested we should consider research and analysis as part of the
accounting requirement and ethics as well if included in the
curriculum. This would be more in line with NASBA’s requirements.
Ms. Wilson will input changes to the document and distribute it.
After reviewing the document, members should formulate questions
that can be used as frequently asked questions (FAQs) if they think
it necessary. Further discussion was remanded to the Administrative
Committee and Ms. Wilson invited Mr. Hull to join in the discussion.
No additional action will be taken on the rules until the committee
completes the changes. Ms. Swick advised the Administrative
Committee still has authority to finalize changes.
A brief discussion was held regarding the wording of correspondence
to successful candidates on how to proceed with licensure with the
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation once the
Registration provision of the Act is no longer available on July 1,
2010. Ms. Wilson advised the Administrative Committee will address
this issue before the next Board meeting.

 7. Candidacy Committee- R. York
Provisional Candidates
Mr. York led a discussion regarding provisional candidates that were
exempted from rule due to their ability to view scores. The
Candidacy Committee approved the appeal and the Board agreed by email to uphold decision. No further issues with provisional
candidates have occurred and the Board confirmed its position that
students must comply with the requirements of the provisional
status.
Site Visit Update
Mr. York reminded members to complete site visits as scheduled. Ms.
Swick directed an update of site visits for each board meeting.
8. Education Advisory Task Force- P. Yunker
EATF Meeting
Ms. Wilson reported on behalf of Dr. Yunker that the meeting was
very successful and that participation was very good. Ms. Wilson
was pleased to share that every school but one represented at the
meeting had IFRS integrated into courses
Ms. Wilson also reported
that the educators were looking forward to future meetings.
DORA letter
Ms. Wilson briefly discussed letter from the Colorado Department of
Regulatory Agencies (DORA) to the AICPA expressing their opposition
to the inclusion of International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) content in the CPA examination. Mr. Hull suggested the
purpose of DORA’s letter was to remind everyone not to rush to
judgment. Following a brief discussion, Ms. Wilson suggested the
Board not respond to the letter.
9. Nominating Committee- C. Herting- no report
10. State Liaison- G. Fish
Dr. Fish presented the Mutual Recognition Agreement with New Zealand
and made a motion to accept the agreement. Mr. Hull seconded the
motion and the Board approved the motion by voice acclamation.
11. Strategic Planning- K. HullMr. Hull had no report, but submitted changes in strategic planning
committee description.
NASBA/AICPA Committee Reports
12. Audit
Mr. Hull reported he attended the Audit Committee meeting by phone.
The Audit Committee met with the external auditors (Lattimore, 
Black, Morgan & Cain, P.C.) for the purpose of approving the
financial statements. Mr. Hull advised the financial statements were
approved without adjustments. Lattimore, Black, Morgan & Cain were
reappointed for next year.
Mr. Hull indicated the CPE expo was discussed and that NASBA was
disappointed in the attendance.

 The Committee also discussed auditors’ confidentiality with NASBA
data.
The question was: Can auditors maintain their independence
with work they have done on NASBA systems?
Review of Form 990 was assigned to finance committee.
NASBA does not have a whistle blower policy.
The Committee suggested they review their procedures regarding
governance.
The Committee suggested to NASBBA that they meet independently with
one member of management at a time.
13. Bylaws-C. Herting/M. SwickMs. Herting reported the Bylaws Committee had not met. No changes
will be presented at the Annual Meeting at the recommendation of
Noel Allen.
14. Education-P. Yunker- no report
15. Internationalization of the CPA Exam-G. Fish- no report
16. Model Board Committee- M. Cartier
NASBA communication with PARC
Ms. Cartier shared her observations of how the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation (IFDPR) and more specifically,
the Public Accounting Regulatory Committee interacts with the
National Association of Boards of Accountancy (NASBA). Ms. Cartier
noted how limited the involvement with NASBA is due primarily to
limited funds available to the profession within IFDPR. Ms. Cartier
related to the board that this limitation prevents the Department
from being proactive with the profession.
17. Relations with member boards-C. Herting- No report
Old business- None
New Business
Transportation from airport in Phoenix.—Members coordinated.
Letter from Bill Brandt
M. Cartier discussed a letter she had sent to Bill Brandt re: board
appointments. Mr. Brandt has offered to assist in working with the
Governors office for board appointments based on letter to Governor
Quinn from the board.
Board Orientation Manual
Ms. Swick directed that a new Board Member Orientation Manual be
produced.
Ms. Swick provided Mr. Friedewald with a basic outline
from which to develop the manual.

Motion was made by Mr. Hull to adjourn. Motion passed by voice acclamation at 2:50
pm

 