Illinois Board of Examiners
Board Minutes, January 21, 2010
Il. CPA Society
550 W. Jackson, Chicago, IL

Present:
Board Members: Margaret Cartier, Gary Fish, Claireen Herting, Kenneth Hull, Myra
Swick, Cheryl Wilson, Penelope Yunker
Staff:
Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Vicki Van Uithoven, Asst. Director
Robbin Burge, Asst. Director
Absent:
Richard York, Board Member
1. Ms. Swick called the meeting to order at 10 am. Ms. Cartier moved to accept the
October 26, 2009 minutes. The motion was seconded by Ms. Wilson. Motion carried to
accept the minutes with changes.
2. Report of the Chair (M. Swick)
a. Ms Swick discussed the letter to ICPAS regarding appointment to REG &
LEG Committee and the Board’s continuing participation with the ICPAS
legislative contacts program.
b. Ms. Swick announced that the date of the ICPAS Banquet will be June 15,
2010.
c. Ms Swick brought up the nomination of the Vice Chair of NASBA
recommendations. Deadline for nominations is Feb. 25th. Ms. Wilson moved and
Ms. Herting seconded a motion not to support anyone at this time for Vice Chair
of NASBA. The motion carried by unanimous voice vote.
3. Executive Director’s report (R Friedewald)
a. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board of a meeting with the University of Illinois
Registrar regarding electronic transfer of transcripts. Mr. Friedewald
expressed his pleasure at the reception he and Robbin Burge received and are
encouraged by the fact that the U of I is anxious to work with us on electronic
transfer. In the meantime, Mr. Friedewald shared that IBOE is currently
receiving transcripts electronically from Notre Dame, DePaul, Univ. of
Phoenix and the Univ. of Chicago.
b. Mr. Friedewald shared with the Board that the next project will be to look at
new data systems, including a new product from VERSA. Mr. Friedewald
indicated that there were two or three other companies that he was going to
look at before putting out a proposal for bid.

 c. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that a new phone system had just been
installed by a company by the name of DNDC from Champaign and that so
far it was working well including the new “Dashboard” system. The
“Dashboard” is a monitoring screen on Ms. Burge and Ms. Van Uithoven’s
desks and allows for monitoring as well as activity reports.
d . Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that the Academic Professionals in the
office are subject to four furlough days per University of Illinois directive.
Mr. Friedewald clarified that our payroll does not impact the University’s
budget and therefore our staff should not be impacted by the furlough
directive. Mr. Friedewald will draft a letter to the Vice Chancellor for the
Finance Committee review and approval expressing the Board’s position on
this matter.
e. Mr. Friedewald distributed a printout of the CPA exam performance of all
Illinois colleges for the four quarters of 2009.
f. Mr. Friedewald provided a summary of the final quarter statistics including
2751 candidates testing in 3948 sections. Dr. Fish moved to accept the scores
and Dr. Yunker seconded. Motion carried by voice acclamation.
g. Mr. Friedewald reported that Prometric will be closing the site at Homewood
due to lack of candidates. They also are changing the status of the testing
center at Sycamore. The facility will no longer include the Sylvan Learning
Center as part of the Prometric Testing Center.
h. Mr. Friedewald shared a notice with the Board from NASBA announcing that
due to meeting a prearranged candidate goal, Prometric will be reducing their
fee starting with the 2011 exam period. The fee will be reduced from $24.80
to $22.05 per hour. The NASBA and AICPA fees will remain the same.
i. Ms. Van Uithoven shared with the Board the plan for the new website
including a time line with an implementation date of June 15, 2010. The
Board reviewed the information provided by Ms. Van Uithoven and suggested
that all necessary steps be taken to ensure a design that is professional and
user friendly. Ms. Wilson advised she had been in contact with ICPAS
regarding the FAQs they use. Ms. Wilson indicated that Jackie Babb is
willing to work with us on FAQs to clarify them so we are both using the
same ones and we will post these to our new website. Ms. Van Uithoven will
provide an update of progress on the new site at the April Board meeting.
j. Mr. Friedewald reviewed the changes in the Finance, Nominating and
Strategic Planning committee descriptions that the Administrative Committee
made. It was agreed that we need a whistle blower policy or adjust the
university’s policy to our needs. The Executive Committee will address the
Whistle Blower Policy. Mr. Friedewald will contact the Administrative
Committee to schedule a meeting to resolve this issue. The Board discussed
changing the Education Advisory Task Force to a committee. The Board
agreed the Education Advisory Task Force should now be called the
Education Advisory Committee with the educators being the Task Force.
Following a rewrite of the description by Dr. Yunker, Ms. Herting moved to
call the EATF the Education Advisory Committee. Dr. Fish seconded and the
motion carried by voice acclamation.

 4. Finance Committee Report- (M. Cartier)
a. Ms. Cartier recommended condensing the information provided to the Board in
order to provide information more relevant to Board members interest.
Following a brief discussion, Ms. Swick directed that a “snap shot” of the
financials will be provided to members monthly, with the full financial report
provided before each Board meeting.
b. Mr. Hull directed the Board’s attention to the amount of interest received
monthly from investments with the University. The percentage of return on
investments was less than 1%. Ms. Van Uithoven will verify the percentages
and advise the Board as to where the money is invested and why the return
was so low.
c. Ms. Cartier further reported on information relative to online activity
5. Administrative Committee Report- (C. Wilson)
Ms. Wilson reported the results of an Administrative Committee conference
call held on January 13, 2010.
a. Ms. Wilson asked Board members to provide a copy of future Secretary of
State Conflict of Interest statements to Mr. Friedewald who will maintain
them in the Board office.
b. Ms. Wilson reported that changes to the Administrative Rules, 1490.90, had
been completed by Mr. Hull which included the recommendations from the
EATF meeting on October 23, 2009. Mr. Hull moved that we share the final
version of the changes with members of the EATF along with a thank you
letter advising the members of the EATF that these changes will be presented
to the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules. Ms. Herting seconded the
motion and the motion passed by voice acclamation.
c. Ms. Wilson shared the letter developed to advise passing candidates of the
Licensing requirement taking effect on July 1, 2010. After brief discussion,
the wording in the letter was finalized and agreed upon
d. Ms. Wilson reviewed the Policy developed by the Administrative Committee
to address Board attendance at events sponsored by providers of CPA review
courses. Following brief discussion, Ms. Cartier moved to approve the policy.
The motion was seconded by Dr. Fish and the motion passed by voice
acclamation.
e. Ms. Wilson led a discussion regarding the utilization of Jeannie Folk’s
services during her sabbatical from College of DuPage. Issues which still
need clarification include; how Ms. Folk sets up the program to assist us
through the College of DuPage; what exactly Ms. Folk will be doing to assist
the Board; what liability, if any, the Board would have in the event of an
accident; and who would be responsible for completing the contractual
agreements. Mr. Friedewald will contact Ms. Folk to resolve these questions.
Ms. Wilson shared that Ms. Folk would not receive compensation from the
Board, but that we would reimburse her for expenses.
The Board adjourned for lunch at 12:15 PM

 The Board reconvened at 1:00 PM
IBOA COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS

6. Candidacy Committee ( R York)- No Report
7. Education Advisory Task Force (P Yunker) –
Dr. Yunker led a discussion regarding future meetings of the Educational
Advisory Committee. The Board agreed that the Education Advisory
Committee will meet periodically.
Following the discussion regarding meeting with the educators, the Board
agreed that it would be a good idea to hold a reception with the educators
prior to the ICPAS banquet on June 15, 2010. It was the consensus of the
Board that this would be a good opportunity to unveil the Board’s new
website. Dr. Yunker will contact educators to see if there is enough interest
from them to have the reception.
8. Nominating Committee (C. Herting)- No report
9. State Liaison Committee—(G. Fish)Dr. Fish advised there will be a conference call on Monday, January 25, 2010
with Registration and Legislation Committee. Dr. Fish will report on the
results of that call at the next Board meeting.
10..Strategic Planning Committee—(K. Hull)Mr. Hull advised there was no report at this time, but that there would be a
meeting of the Committee prior to the next Board meeting.
NASBA/AICPA COMMITTEE REPORT
11. Audit (K. Hull)Mr. Hull advised that he received a call from David Dupree advising he was
surveying members of the committee regarding partner rotation which hasn’t
happened with NASBA for some time in doing their audit. The NASBA
Board agreed that they would change partners this year and then run a regular
rotation audit partners.
12. Bylaws (C Herting/M Swick)a. Ms. Herting reported the Bylaws Committee met and agreed that a person
must be within six months of their term on their state board before they could
initially hold a position on the NASBA board as Regional Director. A person
could not serve more than two full terms.

 b.

Ms. Swick reported that one issue that was tabled is the clarification of the
election of a Regional Director if the region doesn’t have a quorum at the
Regional Meeting.

13. Education (P Yunker)Dr.Yunker reported a call from Mark Harris advising that he would have a
document coming out directing what the committee would be doing in the
coming year. The first meeting will be held in late spring or early summer.
14. B.O.E. & BEC--Internationalization of the CPA Exam (G. Fish)a. Dr. Fish shared with the Board that the Board of Examiners held an outreach
program in Salt Lake City for state boards from the mountain states and that
additional outreach programs will be held for other states.
b. Dr. Fish reminded the Board that lots of changes to the exam are due to take
place on January 1, 2011 and that staff needs to be acutely aware of the
changes and be prepared for them and advertise them.
c. Dr. Fish advised that items for the BEC test bank are being developed relating
to “governance” and that governance will be part of the BEC beginning
sometime after January, 2011.
d. Dr. Fish reported that the international administration will launch sometime in
2011. The exact sites have not been formally announced. However, it is
likely one country will be Japan and the other in the middle east. At this time,
no sites in North or South America are being considered in the initial launch.
e. Dr. Fish advised that Dr. Craig Mills will now be overseeing the CPE Team as
well as the CPA Exam Team for AICPA as a result of unexpected staff
resignations.
15. State Board Relevance and Effectiveness Committee ( M. Cartier –C. Wilson)Ms. Wilson reported that this committee is the old Model Board Committee
which has been renamed and that Carlo Johnson is the Chair. Ms. Wilson
advised that the Committee has already met once via conference call. Ms.
Wilson reported that there is still some question as to what the committee’s
charge is. The Committee is made up of four subcommittees. The first face
to face meeting is scheduled for Oklahoma City on February 1.
Ms. Wilson reported that the subcommittee she is on will develop the template
for a model board.
Ms. Cartier reported that her subcommittee is titled “Develop Budget for an
Independent Board” and is to show how an independent board’s moneys
would be spent (new programs and old), how fees would be assigned and
funds given to the state, etc.
16. Nominating Committee- (M. Swick) - No Report
17. Relations w/member boards-(C. Herting)-

 a. Ms. Herting reported that NASBA had hoped for a more successful Expo
which was held in Texas. Future expos will be referred to as a Summit and
the providers like the changes because they are interested in an exchange of
information..
b. Ms. Herting reported that the Center for the Public Trust is seeking donations.
c. Ms. Herting reported that the Annual meeting was well received.
d. Ms. Herting reported that negotiations are ongoing for the CPA examination
and that negotiations were slowed by Prometric’s delay in securing insurance.
e. Ms. Herting advised the CPE Advisory Committee is interested in promoting
the development of a uniform ethics exams for use in all jurisdictions.
f. Ms. Herting advised NASBA is still promoting ALD.
g. Ms. Herting reported that Mobility continues to be an issue, i.e., getting real
mobility in all states.
h. Ms. Herting reported that Joe Cote will be retiring at the end of the year.
Unfinished Business- Ms. Swick shared with the Board the Board Manual mockup
prepared by Mr. Friedewald. Mr. Friedewald will e-mail Board Members the contents of
the manual and ask that members submit any additional content they feel should be
included in the manual.
New BusinessMr. Hull made a request the IBOE support and promote the concept for the Center for the
Public Trust by making a donation of $1,000. Following further discussion, the Board
agreed that we would be able to support the Center for the Public Trust if the Center
offered memberships. Ms. Swick will follow up with the Center regarding establishing
membership status.
Dr. Fish motioned to adjourn. Since there was no objection, the meeting was adjourned
at 2:20 PM.

Submitted by Russ Friedewald, Executive Director

 