May 10, 2011
Board Minutes
Il. CPA Society, Conference Room A
550 W. Jackson, Chicago, IL
Present:
Board Members: Margaret Cartier, Gary Fish, Claireen Herting, Kenneth Hull, Myra
Swick, Cheryl Wilson, Penelope Yunker, Tom Winkler, Sharon Morrow (by phone)
Staff:
Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Vicki Van Uithoven, Asst. Director
Joanne Vician, Temporary Asst. Director
Debbie Knight, International Evaluator
Guest: Marty Green, ICPAS
1. Mr. Hull called the meeting to order at 10:00 a.m. Mr. Hull acknowledged the passing
of Mr. Bielke and that flowers had been sent on behalf of the board.
Ms. Cartier made a motion to accept the January 25, 2011 minutes. Ms. Herting noted
additions to those in attendance at the meeting on January 25, 2011. The minutes were
approved with changes by voice acclamation.
2. Report of the Chair (K. Hull)
a. Mr. Hull reminded members that the July 12, 2011 meeting will be held in
Champaign. The time for the meeting was moved from 10:00 AM to 10:30 AM to
accommodate travel.
b. Mr. Hull led a discussion regarding what our input will be relative to sunset
language the Board will propose for inclusion with the Society’s proposal. Mr. Hull will
draft a memo to the Society which will follow the guidelines established by NASBA.
The memo will include a prioritized list of our key issues.
c. Mr. Hull advised the board that he sent an email to Ira Solomon congratulating
Dr. Solomon on his appointment as Dean of the College of Business at Tulane
University.
3. Report by Executive Director (R. Friedewald)
a. Mr. Friedewald reported 1889 candidates sat for 2309 sections of the CPA
exam during the first window of 2011 which was extended to March 5, 2011 due to
inclement weather in various parts of the country. Mr. Friedewald further advised the
Board there are currently 391 candidates that have passed all four parts of the CPA exam,
but have yet to report Ethics scores.
b. Mr. Friedewald advised the board that the Procurement Board had approved the
purchase of the Iron Data software upgrade. Mr. Friedewald was directed to proceed
with the purchase.
c. Mr. Friedewald reported a total of seven provisional candidates whose scores
were voided for not meeting the 120 day timeframe for submission of final transcripts.

 4. Administrative Committee—(C. Wilson)
a. Ms. Wilson advised the board that the Rules amendment was withdrawn from
first notice due to incorrect referencing made by JCAR. Because of this, she and Dr.
Yunker took the opportunity to review the amendment and with input from members of
the EATF, made necessary changes that clarify key areas of the amendment. Ms. Wilson
further noted the amendment will be filed with JCAR within the next few days.
b. Ms. Wilson reported that following the EATF meeting, correspondence was
received from Jacqueline Babb from the ICPAS offering assistance in further
disseminating information to schools and educators by conducting two webinars as well
as drafting information for accounting recruiters. Ms. Wilson further advised the Society
will work with the board to update their FAQs that pertain to the changes.
c. Ms. Wilson presented the Committee’s Military Policy for board approval. Ms.
Swick moved to accept the policy and the motion was seconded by Ms. Herting. The
motion carried by voice vote.
d. Ms. Wilson asked to transfer responsibility of payroll records to another
member of the board. Mr. Hull appointed Mr. Winkler to assume responsibility for the
Executive Director’s payroll records. Mr. Hull directed Mr. Friedewald to include in the
board manual that it is the chair’s responsibility to appoint a member of the board as
keeper of the Executive Director’s payroll records.
e. Ms. Wilson suggested the board should consider developing a new board
member orientation as well as a mentoring program for new board members. Mr. Hull
asked Mr. Friedewald to look into developing an orientation program that will include a
mentoring program for new board members.
f. Ms. Wilson asked Mr. Friedewald to read the e-mail from Kathy Horton, an
instructor from the College of DuPage inviting a member of the IBOE to the Illinois
Accounting Teachers Conference to speak on November 4th, 2011 to the attendees about
the exam changes and implementation issues. There was general agreement among
members that we should participate. Ms. Wilson advised Dr. Yunker and Dr. Fish have
agreed to make the presentation and requested Mr. Friedewald attend as well.
g. Ms. Wilson directed the board’s attention to pages 8 and 13 in the 2011 Ethics
Training Guideline manual. On page 8, there is new language regarding member’s time
keeping on board business, suggesting time spent working on board business should be
reported as directed by your state board. Page 13 pertains to member’s political activities
and whether members can publicly support such activities. Mr. Hull directed that it will
not be required to submit timekeeping records and asked Mr. Friedewald to inquire about
the board’s limitations on political activities.
IBOA COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
5. Candidacy Committee—(R. York)
a. Mr. Friedewald reported the Candidacy Committee had denied two appeals;
one regarding a candidate that felt he had not received appropriate credit for coursework
and another that had been evaluated under an incorrect formula. This candidate still did
not meet the requirements under the correct formula.
b. The Committee asked the board for discussion relating to international
evaluations and credit for coursework from domestic institutions that would otherwise

 not be given if the candidate applied with only international documentation. The
international evaluator advised the board that in all evaluations of foreign credentials,
historical information on each school is referenced in order to provide consistency and
that a country’s educational standards are followed in the evaluation process. Following
discussion, the board agreed the international evaluator was correct in her evaluation
standards.
c. Ms. Wilson reminded members to complete their site visits as the letters of
admission are valid until June 30.
6. Education Advisory Taskforce—(P. Yunker)
a. Dr. Yunker reported to the board that she and Ms. Wilson had spent a great deal
of time working on the implementation template for schools and had convened a focus
group of educators to assist in the development of guidelines for implementation of the
educational changes. The focus group met twice prior to the EATF meeting and
contributed many hours of work to the project. Dr. Yunker reported a total of 35
educators attended the EATF meeting on April 25th in Bloomington. Dr. Yunker related
that Mr. Michael Decker from the AICPA presented a program on the development of the
new CPA examination. Following Mr. Decker’s presentation, the group worked in teams
to discuss implementation of the educational changes, discuss development of templates
and address questions about the process. Following the group discussions, a
spokesperson from each group reported on the group discussions.
7. Executive Committee—(K. Hull)—
Mr. Hull advised the board he spoke with Dr. Larry Debrock, Dean of the College
of Business at the University of Illinois inquiring about the board’s status with the
university. Mr. Hull related that Dr. Debrock had been part of the discussion at the top
level at the university discussing our status. Dr. Debrock was unaware that the board had
not been advised of the university’s final decision and agreed to ask Chief Financial
Officer Knorr to contact Mr. Hull with the results of their discussion. Mr. Hull also
indicated to Dr. Debrock that we should be involved in any further discussions with the
university. Mr. Hull led a discussion of possible options moving forward which included
continuing to work with the university while seeking permission from the state to hire
staff or to approach Illinois State University for possible alliance with them. It was
agreed that the board will await final word from Mr. Knorr before taking any further
action.
8. Finance Committee—(G. Fish)Dr. Fish thanked Ms. Van Uithoven for her timeliness in producing the financial
reports and advised that the board is financially sound.
9. Nominating Committee—(M. Swick)
Ms. Swick reported the Nominating
Committee met and determined that at least three members should be replaced next fiscal
year. Members who would be recommended for replacement based on their original
appointment dates include Dr. Fish, Ms. Cartier and Mr. York. In light of the fact Dr.
Fish will assume the Chair in July, Ms. Swick volunteered to be replaced. Ms. Swick
reported following discussion of possible replacements to the board, the Committee

 agreed to recommend the nominations of Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan, Dr. Simon Petravick
and Mr. Duane Suits to Governor Quinn for appointment to the board. The Committee
also unanimously recommended the nomination of Dr. Gary Fish as Chair and Mr. Tom
Winkler as Vice Chair for 2011-2012. A motion was made by Dr. Yunker and seconded
by Ms. Cartier to approve the slate of candidates recommended by the Committee. The
motion carried by unanimous voice vote. Ms. Swick advised the Committee will meet
again to nominate a public member candidate to replace Mr. Bielke.
10. State Liaison Committee—(M. Cartier)
Ms. Cartier deferred to Mr. Marty Green of the ICPAS who gave a legislative
update on the Society’s initiatives as well as other legislation currently pending in the
state legislature.
11. Strategic Planning Committee—(K. Hull)—No report
NASBA/AICPA COMMITTEE REPORTS
12. Audit Committee—(K. Hull)—No report
13. Bylaws Committee—(C. Herting/M. Swick)—No report
14. State Bd. Relevance & Effectiveness Committee—(C. Wilson)- No report
15. Nominating Committee—(M. Swick)
Ms. Swick advised the board she will not stand for re-election to the NASBA
Nominating Committee. Ms. Herting expressed an interest in serving on the Nominating
Committee. Ms. Wilson made a motion to nominate Ms. Herting for the NASBA
Nominating Committee. Dr. Fish seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice acclamation.
16. BOE & BEC—Internationalization of Exam—(G. Fish)Dr. Fish reported the BOE continues to meet regularly to review items for
inclusion to the CPA exam.
Unfinished Business
New Business
Adjournment- Mr. Hull adjourned the meeting at 2:45 pm
Next board meeting—July 12, 2011 in Champaign from 10:30 AM to 3:30 PM

Submitted by Russ Friedewald, Executive Director

 