Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
Board Minutes-April 16, 2015-9:00 AM
550 W Jackson St., 9th Floor
Chicago, IL 60607
Members Present:

Howard Engle, Chair, CPA; Sheldon Holzman, Vice-Chair, CPA; Claireen
Herting, CPA, JD; James G Kelley, CPA; Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA; Sara Mikuta,
CPA; Simon Petravick, CPA and Thomas W Winkler, CPA, JD

Members Absent:

Phyllis Walker

Guests:

Mr. Michael Fritz, Regional Director, National Association of State Boards of
Accountancy (NASBA)
Mr. Marty Green, VP Government Affairs, Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS)
Ms. Jennifer Schultz, CFO and VP Member Services/Operations ICPAS
Mr. Todd Shapiro, President and CEO, Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS)

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director
Matthew Hoffman, Business Manager

Call to Order-First Meeting
Chairperson Engle called the meeting to order at 9:10 AM.
ACTION 1. Approval of January 14, 2015 Minutes
Vice-Chairperson Holzman motioned to accept the January 14, 2015 board meeting minutes with
changes.. Ms. Mikuta seconded the motion. Motion passed on unanimous voice vote.
2. Report of the Chair-Mr. Howard Engle
Chairperson Engle introduced Mr. Fritz who discussed the Department of Labor (DOL), Peer
Review Concept, Exposure Draft, AICPA’s Professional Ethics Executive Committee (PEEC) and
NASBA’s Eastern Regional Meeting. Mr. Friedewald discussed the Illinois Board of
Examiners’(ILBOE) relationship with NASBA and his responsibilities as Chair of the Executive
Directors’s Committee.

3. Report of the Executive Director-Russ Friedewald
ACTION

a.

Chairperson Engle and Mr. Friedewald discussed Illinois’ 1Q15 statistical data in comparison
to the national results with the Board and requested signatures of the members.

b.

Mr. Friedewald updated the Board regarding the four companies that have submitted
proposals for the external penetration testing. All were in favor of accepting the proposal
submitted by Nettitude, Inc, chosen by Mr. Friedewald.

c.

Mr. Friedewald explained to the Board that the new website’s content has been uploaded to
the shell. Ms. France discussed the specifics related to both the new and current
sites.

d.

Mr. Friedewald stated that an update for the Rules Rewrite is forthcoming.

e.

Mr. Friedewald advised the board that applications received to date are ahead of forecast.

 f.

Mr. Friedewald presented the inaugural Board Newsletter, which was approved with
suggested modifications.

g.

Mr. Friedewald discussed the recent Executive Directors’ Conference. He stated the
conference was the most well attended conference ever. State society CEOs were invited to
participate in two, one half day sessions and twenty two CEOs were present.

h.

Mr. Friedewald stated that in recognition of the Elijah Watt Sells Award winners,
congratulatory letters were sent out to the recipients.

i.

Mr. Friedewald mentioned that a letter has been received for the open volunteer Board
member position.

4. Report from the Assistant Director-Ms. Tia France
Ms. France updated the Board on the ILBOE’s social media accounts and office procedures,
including current projects and new implementations.
5. ICPAS Update-Mr. Todd Shapiro
Mr. Shapiro advised the board the society has launched the “Why You Should Become a CPA”
campaign in order to help bring attention to the quality within the profession. Mr. Shapiro also
discussed issues relating to the Department of Labor (DOL). Mr. Shapiro also discussed an
emphasis on diversity being a major focus with the profession. Mr. Shapiro reminded the board
that the Public Accounting Registration & Licensing Committee (PARLC) meeting is scheduled
for June 30, 2015 in Chicago.
6. Legislative Update-Mr. Marty Green
Mr. Green discussed the reappointment of Mr. Jay Stewart, Division Director for the Division of
Professional Regulation (IDFPR). There are no updates regarding the ILBOE board terms. Mr.
Green also mentioned that all acting and pending appointments previously sent to the Governor’s
office were rescinded. The rescinded recommended appointments have been resubmitted.
7. Financial Update for Last Reported Month-Mr. Matt Hoffman
Mr. Hoffman presented and discussed the last reported month’s financials. He also mentioned a
small operating loss even though the ILBOE is ahead of the budget and FY14 actuals. Mr.
Hoffman also stated that the completed first packet of audit information for the Auditor
General semi-annual audit will be submitted to the auditors on the due date of April 17, 2015.

ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
8. Administrative Committee-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler stated that both the rules regarding the administrative hearing process and ILBOE
will be reviewed and rewrites circulated soon.
9. Candidacy Committee-Ms. Herting
No Report
10. Education Advisory Task Force-Mr. Petravick
No Report

 11. Financial Committee-Mr. Holzman
Mr. Holzman stated that FY16 budget preparations should take place in the near
future.
12. Nominating-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler stated that the Committee will meet soon to recommend a nominee as Vice-Chair for
fy 2016 as well as board appointment recommendations to the Governor.
13. State Liaison Committee
No Report
14. Strategic Planning-Mr. Holzman
No Report

NASBA/AICPA Committee Reports
15. Education Committee-Ms. Kodjayan
No Report
16. CBT Administration Committee-Ms. Walker
No Report
17. Communications Committee-Mr. Kelley
Mr. Kelley stated that the committee met last week. During that meeting, newsletters and the
NASBA video that pinpoints the incentives for becoming a CPA were discussed.
18. Ethics & Strategic Issues Committee-Mr. Holzman
Mr. Holzman stated that the Exposure draft was discussed during the last meeting.
19. Global Strategies Committee-Mr. Engle
No Report
20. Nominating Committee-Ms. Herting
Ms. Herting stated that the next meeting is scheduled for later this month.
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
The board conducted an administrative hearing called for the purpose of determining whether scores should
be voided for provisional candidate Adriana Zurbano based on her failing to provide final transcripts within
120 days of having sat for the first part of the CPA exam as required by Administrative Rule. Chairman
Engle recused himself from participating in the hearing due to his affiliation with the same firm Ms.
Zurbano is employed by.

 Following the administrative hearing, Chairman Engle motioned to enter into executive session to discuss
Ms. Zurbano’s appeal. Motion was seconded by Mr. Holzman and approved by voice vote. Following
discussion of the appeal, Mr. Engle motioned to close the executive session and return to open meeting.
The motion was seconded and approved by voice vote.

ACTION Once in open session, members voted to approve the appeal of Ms. Zurbano and her scores will remain
valid and Mr. Friedewald will notify her by certified mail within 15 business days. Chairman Engle did not
vote.
.

Unfinished Business- None
New Business-None
Mr. Engle adjourned the meeting at 1:15 pm.

 