Board of Examiners
Board Minutes- July 24, 2012
Northern Illinois University Conference Room
1120 E. Diehl Road, Naperville, IL

Board members present: Gary Fish, Thomas Winkler, Richard York, Claireen Herting, Sharon Morrow,
Myra Swick, Cheryl Wilson and Penelope Yunker. Ken Hull participated by phone.
Absent: Margaret Cartier
Staff present: Russ Friedewald
Guests: Dr. Ann Kaplan, NIU, Brian Becker, NIU

Chairman Fish called the meeting to order at 10:00 AM
Action

Dr. Yunker moved to accept the April 24, 2012 minutes. Ms. Swick seconded the motion and the
motion to accept the April 24, 2012 minutes was approved by voice acclamation.

Action

Mr. Winkler made a motion to enter into executive session to discuss personnel issues. Ms. Herting
seconded the motion and the Board approved the motion by voice vote and went into closed session at
10:15 am. Mr. Winkler made a motion to come out of closed session at 11:15 am. The motion was
seconded by Ms. Herting and approved by voice acclamation. The board resumed open session at 11:15
am. Mr. Winkler made a motion to approve the compensation merit increase of $4,000 for Mr.
Friedewald, the Executive Director effective July 1, 2012 and a cost of living increase of $16,000 effective
at the time the office physically moves to the Naperville campus of Northern Illinois University. Dr.
Yunker seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Report of the Chair—G. Fish
Dr. Fish reviewed the recently attended Eastern Regional meeting of the National Association of Boards
of Accountancy (NASBA) and Ms. Herting summarized the Western Regional meeting of NASBA.
The Board welcomed Dr. Ann Kaplan, Vice President for Outreach, Engagement and Information
Technologies and Brian Becker, Director of Operations, NIU Outreach. Dr. Fish and Dr. Kaplan each
signed two copies of the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA), an affiliation agreement between the
Illinois Board of Examiners and Northern Illinois University. Following the signing of the IGA, Dr. Kaplan
and Mr. Becker led a tour of the proposed office space for the Board of Examiners.
Report of the Executive Director- R. Friedewald

Action

a. Mr. Friedewald presented the CPA examination scores for the second quarter window for
acceptance and signature. The scores were approved by unanimous voice acclamation.

 b. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that Iron Data will begin User Acceptance Training for the
new data system the week of August 20, 2012.
c. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that funds had been transferred to Northern Illinois
University per the termination agreement with the University of Illinois. Current staff in the Champaign
office has officially been added to the NIU payroll. Mr. Friedewald also advised the Board the proposed
office space had been selected, but the lease has not been negotiated or finalized.
Technology discussion—Dr. Yunker
Dr. Yunker led a discussion regarding upgrading our equipment to include the ability to conduct
webinars and other types of electronic communication that would enhance the Board’s ability
to provide information to our constituents including students and educators. Mr. Friedewald
will research available technologies and advise the board of his findings.
Administrative Committee- T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler advised the Board that once the lease has been negotiated, we will need to have our
attorney review the agreement before signature. Mr. Winkler also advised the Board that a rewrite of
the administrative rules is necessary and the Administrative Committee will begin that process once the
new Committee is assigned. Mr. Winkler asked Mr. Friedewald to see how expenses will be reimbursed
and confirm that NIU follows state travel regulations. Ms. Wilson suggested including the retention
schedule, whistle blower policy and conflict of interest policy in the office manual and referenced in the
board manual. Ms. Wilson further suggested an update to the internal control procedures as we move
to the Naperville campus, new letters of authorization from Prometric for board site visits and the new
certificate letters should be finalized by the Administrative Committee.
Candidacy Committee- P. Yunker
Dr. Yunker presented a report of candidate’s appeals since the last board meeting in April. Dr.
Yunker reported there were seven appeals during the period.
Education Advisory Committee- C. Wilson
No report
Finance Committee- T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler discussed the May financial report and advised the year end report would not be available
from the university until the first week of August. Figures through May indicate revenues are ahead of
revenues from the prior year.

Nominating Committee- K. Hull
No Report
State Liaison Committee- S. Morrow
No report

 Strategic Planning Committee- K. Hull
No report

NASBA/AICPA Committee Reports
Audit Committee- K. Hull
No report
Bylaws Committee- C. Herting
Ms. Herting reported that there are some suggestions for the annual meeting in October which include a
policy manual to include items that would not rise to the level of a bylaws change such as suggestions
regarding length of service on a committee and rotation on various committees. Ms. Herting reported
that a suggestion was made to revise the bylaws to include length of service on a committee and that
Chairmanship on a committee should require membership on the NASBA Board of Directors. Ms.
Herting encouraged all members to apply for committee membership with NASBA
State Board Relevance & Effectiveness Committee- C. Wilson
Ms. Wilson distributed a draft from the committee entitled Duties and Responsibilities of an Effective
Board of Accountancy addressing areas including qualifications, rule making, enforcement and
accountancy board operations.
Nominating Committee- C. Herting
Ms. Herting reported that Carlos Johnson of Oklahoma has been nominated as Vice- Chair of NASBA.
BOE & BEC- Internationalization of Exam- G. Fish
Dr. Fish advised the Board that he will leave the BOE in October.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS- None
NEW BUSINESS-None
Dr. Fish adjourned the meeting at 2:30 PM

 MINUTES
Illinois Board of Examiners (IBOE) Meeting
July 24, 2012 3:15 PM – 3:30 PM
Northern Illinois University Conference Room
1120 E. Diehl Road, Naperville, IL

2:35 PM

Call To Order- G. Fish
Dr. Fish called the second meeting to order at 2:35 PM
1. Presentation of Nominees and Election of 2012-2013 Chair and ViceChair—M. Swick
Ms. Swick nominated Mr. Thomas Winkler as Chair and Dr. Penelope
Yunker as Vice Chair. The nomination of Mr. Winkler and Dr. Yunker
passed by unanimous voice acclamation.
Mr. Winkler presented Dr. Fish with a gift of appreciation for his
service as Chair during fiscal year 2011-12. Mr. Winkler discussed Dr.
Fish’s original service on the board including negotiation of the current
lease in Champaign.
Mr. Friedewald presented Dr. Fish with a gavel in recognition of his
service as Chair in 2005-2006 and 2011-2012.
2. 2012-2013 IBOE Committee Assignment –T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler advised the board he believes the Governor will be
making appointments soon and has decided to wait to make
committee assignments until those appointments are made.
3. Fiscal year 2013 Meeting Dates—T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler also tabled the meeting schedule for the coming year for
the same reason , but indicated a meeting will probably be held before
October for new appointees.
Mr. Winkler adjourned the meeting at 3:00 PM

 