Illinois Board of Examiners
Board Minutes—April 25, 2014
1120 E. Diehl Road, Suite 165
Naperville, IL
Members present:

Dr. Penelope Yunker, CPA, Chair, Howard Engle, CPA, Vice Chair, Claireen
Herting ( by phone), CPA, JD, James Kelley, CPA, Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA, Sara
Mikuta, CPA, Dr. Simon Petravick, CPA, Thomas Winkler, CPA, JD, Sheldon
Holzman, CPA, Sharon Morrow and Phyllis Walker

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Matthew Hoffman, Business Manager

Guests:

Mr. Todd Shapiro, President & CEO, IL CPA Society
Ms. Jennifer Schultz, Vice President and CFO, IL CPA Society

Call to Order
Chairperson Yunker called the meeting to order at 10:00 AM
ACTION:

Chairperson Yunker motioned to accept the January 17, 2014 minutes. Mr.
Kelley seconded the motion. Note: Ms. Morrow asked that it be noted she
voted against reimbursement of attendees to the Educators Conference held
April 4, 2014. Motion passed as amended.
Report of the Chair- P. Yunker
Dr. Yunker offered her appreciation for the monthly updates from the Executive
Director.
Dr. Yunker discussed attendance at the upcoming Regional meetings and
encouraged attendance at one or the other locations.
Dr. Yunker briefly discussed the materials the State Society would like included
with the Board’s certificates and had Ms. Schultz explain to the Board what the
materials would include. The ICPAS agreed to cover any additional postage cost.
Dr. Yunker advised the Board the Executive Committee approved paying Cheryl
Wilson and Joanne Vician a stipend for their assistance with the Administrative
Rules revision. Compensation will not exceed 48 hours each.
Report of the Executive Director- R. Friedewald

ACTION:

a. Mr. Friedewald discussed the most recent scores and distributed the score
book for signature.
b. Mr. Friedewald provided a copy of the Auditor General’s final report and
discussed the findings. One of the findings pertained to having no identity
protection policy. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board he had obtained a copy of
the policy developed for the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation and felt it would meet the requirement. The Board asked Mr.
Friedewald to have Mr. Schmadeke, the Board attorney review that policy to
1

 see that it meets the Board’s requirements.
c. Mr. Friedewald provided an update on the Iron Data installation.
The Board was in agreement that a security check on our systems was
warranted. Mr. Friedewald agreed to contact Central Management Services for
any assistance they may provide and will report to the Board on what current
measures are in place.
d. Mr. Friedewald discussed with the Board the cost of employing an
international evaluator versus continuing to use NASBA for our International
evaluations. Discussion centered on the cost of benefits as well as the benefit
of having our own evaluator vs continuing to use NASBA. In comparing the cost
associated with using NASBA versus having an in-house evaluator, the Board
determined it would be more cost effective to continue using NASBA to do our
evaluations. Mr. Engle made a motion that we do the due diligence to ensure
that NASBA is meeting our standards for evaluations of international
candidates. Mr. Holzman seconded the motion. Following discussion, the
motion passed unanimously.
e. Mr. Friedewald shared a photocopy of the final check from the U of I.
Additionally, Mr. Friedewald discussed the revised certificate with the printed
names under Board member signatures.
ICPAS Update- Jennifer Schultz, Todd Shapiro
Legislative update- Mr. Shapiro provided an update on the pending legislation
including firm mobility, provisional licensure, tax on services and cleanup of
existing legislation.
Mr. Shapiro also discussed the Society inserts they would like to include with
the Board’s certificates. Following the discussion, Mr. Holzman made a motion
to include the Society inserts with the Board’s certificates. Ms. Kodjayan
seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

ILBOA COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
Administrative Committee- T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler reported the Administrative Rules rewrite group met in February
along with the Board’s attorney, Charles Schmadeke, to begin the process of
reviewing and revising the Administrative Rules. Mr. Winkler further advised
that teams were established and assignments made for the revision process.
Mr. Schmadeke gave an overview of what the rules were, how they were
applied and how they can be revised. Teams will meet as scheduled and the
committee will meet as a whole on July 16th.
Candidacy Committee- C. Herting
Ms. Herting reported there were no appeals since the last Board meeting.
2

 Education Advisory Task Force- S. Petravick
Dr. Petravick provided a review of the Educator Conference held April 4th and
reported there was very positive feedback from all attendees.
Finance Committee- H. Engle
Mr. Engle provided a financial report and discussion centered on possible
financial internal control review by NIU as well as a financial statement audit.
Mr. Friedewald agreed to look into the matter and report to the Board.
Nominating Committee- T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler reviewed the nominating committee meeting and reminded the
Board the Governor’s letter had gone out to recommend reappointment of
current Board members as well as the appointment of Jeannie Folk and Larry
Wocjik for any vacancies. Mr. Winkler also discussed the committee’s
affirmation of nomination of Mr. Engle for Chair. Dr. Yunker advised the Board
she will resign following her term as Chair. Mr. Winkler discussed the
committee’s position on the vice chair nomination. He advised there were two
people interested in the position and also asked the Board if they want the
committee to make a nomination or would the Board prefer to make the
decision.
Ms. Morrow expressed disappointment in the process of nominating officers
and the lack of consideration for public members as chair. Ms. Morrow advised
she was removing her name from consideration as Vice Chair.
State Liaison Committee- S. Morrow
No report
Strategic Planning Committee- S. Holzman
Mr. Holzman recommended the Strategic Planning process be deferred until
after the first draft of the administrative rules rewrite.

NASBA COMMITTEE REPORTS
By Laws Committee- T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler reported there had been two phone conferences and that the
committee would like to stagger the director’s terms as Regional Directors
because of the frequency of change. Regional Directors serve one year terms.
The other issue discussed dealt with which directors should be allowed to
attend the Executive Director conference.
CBT Administration Committee- P. Walker
Ms. Walker advised the Board that in 2014 there will not be an extension of the
testing window.
Ms. Walker also advised the International administration of the CPA
examination is doing well.
Ms. Walker noted the next meeting of the committee will be July 29th.
3

 Communications Committee- J. Kelley
Mr. Kelley reported the committee is meeting monthly. The next meeting will
be in Denver on May 5th. Mr. Kelley reported that NASBA has a new social
media unit and that there will be representation from this unit at the regional
meetings to discuss social media.
Education Committee- S. Morrow
No report
Ethics & Strategic Issues Committee- S. Holzman
Mr. Holzman reported the committee met by conference call and more recently
in person in Dallas in February. They have since generated a letter to state
Boards on ethics codification. Mr. Holzman advised this to be a matter more
suited to the Public Accounting Registration Committee.
Global Strategies Committee- H. Engle
Mr. Engle reported participation in a conference call recently which outlined the
primary activities of the committee for this year. The first is to inventory
international accounting groups and assess what they do and then
communicate to them what NASBA does. The second initiative is to evaluate
and then decide whether a conferences should be held for international
regulators and showcase NASBA to these groups. The third initiative is to
develop a repository for all of the products and resources that NASBA has and
make those available to all of the international organizations.
Nominating Committee- C. Herting
Ms. Herting reported that Donny Burkett from South Carolina is the new vice
chair of NASBA. Ms. Herting also advised the committee has discussed
attempting to limit campaigning for support. Dr. Yunker reminded the
members that the Board of Examiners does not support any candidate for any
NASBA office. Ms. Herting reminded the Board that committee issues are
confidential and that she was not at liberty to further discuss the committee’s
meeting.
Unfinished Business

None

New Business

None
Dr. Yunker reminded the Board the next meeting would be July 14th at 10:00 am.
Dr. Yunker adjourned the meeting at 2:45 PM

4

 