Illinois Board of Examiners (ILBOE) Meeting
Board Minutes-April 24, 2019-10:00 AM
1120 E Diehl Road, Room 165
Naperville, IL 60563
Members Present:

Absent:

Sara Mikuta, Chair, CPA; Simon Petravick, Vice-Chair, CPA;
Bradley Danton, JD; Thomas Homer, JD; James Kelley, CPA;
Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA; Annette O’Connor, CPA (participated
by phone); Brian Whitlock, CPA, JD and Larry Wojcik, CPA, JD
Kent Reeves, CPA, Jeannie Folk, CPA

Guests:

Dr. Rebecca Shortridge, Chair, Dept. of Accountancy,
Northern Illinois University (NIU)
Mr. Todd Shapiro, President & CEO, Illinois CPA Society
(ICPAS)

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Mary E. Fitzgerald, Business Manager
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director of Certification
Carla Ratchford, Assistant Director of Evaluation Services

Call to Order-First Meeting
Chairperson Mikuta called the meeting to order at 10:05 AM.

1. Approval of January 7, 2019 Minutes
ACTION

Mr. Kelley motioned to accept the January 7, 2019 board meeting minutes. Mr.
Whitlock seconded the motion. Motion passed on unanimous voice vote.

2. Report of the Chair-Ms. Sara Mikuta
a. Chairperson Mikuta and Ms. Fitzgerald discussed with the Board members
the State of Illinois’ process for submitting travel requests to the Governor’s
office. Attendance for the Eastern and Western Regional National Association
of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) meetings was also documented.
b. Chairperson Mikuta discussed the Board members’ dates of appointment
and term expirations in addition to updates on submissions to the Governor’s
office for the upcoming member vacancy.
c. Chairperson Mikuta reminded the Board of officers elections being held on
July 24, 2019.

 3. Legislative Update-Mr. Todd Shapiro
Mr. Shapiro discussed the combined efforts of NASBA, the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and various state society members
(AKA the Working Group) regarding alignments to evolve the CPA licensure.
The Working Group’s recommendations include possibly significantly
increasing data analytics while significantly reducing the depth of accounting in
the exam. Guiding principles will be released by NASBA to stakeholders
through October 2019, which include flexibility in education requirements,
testing a common core of accounting and technology, administering one exam
that serves all and including advanced and unique accounting concepts only to
certain segments of practicing CPAs.
Dr. Shortridge discussed in detail NIU’s plan to possibly incorporate analytics
into their accounting degree. Dr. Shortridge, Mr. Shapiro and Mr. Danton
discussed the role robotics plays in accounting in general and the depth of a
CPA’s involvement with robotics.
4. Report of the Executive Director-Mr. Russ Friedewald
ACTION

a. Mr. Friedewald presented Chairperson Mikuta and the Board with the 19Q1
scores for approval. Motion to approve was made and carried unanimously. Mr.
Friedewald and the Board compared the 19Q1 & 18Q1 data.
b. Mr. Friedewald stated that the Administrative Rules need to be revised in
regard to the change in the score release process for Provisional candidates.
c. Ms. France updated the Board on the minor edits and ADA upgrades being
made to the new website and stated that it is expected to go live before June
2019.
d. Ms. France updated the Board on high school presentations and the
ILBOE’s continuous efforts to diversify and ensure inclusion in the CPA
pipeline. Board members and staff discussed options for expanding community
outreach.
e. Mr. Friedewald stated that there were no updates from NASBA’s recent
Executive Director & Board Staff conference.

ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
5. Administrative Committee-Mr. Larry Wojcik
No Report

 6. Candidacy Committee-Ms. Jeannie Folk
Mr. Friedewald discussed the current appeals received.
7. Education Advisory Task Force-Dr. Simon Petravick
Dr. Petravick updated the Board on the topics discussed at the Education
Committee meeting hosted by NASBA this past January. The Board, Mr.
Shapiro and staff discussed the following: data surrounding candidates who sit
at 150 semester credit hours (SCH) versus those who sit at 120, pass rates of
those sitting at 150 vs. 120 and different ways of obtaining the additional 30
hours.
Mr. Shapiro stated that there was concern surrounding mobility for those sitting
at different requirements. However, because 35 jurisdictions have mobility in
place for the candidates, that is no longer a concern for Illinois if the
requirements change.
Dr. Petravick will update the Board once data tracking candidates sitting at 150
vs. 120 from 2018 becomes available. He will also gather additional information
related to requirements for those candidates in order to determine any trends.
Mr. Shapiro stated that the accounting changes passed into law in May 2017 and
in effect in January 2018, are finalized and proposed rules have been presented to
the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules (JCAR).
8. Finance Committee- Ms. Sara Mikuta & Ms. Mary E. Fitzgerald
Chairperson Mikuta and Ms. Fitzgerald discussed minor edits to prior financial
reports after final review. Ms. Fitzgerald and the Board discussed the current
financial statements in detail. Chairperson Mikuta stated that the next Finance
Committee meeting is TBD.
9. Strategic Planning-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
No Report

AICPA/NASBA COMMITTEE REPORTS
10. Bylaws Committee-Mr. Thomas Homer
Mr. Homer discussed the member nominations and requirements.

 11. CBT Administration Committee-Mr. Russ Friedewald
Mr. Friedewald stated that there was a conference call a few months ago and a
face-to-face meeting is TBD.
12. Diversity Committee-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
Ms. Kodjayan stated that there was a meeting last month and the new member
announcements are forthcoming.

13. Education Committee-Dr. Simon Petravick
Dr. Petravick stated that there is a letter being drafted in response to a proposal
requesting changes to the International Education Standards.

14. Ethics Committee-Mr. Jim Kelley & Mr. Larry Wojcik
Mr. Wojcik stated that proposals related to the Code of Professional Conduct are
being discussed.
15. Professional Ethics Executive Committee- Mr. Larry Wojcik
Mr. Wojcik stated that a future meeting is TBD
16. Regulatory Response Committee-Ms. Sara Mikuta
Chairperson Mikuta stated that five proposal memorandums were discussed at
the last meeting.
.
Unfinished BusinessThe Board discussed a joint meeting with the Partnership for Assessment of
Readiness for College and Careers (PARCC) which is TBD.
New Business-None
ACTION Chairperson Mikuta adjourned the meeting at 1:29 PM.

 