Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
Board Minutes-January 14, 2015-10:00 AM
1120 E Diehl Road, Suite 165
Naperville, IL 60563
Members Present:

Howard Engle, Chair, CPA; Sheldon Holzman, Vice-Chair, CPA
(participated by phone); Claireen Herting, CPA, JD; James G
Kelley, CPA; Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA; Sara Mikuta, CPA; Simon
Petravick, CPA and Thomas W Winkler, CPA, JD

Members Absent:

Phyllis Walker

Guest:

Mr. Todd Shapiro, President and CEO, Illinois CPA Society
(ICPAS)

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director
Matthew Hoffman, Business Manager
Carla Ratchford, Assistant Director

Call to Order
Chairperson Engle called the meeting to order at 10:10 AM.
ACTION 1. Approval of October 16, 2014 Minutes
Chairperson Engle motioned to accept the October 16, 2014 board meeting
minutes. Mr. Kelly seconded the motion. Motion passed on unanimous voice
vote.
2. Report of the Chair-Mr. Howard Engle
a. Chairperson Engle stated the Governor has not made any new board
appointments.
b. Chairperson Engle discussed the specifics pertaining to the recent meeting
with Mr. Manny Flores, Acting Secretary of the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulations (IDFPR) and Mr. Friedewald. The
IDFPR will continue its relationship with the Board. The agency will be
attending an upcoming Board meeting as well as submitting information for
the Board’s inaugural newsletter.
c. Chairperson Engle reported on the budget projections and deficits for fiscal
year 2015.
3. Report of the Executive Director-Russ Friedewald

 ACTION

a.

Mr. Friedewald reviewed and discussed the 4Q14 scores with the board and
requested signatures of the members. The most recent examination statistics
information will be forwarded once received from NASBA. Mr. Friedewald
pointed out that there is a slight difference in the data yielded by the Board
and NASBA due to the information used by each organization.

b. Mr. Friedewald updated the Board regarding the companies that have
responded in regards to submitting proposals for the external penetration
testing. It was also stated that references are welcome.
c. Mr. Friedewald explained to the Board that the verbal contract with Michael
Logic Administration (MLA) has been rescinded. VisionFriendly has been
selected to re-design the website.
d. Mr. Friedewald submitted section edits of the rules in response to the rewrite
project. March 1, 2015 is the goal by which to have all of the edits ready to
submit to JCARR. These edits include recognizing NASBA as the sole
evaluation service for the Board’s foreign applications as well as some
flexibility in regarding accepted accreditation.
e. Mr. Friedewald submitted the Annual Report of Activity for the Board to the
Governor’s office as well as the Auditor General in December 2014.
f. Mr. Friedewald stated that the Board is ahead of current projections; however,
the goal is to be where the organization was two years ago in regards to the
number of applications processed. Ms. Ratchford discussed the New
Application/Complete-Incomplete Documents process and current application
completion timeline for the Evaluation Services Department.
g. Mr. Friedewald stated that the Board has set up and incorporated social media
accounts on Facebook and Twitter.
h. Mr. Friedewald submitted a mock-up of the forthcoming newsletter. Mr.
Holzman stated that there needs to be an “Opt Out” option in the e-mails
containing the newsletter. And Mr. Petravick inquired about tracking the
analytics in regards to the newsletter.
4. ICPAS Update-Mr. Todd Shapiro and Ms. Jennifer Schultz
Mr. Shapiro stated that all acting and pending appointments sent to the
Governor’s office from the previous administration were rescinded. The
rescinded appointments will be resubmitted. The Office of Citizens for the State,
which handles state appointments, is still vacant as of today’s date. The ICPAS is
launching a new campaign in 2015 titled “Why You Should Become a CPA”.
This campaign, unlike previous ones, will not be focused on public accounting.

 5. Financial Update for Last Reported Month-Mr. Matt Hoffman
Mr. Hoffman presented and discussed both the last quarter and the year-to-date’s
financials. He also mentioned that revenue is down 1% from projections.

ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
6. Administrative Committee-Mr. Winkler
No Report
7. Candidacy Committee-Ms. Herting
Mr. Friedewald stated that there is one outstanding appeal. And a phone meeting
has been scheduled for Thursday, January 15, 2015 in order to discuss further
action.
8. Education Advisory Task Force-Mr. Petravick
No Report
9. Financial Committee-Mr. Engle
Chairperson Engle stated that he has contacted NASBA regarding other
jurisdictions’ projection trends. He is still awaiting a response.
10. Nominating-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler discussed the three Board positions that are presently vacant.
Recommendations should be submitted by February 28, 2015. And these will be
discussed at the next Board meeting scheduled on April 16, 2015.
11. State Liaison Committee
No Report
12. Strategic Planning-Mr. Holzman
No Report

NASBA/AICPA Committee Reports
13. Bylaws Committee-

 No Report
14. CBT Administration Committee-Ms. Walker
No Report
15. Communications Committee-Mr. Kelley
Mr. Kelley discussed the possibility of the Board being an example for other
jurisdictions in regard to the newly-implemented communication plan.
16. Education Committee- Ms. Kodjayan
Ms. Kodjayan reported the predominant issue the committee is focusing on is
Accreditation. As we are faced with many alternative types of learning such as
MOCS, online courses and Competency-Based Programs, we have to determine
how to evaluate these relative to the traditional model. Course content and various
accreditation bodies have been discussed in detail.
An update of the UAA Rules is also on the agenda as well as Research Grants.

17. Ethics & Strategic Issues Committee-Mr. Holzman
Mr. Holzman stated that the AICPA’s recent meeting produced a draft of the new
Ethics Codification. The topic of merged firms was also discussed.
18. Global Strategies CommitteeNo Report
19. Nominating Committee-Ms. Herting
No Report
Unfinished BusinessChairperson Engle discussed the unresolved investment issue with Northern
Illinois University (NIU). Mr. Friedewald stated that he has contacted Ms.
Tammy Farley, Director of Treasury Operations, NIU, and is awaiting a response.
And Mr. Petravick suggested that an inquiry be made regarding lower
administrative fees compensating for the lack of investment reserve.
New Business-None

ACTION Chairperson Engle adjourned the meeting at 12:28 PM.

 