Board of Examiners
Board Minutes- September 19, 2012
Northern Illinois University, Room 105
1120 E. Diehl Road, Naperville, IL
Board members present: Sara Mikuta, Simon Petravick, Rhonda Kodjayan, Howard Engle, Sheldon
Holzman, Penelope Yunker, Claireen Herting, Sharon Morrow, Thomas Winkler, Phyllis Walker, James
Kelley
Board members absent: None
Guests: Former board members, Gary Fish, Cheryl Wilson, Myra Swick, Margaret Cartier
Marty Green, ICPAS
Staff present: Russ Friedewald

Mr. Winkler called the meeting to order at 10:00 AM
Mr. Winkler welcomed the newly appointed members to the board and also welcomed the past
members in attendance. Mr. Winkler concluded his opening remarks by providing those present with a
review of his background and asked all present to give an overview of their background.
Following the introductions, Mr. Winkler and Mr. Friedewald provided those present with a current
status of the Board of Examiners as it relates to the board’s history with the University of Illinois and
now, moving forward with the board’s association with Northern Illinois University.
Committee appointments were discussed, but no committee assignments were made. Mr. Winkler
advised the board that committee assignments would be made at a later date.
Mr. Marty Green, Vice President of Government Affairs of the Illinois CPA Society provided a legislative
update including an overview of the sunset legislation being proposed. Mr. Green also provided an
historical perspective of the relationship between the board and the society.
Action

Mr. Winkler called for a motion to accept the minutes of the July 24, 2012 board meeting. Dr. Yunker
moved to accept the minutes as submitted. Ms. Herting seconded the motion and the motion passed
as Dr. Yunker, Ms. Herting, Ms. Morrow and Mr. Winkler voted in favor of the motion. Ms. Mikuta, Dr.
Petravick, Ms. Kodjayan, Mr. Engle, Ms. Walker, Mr. Kelley and Mr. Holzman abstained as they were not
present at the July 24th meeting.
Finance Report- Dr. Yunker
Dr. Yunker provided an overview of the year end finance report. Dr. Yunker advised the members that
the fund balance was positive with an increase over the previous year’s balance.
Mr. Winkler discussed with the board the pending move of the Board to the Naperville campus of NIU
and the space the board will utilize. Mr. Winkler advised the board that our affiliation with NIU was
based in part on utilizing office space on campus.

 Tour of proposed office space—Mr. Becker
At this time, Mr. Brian Becker, Director of Operations at NIU gave a tour of the proposed office space
the board would occupy once it moves to Naperville. Mr. Becker explained what areas would need build
out before the move could be completed.
Overview of the AICPA BOE and exam development—Dr. Fish
Dr. Fish provided a power point presentation of the AICPA Board of Examiners of which he is a member.
The presentation outlined the development of the CPA examination and the steps taken to ensure an
item meets all psychometric standards prior to inclusion on the exam.
Legislative history and semi-independence—Ms. Wilson
Ms. Wilson provided an historical perspective on the board’s status as a semi- independent board
supported entirely by candidate fees. Ms. Wilson also provided a synopsis of primary legislative efforts
to move the licensing and enforcement functions from the Public Accounting Regulatory Committee to
the Illinois Board of Examiners in order to provide better service to the CPA profession. Ms. Wilson
advised the board that she and Dr. Fish sit on NASBA’s State Board Relevance and Effectiveness
Committee which, among other things, has developed a position paper for board’s seeking semiindependence.
Relationship with NASBA—Ms. Herting and Ms. Swick
Ms. Herting and Ms. Swick provided an historical perspective on the board’s relationship with NASBA
over the years and encouraged new members to continue working closely with NASBA and to get
involved by participating on committees. Ms. Herting advised that Illinois is in the Great Lakes Region
and that Mr. Kim Tredinnick of Wisconsin is our Regional Director.
Candidacy Committee—Ms. Cartier
Ms. Cartier provided a description of the Candidacy Committee and the role the committee plays in
making sure candidates meet the requirements to sit for the CPA examination. She explained the
committee’s charge is to review appeals from candidates regarding their qualifications to sit and to
determine whether the appeal has merit.
Awards presentation—Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler recognized the contributions and dedication of the members whose terms ended and
thanked them for the many years of dedicated service to the board and to the CPA profession statewide
as well as nationally. A token of appreciation was presented to each member.
The information regarding the Education Advisory Task Force was tabled.
Following a motion to adjourn and seconded, the motion passed by voice acclamation and the meeting
adjourned at 3:20 PM.

 