Board of Examiners
Board Minutes- January 17, 2012
Illinois CPA Society, Conference Room A
550 W. Jackson, Chicago, IL

Board members present: Gary Fish, Kenneth Hull, Thomas Winkler, Margaret Cartier, Claireen
Herting, Sharon Morrow, and Myra Swick. Penelope Yunker and Cheryl Wilson present by
phone
Absent: Richard York
Staff present: Russ Friedewald
Guests: Marty Green, ICPAS

Chairman Fish called the meeting to order at 10:07 AM
Action

1. Chairman Fish asked for a motion to approve the October 18, 2011 minutes. Ms. Herting
moved to accept the minutes. Ms. Morrow seconded the motion and the motion passed by voice
acclamation.
2. Report of the Chair—G. Fish
a. Dr. Fish began his report with a discussion of the status of our agreement with
Northern Illinois University (NIU) and explained the reason for the delay in the agreement
ratification by the NIU trustees. Moving forward, it was agreed that Dr. Yunker would approach
Western Illinois University informally about the possibility of affiliating with the Board of
Examiners if the agreement with Northern Illinois University is not ratified by their Board of
Trustees. In the meantime, Mr. Friedewald will continue discussions with Dr. Kaplan about the
status of our relationship with NIU.
b. Dr. Fish reviewed with the Board the recent annual meeting of NASBA

Action

c. Dr. Fish presented the University of Illinois (U of I) transition agreement as given by
the U of I to the Executive Committee outlining the separation from the Board of
Examiners including the date of June 30, 2012 for termination of all personal services.
Ms. Swick moved to accept the agreement. Ms. Morrow seconded the motion and the
motion passed by voice acclamation.
d. Dr. Fish related to the board he had calls from all three nominees for NASBA’s Vice
Chair soliciting the board’s support and expressed to all that the board was very
comfortable with all three nominees. Dr. Fish also expressed to the callers that the board
would not be taking a formal position on any nominee.

 3. Report of the Executive Director- R. Friedewald
a. Mr. Friedewald discussed the scores from the previous window, distributed the scores
and requested signatures of the members.
b. Mr. Friedewald discussed the applications processed report and noted that applications
processed are down from the previous year. He also noted most states are seeing reduced
numbers primarily attributed to the change in the examination format from the previous year.
c. Mr. Friedewald advised the board the Auditor General’s staff has returned and
continues to examine documents. They should complete their audit soon. Once complete, they
will provide potential audit findings (PAF) and we will have an opportunity to address those
prior to the final audit being released.
d. Mr. Friedewald advised the board Iron Data has restarted the project that had been on
hold.
e. Mr. Friedewald received an email of the NASBA Committee Handbook and has sent it
all members.
4. ICPAS legislative review- Marty Green, V.P., Illinois CPA Society
a. Mr. Green distributed a draft legislative proposal for the sunset revisions of the act.
Mr. Green advised the board that January 26th will be the last date proposed legislation can be
presented to the legislative reference bureau. The society’s bill will be sponsored in the house by
Representative Bob Rita and Senator Martinez will sponsor the bill in the senate. Mr. Green
pointed out that major changes are discouraged in the rewrite bill because you want to be sure
the act gets passed.
b. Role of BOE in ICPAS independent status process- Mr. Green explained that he and
Jim Fletcher discussed the move toward semi independence, recognizing that we need to get the
act passed before moving forward with this project. The society plan is that immediately after
the act gets passed, a letter will be sent to legislators advising them of the society’s desire to look
at the licensure and enforcement of accountants. These letters should go out late summer of
2012 after the rewrite is passed.
5. Administrative rule discussion- Dr. Yunker
Dr. Yunker discussed a portion of the rule that allows 1.6 hours of credit for all graduate
accounting courses regardless of accreditation. Dr. Yunker wanted to be sure this is what the
board intended. Dr. Yunker and Ms. Wilson supported this language and the board unanimously
agreed with the recommendation.

 The ILBOE Committee and Task Force Reports
6. Administrative Committee- T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler reviewed with the board the Northern Illinois University agreement, the University
of Illinois agreement and the leasing of NIU office space with the board. It was noted by Mr.
Winkler that a final decision will need to be made with NIU relative to the lease of office space.
7. Candidacy Committee- P. Yunker
Dr. Yunker reported on three appeals from candidates.
8. Education Advisory Committee- C. WilsonMs. Wilson reminded the board of the EATF meeting scheduled for April 13, 2012 at the Illinois
State University Alumni Center in Normal.
9. Finance Committee- T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler presented the final draft of the proposed budget and pointed out that due to the
software update, we should have a deficit of approximately $46,000. Following a brief
discussion, Mr. Winkler moved to accept the budget as proposed. Ms. Cartier seconded the
motion and the motion passed by voice acclamation.
10. Nominating Committee- K. Hull
No report
11. State Liaison Committee - S. Morrow
No report
12. Strategic Planning Committee - K. Hull
No report
NASBA/AICPA Committee Reports
13. Audit Committee - K. Hull
No report
14. Bylaws Committee- C. Herting
Ms. Herting reported the Bylaws Committee held a meeting the previous week and the North
Carolina Board wants the committee to look at terms of office for NASBA officers.

 15. State Board Relevance & Effectiveness Committee- C. Wilson
Ms. Wilson reported a conference call was held in December. Ms. Wilson related that she has
asked to be on the state society committee which deals with state legislation.
16. Nominating Committee- C. Herting
Ms. Herting advised the board that the Nominating Committee had been scheduled to meet in
April, but the meeting has now been moved to March. The committee would like to have
nominations ready for the April board meeting.
17. BOE & BEC- Internationalization of Exam- G. Fish
Dr. Fish reported that the expansion of the international administration to Brazil has gone well.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS-- None
NEW BUSINESS-- None
The meeting adjourned at 2:00 PM

 