Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
Board Minutes-January 8, 2013-11:00 PM
Illinois CPA Society Of?ce

550 Jackson, Chicago, IL

Members Present: Thomas Winkler, Chair, CPA, JD, Penelope Yunker, Vice-Chair, CPA,
Howard Engle, CPA, Claireen Herting, CPA, JD, Sheldon Holtzman, CPA
(participated by phone), James Kelley, CPA, Rhonda Kodj ayan, CPA,
Sara Mikuta, CPA, Sharon Morrow, Simon Petravick, CPA Walker

Members Absent: Not Aplicable

Mr. Dan Dustin, NASBA
Mr. Marty Green, ICPAS (participated by phone)
Ms. Tia Marie France, ILBOE

Call to Order

Chairman Winkler called the meeting to order at 11:10 AM. All in attendance introduced
themselves. 

Introduction of Tia Marie France

Mr. Friedewald introduced Tia Marie France to the board-background and history. Ms. France
will assume the role of Assistant Director with the move to the NIU facilities in Naperville, IL.

Ms. France gave her personal background and history.
ACTION 1. Approval of September 19, 2012 Minutes

Following a brief discussion of the minutes from the September 19, 2012 board meeting, Mr.
-Winkler motioned to accept the minutes. Ms. Morrow seconded the motion. The motion passed
by unanimous acclamation.

Mr. Winkler discussed the wording used in the language regarding Ms. Wilson?s wording on

. .legislation and her synopsis of the issues involved in merging licensing functions performed
by public accountancy committees and CPA functions performed by the Illinois Board of
Examiners (ILBOE). . .not sure What the solution should be. . .[the] concept is broader. . .not going
to push one way or the other. . 

ACTION

Ms. Morrow mentioned that committee assignments were discussed but not included in the
meeting notes. Mr. Winkler con?rmed the discussion and that an e-mail was sent after the last
adjourned meeting. Mr. Winkler stated that no approval of the committee assignments is
required, but re?ection in minutes is needed. The latter will be added to the previous meeting
minutes.

Ms. Herting motioned to move on to the next agenda item. Ms. Kodj ayan seconded the motion.

2. Report of the Chair-Thomas Winkler

Review NASBA Annual Meeting

Mr. Winkler discussed the relationship between the ILBOE and the Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS)
American Institute of CPAs (AICPA). Mr. Winkler also discussed the four major points
presented at the NASBA Annual meeting. The points were regulations-for Public Accounting
and oversight boards, legislative challenges, changes in education such as online courses-
100,000+ participants, and the explosion of the CPA exam worldwide-challenges dif?culties,
ethics in USA vs. the world.

The speci?c dates for upcoming NASBA meetings are given which are the Western Regional
Meeting in New Orleans, LA-June 5-7, 2013, the Eastern Regional Meeting in Chicago, lL-June
26-28, 2013 and the 106th Annual Meeting in Maui, HI-October 27?30, 2013.

3. NASBA Overview-Mr. Dan Dustin, VP, NASBA

Mr. Winkler introduced Mr. Dustin

Mr. Dustin gave his background and discussed great relationship with the ILBOE, the
election process, Vision? the facilitation of information sharing and being ?Mission
Driven Member Focused and why certain jurisdictions were not participating in committees.

Mr. Dustin reinforced the importance of NASBA committees and board participation. NASBA
University, the licensing of military personnel and spouses, the dramatic changes to the Wyoming
State bill, mobility/board inquiries, the national database for disciplinary actions and the
Accounting Licensing Library were also topics of discussion.

4. Legislative Update-Mr. Marty Green, ICPAS

Mr. Winkler introduced Mr. Green

Mr. Green discussed the Illinois Department of Financial Professional Regulation?s (IDFPR)
staff updates-Elaine Weiss, ICPAS, is moving to the dermatology board, and Manny Flores?
appointment to a new role at the IDFPR.

Mr. Green?s Illinois legislation updates were as follows:
1. Illinois General Assembly in lame duck session regarding a pension deal cut.

2. medical fund is short; employees noti?ed that there will be lay offs.

ACTION

3. CPA fund, among others, was proposed as a sector to have funds taken
from it to help offset the medical fund?s de?cit; the proposal failed and a new
proposal is being worked on so that the funds will come from local government.

4. The CPA fund must last 3 years and Senate Democrats proposed to use the
funds; however, the governor has yet to take a position.

5. There is no update on the Public Accounting bill because it has yet to be discussed.
Additional updates are being drafted for approval in Spring 2013. Small updates, of
no major concern, by staff have occurred.

6. Bill HB3816, regarding government commissions, does not impact the ILBOE.

7. The Military Licensure bill that passed last spring is primarily for spouses and
provides substantial equivalency for temporary licenses as long as requirements are
met.

Mr. Friedwald discussed the professional funds in relation to department costs come
from this money collected as well. The CPA fund and the obligation, or lack there of, for its
repayment was also discussed. Mr. Friedewald and Ms. Yunker discussed how the ILBOE funds
are not included in the CPA fund.

5. Report of the Executive Director-Russ Friedewald

a. Score Report-12Q3 12Q4?Board /Signature

Mr. Friedewald explained to new board members exactly what the score report is and asked for
signatures for certi?cates. The board discusses the AICPA software scoring issue that affected
some candidates who tested in 2012. When more information is received, it will be forwarded to
the board members. Mr. Engle discussed the possible rami?cations and Mr. Winkler passed this
issue on to the Candidacy Committee.

b. Update on NIU Relocation

Mr. Winkler discussed how the relocation is moving forward. No plans are attached to the
exhibit, as of Sept 2012. There are no major changes to the ?oor plans. Dr. Kaplan stated she
would follow up on the lease and Mr. Brian Becker would follow up on the architect. The
original relocation date of Feb 2013 has been changed to April 2013. Mr. Friedewald discussed
the University of Illinois? intentions and actions regarding dealings with the ILBOE-explanation
of P-Card and system terminations.

c. Update on IronData Installation

Mr. Friedewald discussed the delays associated with the new of?ce system. The anticipated date
for roll out is now April 8, 2013. Of?ce purging processes were also explained.

d. Semi-Independent Status-Food for Though

Mr. Winkler placed this item on the next board meeting?s agenda.

e. NASBA International Evaluations
The ILBOE has contracted with NASBA until we can make it an in-house process again.
New Educational Requirements, Provisional Status, etc.

Mr. Friedewald discussed and explained the new Educational Requirement changes which take
effect on July 1, 2013. There are two rules that con?ict. The proposed rule change is that
Provisional candidates must take at least one exam section before June 28, 2013 in order to have
120-day rule apply. If they do not sit, all qualifying documents must be in-house by the above-
speci?ed deadline or they must meet the new requirements. Mr. Winkler delegated this issue to
the Candidacy Board and Mr. Friedewald.

g. Distribution of Ethics Training Materials

Mr. Friedewald requested that the signed Signature forms be returned to him.
ILBOE Committee Task Force Reports

Mr. Winkler stated that the committees are looking for assignments.
6. Administrative-Tom Winkler

Rule Re-Write

Mr. Winkler stated that the meeting schedule will be circulated; all participation is welcome.
7. Candidacy Committee-C Herting

Ms. Herting discussed the six appeals submitted since the last meeting. Ms. Yunker explained
that denials are not discussed as to not prejudice the other members.

Report of Committee Activity
8. Education Advisory Task Force-P Yunker
EATF Meeting Scheduled for April 26, 2013

Ms. Yunker explained how educators are made aware of ILBOE information. This meeting will
be postponed until Fall 2013. Mr. Engle introduced other stakeholders who need to be noti?ed of
the new educational requirements. A call will be made to the IDFPR to see if the information
concerning the new educational requirements can be posted on their website.

9. Finance Committee-P Yunker

Ms. Yunker discussed the fund balance and the 4.8M to 4.5M projected decline. The ILBOE fee
rates were discussed. Mr. Winkler requested that Mr. Friedewald provide, if possible, the fee
schedules for all other states for the next board meeting.

ACTION Ms. Kodjayan moved to approve the budget. Ms. Herting seconded the motion to approve.
10. Nominating-C Herting
No Report
11. State Liaison-S Morrow
Ms. Morrow and Mr. Green previously attempted to set up a date and time to meet. No date set.
12. Strategic Planning
Various modes of media were discussed to communicate the educational requirement changes.
Committee Reports
13. Nominating Committee-C Herting
a. Discussion Relative to Nomination for NASBA Vice-Chair:
Nominees-Mr. Ted Long, OH
Mr. Walter Davenport, NC
Ms. Kathleen Smith, NE
Ms. Janice Gray, OK
Mr. Ken Odom, AL

Mr. Winkler discussed the standing issues. Ms. Herting explained the nominating and voting
processes. Although the ILBOE has not supported a particular candidate in the past, Mr. Winkler
is not opposed to doing so.

Un?nished Business-None
New Business-None

ACTION Mr. Winkler adjourned the meeting at 3:10 PM.

