Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
April 18, 2013-10:00 AM-llz35 AM
Barsema Hall-Northern Illinois University
740 Garden Road, DeKalb, IL

Members Present: Thomas Winkler, Chair, JD, Dr. Penelope Yunker, Vice-
Chair, Claireen Herting, CPA, JD (participated by phone);
Sara Mikuta, Simon Petravick, CPA Walker

Members Absent: Howard Engle, Sheldon Holtzman, James Kelley,
Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA Sharon Morow

Guests: Mr. Christopher Gearin, President, Hickey College
Mr. Marty Green, Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS)

Staff: Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Tia France, Assistant Director- Certi?cation

Call to Order?Severe weather and heavy rain in the Chicago area prevented
several members from attending the meeting.
Chairman Winkler called the meeting to order at 9:23 AM. All in attendance
were introduced by Mr. Winkler.

l. Hickey College National Accreditation
Mr. Christopher Gearin, President of Hickey College of Missouri addressed the
board regarding accreditation. The Illinois Board of Examiners does not currently
accept national accreditation for educational requirements at Hickey College and
Mr. Gearin explained the value of the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges
and Schools. Mr. Gearin also advised the board Hickey College has articulation
agreements with several institutions (Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville,
Saint Louis University, Washington University, etc.) that allow Hickey credit to
transfer into the accepting institution despite the national accreditation
designation. Various members discussed how school review teams are appointed
to designate school accreditations and how the reviews are performed. Mr.
Winkler stated that when the rules were passed in 1997, this issue was never

discussed. The board will review current accreditation rules and evaluate the
Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools.

ACTION 2. Approval of January 8, 2013 Minutes
Mr. Winkler motioned to accept the January 8 minutes. Dr. Petravick clari?ed
sections of the January 8th minutes and Ms. Mikuta moved to accept the minutes
as amended. Ms. Walker seconded and the motion passed by voice acclamation.

3. Report of the Chair-Thomas Winkler
Mr. Winkler and Mr. Friedewald discussed the lease updates on the Naperville
campus as well as the status of the of?ce build out. Mr. Winkler reminded
members of our agreement with NASBA, Prometric and the AICPA that we

would monitor exam administration at the Prometric centers. Members were
assigned to speci?c test centers and Mr. Winkler will send noti?cation to all new
members. The assignments follow:

Mr. Friedewald-Spring?eld

Ms. Herting-Chicago

Ms. Mikuta-Milwaukee, Sycamore St. Louis
Mr. Petravick-Peoria St. Louis

Ms. Walker-Champaign

Mr. Winkler-Lombard

Dr. Yunker-Betendorf

4. Report of the Executive Director-Russ Friedewald

ACTION

a. Score Report-Mr. Friedewald gave a brief discussion of the ?rst quarter
grades. Mr. Winkler moved to accept the scores and Dr. Yunker seconded the
motion. Motion was approved by voice vote.

b. Meeting with Mr. Friedewald advised the board that he and Tia
France worked with staff at NASBA to discuss the impending move and shared
ideas on the process.

c. Update on IronData Installation- Mr. Friedewald advised the Iron Data
project was ongoing and testing of the system continues.

d. Reminder to Complete the Ethics Package- Mr. Friedewald reminded
members to complete the ethics requirement and submit the completed form to
him.

f. Current Lease (Wolfram Building)- Mr. riedewald advised the board that
our current landlord would entertain an offer to be released from our current
lease. Mr. Winkler suggested in order to minimize the cost, we make an offer
of three months? rent beyond our move date.

g. Proposed Provisional Policy Change-Mr. Friedewald advised the board
candidates are not complying with the intent of the current provisional rule.
Candidates are approved to sit, but often do not sit until well after the
completion of their education due to the fact the ATT is valid for 90 days and
then they have up to six months to schedule once they pay to sit. Mr.
Friedewald requested a meeting of the Candidacy Committee to review the
current rule and perhaps input a date ?nal in which candidates can sit under the
provisional rule.

5. Financial Committee-Dr. Yunker advised applications are ahead of forecast and that
due to lower personnel costs, the ?nancial status of the board is better than expected.

6. Legislative Update-Mr. Green discussed the following updates regarding the spring
session:

Mr. Green reviewed the current legislative session and advised the sunset bill was
positioned well. There are currently no major issues confronting the measure.

Mr. Green reported the search for a new CEO for the society was proceeding well.

ILBOE Committee Task Force Reports
7. Administrative-Mr. Winkler advised the board it is time for a review and rewrite of
the administrative rules and this will occur in the near future.

8. Candidacy Committee-Ms. Herting con?rmed that all appeals have been addressed
and all related materials are in the attachments for review.

9. Education Advisory Task Force-Dr. Yunker stated that the education task force
meeting has been postponed until Fall, 2013. The speci?c date and itinerary are TBD.

10. Nominating-

11. State Liaison-No Report

12. Strategic Planning-No Report

Committee Reports

13. Nominating Committee- Ms. Herting stated that Mr. Walter Davenport, NASBA,
was selected as Vice Chair for the upcoming year. She also advised that nominations for
Regional Directors should be submitted to NASBA no later than April 25th

Unfinished Business-None

New Business-None

Mr. Winkler adjourned the meeting at 11:35 AM.

