 Ses?tm

Wat/$1

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL [a0

9W1..7151! v.5 [517 t-i'IaWHEREAS: Pastor David L. Lewis The congregation of St. Matthew Missionary Baptist Church elected Reverend
David L. Lewis, as our pastor on August 17, 2008, after the untimely death of Reverend V. Thornton
in 2007. Pastor Lewis served as Minister of Music, taught Sunday School and preached the early
morning service while serving under Reverend Vincent R. Thornton. Pastor Lewis was installed
October 12, 2008; AND

WHEREAS: Pastor David L. Lewis extended his musical expertise as Vocal Musical Accompanist at Southeastern
High School of Technology working with Mrs. Patrice Dubois, Vocal Music Instructor; AND

WHEREAS: Pastor David L. Lewis? passion for music began at an early age. He would rise early in the morning to
practice and would devote 5 to 6 hours practicing each day. He majored in Music Theory at Oakland
University. His ?ngers moved with such speed and accuracy his fellow students dubbed him
?Lightening.? His musical talents and abilities afforded him to play with both secular and gospel
artists; AND

WHEREAS: After the death of his mother, Pastor Lewis fought for a deeper relationship with God, and in God?s
awesome power, He saw in His vessel a spirit of willingness, dedication, humility, and wisdom. God
ordered Pastor Lewis? steps, and placed upon him an anointing of pastoring; where now the pmphecy
spoken over him as a child, is now being ful?lled; AND

WHEREAS: Pastor David L. Lewis is married to First Lady Vickie Lewis and they are the proud parents of David
L. Lewis, Jr., MD and Grandparents of Dave? Elise Lewis. Mrs. Vickie Lewis is owner, President/
CEO of VMX International Environmental Engineering Firm; AND

WHEREAS: Pastor David L. Lewis a son, a husband, a Father, a Grandfather, a Musician, a Leader, and a
wonderful pastor, so today we bless and celebrate this man of God; NOW, THEREFORE LET IT BE

RESOLVED: That Council Member Roy McCalister Jr., and the entire Detroit City Council, join with the
congregation of St Matthews Missionary Baptist Church in celebrating the 11th Pastoral
Anniversary of Pastor David L. Lewis, May God continue to bless you with many more dedicated years
of service.
1 Thessalonians 5:12-13 says: ?And now, friends, we ask you to honor those leaders, who work so hard for you, who
have been given the responsibility of urging and guiding you along in your obedience. Opennhelm them with
appreciation and love.?

--.- "rm-r ire.
. ?mi-id plug. .. 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL MEMBER 

Octob?er 20, 2019

DATE

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL ,6 I

Vickie Renee Whyte
Champion Among Champions?

WHEREAS: Vickie Renee Whyte has chosen to follow the word of the Father, Acts 20:35 ?In all things
I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember
the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, ?It is more blessed to give than to
receive? She has dedicated herself as a leader with; and a ?ghter for; persons ?ghting
Multiple Sceriolos (M.S.) AND

WHEREAS: In 2007, Mrs. Vickie Renne Whyte was diagnosed with relapsing Multiple Sceriolos. Her
started with trouble in her vision. She sought medical advice and began her
journey which has lead her to become a Champion Among Championsl; AND

WHEREAS: Mrs. Vickie Renee Whyte has grabbed her trials tests and turned them into pure
testimonies of leadership and action. She works tirelessly with other persons
also battling MS all the while continuing her motherly duties with her children; AND

WHEREAS: Ms. Vickie Renne Whyte began volunteering and leading the charge to educate and assist
others with M. S. She has hosted an annual fundraiser since 2010 to bring forward monies
and awareness to stamp out the MS. in our community; AND

WHEREAS: In 2018 Mrs. Vickie Renee Whyte became a volunteer Ambassador for the National MS
Society; This calling takes her across the country representing our Great State of Michigan
and the Great City of Detroit as a voice, a woman, a volunteer and a spokesperson
educating others in the ?ght against M. 8., treatment options and other volunteer efforts 
AND

WHEREAS: It is with great pride and admiration that we share this Ambassador Mrs. Vickie Renee
Whyte?s 50th Birthday celebration by offering this resolution to commemorate your
unsel?sh and unstoppable quest in the ?ght against M. S. as well as your willingness to
give back to your community. These attributes are a perfect example of the scripture ?It is
more blessed to give than to AND

RESOLVED: That Council Member Roy McCalister Jr., and the entire Detroit City Council joins Mrs.

Vickie Renee Whyte in celebrating her 50th Birthday on Friday, October 11, 2019 as she is
a Champion Among Champions.

I sound . .9: 27:7 

ENT
F, 
,4

 

 

   

    
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

62mm awash I:
at?kn/IBER? 
Octher 12. 2019

DATE

 

