Illinois Board of Examiners (ILBOE) Meeting
Board Minutes-October 1, 2018-10:00 AM
1120 E Diehl Road, Room 165
Naperville, IL 60563
Members Present:

Sara Mikuta, Chair, CPA, Simon Petravick, CPA, Vice-Chair,
Bradley Danton, Jeannie Folk, CPA, Thomas Homer, JD, James
Kelley, CPA, Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA, Annette O’Connor, CPA
and Larry Wojcik, CPA, JD

Guests:

Mr. Todd Shapiro, President and CEO, Illinois CPA Society
(ICPAS) (participated by phone)
Mr. Marty Green, VP of Government Affairs, ICPAS

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Mary E. Fitzgerald, Business Manager
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director of Certification
Carla Ratchford, Assistant Director of Evaluation Services

Call to Order-First Meeting
Chairperson Mikuta called the meeting to order at 10:03 AM.
1. Approval of July l1, 2018 Minutes
ACTION

Ms. Folk motioned to accept the July 11, 2018 board meeting minutes with minor
edits. Mr. Kelley seconded the motion. Motion passed on unanimous voice vote.

2. Report of the Chair-Ms. Sara Mikuta
a.

Chairperson Mikuta welcomed new Board Members, Ms. Annette O’Connor
and Mr. Bradley Danton. All members introduced themselves.

b.

Chairperson Mikuta welcomed new ILBOE Business Manager, Mary E.
Fitzgerald.

c.

Chairperson Mikuta, the Board Members and Mr. Friedewald discussed the
new board committee assignments.

d. Chairperson Mikuta, the Board Members and Mr. Friedewald discussed topics
addressed during the recent National Association of State Boards of
Accountancy (NASBA) Annual Meeting. Mr. Shapiro also discussed two
topics discussed at the annual meeting; what the CPA profession can do in
order to sustain and increase for the future and the technology background
alternative pathway proposal. Although the alternative pathway is not going
forward, it has generated talks with NASBA and the American Institute of

 Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). In response, small working groups
comprised of regulators, firms and state society representatives will produce
and submit a recommendation regarding the critical issue by December 31,
2018.
Mr. Shapiro will discuss the recommendation in general at a future ILBOE board
meeting TBD. In response, Mr. Danton discussed the current trends within his
firm. Ms. Kodjayan and Mr. Shapiro also discussed ICPAS enrollment data and
trends in addition to the Mary T. Washington Wiley Day, commemorating the
75th anniversary of Ms. Wiley becoming the first African-American female CPA,
which was held on September 29, 2018.
3. Legislative Update-Mr. Marty Green
Mr. Green and Mr. Wojcik discussed the aspects of the legalization of medical
marijuana in Illinois in regard to CPAs. In response, Chairperson Mikuta
discussed the banking sector and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)
insurance related issues, such as the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), also known as the
Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act & money laundering. Mr.
Green discussed the CPA regulatory frameworks of the ILBOE and IDFPR. Mr.
Green then explained that the 1903 act did not include a sunset provision.
Therefore, the 1927 & 1903 acts counteract one another, hence legally allowing
separate certification and licensure agencies.
4. Report of the Executive Director-Mr. Russ Friedewald
ACTION

a.

Mr. Friedewald presented Chairperson Mikuta and the Board with the 3Q18
scores for approval. Motion to approve was made and carried unanimously.
Mr. Friedewald explained the score approval process to the new Board
Members.

b.

Mr. Friedewald updated the Board on the recent ILBOE penetration testing.
Chairperson Mikuta requested the results of Northern Illinois University’s
(NIU) penetration testing and stated that the Board should request that any
vendor entering the ILBOE electronic systems needs to submit their
penetration testing results.

c.

Mr. Friedewald stated that there are no actions to date regarding the
administrative rules update.

d.

Mr. Friedewald updated the Board on the website upgrade project.

e.

Mr. Friedewald updated the Board on the Auditor General’s audit findings
previously sent to Chairperson Mikuta. He also stated that an exit interview
will be requested.

 f.

Mr. Friedewald explained the card conversion project to the new Board
Members and stated that it is now complete including the secure destruction
of the hard copy exam score cards.
ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS

5. Administrative Committee-Mr. Larry Wojcik
No Report
6.

Candidacy Committee-Dr. Simon Petravick
Dr. Petravick explained the Candidacy Committee appeal process and report.

7. Education Advisory Task Force-Dr. Simon Petravick
ACTION

a.

Dr. Petravick, the Board and ILBOE staff discussed the provisional process,
which includes withholding scores until candidates are cleared of the status
and the jurisdictions that have a similar option. Ms. Folk motioned to keep
the ILBOE policy that withholds the release of exam scores to provisional
candidates until they are cleared of the status and Ms. Kodjayan seconded.
Dr. Petravick stated that scores earned by provisional candidates tend to be
higher than traditional candidates. After additional discussion among the
Board and staff, Ms. Folk withdrew the previous motion and motioned to
change the policy in order to allow the release of electronic scores to
provisional candidates. This change would be effective immediately. The
motion was approved by unanimous voice vote.

b.

Dr. Petravick stated there is a college that requested to give life experience as
business credit to a student. As proposed, a faculty member would meet with
the student to gather documents and evidence to show that the student has
covered the course’s objectives and, in addition, the documented materials
would be reviewed by the Academic Affairs department.
The ILBOE will accept this credit as internship/life experience if it is listed as
such on an official transcript. Mr. Wojcik discussed if the ILBOE needs to
issue letters to schools regarding the ILBOE requirements and course
classification of internship/life experience on transcripts. Ms. Ratchford and
Ms. France will research how the life experience is listed on schools’ official
transcripts who advertise acceptance of life experience towards a fast-track
degree.

ACTION

c. Dr. Petravick and the Board revisited the agenda item from the last meeting
regarding the Business Communication (BC), Business Ethics (BE) &
Research and Analysis in Accounting (RAA) survey in relation to the college
templates. Dr. Petravick motioned that Mr. Friedewald be authorized to create

 a rule variance to waive BC and RAA as of January 1, 2019 with the variance
to be announced as soon as possible. Ms. Folk seconded the motion.
In response, before voting, Mr. Wojcik stated his disagreement with waiving
BC. In addition, Chairperson Mikuta stated that the issue lies with the
individual educational institutions’ guidelines governing what they consider
requirements for the BC; therefore, the ILBOE needs to be a better
communicator of the necessities regarding becoming a CPA. Ms. O’Connor
also stated that the two hours for BC may not be enough and Ms. Folk stated,
in agreement with Chairperson Mikuta, that BC may not be well-defined and
should not be integrated. Ms. Ratchford stated that there are other courses
that require candidates to communicate. Upon further discussion, Dr.
Petravick withdraw the motion to vote for the waiver of both BC and RAA
together in one variance.
ACTION

Dr. Petravick motioned to waive the RAA requirement for those candidates
who submit credential evaluation applications on or after January 1, 2019 and
Mr. Kelley seconded. Motion passed on unanimous voice vote.

ACTION

Dr. Petravick motioned to waive the BC requirement and Ms. Folk seconded.
A hand vote followed and the motion failed.
d. Mr. Friedewald and the Board continued the previous discussion regarding
120 credit hours vs. 150 credit hours to sit for the CPA exam. Ms. O’Connor
inquired about the 120 hour requirements and Mr. Friedewald explained that
all jurisdictions require 150 credit hours for licensure, with some allowing
candidates to sit for the exam with 120 and requiring that the remaining 30 are
earned before licensure. Additional research is forthcoming; therefore, the
item was tabled until the next meeting.

8. Finance Committee-Ms. Mary E. Fitzgerald
No ReportChairperson Mikuta stated that a committee meeting TBD will be held for
discussion.
9. Strategic Planning-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
No Report

 AICPA/NASBA COMMITTEE REPORTS
10. CBT Administration Committee-Mr. Russ Friedewald
Mr. Friedewald explained the definition of computer-based testing (CBT) to the
new Board Members.
11. Communications Committee- Mr. Jim Kelley
Mr. Kelley discussed the NASBA regional calls, highlighting the alternative
pathways.
12. Compliance Assurance Committee-Mr. Larry Wojcik
Mr. Wojcik stated that during the last call, peer review was discussed in relation
to a conflict of interest, which violated state laws. He mentioned that there will
be a re-issuance of the peer review manual by the AICPA.
13. Diversity Committee-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
Ms. Kodjayan stated that the new ILBOE Board Members will receive a welcome
call from NASBA, pertaining to open committee seats. Mr. Wojcik suggested
that a discussion regarding the Mary T. Washington Wiley program be conducted
with NASBA. Dr. Petravick discussed possible networking opportunities with the
Association of Latino Professionals for America (ALPFA) and a separate ILBOE
committee for diversity outreach.
Unfinished Business- None
New Business-None
ACTION Chairperson Mikuta adjourned the meeting at 2:38 PM.

 