Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
July 12, 2011—10:30 AM—3:30 PM
100 Trade Centre Dr., Suite 403
Champaign, IL 61820
Meeting one
Present:
Board Members: Gary Fish, Claireen Herting, Kenneth Hull, Myra Swick, Cheryl
Wilson, Penelope Yunker, Thomas Winkler, Sharon Morrow and Richard York
Absent: Margaret Cartier
Staff:
Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Vicki Van Uithoven, Asst. Director, Business
Guest:
Ms. Phyllis Walker (Lunch only—11:45 AM to 1:00 PM)
Mr. Hull called the meeting to order at 10:30 AM
1. Ms. Wilson moved to accept the May 10, 2011 minutes and Ms. Herting seconded.
Mr. Hull made a correction in the spelling of Dr. DeBrock’s name and the motion to
approve the minutes was approved with changes.
2. Report of the Chair- (K. Hull)
a. Mr. Hull reminded the Board of the letter we sent to Elaine Weiss with
copies to Marty Green and the current chair of the society outlining our position
relative to semi-independent agency status. Ms. Weiss responded to the letter by
inviting Mr. Hull to a meeting scheduled for July 26. The purpose of the meeting
will be to discuss the letter and our intentions moving forward toward the Sunset
period of the Illinois Public Accounting Act. Mr. Winkler, Dr. Fish, Mr. Hull and
Mr. Friedewald will attend in person and Ms. Wilson will attend by phone. Other
attendees include Mr. Martin Green, Mr. Larry Wojik and Mr. Tim Fletcher, all
representing the society.
b. Mr. Hull reviewed our meeting with Dr. Scott Johnson of Illinois State
University on June 15. Dr. Johnson is the Dean of the College of Business. Dr. Fish,
Mr. Friedewald and Mr. Hull attended. Mr. Hull outlined our request to align with
ISU and the reasons for the request. Dr. Johnson was very receptive to the idea, but
cautiously observed that much work is needed before a decision could be made. Mr.
Friedewald agreed to provide as much information as possible to assist Dr. Johnson.
Once received, Dr. Johnson forwarded the information to Dr. Sam Catanzaro,
Assistant Vice President for Academic Administration. Mr. Friedewald advised

 the board he spoke with Dr. Catanzaro by phone at the end of June and explained
our relationship with the University of Illinois and the reasons for the university’s
desire to separate from the BOE. Mr. Friedewald indicated he has not heard from
ISU since that time. The Board asked Mr. Friedewald to create a document
outlining our proposal to ISU including an interagency agreement.
c. Mr. Hull reminded the Board that we discussed the development of a new
board member orientation at the last meeting and asked for volunteers to work with
Mr. Hull and Mr. Friedewald to discuss an orientation program, formulate a plan
and present it at the next board meeting. Mr. Hull asked Ms. Morrow to volunteer
since she recently went through the NASBA orientation at the Regional meeting.
Ms. Morrow agreed as did Mr. York. Mr. Hull directed the discussions will take
place by phone.
3. Report of the Executive Director- (R. Friedewald)
a. Mr. Friedewald presented scores for the second quarter of 2011 and noted
there were 2,481 candidates taking 3,386 exam sections.
b. Mr. Friedewald provided an update on the progress of the Iron Data
system upgrade.
c. Mr. Friedewald advised the board the first notice period for the
amendment to the educational requirements would be August 8th and second notice
would be filed within a day or two of August 8th. To date, no objections to the
amendment had been filed.
d. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that no changes to the travel vouchers
or mileage allowance had been made to the fy12 travel guidelines. The rater per
mile for the use of personal auto remains at 51 cents.
e. Mr. Friedewald directed the Board’s attention to the miscellaneous folder
containing copies of the rules amendment, the society’s report on the new CPA
licensure requirements and an FAQ sheet on international testing.
Mr. Hull took the Board into Executive Session at 11:15 AM
The Board came out of Executive Session at 11:45 Am
4. Administrative Committee-(C. Wilson)
Ms. Wilson reported that Mr. Friedewald will arrange to change the mailing
of financial materials relating to Mr. Friedewald’s compensation from Ms. Wilson
to Mr. Winkler. Ms. Wilson addressed the Board regarding the ethics course the
Board takes each year which raised questions about what the Board is obligated to
do in relation to such issues as time records, political activity and submission of
economic interest statements. After discussion, the Board decided that Mr.
Friedewald will keep time records for Board members relative to board meetings
and committee meetings. Mr. Friedewald was asked to have Hinshaw & Culbertson
prepare a legal opinion as to whether the Board is required to complete an economic
interest statement.

 5. Candidacy Committee- (R. York)
Mr. York reported to the Board on one appeal received since the last Board
meeting.
6. Education Advisory Task Force- ( P. Yunker)
a. Dr. Yunker advised that we had assured the members that a template
would be available for educators for the new educational requirements.
b. Dr. Yunker advised we would be participating in the Society’s Midwest
Accounting & Finance Showcase in August and that Mr. Friedewald would be
making a presentation to accounting students and that we would be updating the
FAQs in time for distribution at the Showcase.
c. Dr. Yunker advised that we would have another EATF meeting in the
spring of 2012.
7. Executive Committee- (K. Hull)
Executive Committee report covered in report of the Chair.
8. Finance Committee- (G. Fish)
a. Financial Report- Dr. Fish distributed the financial reports. Dr. Fish
reported that the number of candidates taking four parts has dropped off as
students are realizing the difficulty of passing four parts within a six month time
frame. Dr. Fish observed that online applications have increased substantially since
the new website has come online.
b. Budget-Dr. Fish advised the Board that figures for the budget will be
tentative at this time because of the current situation with staffing and the
uncertainty regarding our future administrative home. Dr. Fish advised that by
October, the budget could be reviewed again and accurate data will be available at
that time to finalize the budget. Following discussion, Ms. Swick moved to approve
the budget as presented with the understanding it will be revised when more
accurate data is available. The motion was seconded by Ms. Wilson and approved
by voice vote. Mr. Hull suggested that at least two weeks prior to the October
meeting, there would be a revised budget prepared and distributed for review by the
Board.
9. Nominating Committee- (M. Swick)
The Board welcomed Ms. Phyllis Walker. Ms. Walker was nominated to
replace Mr. Bielke as a public member to the Board. Following introductions and a
discussion of Ms. Walker’s credentials, Ms. Swick made a motion to put forth Ms.
Walker to the Governor for appointment to the Board. Ms. Wilson seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

10. State Liaison- (M. Cartier)
No report

 11. Strategic Planning- (K. Hull)
Mr. Hull told the Board that the committee would begin the process of
strategic planning again in the fall once we had a better idea of the board’s position
moving forward.
NASBA/AICPA COMMITTEE REPORTS
12. Audit Committee- (K. Hull)
No report
13. Bylaws Committee- (C. Herting/M. Swick)
Ms. Herting advised the Board that Kathy Smith, Bylaws Committee chair
has asked the committee to review the bylaws and she has called a meeting to be
held in three weeks.
14. St. Board Relevance & Effectiveness Committee- (C. Wilson)
Ms. Wilson asked whether the Board had completed the questionnaire
regarding the culture of communication at the recent regional meeting. No board
members completed the questionnaire and Ms. Wilson advised she would follow up
on this issue on her own.
15. Nominating Committee- (M. Swick)
Ms. Swick advised the Board that Claireen Herting was elected as the Great
Lakes representative to the Nominating Committee and Gary Fish was elected as
alternate.
16. BOE & BEC –Internationalization of Exam- (G. Fish)
No report
NEW BUSINESS
Ms. Wilson requested Mr. Friedewald to update the “to do” list and add such
items as ethics, educational template and site visits. Mr. Friedewald distributed the
new authorization letters for Prometric test centers.
OLD BUSINESS
None
Mr. Hull adjourned the meeting at 3:35 PM

 Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
July 12, 2011
100 Trade Centre Dr., Suite 403
Champaign, IL 61820
Meeting Two
Mr. Hull called the meeting to order at 3:40 PM
1. Election of officers
Ms. Swick presented Dr. Gary Fish as Chair and Mr. Thomas Winkler as
Vice Chair as the Nominating Committee’s recommendations for 2011-2012. Ms.
Swick made a motion to approve the nominations and Ms. Wilson seconded. The
motion was approved by unanimous voice vote.
2. Dr. Fish offered his appreciation on behalf of the Board to Mr. Hull for his
leadership as chair for the previous year.
a. Meeting schedule- Dr. Fish provided the following dates for Board
meetings through July, 2012:
October 18, 2011,
January 17, 2012
April 24, 2012
July 24, 2012
b. Committee assignments- Dr. Fish advised he is still working on committee
assignments and will distribute them very soon.
Dr. Fish adjourned the meeting at 4:00 PM

 