Board of Examiners
Board Minutes- July 21, 2016
1120 E. Diehl Road, Suite 165

Naperville, IL 60563

Board Members present: Sheldon Holzman, CPA, Simon Petravick, CPA, Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA,
Howard Engle, CPA, Thomas Winkler, CPA, JD, James Kelley, CPA

Board Members absent: Larry Wojcik, CPA, JD, Sara Mikuta, CPA, Jeannie Folk, CPA

Staff present: Russ Friedewald, Executive Director, Matt Hoffman, Business Manager, Carlarta
Ratchford, Assistant Director for Evaluation Services

Guest present by phone: Marty Green, CPA Society Vice President for Legislative Affairs
Chairman Holzman called meeting to order at 10:01 am

ACTION- Mr. Holzman asked for a motion to approve the minutes of the April 19, 2016 Board
meeting. The motion was made by Mr. Kelley and seconded by Mr. Engle. The motion passed
by unanimous voice vote.

Report of the Chair:

Mr. Holzman discussed the recent UAA exposure draft and asked that any comments from
board members should be directed to Mr. Friedewald no later than August 20.

Mr. Holzman reviewed the recent NASBA Regional meetings held in North Carolina and
Colorado and mentioned that two members of the Public Accounting Regulatory and Licensing
Committee attended the Eastern Regional. Mr. Holzman also mentioned that the Secretary of
the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation attended the Western
Regional. Mr. Holzman also reported that nominations for regional director were taken at each
of the regional breakout sessions and he was nominated for regional director for the Great
Lakes region at that time.

Report of the ED.

ACTION- Mr. Friedewald discussed the statistics for the second quarter, 2016 examination
window and asked for a motion for approval of the scores. Mr. Winkler made the motion and it
was seconded by Dr. Petravick. The motion carried by unanimous voice vote.

ACTION- Mr. Friedewald discussed the new CPA exam scheduled for first administration during
the second testing window of 2017 beginning April Mr. Friedewald explained that due to
the lack of statistical data for the new examination, it will be necessary to delay score reporting
from the first administration for 10 weeks following the close of the testing window on May
315?. This delay may impact some candidates completing the 18 month cycle on completing the
examination process. A proposal for accommodating any of these candidates was presented to

the Board for consideration and Mr. Friedewald asked for a motion to approve the proposal.
Mr. Holzman made the motion and Mr. Kelley seconded. The motion carried by unanimous
voice vote. (Proposal attached)

Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that the Administrative Rules had been promulgated and
were effective as of July 7, 2016.

Mr. Friedewald advised the Board of the current staffing levels and current workload of the
staff and that workloads were manageable.

Mr. Friedewald discussed with the Board the charges for employee benefits for staff and that
due to the current legislative mandate, benefit costs were higher for the Board of Examiners
than the normal university employees. We are still in discussions with NIU in other cost saving
matters.

Mr. Friedewald advised the members of initiatives undertaken to stimulate interest in the CPA
as well as introduce high school students to the profession. He and the Assistant Director for
Certification, Tia France have been involved in outreach to the Chicago Public School System as
well as ?After School Matters? and other programs will also be contacted to encourage diversity
and pipeline interest.

Legislative update-- Marty Green
Mr. Green provided an overview of current legislative initiatives as well as an update on the
current status of the Illinois budget and the passage of a 600 million dollar stop gap budget.

ILBOE Committee reports

Administrative Committee? Mr. Winkler? No report
Candidacy Committee- Dr. Petravick- No report
Education Advisory Committee- Dr. Petravick

Multi test takers-- Dr. Petravick distributed multi test statistics which shows a number of
candidates that have taken the CPA exam a multitude of times. Following a brief discussion,
the Board indicated they did not want to take any action at this time, but may want to re-visit
the issue at a later date.

Diversity summit-- Dr. Petravick advised the IL CPA Society had a large turn- out at
the summit. Dr. Petravick reported this summit was designed to report on issues and what
various minority groups were doing, but no further action or next steps to accomplish were
developed.

NASBA Data Summit?Dr. Petravick reported he and Mr. Friedewald attended a data
summit hosted by Brigham Young University. The summit was held to exchange information on

various statistics about the CPA examination including pass rates, average ages, probability of
completing all parts, etc. The summit raised many questions about the exam such as why
students quit the process, etc. Dr. Petravick suggested doing a pilot study to see why
candidates quit and suggested perhaps NASBA Education Committee could provide a grant or
would be willing to explore this issue. Dr. Petravick indicated he will work with his faculty and
NASBA to pursue this initiative.

Finance Committee- 5. Mikuta/M. Hoffman- Mr. Hoffman discussed with the Board the most
recent financial statement and that the totals for fiscal year 2016 would not be available until
mid-August.

Nominating Committee? H. Engle- No report?Committee has been dissolved by the adoption
of new administrative rules.

State Liaison Committee- T. Winkler- No report- Committee dissolved.

Strategic Planning Committee- R. Kodjayan- Ms. Kodjayan reported a meeting would be held
the following Monday afternoon, July 25th.

committees

Communications Committee- J. Kelley- Mr. Kelley advised the Board that he and Mr.
Friedewald attended the Communications breakfast at the Eastern Regional and that Mr.
Friedewald spoke to the group on the outreach initiatives Illinois is undertaking to advance
diversity and expose secondary students to the profession as well as other initiatives in the
planning stage.

Compliance Assurance Committee- L. Wojcik- No report

Education Committee? R. Kodjayan- Ms. Kodjayan reported she is on the grant subcommittee
of the Education Committee and that they reviewed a total of 14 grand proposals, with three
grants being approved.

Ethics Strategic Issues Committee- S. Holzman- Mr. Holzman reported the Committee
reviewed two exposure drafts, one from PEEC and the other dealing with international auditing
standards.

Global strategies Committee- H. Engle?No report

Nominating Committee- S. Holzman?Mr. Holzman again shared that he has been nominated
for the position of Regional Director for the Great Lakes Region. Due to Mr. Holzman being
slated as Great Lakes Regional Director, he has submitted his resignation as the Alternate for
the Nominating Committee. Mr. Holzman also shared that Ted Long of Ohio had been
nominated as Vice-Chair of NASBA.

Regulatory Response Committee- 5. Mikuta- No report

AICPA

Board of Examiners- S. Holzman/ T. Winkler?Mr. Holzman and Mr. Winkler discussed the
ongoing activities of the Board of Examiners and the development of the new examination due
for first administration on April 1, 2017. The most recent meeting had been held in Durham, NC
with the next meeting to be held in September in San Diego, CA.

Unfinished business As a Committee of the Whole, the Board discussed a possible nominee
for the replacement of Mr. Winkler whose second term was expiring on July 31. Mr. Kent
Reeves name was brought forward as a possible candidate and following a brief discussion with
no other names being brought forward, Mr. Holzman made a motion to nominate Mr. Reeves
to the Governor to replace Mr. Winkler. The motion passed after some discussions. Mr.
Holzman suggested that in the future a list of nominees should be developed for future
candidates. Mr. Friedewald was directed to draft a letter to the Governor nominating Mr.
Reeves and asking for the reappointment of Ms. Sara Mikuta for another term.

New business

Executive session--Mr. Kelley motioned to go into executive session. Ms. Kodjayan seconded
the motion and motion passed by voice vote.

The Board came out of Executive Session and voted to approve the recommendations from
Executive Session regarding increasing the compensation of the Executive Director by $2,000 on
an annual basis

Mr. Holzman adjourned the first meeting.

SECOND meeting
Call to order-

Mr. Holzman convened the second meeting of the Committee of the Whole for the purpose of
electing officers for the fiscal year, 2017.

Mr. Holzman advised the Committee of the Whole that he wanted to run for a second term and
that he had discussed his intentions with Mr. Kelley. Mr. Kelley indicated he would have no
objection. Mr. Holzman nominated himself to chair for a second consecutive term. Ms.
Kodjayan seconded the motion and following discussion, Mr. Holzman asked for any other
nominations. No other nominations were made and Mr. Holzman was elected Chair by
unanimous acclamation.

Ms. Kodjayan nominated Mr. Kelley for vice chair. Mr. Holzman seconded the motion. No
other nominations were made and Mr. Kelley was elected vice chair by unanimous acclamation.

Mr. Holzman announced that meeting dates for the coming year would be announced at a later
date.

Mr. Holzman adjourned the meeting.

Consistent with Exam launches in the past, there will be a delay in the release of scores

following the close of the initial testing window (second quarter of 201 7). Scores will be released
once, approximately 10 weeks a?er the close of the testing window. For the thll'd and fourth
quarters of 2017, scores for all candidates will be released once, approxrmately 10 days a?er the
close of each testing window. The delay in score releases for the Q2, Q3 and Q4 testmg Windows
provides suf?cient time to statistically validate candidate performance on the next Exam._ln the
?rst quarter of 201 8, it is expected that the existing average 20-day rolling score release timelme
will resume.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AICPA Board of Examiners
. Review Exam Approximate Release Date
Test Wmdow Performance Data of Candidate Scores
Standard Setting
5617 Q2 A 14
April 1 - May 31,2017 I 1 10 we?: ll 
2017 Q3 2'
July 1 - September 10, 2017 1? days september 2
2017 Q4
October 1 - December 10, 10 days December 22
2017

 

 

   

 

Candidates testing in Q2, 2017 will be signi?cantly impacted by the 10 weeks delay in score reporting.
As an example, a candidate who has passed 3 parts and has credit expiring August 1, 2017 (or anytime in
Q3) tests in Q2 2017 and fails. The candidate will not receive their score until August 14, 2017, and it is
unlikely they will be able to prepare to retest or schedule to test in Q3 and will need to be granted an
extension to the August 1, 2017 (or actual) expiration date. Candidates with existing conditional credit
that is expiring within Q3 should be identi?ed and consideration given to ensuring conditional credit is
extended.

It is recommended that all boards consider extending conditional credit of those candidates impacted by
the delays in score reporting in Q2, 2017 to December 31, 2017.

Candidates testing in 0.3 81 Q4 will receive scores on September 22, 2017 and December 22, 2017,
respectively, and may have ample opportunity to test in the next testing window. However, conditional
credit for these candidates should be considered and handled on a case-by-case basis.

The National Candidate Database is designed to prohibit expiration of conditional credit until an
advisory score is received ifthe candidate attended the examination by the date of the score expiration.
This will allow NASBA time to identify any impacted candidates and update credit expiration dates.

NASBA will provide reports to boards identifying all candidates who test in QZ 2017 who have credit
expiring and could be impacted by the delay in score reporting.

