Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, August 23, 2019 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference
Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Directors David Ernesto Munar and Mary B. Richardson-Lowry
(3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Ada Mary
Gugenheim; and Mike Koetting

Present
Telephonically: Steven Scheer (Non-Director Member)
Absent:

Director Hon. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, July 19, 2019
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Munar, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of July 19, 2019. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B.

Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)

Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
Director Richardson-Lowry inquired whether more detailed information can be provided on the minority and
women-owned business enterprise (M/WBE) participation for the contracts presented for consideration. Mr.
Jones responded affirmatively. Chair Reiter noted that the Committee now receives monthly reports on M/WBE
participation, although there is a two (2) month lag in the information.
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Munar, moved the approval of
request numbers 1 through 21, subject to completion of review by Contract
Compliance, where appropriate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, August 23, 2019
Page 2

III. Action Items (continued)
C. Proposed Transfers of Funds (Attachment #2)
Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the proposed Transfers of Funds.
Committee reviewed and discussed the item.

The

Director Munar, seconded by Director Richardson-Lowry, moved the approval of
the proposed Transfers of Funds. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Section III and VI
IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. Report on Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise (M/WBE) Participation (Attachment #3)
B. Report of emergency purchases (Attachment #4)
Mr. Jones provided an overview of the two (2) reports presented for the Committee’s information. The Committee
reviewed and discussed the information.

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #5)
•
•

Metrics
Financials: June 2019

Mr. Akpan provided an overview of the metrics and Financials through June 2019. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.
The Committee held an extensive discussion on the growing uncompensated and charity care being provided by
Cook County Health (CCH). Chair Reiter commented that, although CCH has become a declining expense on
the County’s overall budget and CCH continues to work to become more self-sufficient, that is becoming an
unsustainable position to hold as uncompensated and charity care expense continues to increase. Director
Driscoll stated that there needs to be a push with the State or County lawmakers to figure out how more people
can become insured, and how other caregivers can kick in their fair share in dollars or care to take care of the
uninsured.
Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, stated that an analysis was done a few years ago that looked at
the local tax allocation being directed towards the public safety net; when indexed against the proportion of
people living in poverty in that area, it showed that we’re lagging, compared to some of the other major urban
healthcare centers. He indicated that a new analysis should be done to reflect current conditions. Board Chair
Hammock recommended that the administration look at other areas to see what they are doing in response, as
they must have the same problems with uncompensated and charity care.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, August 23, 2019
Page 3

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (continued)
Director Munar stated that, if trying to engage County Commissioners to help find a solution for this, to the
extent that the administration can map the utilization of uncompensated and charity care geographically into the
separate County Board districts, that would be helpful. Seeing the total amount of uncompensated and charity
care is one thing, but seeing it mapped by each Commissioner’s district would be very enlightening. The data
would reflect where the rate of increase is coming from and what the contribution of this is by each of their
districts. It would then lead into the conversation on possible consequences if charity care is capped at a certain
level – what percentage of their constituents would not have access to care if that happens? He inquired whether
the administration has the capacity to generate a report with geographic distribution of the uncompensated and
charity care that CCH provides, and what that trend would look like. Mr. Akpan responded affirmatively; he
said that this information can be provided at a detailed level.
Dr. Shannon noted that, every year, the administration shares three (3) data points with the Commissioners; this
data point being discussed might be a good fourth one. The three (3) currently provided to each Commissioner
by district are: number of registrants receiving care within CCH; number of constituents enrolled in CountyCare;
and number of CCH employees who live in their district. Director Richardson-Lowry recommended that the
information be presented to Commissioners every year during budget season. Additionally, she recommended
that there be a third (3rd) party review of uncompensated care to validate what is being prognosticated here.
Board Chair Hammock stated that he would like to see another data point relating to area hospitals that close or
merge; that happens frequently and is expected to continue, and when that happens, where do those patients go?
He suspects that this adds to the uncompensated and charity care provided by CCH.

VI.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Cook County Health’s Proposed FY2020 Preliminary Budget and Three (3) Year Financial
Forecast: FY2020-2022 for Cook County Health’s Impact 2023 Strategic Plan
Chair Reiter stated that, while the agenda indicates that the preliminary budget was going to be introduced
today, the goal is to introduce it at next week’s full Board Meeting, when more Directors are in attendance.
Staff have been instructed to reschedule the public hearings on the subject, as well.

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Reiter declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Chair

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, August 23, 2019
Page 4

Attest:
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Follow-up / Requests:
Request:

Request made for more detailed information to be provided on the minority and women-owned
business enterprise (M/WBE) participation for the contracts presented for consideration. Page 1

Request:

Request made for a report with geographic distribution, based on County Board districts, of the
uncompensated and charity care that CCH provides, and what that trend would look like. Page 3

Follow-up:

Recommendation made that there be a third (3rd) party review of uncompensated and charity care
to validate what is being prognosticated by the administration. Page 3

Request:

Request made for a data point relating to area hospitals that close or merge, to address whether
this impacts CCH’s uncompensated and charity care. Page 3

 