Illinois Board of Examiners (ILBOE) Meeting
Board Minutes-January 10, 2018-10:00 AM
1120 East Diehl Rd., Suite 165
Naperville, IL 60563
Members Present:

James Kelly, CPA Chair, Sara Mikuta, CPA, Vice Chair; Howard
Engle, CPA (participated by phone); Jeannie Folk, CPA;, Sheldon
Holzman, CPA (participated by phone); Thomas Homer, JD; Rhonda
Kodjayan, CPA; Simon Petravick, CPA, and Larry Wojcik, CPA, JD

Members Absent:

Robert Gallagher, CPA; Kent Reeves, CPA

Guests:

Mr. Marty Green, Vice President, Government Affairs, Illinois CPA
Society (ICPAS) Vice-Chair

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director of Certification
Matthew Hoffman, Business Manager
Carla Ratchford, Assistant Director of Evaluation Services

Call to Order
Chairperson Kelly called the meeting to order at 10:03 AM.
1. Approval of September 27, 2017 Minutes
ACTION
Vice-Chairperson Mikuta motioned to accept the September 27, 2017 board meeting
minutes with minor edits. Dr. Petravick seconded the motion. Motion passed on
unanimous voice vote.
2. Report of the Chair-Mr. James Kelly
a. Chairperson Kelly discussed the After School Matters (ASM)-Northern Illinois
University (NIU) event, in which he, Mr. Friedewald and Ms. France
participated. The event held on December 2, 2017, exposed the ASM participants
to life as an NIU student and real-life experience in the financial and accounting
sectors.
b. Chairperson Kelly opened the floor for members to remark on the recent
National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) Annual
Meeting. Mr. Holzman discussed the Bitcoin opportunities and a learning curve
for educators in regard to new learning styles. The recap led to an in-depth
discussion amongst Ms. Folk, Ms. Kodjayan, Ms. Mikuta, Mr. Holzman, Dr.
Petravick and Mr. Wojcik regarding the incorporation and impact of attestation,
the demand and training for artificial intelligence, certification for data analytics
in relation to accounting, NASBA's financing of the foundation that focuses on
young professionals, robotic uprising and updates on other jurisdictions.
3. Legislative Update-Mr. Marty Green
Mr. Green discussed the following matters: the State of Illinois' 200th anniversary
countdown, fall 2017 veto session (including the legislation introductions from the
past summer and fall and the overriding of Governor Rauner's vetoes (15/40)),
Accrual vs Cash-based accounting for the Comptroller's office-HB4104, how

 HB2717 affects sales tax audits & authorizes the Illinois Department of Revenue to
turn over confidential taxpayer information to third-party vendors, midterm and
primary elections, the legislative transformation of the 100th and 101st General
Assembly; leadership announcements, the newly-implemented online only
September 30, 2018 CPA renewal, the Illinois Revised Uniform Unclaimed Property
Act (compliance reporting, elimination of business to business exception & revised
definitions of gift cards and stored value cards (recording at www.icpas.org under
Government Relations)), areas of focus and a tracking report.
In response, Mr. Wojcik discussed amicus briefs, civil liability defense for auditors and
how the Illinois appellate and federal courts may possibly review state and federal
information set forth in future bankruptcy cases. Mr. Homer and Mr. Green also discussed
state and local tax deduction (SALT) and possible changes to tax reform to the State of
Illinois' Tax and Revenue Code.
4. Report of the Executive Director-Mr. Russ Friedewald
ACTION

ACTION

a. Chairperson Kelly and the Board approved the 4Q17 scores and Mr. Friedewald
mentioned a decrease in sections from the previous quarter (3Q17) but that the totals are
pretty equal to the same quarter in the previous year (4Q16).
b.

Mr. Friedewald discussed the update to the 120-Day Rule, now the 150-Day Rule.
Effective on November 1, 2017 all Provisional candidates have an additional 30 days
in order to submit the final, official transcripts for clearance of status. The change was
well-distributed via the ILBOE website, social media and Mr. Friedewald's in-house
contact list.

c.

Mr. Friedewald updated the Board on a possible upgrade to the current in-house
storage system which houses all candidate information, payments and electronic
applications. He stated that there has been two calls with programmers and reference
checks. Additional information is forthcoming. ILBOE staff and the Board also
discussed the shutdown of NASBA's Gateway system in order to transition to
Gateway 2.0, which stores testing candidates' information-personal, Payment Coupons
(PC), Notice to Schedules (NTS) and test attempts as well as the associated delayed
score release from February 23, 2018, which is incorporated into the one
scheduled for March 8th.
Per Mr. Friedewald, NASBA has yet to forward any details regarding the shutdown.
Mr. Holzman will forward any relevant information obtained during his upcoming
NASBA meeting. Vice-Chairperson Mikuta motioned to approve 18-month variance
for affected candidates due to the shutdown. Dr. Petravick seconded the motion.
Motion passed on unanimous voice vote. Additional information regarding the action
will be e-mailed once NASBA forwards Gateway 2.0 specifics.

d. Mr. Friedewald brought up a focus question regarding Nano Learning. To date, Nano
learning has been considered for continuing professional education and not for
qualifying for the exam. Mr. Friedewald suggested that we not accept nano learning to
qualify and the Board agreed. Dr. Petravick also stated that there are no trends yet
toward this type of education.
e. Mr. Friedewald asked the Board whether life experience credit should be extended

 beyond the classroom to work experience as several candidates have inquired about this
possibility. The Board maintained that life experience should continue to apply only to
experience noted on a candidate’s transcripts.
ACTION

f. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that the office was spending a substantial amount of
money on a lease for the mail inserter and repair contracts for the two copy machines.
An opinion from the Board’s attorney confirmed that the office could notify candidates
electronically of exam scores and other correspondence. Mr. Friedewald also assured
the Board that paying for service calls on the copy machines would be more cost
effective than a contract for service. By eliminating these two contracts, the Board
would save about $13,000 per year. Mr. Holzman made a motion to eliminate the
contracts pending assurance from NASBA that their fees for notifying candidates of
scores would be less than the Board is currently spending on mailing costs. Mr. Kelley
seconded the motion and the motion passed on unanimous voice vote.
g. Mr. Friedewald updated the Board on the submission of the Annual Report to the Illinois
Auditor General. Ms. Mikuta, Mr. Friedewald and Mr. Holzman discussed that the report
will go to the Executive Committee for review and approval before future submissions
are made to the Governor and Secretary of State.
h. Mr. Friedewald informed the Board that on November 15, 2017, NIU approved cost-ofliving adjustments (COLA) for all non-union employees effective with the November 30,
2017 payroll. Mr. Friedewald expressed concern due to the fact that the ILBOE was not
notified in advance nor was the university authorized to expend Board funds without
prior approval. Additionally, Mr. Friedewald also received the COLA increase and
asked the Board to decide whether this should be allowed. The Board and Mr.
Friedewald discussed the process regarding pay increases for NIU employees.
i. Mr. Friedewald reminded the Board to submit their signed Ethics form.
j. Mr. Friedewald mentioned that the third quarterly NASBA check had been received
recently and that one more is forthcoming for the fiscal year.

Executive Session

ACTION Chairperson Kelley excused non Board members and the Board entered Executive Session to
discuss personnel related matters relating to the COLA increases. Following Executive Session,
members briefly discussed the COLA increase for Mr. Friedewald. Mr. Wojcik made a motion
that Mr. Friedewald could accept the increase. Ms. Mikuta seconded the motion and the motion
passed by unanimous voice vote.
ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
5. Report of the AICPA Board of Examiners-Mr. Sheldon Holzman
Mr. Holzman stated that there will be changes in the exam's software platform and that
there is an upcoming finance meeting scheduled.
6. Administrative Committee-Mr. Larry Wojcik
Mr. Wojcik expressed his appreciation for the maintenance of the website's content.

 7. Candidacy Committee-Dr. Simon Petravick
a. Dr. Petravick discussed the handout which highlights the appeals for fiscal year 2018
to date. Mr. Holzman requested that names of candidates be redacted from the
appeals form as the form is a matter of public record. Mr. Friedewald agreed.
b. Dr. Petravick and the Board discussed the data surrounding candidates who sat for the
CPA exam at 120 semester credit hours (SCH) vs those who sat at 150 SCH.
Although the data may be manipulated, it appears as if the 120 SCH candidates are
successfully completing the exam and there is no correlation with passing and the
SCH totals. An update is forthcoming regarding the 2017 data. In response, Ms.
Kodjayan, Ms. Mikuta and Mr. Wojcik remarked on the following: is it worth
reconsidering the 150 SCH requirement for Illinois, there is no consistency in
regards to the additional 30 SCH and that there are cost advantages for not taking the
additional years to complete the 30 SCH. This topic will be discussed in forthcoming
Board meetings.
8. Education Advisory Task Force-Dr. Simon Petravick
a. Dr. Petravick advised the Board of the speakers and topics on the agenda for the
upcoming Educators' Conference scheduled for April 27, 2018.
b.

Ms. Folk and Dr. Petravick informed the Board on the new review process for
approving the criteria included on school templates submitted related to
acceptable business communication, business ethics and research and analysis in
accounting credits-both stand-alone and integrated.

9. Finance Committee-Ms. Sara Mikuta
Ms. Mikuta and Mr. Hoffman discussed the financials for October and November and
that the number of applications were down from the previous year. It appears the number
for December will be better, but a count was not available for the meeting.
10. Strategic Planning-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
ACTION

Ms. Kodjayan and Mr. Friedewald reminded the Board that the plan had been revised over a
two year period and was now current. Ms. Kodjayan asked for a motion to approve the
plan. Ms. Mikuta stated that the plan should be integrated into the board meeting agendas
permanently. Mr. Wojcik motioned to accept the updated Strategic Plan. Ms. Folk seconded
the motion and the motion passed on unanimous voice vote.
AICPA/NASBA COMMITTEE REPORTS

11. CBT Administration Committee-Mr. Russ Friedewald
The CBT Committee had not met.
12. Communications Committee- Chairperson Jim Kelly/Mr. Sheldon Holzman
Mr. Kelley mentioned that there will be a meeting in late January/late February. Mr.
Holzman also mentioned that the Communications Department at NASBA assists 36
jurisdictions and are able to complete all aspects of outreach for them.

 13. Compliance Assurance Committee-Mr. Larry Wojcik
Mr. Wojcik stated that at the November 20, 2017 AICPA Peer Review Board meeting
there was healthy discussion regarding the implementation of specific benchmarks.
14. Education Committee-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
Ms. Kodjayan is no longer on this committee. No Report
15. By- Laws Committee-Ms. Sara Mikuta
Ms. Mikuta is no longer on this committee. No Report
Old Business- None
New Business-None
Chairperson Kelly adjourned the meeting at 1:58 PM.

 