Board of Examiners
Board Minutes- October 18, 2011
Illinois CPA Society, Conference Room A
550 W. Jackson, Chicago, IL

Board members present: Gary Fish, Kenneth Hull, Thomas Winkler, Richard York,
Claireen Herting, Sharon Morrow, Myra Swick
Staff present: Russ Friedewald, Joanne Vician
Absent: Margaret Cartier, Cheryl Wilson, Penelope Yunker
Guests: Marty Green, ICPAS
1. Chairman Fish called the meeting to order at 11:10 AM
Dr. Fish asked for a motion to approve the July 12, 2011 minutes. Mr. York moved to
accept the July 12, 2011 minutes. Ms. Swick seconded the motion and the motion
passed by voice acclamation.
2. Report of the Chair—G. Fish
a. Dr. Fish opened the discussion regarding our proposal with Northern Illinois
University(NIU). Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that Dr. Kaplan of NIU had
expressed that all documents had been sent to the NIU attorney for drafting of proposed
language for an agreement between NIU and the Board of Examiners. She was hopeful
that this would be accomplished the week of October 17th. Mr. Winkler shared a copy of
the proposal prepared for Illinois State University (ISU) that was given to NIU. He
explained the process with ISU and the language of the documents. Mr. Winkler also
discussed the major issues ISU had with our proposal. The primary reason for ISU’s
denial was that they were pulling out of these types of arrangements. Mr. Hull
explained that the proposal to NIU is the same as the one to ISU with the exception that
no percentage for compensation has been offered.
Ms. Swick made a motion to authorize the Executive Committee to pursue negotiating
terms with NIU and that full board approval of negotiated terms would be necessary.
Ms. Herting seconded the motion and the motion passed by voice vote. It was agreed
that if NIU does not accept our proposal, the board would meet as soon as possible to
decide what the next steps would be moving forward. Mr. Friedewald was asked to
query absent members about their availability on either October 31 or November 1 for a
possible board meeting.

 b. Dr. Fish discussed the upcoming NASBA annual meeting and coordinated the
evening meal. Dr. Fish scheduled the dinner for 6:30 PM at the Cascades American
Cafe.
3. Report of the Executive Director- R. Friedewald
a. Mr. Friedewald advised the Board that the amendment to the Administrative
Code, 1400.90 was now official and a copy of the new amendment was in their board
packet.
b. Mr. Friedewald distributed the scores for 11Q03. Ms. Swick moved to approve
the scores and Mr. Hull seconded the motion. The motion passed by voice vote.
c. Mr. Friedewald discussed the applications processed report and shared that
total applications were down from the same period last year by about 4%. Mr.
Friedewald believes this is due in part to the increased number of applicants wanting to
sit for the exam prior to the change to the exam in January, 2011.
d. Mr. Friedewald reported there were three provisional applicants since the last
board meeting that failed to submit transcripts within the 120 day period and their exam
scores were voided.
e. Mr. Friedewald reported the Auditor General is still in the audit process for this
reporting period.
f. Mr. Friedewald advised the board that due to the current staffing situation, the
implementation of the Iron Data upgrade is now on hold.
4. ICPAS proposal- Marty Green, V.P., ICPAS
Mr. Green met with the board to present a request from the society to assist in the
distribution of the certificates issued to new accounting students that have passed all
parts of the required examinations. The society is looking for new ways to attract
membership and reminded the board the society had previously distributed the
certificates at the annual banquet. Following a discussion which included implementing
a change in the wording of the certificate, Mr. Hull made a motion to have the board
support the CPA society in their efforts to provide proper recognition to new CPAs and
to work with them on a mutually cooperative basis. The motion was seconded by Ms.
Swick and approved by voice vote. The society will work with IBOE staff to develop
appropriate language for the certificate.
The ILBOE Committee and Task Force Reports
5. Administrative Committee - T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler asked Mr. Friedewald about our obligation to our lease should NIU accept

 our proposal. Mr. Friedewald advised that should another tenant in the building be
interested in our space, the landlord would release us from our obligation. If not, they
would negotiate a reasonable settlement. Mr. Friedewald reminded the board that our
lease obligation is through December 31, 2014.
6. Candidacy Committee- C. Herting
a. Ms. Herting reported two appeals dealing with variances for the 18 month rule.
The committee approved both and Chairman Fish signed the variances.
7. Education Advisory Committee- C. WilsonMr. Friedewald addressed the following issues on behalf of Ms. Wilson
a. There will be a teacher’s conference at DePaul University on November 4,
2011 and Ms. Wilson will be presenting along with Dr. Yunker. Mr. Friedewald advised
the board that all materials and slides for the presentation are complete and the
materials have been distributed.
b. Mr. Friedewald advised the board the IL CPA Society is sponsoring two
webinars this fall for the purpose of advising educators and students of the changes to
the educational requirements. The first webinar, for educators, is scheduled for
November 9, 2011 at 3:00 PM and all slides and materials are complete for this
webinar. The second webinar is scheduled for students and is scheduled for November
30, 2011 at 3:00 PM. Most of the slides are prepared, but materials may change
depending on the results of the educator’s webinar. More information on the webinars
can be found at the ICPAS website.
c. Mr. Friedewald reminded the board the Education Advisory Task Force
meeting will be held on April 13, 2012 at Illinois State University.
8. Finance Committee - T. Winkler
Mr. Winkler reviewed an updated budget plan and reminded the board of several
unknowns while awaiting word from NIU on our proposal. These unknowns included
personal services costs, possible moving expenses, systems upgrades during the
current fiscal year and contractual expenses for business services support. Mr. Winkler
touched on the highlights of the explanation page and discussed the expenditures and
reserves. It was noted that budget numbers were off because the fy11 net assets
should have been carried over to net assets at the beginning of fy12 and those numbers
should be corrected before finalizing the budget. Following a discussion of personnel
related budget items, motion was made by Mr. Hull and seconded by Mr. York to correct
the fy 12 net assets at the beginning of the fiscal year to reflect the final figure from fy
11 and to adjust the salary numbers from schedule A to reflect those in schedule G.
The motion carried by voice acclamation.

 Following discussion of Schedule C, a motion was made by Mr. Winkler and seconded
by Mr. Hull to reduce the amount of out of state board travel by $10,000 and increase
the amount of legal services by the same amount. The motion carried by voice
acclamation.
Mr. Friedewald will present the revised budget at the next meeting on January 17, 2012.
9. Nominating Committee - K. Hull
No report
10. State Liaison Committee - S. Morrow
No report
11. Strategic Planning Committee- K. Hull
No report

NASBA/AICPA Committee Reports
12. Audit Committee- K. Hull
Mr. Hull reported the Audit Committee met in September and completed the audit
review. The Committee approved the financial statements and agreed to retain the
same audit firm for next year. Mr. Hull reported he had been reappointed to the Audit
Committee for the coming year.
13. Bylaws Committee- C.Herting/M. Swick
Ms. Swick reported the Committee met by conference call and discussions were held
concerning the length of appointments for members, how long the appointments should
be and whether the appointments should be renewed. Ms. Swick reported that no
bylaws revision recommendations would be made at this time, but there are enough
issues that the board should look at establishing a procedural manual. The Committee
is recommending to the board they create a task force to look into creating a procedural
manual.
14. St. Board Relevance & Effectiveness Committee- C. Wilson
a. Mr. Friedewald reported on behalf of Ms. Wilson the Committee will be
meeting in Nashville, but there is nothing to report at this time.
15. Nominating Committee.- M. Swick
Ms. Swick reported the Nominating Committee will make a report at the annual meeting.
Ms. Swick advised that Ms. Herting will be on the committee and Dr. Fish is an alternate
member.

 16. BOE & BEC- Internationalization of Exam- G. Fish
Dr. Fish reported the BOE met in Philadelphia and traveled to Ewing, NJ to visit the new
BOE office and meet the staff. Dr. Fish reported the BEC meeting in October had been
cancelled.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
NEW BUSINESS—K. Hull
a. Board Orientation Plan
At the last board meeting, it was suggested that a new board orientation plan be
developed. Mr. Hull asked Sharon Morrow and Richard York to join him on this task
force and a conference call was held on October 12th to discuss possible options. Mr.
Hull introduced a list of three options for board orientation for new members. A
committee made up of Mr. Hull, Ms. Morrow and Mr. York discussed these options and
selected the second option to present to the board for review and approval. The task
force recommended option 2 to the full board for consideration. A copy of the options
is attached. A motion was made by Mr. Hull to accept option 2 for board orientation.
Mr. Winkler seconded and the motion carried by voice vote.
b. ICPAS meeting report- Mr. Hull reported on a meeting with the Society on July
26 to discuss the board’s interest in proceeding with the concept of semi- independent
status. Discussion included developing a plan, utilizing resources available such as
NASBA, AICPA, the society, etc. and the timing of introducing legislation. Mr. Hull
reported the meeting was well received by the Society and discussion centered on the
process for developing a strategy for moving forward. Following discussion and
agreement on how the concept should move forward, the Society agreed to approach
their Legislative and Regulatory Committee for discussion and possible presentation to
their full board.
th

c. The Board ratified a contract with Vicki Van Uithoven to continue performing
financial and budget duties in the absence of a full time financial officer.

The Board adjourned at 3:45 PM

 IBOE BOARD ORIENTATION PLANNING MEETING
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2011, 10AM

DISCUSSION OUTLINE
Objective: Our objective is recommend to the full board an orientation method to quickly
bring new board members up to speed on the workings of and activities facing the
board.

New CPA Board Members Characteristics:
They have been active in the accounting profession for many years.
Experience and knowledgeable of accounting profession issues.
Member of the ICPAS or AICPA or both.
Probably have been on the ICPAS Board and AICPA Governing Council
They may know other IBOE Board members and/or have worked on ICPAS
committees with current IBOE Board members.
6. Have some understanding of the IBOE or PARC or NASBA
7. Currently working full time either in public accounting, industry or
academia.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

8. The pool of new CPA board members will be diverse, located through-out the State
and be subject to varying life styles.

New Non CPA Board Members Characteristics:
Will come potentially from many different business career backgrounds.
May not have any or very little knowledge of the IBOE, and its mission.
Will be less understanding of the accounting profession issues.
May never have heard of NASBA or PARC.
Will not be acquainted with past or present leadership within the
accounting profession.
6. Currently working full time in business entities or governmental agencies
or the like.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

7. The pool of new non CPA Board members will be difficult to identify and recruit.
8. Time commitment will be an issue.

 PLAN 1 - FULL BOARD PARTICIPATION:
This orientation would include the full participation of current board members. It would involve
an in person meeting of current and new board members for the express purpose of discussing the
IBOE, its organization and function. Current board committee chairs would make
presentations of the work of each committee. The Board Chair would discuss relations with other
accounting organizations, etc. The Executive Director would discuss internal working and processes of
the IBOE. Other presenters could discuss current issues of the accounting profession. Tours of the IBOE
office and meeting of staff could be included. Any other subjects could be place on the agenda. This
would require 4 to 6 hours of meeting time along with preparation. The advantage of this method is its
in-depth discussion of the workings and issues surrounding the IBOE. The disadvantage is the time, cost
and lack of discussion among new board members.

PLAN 2 - NEW BOARD MEMBER PARTICPATION:
This orientation would include specific discussion with new board members. New board
members would meet in person as a group with the Executive Director and the Board Chair to review
the same topics as in plan 1, but on a less formal basis. This would represent more interactive discussion
among a small group rather than formal presentations. This would require 2 or 4 hours of meeting time
with some preparation time. The advantage of this method is the interaction of new board members
with each other and the ED and Chair. The disadvantage is the meeting with the full board, and time
dedicated to an in-person meetings.

PLAN 3 - INDIVIDUAL MEETINGS WITH NEW BOARD MEMBERS:
This orientation is the least formal. It represents more of an update in a one-on-one meeting
with the Executive Director and the Board Chair. The purpose is to familiarize the new board member
with the IBOE and its activities. This discussion would probably take place over lunch. It would require
about 2 hours of time. This method could be supplemented with the NASBA's new board member
orientation. For new CPA members, who have substantial knowledge of the accounting profession, this
method would work well, but in other cases, it may not be sufficient. The advantage of this method is
the quick overview and minimal time required. The disadvantage is not meeting with other new board
members, and its potential lack of in-depth discussion.

Materials to be used:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Board member manual
IBOE strategic plan
Selected other IBOE candidate materials
Illinois Accountancy Act
Educational rules

 6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.

NASBA new board member orientation
History of IBOE
Tour of Facilities
NASBA relationship
Board member expectations
ICPAS
Overview of IL political system
Ethics

One of the concerns is the number of new board members each year. This could vary from none to 3 or
4. In some years, board members could be reappointed to fulfill another three year term. This would not result
in a new board member. Some flexibility needs to be considered. Perhaps all three plans are appropriate
depending on the number of new board members.

RECOMMENDATION
The recommendation of the task force is to utilize the concept included in Plan two above. Plan two
consists of a small group meeting of the ED, the Board Chair and the new Board members. This would be an inperson meeting at the Board office lasting two to four hours. It should be scheduled immediately after the
appointment is made, or as soon after as possible. Other Board members would be invited as appropriate.
Based on timing, consideration should be given to holding the orientation just prior to a regularly scheduled
Board meeting (although this may not permit meeting at the Board office). Materials to be used should be
distributed in advance for review. The Board Chair should appoint a current board member to act as a mentor
to work with the new board member on any issues or concerns that need discussion prior to or after the
orientation. Current board members should be encouraged to contact new board members, if appropriate, to
establish a working relationship to make new board members comfortable with the workings of the board.
Task Force:
Ken Hull
Sharon Morrow
Rick York
Russ Friedewald, ED

 