Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
Board Minutes- July 25,2013-10:00 AM-3:35 PM
1120 E Diehl Rd
Naperville, IL 60563
Members Present:

Thomas W Winkler, Chair, CPA; JD, Dr. Penelope Yunker, Vice-Chair
(participated by phone), CPA; Howard Engle, CPA; Claireen L Herting,
CPA, JD; Sheldon Holzman, CPA; James G Kelley, CPA; Rhonda
Kodjayan, CPA; Sara Mikuta, CPA; Sharon Morrow ; Simon Petravick,
CPA & Phyllis Walker

Guests:

Mr. Marty Green, Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS)
Ms. Cheryl S Wilson, CPA, Former ILBOE Board member

Call to Order-First Meeting
Chairman Winkler called the meeting to order at 10:08 AM
ACTION 1. Approval of April 18, 2013 Minutes
Mr. Winkler motioned to accept the April 18, 2013 board meeting notes and mentioned
revisions to specific quotes pertaining to the lease. Dr. Petravick suggested the minutes
reflect the term review team instead of auditors. The motion was seconded and
approved by voice acclamation.
Report of the Chair-Thomas Winkler
Mr. Winkler reviewed the recent NASBA Regional Meeting which was held in Chicago
and noted it was well attended and thanked the members for their participation. Mr.
Winkler advised the members that the new Regional Director for the Great Lakes Region
will be announced at the annual meeting in October.
Mr. Winkler discussed the recently issued UAA Exposure Draft recently released jointly by
NASBA and the AICPA which redefines "attest". The AICPA and NASBA has asked
interested Boards to review the draft and offer any written responses or suggestions by
October 17, 2013. Mr. Winkler asked the State Liaison Committee to review the draft and
determine whether the Board of Examiners would submit a response.
2. Report of the Executive Director-Russ Friedewald
ACTION

a. Mr. Friedewald reviewed the 2Q13 scores with the board and requested signatures of
the members.
b. Mr. Friedewald discussed the performance of CPA exam candidates for the calendar
year 2012. Performance is reflected by type of degree, whether the candidate is a first
time candidate or a retake candidate as well as a compilation of all . It was noted that
Illinois candidates typically perform at a higher level of success than the national
average.
c. Mr. Friedewald distributed an outline of travel requirements and reimbursement
schedules. Mr. Friedewald provided an explanation of the guidelines on
reimbursements for in-state as well as out-of-state travel.

 d.

Mr. Friedewald provided a review of the move from the Champaign location to
the Naperville location. Mr. Friedewald reminded the members that board funds are on
deposit with both the U of I and NIU until a business manager can be hired for the
Naperville location. The U of I is still taking care of the board's financial obligations.
Mr. Friedewald credited Ms. Lisa Simonson with doing a great job in coordinating the
physical move.
It was also noted that minor IT issues were present due to remote access to servers, but
that Ric Rose and Khaled Nafea had remedied most of the issues.
Mr. Friedewald also advised the members that staffing hires were continuing and should
be completed soon.

e.

Mr. Friedewald shared the state reporting requirements binder that had been requested.
This binder included all mandated reports that must be submitted at various times
throughout the year.

Mr. Friedewald provided a tour of the new office facilities.
3. Finance Committee-Dr. Yunker
Dr. Yunker reviewed the financial statements and advised the members that domestic
evaluations were above last year's numbers while international evaluations were slightly
behind the same period last year.
Dr. Yunker also pointed out that temporary staff payroll is high due to the move from
Champaign to Naperville. The temporary staff costs will be reduced as permanent staff
are hired in the Naperville facility.
5. Administrative Committee-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler advised the members that the role of the Administrative Committee is
to review and make recommendations for board rules and policies.
to review and make decisions for board rules and policies as deemed necessary.
6. Nominating Committee- Mrs. Herting
Mrs. Herting advised the Nominating Committee report would be given at
the second meeting immediately following adjournment.
7. Candidacy Committee-Mrs. Herting
Mr. Herting provided the board with an overview of the Committee's actions for the
previous fiscal year. Most of the 12 appeals reviewed by the Committee dealt with
appeals of the Administrative Rules regarding either the 120 day provisional status
or the 18 month rule to complete all exams
8. Legislative Update-Mr. Green
Mr. Green advised the board the society sent a target email to all constituent groups
advising of the Board of Examiner's move to Naperville and included the board's
contact information.
Mr. Green also advised the sunset legislation had passed and was awaiting the
Governor's signature.
Mr. Green advised the board the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation had
outsourced the Information Services section of the department in an effort to be more

 responsive to the public. Mr. Green also advised the Department is considering online
continuing professional education opportunities for CPAs.
Mr. Green related that the society is in discussion with the Comptroller's office to offer audit training to
local officials.
9. Education Advisory Task Force- Dr. Yunker
Dr. Yunker discussed the pending EATF meeting with the board and determined there was
insufficient information to share for a fall, 2013 meeting. If it is determined enough
material is available for a spring, 2014 EATF meeting, one will be scheduled.
10. State Liaison Committee-Ms. Morrow
Ms. Morrow advised the members that she had recently attended the National Association of
Black Accountants (NABA) chapter meeting.
Ms. Morrow also advised she would convene a conference call of the Committee to discuss
the UAA exposure draft to determine whether or not a response from our board should be
submitted.
12. Strategic Planning-Mr. Winkler

Mr. Winkler advised the board that there had been little activity with the Committee in recent months,
but that it was his intention to convene the Committee to review the existing plan for possible
updates.

NASBA/AICPA Committee Reports
Mr. Winkler reminded the members that NASBA is looking for new sitting state board
member to volunteer for NASBA committees and that volunteer forms have been sent to all
members. Mr. Winkler also announced that Mrs. Herting has been reappointed to the
Nominating Committee and that Mr. Mike Fritz from Ohio would be announced as the new
Regional Director for the Great Lakes Region.
New Business
Mr. Friedewald introduced the board employees to the members.
The tentative board meeting schedule was discussed with the board. Mr. Winkler motioned to
accept the scheduled dates as presented. Ms. Herting seconded the motion and the motion
carried by voice acclamation.
Old Business- None
Mr. Winkler adjourned the meeting at 3:00 PM.

 Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
July 25, 2013
Northern Illinois University Conference Room
1120 E. Diehl Road, Naperville, IL

Members Present:

Guest:
Staff:

Thomas W Winkler, Chair, CPA; JD, Dr. Penelope Yunker, Vice-Chair
(participated by phone), CPA; Howard Engle, CPA; Claireen L Herting,
CPA, JD; Sheldon Holzman, CPA; James G Kelley, CPA; Rhonda
Kodjayan, CPA; Sara Mikuta, CPA; Sharon Morrow ; Simon
Petravick, CPA & Phyllis Walker
Ms. Cheryl Wilson, Former member and current member of Nominating
Committee
Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Tia France, Assistant Director

Call to Order-Second Meeting
Chairman Winkler called the meeting to order at 3:01 PM. All in attendance were
introduced by Mr. Winkler.
1. Presentation of Nominees for Board- Ms. Wilson
Ms. Wilson presented a brief overview of the history of the board's officer election
process and the statutory mandate of the makeup of the board..
2. Presentation of Nominees for 2013-2014 Chair & Vice-Chair- Ms. Wilson
Ms. Wilson presented the nominees for officers for the fiscal year 2014 as selected by the
Nominating Committee. For Chair, the nominee was Dr. Penny Yunker. The
Vice-Chair nominee, Mrs. Claireen Herting declined the nomination and Mr. Howard
Engle was nominated for Vice-Chair Mr. Winkler asked if there were any other
nominees from the board. No other nominees were presented. Mr. Winkler closed the
nominations.
ACTION 3. Election of Chair & Vice-Chair
Ms. Morrow motioned that Dr. Yunker be elected Chair and Ms. Kodjayan seconded
the motion. Dr. Yunker was elected by unanimous voice vote. Mr. Holzman
motioned that Mr. Engle be elected Vice-Chair and Ms. Mikuta seconded the
motion. Mr. Engle was elected Vice-Chair by unanimous voice vote.
ACTION Mr. Winkler adjourned the meeting at 3:35 PM.

 