Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, August 23, 2019 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. at
1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Mary B.
Richardson-Lowry (Substitute Member); and Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD
(3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Director Mike Koetting
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Karen E. Kim, MD and Patricia Merryweather (Non-Director
Members)

Absent:

Director Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Jorelle Alexander, DMD, MPH, Chair of the
Department of Oral Health
Richard Keen, MD, Chair of the Department of
Medicine
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
II.

John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive
Officer
Blessy Varghese, MSN, RN – Surgical Quality
Manager
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, commented that staff at Provident Hospital continue to be in a
state of readiness for the upcoming survey by The Joint Commission.
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Wyatt provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, August 23, 2019
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (continued)
C. American College of Surgeons’ National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP)
Year 5 Update (Attachment #2)
Blessy Varghese, MSN, RN, Surgical Quality Manager, and Richard Keen, MD, Chair of the Department
of Medicine, provided an overview of the ACS NSQIP Year 5 Update. The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
The Update included information on the following subjects:
•
•
•
•
•

NSQIP Background
Cook County Health and ACS NSQIP Overview
Institutional Projects and Return on Investment
Cost of NSQIP Participation
Appendix

D. Update on Oral Health (Attachment #3)
Jorelle Alexander, DMD, MPH, Chair of the Department of Oral Health, provided an overview of the
Update on the Process of Care Dyad. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
The Update included information on the following subjects:
• Oral Health at Cook County Health
• Current Staff
• Utilization / Scope of Services

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s)
There were none presented for consideration.
B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes (Attachment #4)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, and Dr.
Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, were not present to
provide their reports.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, August 23, 2019
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County (continued)
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for
Provident Hospital of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, July 19, 2019
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to accept
the Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of July 19,
2019. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Claims, Litigation and Quality and Patient Safety Matters
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
D. Quality and Patient Safety Report
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to
recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the
following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation,
discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal
counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11),
regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the
particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be
recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of
claims as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, August 23, 2019
Page 4

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or
potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims,
loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or
communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or
any intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance pool
of which the public body is a member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17),
regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review
of physicians or other health care professionals, or for the discussion of
matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality
Improvement Act of 2005, and the regulations promulgated thereunder,
including 42 C.F.R. Part 3 (73 FR 70732), or the federal Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, including 45 C.F.R. Parts 160, 162, and 164, by a
hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the
public body.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting,
a roll call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chair Gugenheim and Directors Driscoll and Suleiman Gonzalez (3)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Director Prendergast (1)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee convened
into a closed meeting.
Chair Gugenheim declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, August 23, 2019
Page 5

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Requests/follow-up:
There were no requests for follow-up at the meeting.

 