IL BOARD OF EXAMINERS
BOARD MEETING
APRIL 19, 2016
NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY- DEKALB, IL

Members present: Sheldon Holzman, CPA, Howard Engle, CPA, James Kelley, CPA, Tom
Winkler, CPA, J.D., Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA Larry Wojcik, CPA, J.D., Jeannie Folk, CPA,
Dr. Simon Petravick, CPA
Members absent: Sara Mikuta
Guests: Dr. Douglas Baker, President, Northern Illinois University
Dr. Anne Kaplan, Vice President, Northern Illinois University
Dr. Rebecca Shortridge, Chair, Northern Illinois University Accounting Department
Todd Shapiro, CEO, Illinois CPA Society
Marty Green, Vice President, Illinois CPA Society
Mr. Holzman called the meeting to order at 10:00 AM
Mr. Holzman welcomed all guests to the meeting and invited Dr. Baker to share his insight
on the university. Dr. Baker gave an overview of the current financial situation with the
university and the status of the state budget as it relates to Northern Illinois University as
well as other colleges and universities in the state. Following a brief period of questions
from the board, Dr. Baker and Dr. Kaplan excused themselves from the meeting.
Mr. Holzman recognized Dr. Shortridge and asked for an overview of the Accounting
Department at Northern Illinois University. Dr. Shortridge advised she is replacing Dr. Jim
Young who has returned to the classroom. Following Dr. Shortridge’s comments, she
entertained a brief period of question and answers.
Mr. Holzman expressed the board’s appreciation for Dr. Shortridge’s attendance.
ACTION:
Mr. Holzman requested approval of the November 18, 2015 minutes. Motion was made by
Ms. Folk to accept the minutes and the motion was seconded by Mr. Kelley. The motion
passed by voice acclamation.
Report of the Chair: S. Holzman
a. Mr. Holzman gave a review of the AICPA Council Meeting and reported the Council
voted to recognize CIMA and authorize a vote of the AICPA membership.
b. Mr. Holzman reported that the AICPA Board of Examiners voted to make changes to
the Uniform CPA Examination. Mr. Holzman also reported that as a new member of the
Board of Examiners, he had the opportunity to sit for a section of the CPA examination
and experience the same process experienced by the candidates including the check in
process.

 c.

Mr. Holzman reminded the board the next scheduled meeting of the board will be July
21 in Naperville.
d. Mr. Holzman reminded the members that the NASBA Eastern Regional Meeting was
scheduled for Ashville, NC June 7-9 and encouraged members to attend.
Report of the Executive Director-- R. Friedewald
ACTION—Mr. Friedewald shared the score report for the fourth quarter of 2015 and the first
quarter of 2016 and asked for approval. The scores were accepted by unanimous voice
vote.
a. Mr. Friedewald advised the members that the Administrative Rules were posted for first
notice.
b. Mr. Friedewald advised the members that staffing has been reduced by three employees
by resignation and they will not be replaced at this time.
c. Mr. Friedewald provided a review of the recently held Executive Director Conference
held in Tucson, Arizona. Mr. Friedewald reported the conference was a success and
that all attendees were very pleased with the agenda and accommodations.
d. Mr. Friedewald shared the Multi Test Report provided by NASBA. This report includes
candidates having tested multiple times without passing. The question for the board
is whether the board should take some type of action with these candidates to assist
them in the process. Virginia is the only state currently with a policy to deal with
multi-testers. Mr. Holzman assigned the issue to the Education Committee for further
review and possibly adopting a policy similar to that of Virginia.
Financial Report—S. Mikuta/M. Hoffman—Mr. Hoffman reported revenues are slightly
ahead of forecast for the period.
LEGISLATIVE UPDATE—M. Green- Mr. Green discussed the legislative issues for the
spring session and provided his opinion on any possible initiatives including budget
considerations.
ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
Administrative Committee—T. Winkler—Mr. Winkler outlined a few areas of the
currently proposed Administrative Rules which would require clean up language
moving forward.
Candidacy Committee—S. Petravick—Dr. Petravick provided a review of the
Committee’s activities since the previous board meeting.
Education Advisory Task Force—S. Petravick—Dr. Petravick provided a review of the
Educator Seminar held on April 15 and reported the information provided to the
attendees was very well received and that reviews by the attendees were very
positive.

 Nominating Committee—H. Engle- No report.
State Liaison—T. Winkler—No report
Strategic Planning—R. Kodjayan- No report

NASBA/AICPA COMMITTEE REPORTS
Communications Committee—J. Kelley—Mr. Kelley reported the Committee is working
on the format for the upcoming communications meetings to be held at the Regional
meetings in June.
Compliance Assurance—L. Wojcik—Mr. Wojcik reported he attended his first meeting of
this Committee. Mr. Wojcik provided a brief review of the AICPA peer review
document.
Education Committee—R. Kodjayan—Ms. Kodjayan reported the Committee has been
very active. The Committee recently met in Dallas, Texas for an in-person meeting.
Ms. Kodjayan reported NASBA hopes to be more involved with the states in reviewing
international transcripts for all professions. The Committee also discussed the pipeline
and possible options for improving the numbers of candidates.
Ethics & Strategic Issues Committee—S. Holzman—Mr. Holzman reported that NASBA
commented on the latest PEEC Exposure Draft and one of the major issues the Committee
responded to PEEC was in regard to record retention.
Global Strategies Committee—H. Engle- NO REPORT. Mr. Engle stated the Committee
is in the process of being reconstituted
Nominating Committee—S. Holzman- No report
Regulatory Response Committee—S. Mikuta- Mr. Friedewald reported on behalf of Ms.
Mikuta that this committee reviews all exposure draft comments and to date have
reviewed four responses since having been appointed to the Committee.
AICPA
Board of Examiners—S. Holzman/T. Winkler—Mr. Holzman indicated all issues have been
covered in prior committee reports.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS—Mr. Holzman reminded the members that a slight fee increase
for applicants is contained in the proposed rules. Mr. Friedewald provided a listing of
fees from surrounding states and Mr. Holzman indicated he felt the fess increase was
very reasonable based on that comparison. The state society is on record supporting the
increase.

 NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Friedewald reported to the board an increase by the office to engage in meeting with
Chicago Public Schools, After School Matters and other groups trying to promote the
pipeline and increase the diversity in the profession.
Mr. Holzman advised the board that he, Mr. Friedewald and Mr. Engle have scheduled a
meeting with Dr. Kaplan to discuss possible reduction in board costs to the university.
Adjournment—Mr. Holzman adjourned the meeting at 1:20 PM

 