Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
Board Minutes-July 23, 2015-10:00 AM
1120 E Diehl Rd,
Naperville, IL 60563
Members Present:

Howard Engle, Chair, CPA; Sheldon Holzman, Vice-Chair, CPA; Claireen
Herting, CPA, JD; James G Kelley, CPA; Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA; Sara Mikuta,
CPA; Simon Petravick, CPA, Phyllis Walker and Thomas W Winkler, CPA, JD

Guests:

Mr. Marty Green, VP Government Affairs, Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS)

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director of Certification
Matthew Hoffman, Business Manager
Carla Ratchford, Assistant Director of Evaluation Services

Call to Order-First Meeting
Chairperson Engle called the meeting to order at 10:07 AM.
ACTION 1. Approval of April 16, 2015 Minutes
Vice-Chairperson Holzman motioned to accept the April 16, 2015 board meeting minutes
contingent upon completion of minor edits. Dr. Petravick seconded the motion. Motion passed on
unanimous voice vote.
2. Report of the Chair-Mr. Howard Engle
Chairperson Engle remarked on his past year as Chair. A recap of the recent Eastern Regional
Meeting, with attention to the changes in educational credits was given as well. Chairperson
Engle also reviewed the system penetration testing results report and recommendations received
from Nettitude. Mr. Friedewald stated that a meeting with the website developer/host is set for
next week. Chairperson Engle acknowledged Vice-Chair Holzman’s appointment as the National
Association of State Boards of Accountancy’s (NASBA) Alternate Regional Representative for
the Nominating Committee. Mr. Friedewald also acknowledged Vice-Chairperson Holzman’s and
Mr. Winkler’s appointments to the American Institute of CPAs’ (AICPA) Board of Examiners.
3. Report of the Executive Director-Russ Friedewald
ACTION

ACTION

ACTION

a.

Chairperson Engle and the Board approved the 2Q15 scores.

b.

Mr. Friedewald discussed the current statistical data in comparison to the previous years’ data
and various jurisdictions. Dr. Petravick also discussed the individual institutions’
candidate data based on NASBA’s statistics.

c.

Mr. Friedewald updated the Board regarding the newly-revised Privacy Policy. Vice-Chair
Holzman motioned to adopt the policy. Ms. Mikuta seconded the motion. Motion passed
on unanimous voice vote.

d.

Mr. Friedewald and the Board discussed the Fringe Benefits schedule for the State of Illinois’
Central Management Services (CMS) for the dates of July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016

e.

Mr. Friedewald presented the Board with an opinion from attorney Charles Schmedeke
in response to the questions posed as to whether a member of the Board of Examiners
who sits on the AICPAs Council may participate in Congressional visits in his or her

 capacity as a member of the Council and whether an member of the Board of Examiners
may make financial contributions to the AICPA’s political action committee. Mr.
Schmedeke’s opinion on both questions was that there is neither a federal or state law
prohibiting either activity. Mr. Holzman motioned to have the opinions recorded. Mr.
Kelley seconded the motion and the motion passed by voice vote
f.

Mr. Friedewald discussed the newsletter draft for the current quarter, as well as the data and
feedback concerning the inaugural issue.

g.

Mr. Friedewald and the Board discussed specific edits to the Rules Rewrite project.
Chairperson Engle and Vice-Chairperson Holzman discussed possibly allowing for the
Board’s Chair and Vice-Chair’s terms to be extended. No action was taken.

a.

Mr. Friedewald mentioned that his term on NASBA’s Board of Examiners expires this
year as well as his term as Chair of the NASBA Executive Director Committee. Mr.
Friedewald reported the in-house application processing time is current and within the
application date time frame. . Vice-Chairperson Holzman discussed his in-house visit to
the ILBOE office regarding the inner workings of all processes. Chairperson Engle
suggested that the Board schedule an in-house meeting.

4. Legislative Update-Mr. Marty Green
Mr. Green stated that there is no update on a possible consensus regarding the State of Illinois’
budget. Bryan A. Schneider, Secretary, Illinois Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation (IDFPR), stated that their Accounting Rules, excluding the Continued Professional
Education and Peer Review sections, will be finalized on August 1, 2015. Mr. Green and Mr.
Friedewald discussed the findings in the Internal Auditor’s report for the IDFPR at the recent
Public Accounting Registration & Licensing Committee (PARLC) meeting. The current license
renewal process was also discussed.
ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
5. Administrative Committee-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler stated that the first approved rules Rewrite draft to be submitted to the Joint
Committee on Administrative Rules (JCAR) should be complete by October 2015.
6. Candidacy Committee-Ms. Herting
Ms. Herting discussed the 2015 appeals.
7. Education Advisory Task Force-Mr. Petravick
Dr. Petravick discussed a possible webinar outlining the upcoming changes to the Uniform CPA
Examination. Vice-Chairperson Holzman suggested an in-house meeting that includes a webinar.
8. Finance Committee-Mr. Holzman
Vice-Chairperson Holzman stated that the FY16 budget was prepared and discussed. Mr. Hoffman
will make edits to the yearly budget and it will be sent out at a later date. The June financials will
be reviewed soon and sent out as well. Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Friedewald discussed the current
status of the audit.
9. Nominating Committee-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler stated that a complete report regarding members and their terms should be submitted

 to the ICPAS. There are currently two vacancies on the Board. Upcoming board term expirations
were also discussed.
10. Strategic Planning-Mr. Holzman
No Report

NASBA COMMITTEE REPORTS
11. Education Committee-Ms. Kodjayan
Ms. Kodjayan discussed the three grant recipients.
12. Communications Committee-Mr. Kelley
Mr. Kelley asked for feedback from the Eastern Regional Conference. The feedback was
discussed.
13. Ethics & Strategic Issues Committee-Mr. Holzman
Vice-Chairperson Holzman stated that the Ethics and International Accounting Exposure drafts
were discussed during the last meeting.
14. Nominating Committee-Ms. Herting
Ms. Herting stated that one member resigned from the committee. Nominations are currently
being called in. Current committee assignments will be discussed at the next Board meeting.

AICPA COMMITTEE REPORTS
15. Board of Examiners-Mr. Winkler
Mr. Winkler discussed the possible key changes to the Uniform CPA Examination generated from
responses received from the AICPA’s members and the Exposure draft. The Draft should be
readily available for review on September 1, 2015.
Unfinished Business- None
New Business-None
ACTION

Chairperson Engle adjourned the first meeting at 1:47 PM.

 SECOND MEETING- Presentation of Nominees for 2015-2016
Call to Order-Second Meeting
Chairperson Engle called the second meeting to order at 1:47 PM.
ACTION

Presentation of Nominees for 2014-2015 Chair
Chairperson Engle nominated Mr. Shelly Holzman as Chair and Mr. James Kelley as ViceChair.

ACTION

Election of the Chair and Vice-Chair
Mr. Winkler made a motion to elect Mr. Holzman as Chair and Ms. Kodjayan seconded the
motion. Mr. Holzman was elected by unanimous voice vote. Mr. Winkler made a motion to elect
Mr. Kelley as Vice-Chair and the motion was seconded by Ms. Mikuta. Mr. Kelley was elected
Vice-Chair by unanimous voice vote.

ACTION

Chairperson Engle adjourned the second meeting at 1:49 PM.

 