Illinois Board of Examiners Meeting
Board Minutes-November 9, 2016-10:00 AM
1120 E Diehl Rd,
Naperville, IL 60563
Members Present:

Sheldon Holzman, Chair, CPA, James G Kelley, Vice-Chair, CPA,
Howard Engle, CPA, Jeannie Folk, CPA, Rhonda Kodjayan, CPA,
Sara Mikuta, CPA, Simon Petravick, CPA, Kent Reeves, CPA and
Larry Wojcik, CPA, JD

Guests:

Mr. Marty Green, VP Government Affairs, Illinois CPA Society
(ICPAS)
Mr. Todd Shapiro, CEO, Illinois CPA Society (ICPAS) (by phone)

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director of Certification
Matthew Hoffman, Business Manager
Carla Ratchford, Assistant Director of Evaluation Services

Call to Order-First Meeting
Chairperson Holzman called the meeting to order at 10:03 AM.
ACTION 1. Approval of July 21, 2016 Minutes
Vice-Chairperson Kelley motioned to accept the July 21, 2016 board meeting
minutes. Ms. Folk seconded the motion. Motion passed on unanimous voice
vote.
2. Report of the Chair-Mr. Sheldon Holzman
a.

Chairperson Holzman introduced Mr. Kent Reeves, a new appointee to the
Board. The members and staff introduced themselves to Mr. Reeves.

b.

Chairperson Holzman recapped the recent National Association of State
Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) Annual Meeting, with attention to the
Chartered Global Management Accountant (CGMA) designation and Peer
Review revisions in addition to upcoming NASBA meeting dates,
accreditation, member appointments, the exam, online courses, licensure
requirements and cyber security issues. The recap led to an in-depth
discussion amongst Ms. Folk, Mr. Friedewald, Ms. Kodjayan, Ms. Mikuta,
Dr. Petravick and Mr. Wojcik regarding online courses and accreditation.

c.

Chairperson Holzman relayed the discussions from the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Council meeting which included
audit quality, “white paper issues”, the CPA Profession at both the

 national and global levels, legislative updates from Washington DC and
cyber risks.
d.

Chairperson Holzman briefly recapped the NASBA board meeting.

e.

Mr. Shapiro joined the meeting by phone. He and various persons in
attendance discussed the pros and cons of keeping the Illinois educational
requirements at 150 semester credits hours (SCH) or decreasing the total
to 120 to sit for the exam and 150 SCH to license. Chairperson Holzman
stated that surrounding jurisdictions are decreasing to 120 SCH. Mr.
Shapiro stated that of the firms asked, there is no difference in the
employees who have sat for the exam with 120 SCH vs 150 SCH. Mr.
Engle stated that the SCH were initially increased to the current total
because educators felt that it was necessary. Mr. Friedewald will submit
additional information to the members regarding the initial reasons to
increase the total hours and statistical data in order to discuss the topic
further at a later date in response to a request made by Mr. Wojcik. Ms.
Mikuta will contact her human resource departments as well. Dr. Petravick
will look for academic research regarding the success of candidates sitting
at 120 SCH vs. 150 SCH. This topic will also be reviewed every couple
of years.

3. Report of the Executive Director-Russ Friedewald
ACTION

a.

Chairperson Holzman and the Board approved the 3Q16 scores.

b. Mr. Friedewald discussed pass rates among the jurisdictions and discrepancies
between the score book and NASBA reports.
c.

Mr. Friedewald updated the Board regarding the recent resignation of an
Office Support staff member and the current hiring process.

d. Ms. Ratchford updated the Board on the Evaluation Department in regards to
incoming application totals and approval timelines, including provisional
status.
e.

Mr. Friedewald discussed the colleges and universities visited and scheduled
for presentations. Chairperson Holzman requested that the schedule be shared
with members on a regular basis.

f. Mr. Friedewald and the Board discussed measures that jurisdictions have
taken in order ensure their websites were American with Disabilities Act
(ADA) compliant. VisionFriendly (the Illinois Board of Examiners’
(ILBOE) website creator and host) was contacted and a proposal was
submitted submitted. Mr. Friedewald will contact ILBOE’s counsel in regard
to possible recommendations per Chairperson Holzman’s request.

 g.

Mr. Friedewald stated that he is preparing a transition document per the
request of the Chair.

h.

Mr. Friedewald updated the Board on the finalization of the interest
distribution for the ILBOE funds on deposit at Northern Illinois University
(NIU). Credits for months prior to the finalization date will be discussed at a
future meeting.

i.

Mr. Friedewald stated that the Legislative Audit Commission accepted the
responses to the most recent compliance audit. It will not be necessary to
appear before the Commission.

4. Legislative Update-Mr. Marty Green
Mr. Green discussed the following matters: Tax Preparer Oversight Act, the
appointment of Ms. Jessica Baer as Director of the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation (IDFPR), the comptroller’s local
government training, the Illinois Competitiveness Council, fund sweeps and
replenishment, tax on professional services, the Public Accounting Act, the
Internal Revenue Services (IRS) and registered CPAs and current state bills.
ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
5. Administrative Committee-Mr. Wojcik
Mr. Wojcik discussed upcoming changes to the CPA exam and requested that this
information be included in the ILBOE website’s slideshow instead of the Message
Center.
6. Candidacy Committee-Dr. Petravick
Dr. Petravick reported there were no appeals since the last board meeting.
7. Education Advisory Task Force-Dr. Petravick
Dr. Petravick stated that issues regarding CPA candidate success when sitting at
120 SCH vs. 150 SCH will be addressed in a forthcoming report.
8. Finance Committee-Ms. Mikuta
Mr. Hoffman and the Board discussed the budget, variances and current financials
vs FY16. Ms. Folk suggested that an e-mail blast regarding the newly
implemented Pre-Evaluation application be sent to educators.
9. Strategic Planning-Ms. Kodjayan

 Ms. Kodjayan discussed the updates to prior reports and stated that one additional
meeting is to be scheduled and revisions will be submitted to Chairperson
Holzman.

NASBA COMMITTEE REPORTS
10. Education Committee-Ms. Kodjayan
Ms. Kodjayan stated that The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of
Business (AACSB) accreditation and recommendations on pathways were
discussed in addition to the validity of certain courses and that the research grant
deadline has been extended to spring 2017. Deadline confirmation will occur in
February.
11. Communications Committee- Vice-Chairperson Kelley
Vice-Chairperson Kelley stated that there will be no breakout sessions at future
Annual Meetings. Instead, each committee member will be assigned a
jurisdiction. Vice-Chairperson Kelley also mentioned that Chairperson Holzman
has been appointed as Chair of the Communication Committee.
12. Ethics & Strategic Issues Committee-Chairperson Holzman
Chairperson Holzman stated that proposals and opinions were discussed as well
discussions surrounding the AICPA-NASBA practice continuation agreement.
13. Nominating Committee-Vice-Chairperson Kelley
No Report
14. Compliance Assurance Committee-Mr. Wojcik
Mr. Wojcik discussed how the Peer Review process is not working effectively
and how the Committee is looking for guidance from jurisdictions. Chairperson
Holzman stated that NASBA is currently working with the AICPA on the
proposed change to peer review.
15. International Qualifications Appraisal Board-Mr. Engle
Mr. Engle stated that the Board looks at professional practice standards and
qualifications globally and that Ms. Sharon A. Jensen, CPA was appointed its
Chair.

 16. Regulatory Response Committee-Mr. Mikuta
Ms. Mikuta discussed with the Board the current issues at hand, which include
by-laws, Peer Review, hosting issues-cyber and individual and supervision of
audits involving global auditors.

AICPA COMMITTEE REPORTS
17. Board of Examiners-Chairperson Holzman
Chairperson Holzman discussed the upcoming meeting in January and June of
2017 related to the scoring process of the new exam. Chairperson Holzman also
stated that the diagnostics report for the new exam was approved.
Unfinished Business- None
New Business-Mr. Friedewald will send an e-mail regarding Prometric site visits and
evaluation sheets.
Chairperson Holzman adjourned the meeting at 1:36 PM.

 