FINAL Minutes of the October 22, 2013 Meeting of the
Residential Sound Insulation Sub-Committee of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
The Midway Noise Compatibility Commission (MNCC) Residential Sound Insulation SubCommittee Meeting was held October 22, 2013, at the Midway Airport Maintenance Complex
(AMC) Building, 6201 S. Laramie Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairwoman Gail Conwell called the meeting to order at 6:33 p.m.
The following Residential Sound Insulation Sub-Committee members were present:
Gail Conwell – Chicago Ward 13
Kenneth Pannaralla – Chicago Ward 13
Stan Lihosit – Chicago Ward 14
The following committee members were not present:
Frank Damato – Cook County (Representing Board President, Toni Preckwinkle)
Thomas Baliga – Chicago Ward 23
Also present:
Jerry Ponio – Bedford Park (Representing Mayor David Brady)
Tom Sheahan – Lyons (Representing Mayor Christopher Getty)
Nance Dulaj – Chicago Ward 13
Aaron Frame, Assistant Commissioner – Chicago Department of Aviation
Marcie Vasta, Administrative Assistant – Residential Sound Insulation Program
Quorum was met with three of the five Sub-committee members present.
Mr. Frame began by stating that Resolution 2013-B concerns the first group of homes included
under the newly approved Part 150 Midway noise contour. This next phase will be referred to as
Phase 15 for the 15th program phase after the inception of the Residential Sound Insulation
Program in 1996 and will include 900 homes. With that given he proceeded to read the draft of
Resolution 2013-B.
The following items within that document were discussed.
Section 3 of the Draft Resolution
 Every dwelling unit within the building is potentially eligible for sound insulation. As a
guideline for determining qualification, the Department of Buildings and the City attorneys
will provide an approved basic screening checklist that will indicate what is considered a
proper, code-compliant, additional dwelling unit and what is not. RSIP staff will observe
and fill out the checklist and if anything appears to be a problem or in violation of the
checklist, it would be deferred by CDA and RSIP to the Department of Buildings.

1

 FINAL Minutes of the October 22, 2013 Meeting of the
Residential Sound Insulation Sub-Committee of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission




Mr. Lihosit disagreed with the change in the construction permit cut-off date. He stated
that the 1996 date should remain in effect rather than the new date based on permits
issued before June 20, 2013. Mr. Pannaralla and Ms. Conwell explained that the change
was required to accommodate the differences in eligibility criteria, which now includes
single-family, multi-family, mixed use and non-owner occupied properties.
It was also noted that block-rounding will remain in effect.

Section 4 of the Draft Resolution
 First priority will be given to the dwelling units not previously sound-insulated located
inside the 69 DNL level and up. Second priority will be dwelling units in the high 68
DNL’s.
 Buildings with a unique type of construction on or inside the 65 DNL would be next
because they may require special acoustical testing. Mr. Ponio asked how the locations of
these buildings would be determined. Mr. Frame responded that a staff member will drive
through the neighborhoods in the next couple of months, specifically looking for different
types of construction. The architecture and/or materials would determine their uniqueness
and may require adjustments in the option packages to accommodate. He will keep the
Commission members informed.
 In an effort to meet the Phase 15 goal of insulating 900 homes, as owners of eligible
dwelling units decline participation, the group of dwellings in the next highest fractions of
the 68 DNL will be included in Phase 15 as alternates.
 Ms. Conwell asked if a homeowner declines participation this year if they can still
participate in the following year. Mr. Frame responded that they could but would be put
on an alternates list.
 Where non-code compliance issues were corrected, those buildings would also be put on
an alternates list and would be included a future phase. Ms. Conwell requested that the
procedure to be followed regarding non-compliant dwellings be formalized in writing.
Meeting Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 7:33 p.m.

2

 