FINAL Minutes of the January 24, 2019, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
The regular and the annual meeting of the Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
(MNCC) was held January 24, 2019, at The Mayfield, 6072 S. Archer Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairman Thomas Baliga called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.
Chairman Baliga opened the meeting by explaining that the MNCC meeting was held
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act and the Commission bylaws.
Chairman Baliga asked Judy Dusk, a representative for the Chicago Department of
Aviation, to record the minutes.
The following members were present:
Thomas Baliga, Chicago Ward 14
Jerry Ponio, Bedford Park (Representing Mayor David Brady)
Jose Alvarez, Cicero (Representing Mayor Larry Dominick)
Jamie Rhee, Commissioner (Chicago Department of Aviation)
Felix Kaczynski, Chicago Ward 23
Alderman Robert Contreras, Burbank (Representing Mayor Dan Foy)
Christopher Koczwara, Chicago Ward 14
Stan Lihosit, Chicago Ward 14
Mayor Sergio Rodriguez, Summit
Trustee Mitch Milenkovic, Stickney (Representing Mayor Jeff Walk)
The following members were not present:
Frank Damato, Cook County (Representing Board President Toni Preckwinkle)
Tom Sheahan, Lyons (Representing Mayor Christopher Getty)
Mark Masciola, Forest View (Representing Mayor Lawrence Powell)
Trustee Norma Pinion, Bridgeview (Representing Mayor Steve Landek)
Kenneth Pannaralla, Chicago Ward 13

Also present:
Forest Lombaer, Chief Assistant Corporation Counsel, Chicago Department of Law
Nancy Kiernan, Assistant Commissioner, Chicago Department of Aviation
Jeffrey Jackson, Associate Vice President, Landrum & Brown
Judith Dusk, Administrative Assistant, CMC Partners
A quorum was achieved with 10 of the 15 members present.

1

 FINAL Minutes of the January 24, 2019, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
A. October 25, 2018 Meeting Minutes
Chairman Baliga asked if there were any changes to the October 25, 2018
revised draft meeting minutes distributed prior to the meeting. A motion to
approve the minutes as distributed was made by Mr. Kaczynski and seconded by
Mayor Rodriguez. The motion passed unanimously.
REPORT OF THE CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF AVIATION (“CDA”)
A. Update Regarding Odorous Windows
Ms. Kiernan provided a brief overview of the progress of the development of a
investigations and mitigation plan for the odorous windows. The first course of
action was the identification of the source of the odors and the second course of
action was to come up with a solution that was based on the findings of our
scientific investigations.
Ms. Kiernan announced that the CDA will be addressing the mechanical
problems for windows that are still in warranty and they will be mitigating the odor
in homes for the windows installed by RSIP around Midway and O’Hare. The
source of the odor has been identified as gas from the PVC-coated fiberglass
screens that cannot dissipate because it is located between two panes of glass.
An update regarding the work to address mechanical repairs for windows still in
warranty was also provided. Construction has been going on in the field for the
last two weeks addressing the mechanical defects that were not fixed by Sound
Solutions. Repairs are expected to be made in 159 homes over the next several
months.
As far as rolling out the odor mitigation strategy, the Program hopes to have all
contracting mechanisms worked out by Spring so that it is ready the minute we
have new specifications developed for screen replacements. We intend to roll out
this program as efficiently as we can in the most minimally invasive and rationally
way to cure the problem. The mitigation plan intends to provide relief to those
affected and we hope to take care of 300 homes this year.
With the development of the new specifications we will have products that can
benefit homeowners and can resume regular sound insulation work for those that
have not yet participated in the program.
Chairman Tom Baliga asked: Is the cold weather impeding the progress of the
mechanical repairs? Ms. Kiernan responded: No, the cold weather is not
impeding the progress and in fact the residents who had repairs performed over
the last two weeks are very appreciative of the work.
Chairman Tom Baliga asked: Are the windows with mechanical problems
different from the windows with odorous problems? Ms. Kiernan responded:
There is overlap. Some of the windows have mechanical failure, some of them
have an odor and some of the windows have an odor and mechanical failure.
2

 FINAL Minutes of the January 24, 2019, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
More than one manufacturer used PVC coated fiberglass screens but Sound
Solutions was not able to address the problem because the company went out of
business.
Chairman Baliga asked: Does fixing the mechanical failures correct the odors?
Ms. Kiernan responded: No, they are two separate issues.
Chairman Baliga asked: If the windows that are corrected had mechanical
issues, can they develop odors subsequently? Ms. Kiernan responded: If they
have PVC coated fiberglass screens between two acoustic window panes, yes.
There are cases of both mechanical and odor which will be addressed. The
mechanical issues were addressed first because the repairs could be offered
quickly while developing the specifications for the odor mitigation. The next group
of homes will address odor and those with a combination of odor and mechanical
issues.
A commission member asked: If we have residents that haven’t been identified
who later find odor or mechanical problems, can they still be part of the mitigation
plan? Ms. Kiernan responded: They should absolutely call and we will get an
inspector out there right away.

B. 4th Quarter 2018 Airport Noise Management System (ANMS) Report
Commissioner Baliga asked Mr. Jackson of Landrum & Brown to present the 4th
Quarter 2018 Airport Noise Management System Report.
Mr. Jackson provided a brief overview of the information contained in the report
and proceeded with the details.
Runway Use Report
In the 4th Quarter the majority of arrivals were on Runway 31C and the majority
of departures were on Runway 31C.
October – The most used departure runway going to the northwest was 31C with
44%, then 22 L/R with 40%, followed by 04 L/R with 15%, and last 13C with 1%.
The most used arrival runway coming from the southeast was 31C with 40%,
then 22 L/R with 35%, followed by 04 L/R with 23%, and last 13C with 2%.
November – The most used departure runway going to the northwest was 31C
with 47%, then 22 R/L with 37%, followed by 04 L/R with 13%, and last 13C with
3%.
The most used arrival runway coming from the southeast was 31C with 46%,
then 22 R/L with 28%, followed by 04 L/R with 22% and last 13C with 4%.

3

 FINAL Minutes of the January 24, 2019, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
December – The most used departure runway going to the northwest was 31C
with 43%, then 22 R/L with 40%, followed by 04L/R with 13% and last 13C with
4%.
The most used arrival runway coming from the southeast was 31C with 45%,
then 22 R/L with 36%, followed by 04 L/R with 16% and last 13C with 3%.
Airline and Aircraft Fleet Mix Report
There was an average of 650 operations per day with 77 of those occurring at
night. Southwest Airlines had the highest operations with an average of 441
operations per day with 63 of those occurring at night. The B737, used almost
exclusively by Southwest, was the most used aircraft with an average of 441
operations per day. General Aviation followed with 161 operations per day with
11 of those occurring at night.
Permanent Noise Monitor Locations
The report indicates the addresses of the 13 permanent noise monitor locations
near the airport as reflected in relation to the Midway 2018 Noise Contour. The
report shows the results for January 2018 through December 2018 with quarterly
breakdowns and a twelve-month rolling average.
Noise Hotline Report
In the 4th Quarter there was a total of 3,201 complaints. The highest number of
complaints came from Justice with 1,599. The captcha feature has been added,
but still have a number of people submitting complaints without adding their
addresses. This makes it likely that multiple complaints per community may be
coming from the same person.

REPORT OF THE STANDING COMMITTEES
A. Executive Committee Report – No report
B. Residential Committee Report – No report

OLD BUSINESS
No Report
NEW BUSNESS
A. Election of Chair and Vice Chair for 2019
Chairman Baliga asked Mr. Lombaer to handle the elections.
Mr. Lombaer opened the floor for nominations for Chair. One commission member
nominated Tom Baliga to be Chair for 2019. A motion to approve the nomination was
made by Mr. Lombaer. The motion passed unanimously.
4

 FINAL Minutes of the January 24, 2019, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission

Mr. Lombaer opened the floor for nominations for Vice Chair. One commission member
nominated Mayor Sergio Rodriguez to be Vice Chair for 2019. A motion to approve the
nomination was made by Mr. Lombaer. The motion passed unanimously.
MEETING ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Baliga asked if there were any further questions or new business requiring
further discussion.
With no further questions or other new business, a motion to adjourn was made by Mr.
Kaczynski and seconded by Mr. Ponio. The motion passed.
Chairman Baliga adjourned the meeting at 7:03 p.m. and informed those present that
the next meeting of the Midway Noise Compatibility Commission will be held on
Thursday, April 25, 2019 at 6:30 p.m. at The Mayfield, Chicago.

5

 