FINAL Minutes of the October 23, 2014 Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
The regular quarterly meeting of the Midway Noise Compatibility Commission (MNCC)
was held October 23, 2014, at The Mayfield, 6072 South Archer Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairman Thomas Baliga called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
Chairman Baliga opened the meeting by explaining that the MNCC meeting was held
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
Chairman Baliga asked Marcie Vasta, a representative for the Chicago Department of
Aviation, to record the minutes.
The following members were present:
Jerry Ponio – Bedford Park (Representing Mayor David Brady)
Norma Pinion – Bridgeview (Representing Mayor Steve Landek)
Mayor Harry Klein – Burbank
Tom Sheahan – Lyons (Representing Mayor Christopher Getty)
Jim Lazansky – Stickney (Representing Mayor Deborah Morelli)
Gail Conwell – Chicago Ward 13
Nance Dulaj – Chicago Ward 13
Kenneth Pannaralla – Chicago Ward 13
Stan Lihosit – Chicago Ward 14
Thomas Baliga – Chicago Ward 23
Christopher Koczwara – Chicago Ward 23
Joseph Loduca – Chicago Ward 23
Michael Boland – Chicago Department of Aviation (Representing Commissioner
Rosemarie Andolino)
The following members were not present:
Mayor Larry Dominick – Cicero
Mayor Richard Grenvich – Forest View
Chet Strzelczyk – Summit (Representing Mayor Joseph Strzelczyk)
Frank Damato – Cook County (Representing Board President Toni Preckwinkle)
Samuel Rivers – Chicago Ward 15
Also present:
Aaron Frame, Assistant Commissioner – Chicago Department of Aviation
Forest Lombaer, Chief Assistant Corporation Counsel – Chicago Department of
Law
Jeffrey Jackson, Sr. Project Manager – Landrum & Brown
Marcie Vasta, Administrative Assistant – Residential Sound Insulation Program
Quorum was met with 13 of the 18 members present.

1

 FINAL Minutes of the October 23, 2014, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
A. October 22, 2013 RESIDENTIAL SUB-COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
Chairman Baliga asked the Residential Sub-Committee if there were any
changes to the October 22, 2013 meeting minutes. The Chairman called for a roll
call vote of the Sub-Committee members. There were no changes and a motion
to approve was made by Ms. Conwell, and seconded by Mr. Pannaralla. The
motion passed.
B. July 25, 2014 MEETING MINUTES
Chairman Baliga asked if there were any changes to the July 25, 2014 meeting
minutes. There were no changes and a motion to approve was made by Ms.
Pinion and seconded by Ms. Dulaj. The motion passed.
CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF AVIATION (“CDA”) REPORT
A. Presentation: 3rd Quarter 2014 Airport Noise Management System
(“ANMS”) Report
Mr. Frame asked Mr. Jackson of Landrum & Brown to present the 3rd Quarter
2014 Airport Noise Management System Report.
Mr. Jackson provided a brief overview of the information contained in the report
and proceeded with the details.
Runway Use Report
In the 3rd quarter the most used departure runway was 31C with 37% of all
departures for all hours. 04L/04 was the most used arrival runway with 23%.
July – The most used departure runway was 31C with 40%, followed by 22R/22L
with 34%, 04L/04R with 24% and last 13C with 2%. The majority of the time
traffic was flowing to the west.
The most used arrival runway was 31C with 38% arriving from the southeast,
followed by 04L/04R with 31%, 22R/22L with 29% and the last was 13C with 2%.
August – The most used departure runway was 04L/04R with 40% moving to the
northeast, 31C followed with 32%, 22R/22L with 26% and 13C with 2%.
04L/04R was also the most used arrival runway from the southwest with 50%,
31C had 28%, 22R/22L had 21% and 13C had 1%.
September – The most used departure runway was 31C with 38% departing to
the northeast, 22R/22L with 32%, followed by 04L/04R with 28% and 13C with
2%.
04L/04R had the most arrivals with 43%, 22R/22L had 30%, 31C had 27% and
13C had no arrivals.
2

 FINAL Minutes of the October 23, 2014, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission

Airline Fleet Mix Report
There was an average of 694 total operations per day with 69 occurring at night.
Southwest Airlines had the highest operations with an average of 423 operations
per day, of which 45 occurred at night.
The B737, used almost exclusively by Southwest, was the most used aircraft with
an average of 431 operations per day. General aviation followed with an
average of 188 operations per day, 7 of which were helicopters. The total
operations per day was 694 with 69 of those occurring at night.
Permanent Noise Monitor Locations
The report indicates the addresses of the 12 noise monitor locations near the
airport as reflected in relation to the Midway 2018 Noise Contour. The report
shows the results for October 2013 through September 2014 with quarterly
breakdowns and a 12 month rolling average. The 3rd quarter 2014 results are
compared to those of the 3rd quarter in 2013.
Noise Hotline Report
There were 420 total complaints for the 3rd quarter, 304 of which came from
Chicago with a total of 100 complainants. 117 of the complaints were nighttime.
This report includes complaints from 14 communities.
Per the Commission’s request at the last meeting, this quarterly report also
provides a breakdown by Chicago neighborhoods.
Ms. Dulaj mentioned that the Chicago neighborhoods were difficult to distinguish
on the new map. Mr. Frame stated that a different darker color would be used for
future maps that would better delineate the boundaries.
Mayor Klein commented that the area surrounding Site 309 in Burbank is
experiencing a significant increase in the noise level. That increase is having a
negative impact on 3 high schools in that immediate vicinity. Both Mr. Jackson
and Mr. Frame responded that the new contour takes that increase into
consideration. There are currently approximately 700 flights over that area per
day. The 2018 contour is designed to include 818 per day. The new contour
expanded in that area and now includes most of Bedford Park up to the boundary
of Burbank.
Chairman Baliga asked what effect the Fly Quiet Program has on the noise over
Burbank. Mr. Jackson and Mr. Frame will look into whether there has been
compliance and report on their findings at the next meeting. Ms. Conwell pointed
out that the Fly Quiet Program will not impact the noise the schools are
experiencing because it only curtails noise at night. Mayor Klein noted that the
schools would benefit from soundproofing but they are outside the 60DNL
required by the FAA for school sound insulation.
3

 FINAL Minutes of the October 23, 2014, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
Ms. Conwell asked if a potential change in flight path would be considered that
would contribute to reducing the current noise levels. She also inquired about
when the Fly Quiet Program was last addressed with the airlines.
Mr. Frame stated that he and Mr. Jackson would review the FAA’s procedures for
departures and arrivals. Regarding the Fly Quiet issue, he stated that it has
been some time since it was last addressed. He will prepare a letter on behalf of
the Commission, for the Chairman’s signature. It will be addressed to each of
the airlines reminding them that the Fly Quiet Program is still in effect and to refamiliarize them with what it entails. The letter would be provided for the
Commission’s review at the next meeting along with the findings concerning a
potential change in flight path.
Chairman Baliga asked if weather conditions contribute to the increased use of
the flight path over Burbank. Mr. Jackson stated that departure procedures have
not changed but because of the weather conditions utilization has increased.
Mayor Klein commented that regardless of weather conditions, the departure
flight path is causing a tremendous increase in noise directly over Burbank and
Oak Lawn. Mr. Frame responded that it would be looked into further.
Chairman Baliga requested that another report be included in the ANMS Report,
one that would provide yearly comparisons of average operations for both day
and night. Mr. Jackson will provide a report that includes that information.
CHAIR’S REPORT
A. Residential Sound Insulation Sub-Committee Report
Ms. Conwell presented the Residential Sound Insulation Sub-Committee Report
(see attached).
Chairman Baliga asked why there was low attendance at the homeowner briefing
meetings and what would make people decline. Mr. Frame said that the
response was lower than anticipated. He gave the following as some potential
reasons: there are homeowners who prefer not to have strangers in their homes;
there may be family issues that exist preventing participation; some building
owners cannot be reached or maybe there are questionable building
conversions, which in that case, are forwarded to the DOB and are pending its
review. The reasons that may prevent participation vary greatly.
B. Discussion of Noise Monitors
Mr. Frame stated that the CDA has met for discussion and agrees with the
Commission’s recommendation regarding the installation of a permanent monitor
in the northeast quadrant of the airport. In response to the Commission’s request
for the additional monitors in the southeast and southwest quadrants, it was
decided that long-term portable monitors be deployed in those areas for a period
of three months. The permanent monitor would be installed as soon as possible,

4

 FINAL Minutes of the October 23, 2014, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
and installation of the portable ones would be delayed until April when
homeowners’ windows would be open.
Chairman Baliga asked for the Commission’s position on the deployment of the
monitors. Ms. Conwell questioned the value of installing a monitor in an area
outside the noise contour. Mr. Frame responded by stating that the installation of
the monitors would be for informational purposes only and would not provide
eligibility for sound insulation.
Mayor Klein asked if results did show higher noise levels, if that would justify
going to the FAA with a request to change the flight patterns. Mr. Frame stated
that the current contour is locked in for four more years. He reminded the
Commission that the noise contour is based on the future 2018 conditions.
Chairman Baliga responded to Ms. Conwell’s question by stating that he would
like to have data available that either supports or disclaims the comments
concerning the current noise conditions.
Chairman Baliga instructed Mr. Frame and Mr. Jackson to proceed with
arranging for the monitor installation as discussed.
NEW BUSINESS
A. Old Meeting Recordings
Mr. Frame informed the Commission that there is a collection of old recordings of
these meetings that have been kept, many of which are on cassette tape and
date back to 2006.
The Illinois Open Meetings Act states that any recordings from closed meetings,
older than 18 months, can be destroyed provided there are approved written
minutes available. He asked the Commission for their permission to destroy the
recordings that are older than 24 months, which is above and beyond the
requirements of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
Motion was made by Ms. Pinion to approve the destruction of recordings prior to
two years and seconded by Ms. Dulaj. The motion passed.
B. Approval of Resolution 2014-B
This resolution, as read by Chairman Baliga, sets the meeting schedule for 2015.
Motion for approval was made by Mayor Klein and seconded by Ms. Conwell.
The motion passed.
Chairman Baliga asked if there were and further questions or new business
requiring further discussion. With none, a motion to adjourn was made by Ms.
Dulaj and seconded by Mr. Lazansky. The motion passed.

5

 FINAL Minutes of the October 23, 2014, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
MEETING ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Baliga adjourned the meeting at 7:26 p.m. and informed those present that
the next meeting of the Midway Noise Compatibility Commission will be held on
Thursday, January 22, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at The Mayfield, Chicago.

6

 Chicago Midway International Airport
Residential Sound Insulation Program
Sub-Committee Report
As of October 23, 2014

For Phase 15,
o

All addresses in the Midway 2018 Noise Contour have been sent invitations to a
briefing.

o

Eleven Homeowner Briefings were held.

o

There are currently 2,083 dwelling units enrolled in the Program.

o

Follow-up letters have been sent to homes that the owners did not attend the
briefings to which they were invited.

o

Property inspections have been conducted on 71% of the dwelling units enrolled in
the Program.

o

Home inventories have been completed on 46% of these dwelling units.

o

The first two 500-home construction bid packages are currently being advertised.

o

Three 400-home construction bid packages will be advertised in the 4th quarter of
this year.

 