Gm)

(ngT?N 

Ctr-8L1??

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 5

LAWRENCE F. DUMOUCHELLE

July 2,1934 May 16, 2019
In Memoriam

WHEREAS Lawrence F. DuMouchelle was a highly esteemed art auctioneer, husband and father. He was
born to the union of two art dealers in the City of Detroit, Joseph and Charlotte DuMouchelle in
1935; and

WHEREAS Lawrence F. DuMouchelle spent much of his youth in the Boston-Edison District. His ?rst

language was French and he enjoyed spending time with his family on their farm in Windsor. He
was the oldest of ?ve children. He was introduced to the family business at the young age of
eleven. Though he planned on studying law at Notre Dame, he was needed at home to assist with
running the family business when his father became terminally ill; and

WHEREAS Lawrence F. DuMouchelle married the love of his life Charlotte LePain in 1956. They met at the
University of Detroit. Shortly after his father passed away he took over the family business and
became president of the company. He held this position until his passing. He worked very hard to
maintain the standard of excellence that his father established; and

WHEREAS Lawrence F. DuMouchelle always remained loyal to the City of Detroit. Through all of the
economic downturns and urban crisis, he refused to move the company out of the city. His
contributions and generosity can be found throughout the community. He proudly served on the
board of trustees for the Detroit Institute of Arts, Meadow Brooks Arts Commission, The Central
Business District Association, University of Detroit High school, and served as President of the
DIA Founder?s Society; and

WHEREAS It being the will of our Lord to call our beloved home after a long life of service, Lawrence F.
DuMouchelle transitioned from this life, from labor to reward on May 16, 2019; THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED

RESOLVED That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council expresses their

deepest condolences and share the sympathy in the loss of your loved one, Lawrence F.
DuMouchelle. May his legacy live on and serve as a catalyst of superior service for the next
generations. May God bless your family during this dif?cult time.

 

COUNCIL 
. 

. A. 
BEFI
- 
COUMEIL MBE 
. . I
. 

 

 

 

.ilL MEMBER (a NC --I- .
If? 
IEMBER I 

September 201 ?5

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS



WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

I J-u 

53

Ernest DuMouchelle

1942-201 8
In Memoriam

Ernest DuMouchelle was a wonderful father, husband, and world renowned aucrioneer.
He was born in 1942 to loving parents Joseph and Charlotte DuMouchelle. He always
had a love for sailing, his French heritage and the City of Detroit. He was especially
proud of the gallery founded by his parents in 1927. He grew up in Detroit but spent his
early years in the family home in Grosse Pointe; and

Ernest DuMouchelle was a genuine people person who had a real passion for the arts- He
began working in the family business at a very young age. He volunteered his time and
talents as an auctioneer for thousands of Detroit events. Over the years he helped to raise
millions of dollars for institutions, churches, and schools. He was also an appraiser on the
PBS television series ?Antiques Roadshow?; and

Ernest DuMouchelle was a student at the University of Detroit when he realized his
passion for sailing. He became a member of the of Sailing Club where he was able
to compete in the National Collegiate Sailing Championships. He was also an active
member of Detroit?s Bayview Yacht Club where he achieved the status of ?Grand Ram"
and ?Double Old Goat?. His proudest moment was when his racing yacht Titan took ?rst
place at the Bayview Mackinac Race in 2006; and

Ernest DuMouchelle was a real family man. He was married to the love of his life Janice
DuMouchelle and was a dedicated father, husband and grandfather; and

It being the will of our Lord to call our beloved home after a long life of senice, Ernest
DuMouchelle transitioned from this life, from labor to reward on August I, 2018;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council expresses their
deepest condolences and share their sympathy in the loss of your loved one, Ernest
DuMouchelle. Your loss is heaven?s gain. May God bless you and comfort you during
this time and always.

COUNCIL 

 

 
 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

I


.
COUNCIL Fl

J.
n"

It! 

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

Celebrating the Life of

MS. NAOMI RAWLS

We, the members of the Detroit City Council, recognize and bestow homage upon the late, MS. NAOMI
RAWLS who was granted her angel wings on September 13, 2019; and

  

NAOMI was born on June 29, 1938, in Detroit, Michigan, the fourth child born to the union of Birdus
Doughton and Essie Bell. She grew up in a loving home with three overly protective brothers. NAOMI
accepted Christ at an early age under the auspices of Reverend C.L. Franklin at New Bethel Baptist Church.
She attended Northeastern High School and graduated with honors on June 7, 1955 . NAOMI matriculated
to Lewis College of Business and Wayne State University; and

NAOMI was united in marriage to Forest Rawls and from this union two beautiful daughters were born,
Yolanda Michele and Stacia Cecille. Years later she met another charming gentleman, Howard Robinson
and this union brought forth another beautiful daughter, Velva Marie; and

In 1965, NAOMI started working for the City of Detroit as a Junior Clerk in the Recreation Department.
She was assigned to the administrative of?ce on Belle Isle Park, better known as ?The White House.?
Since NAOMI had a ?air for fashion and decorating, the Director of the Recreation Department entrusted
her to shop for the housewares needed to maintain the Manoogian Mansion for Mayor Coleman A. Young.
NAOMI and Mayor Young shared many conversations on what colors and styles he preferred. NAOMI
always delivered and he was always satis?ed. Throughout her career, NAOMI held numerous positions
in different departments. She rose through the ranks and received several promotions. NAOMI retired
after 30 years of dedicated service at the City of Detroit; and

NAOMI enjoyed entertaining, shopping and traveling. She was an avid lover of all sports. NAOMI was
preceded in death by her mother and father; ?ve brothers, Birdus, George, Benjamin (Desiree), Conrad
and Nathaniel (Rosalie); and ?ve sisters, Mable, Thelma, Rose, Lottie and Juanita. She leaves to continue
her legacy, three loving and devoted daughters, Yolanda Mitchell, Stacia Rawls and Velva Moore; one
granddaughter, Sanaa Lillian Douglas and a host of nieces, nephews, other relatives and friends. MS.
NAOMI RAWLS has been a good servant and ensured that her impact would be forever embedded in the
hearts of those she cherished for years to come. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones extend our deepest sympathy and
join with family and friends to celebrate the life of MS. NAOMI RAWLS. She will be greatly missed.




4 .h?n

 

 

 
 

may COLIN COUNCIL EMBER

co 

September 2019

DATE,

 

 

 

 DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 5
g?ia?zwa?? ?dola?bm 
mmg?;

45TH PASTORAL ANNIVERSARY
BODY OF CHRIST INTERNATIONAL

WHEREAS Bishop Kenneth L. Tate was ordained in his mother?s womb. Here was a young man with a praying mother and grandmother
who covered him as he grew up. As a young child, he was told he had a learning disability. He was told he was special. Not that
endearing term special because you are loved. But the label that comes from a society without care or concern about how they identify
someone, however, it did not stop God?s Purpose; and

WHEREAS Bishop Kenneth L. Tate accepted the call of God and began to walk in God?s purpose at the age of 21. ?Go out into the
world and preach the Gospel?. God gave him his "walking into his purpose? papers; and

WHEREAS Bishop Tate on fire for God, served under Pastor Bogle who confirmed the calling of God on his life, and charged him with
being over the Saturday Night Coffee House. From there Apostle was called to outreach where he conducted Sunday morning worship

services at nursing homes; and

WHEREAS Bishop Tate was ordained in 1976, and began to hold Holy Ghost filled services on his own. Apostle?s mother, the late
Mother Davis, saw what God was doing and introduced her son to a Missionary who had a building that became the Helping Hands
Ministry on Grand River Avenue. It is there the Apostle started holding services on Fridays and Sundays; and

WHEREAS Bishop Tate in August of 1977 purchased a two-story warehouse building located at 10530 Plymouth, in Detroit, where the
Body of Christ Full Gospel Church was established. He purchased 100 kitchen chairs for the sanctuary and the only musical instruments
were the hands and feet of the congregation; and

WHEREAS In 1993, with great favor the Lord opened the door for the birth of Supernatural Word Ministry. Apostle Tate began airing
on WM UZ, 103.5 FM radio station, from his home. Over 30 years later, God is still moving through his son as he faithfully and diligently
serves, praying for the multitude and preaching the gospel ofJesus Christ. In 1997, Bishop Tate began to preach the Word on television
not only in Detroit but many other states as well; and

WHEREAS Bishop Tate always standing on the Word of God that nothing is impossible with Him, moved out in faith and purchased
an old Methodist Baptist church at 11780 Ohio in Detroit, with no money! The Body of Christ Christian Center?s new home was
established, for 18 years. The Body of Christ Church was now being called to go higher and the Body ofChrist International was birthed;
and

WHEREAS Bishop Tate was given another vision in 2012 which was to use tools of social media, spreading the word of God. It is here
that Lifeline Prayer Line Church Without Walls International was birthed, reaching souls on Facebook by sharing a daily scripture and
prayer. His consistent, obedience to God has led to over three million people from all over the world to hear God?s word; and

WHEREAS Bishop Tate had shown him the building and Apostle and his church family began to claim what God had for the Body of
Christ International. Manifestation of that happened in 2013 when God blessed Bishop with the newest home located at 9555 St.

Mary?s; and

WHEREAS Bishop Tate is a man of God with youthful strength still taking advantage of every opportunity to share Jesus and the love
of God to others. In 2017, the Body of Christ International Community Outreach Food Drive Ministry was born. It started with Apostle
seeing the children from the school across the street and some of them being hungry that it was placed on his heart to be a conduit,
an instrument, of handing out food to those in need; and

WHEREAS Bishop Tate joined the Detroit Police Department Chaplain Division in 2018. As a Chaplain he is assigned to a station and
during roll call he prays for the dedicated officers and their families. Bishop Tate is a Man of God who continuously demonstrates
wisdom, courage, and strength that God will give many to stand in the strain of things and still serve GOD. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED That Councilman Gabe Leland and Members of the Detroit City Council hereby congratulate Bishop Kenneth L. Tate on

this 45th Pastoral Anniversary. May God continue to bless and use you as you grow your ministry, spread the gospel and spiritual
progression of God?s children. Purpose accompanied with faith.

09.22.19 

