FINAL Minutes of the January 22, 2015 Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
The regular quarterly meeting of the Midway Noise Compatibility Commission (MNCC)
was held January 22, 2015, at The Mayfield, 6072 South Archer Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairman Thomas Baliga called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
Chairman Baliga opened the meeting by explaining that the MNCC meeting was held
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
Chairman Baliga asked Marcie Vasta, a representative for the Chicago Department of
Aviation, to record the minutes.
The following members were present:
Jerry Ponio – Bedford Park (Representing Mayor David Brady)
Mayor Harry Klein – Burbank
Jim Lazansky – Stickney (Representing Mayor Deborah Morelli)
Gail Conwell – Chicago Ward 13
Nance Dulaj – Chicago Ward 13
Stan Lihosit – Chicago Ward 14
Thomas Baliga – Chicago Ward 23
Christopher Koczwara – Chicago Ward 23
Joseph Loduca – Chicago Ward 23
Michael Boland – Chicago Department of Aviation
The following members were not present:
Norma Pinion – Bridgeview (Representing Mayor Steve Landek)
Mayor Larry Dominick – Cicero
Mayor Richard Grenvich – Forest View
Tom Sheahan – Lyons (Representing Mayor Christopher Getty)
Chet Strzelczyk – Summit (Representing Mayor Joseph Strzelczyk)
Frank Damato – Cook County (Representing Board President Toni Preckwinkle)
Samuel Rivers – Chicago Ward 15
Kenneth Pannaralla – Chicago Ward 13
Also present:
Aaron Frame, Assistant Commissioner – Chicago Department of Aviation
Forest Lombaer, Chief Assistant Corporation Counsel – Chicago Department
of Law
Jeffrey Jackson, Sr. Project Manager – Landrum & Brown
Marcie Vasta, Administrative Assistant – Residential Sound Insulation Program
Quorum was met with 10 of the 18 members present.

1

 FINAL Minutes of the January 22, 2015, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
A. October 23, 2014 MEETING MINUTES
Chairman Baliga asked if there were any changes to the October 23, 2014
meeting minutes. There were no changes and a motion to approve was made by
Ms. Dulaj and seconded by Ms. Conwell. The motion passed.
CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF AVIATION (“CDA”) REPORT
A. Presentation: 4th Quarter 2014 Airport Noise Management System
(“ANMS”) Report
Mr. Frame asked Mr. Jackson of Landrum & Brown to present the 4th Quarter
2014 Airport Noise Management System Report.
Mr. Jackson provided a brief overview of the information contained in the report
and proceeded with the details.
Runway Use Report
In the 4th quarter the most used departure runway, leaving to the northwest, was
31C with 45% of all departures for all hours. 31C was also the most used
arrivals runway coming in from the southeast with 46%.
October – About 80% of departures moved to the west. The most used
departure runway was 31C with 45%, followed by 22R/22L with 34%, 04L/04R
with 16% and 13C with 5%.
The most used arrival runway was 31C with 41%, followed by 22R/22L with 28%,
04L/04R with 26% and 13C with 5%. Approximately 80% of the arrivals came in
from the east.
November – The most used departure runways were 31C and 22R/22L both with
46%, followed by 13C with 5% and 04L/04R with 3%. Approximately 92% of the
aircraft departed from the west.
The most used arrival runway was 31C with 53%, followed by 22R/22L with 39%,
04L/04R with 6% and last 13C with 2%. 92% of the traffic arrived from the east.
December – The most used departure runway was 31C with 42%, followed by
22R/22L with 38%, then 04L/04R with 17% and last 13C with 3%. 80% of traffic
departed from the west.
The most used arrival runway was 31C with 46%, then 04L/04R with 26%,
22R/22L with 21% and last was 13C with 7%. 70% of the arrivals came in from
the east moving west.

2

 FINAL Minutes of the January 22, 2015, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
Airline Fleet Mix Report
There was an average of 654 operations per day with 54 of those occurring at
night. Southwest Airlines had the highest operations with an average of 433 per
day, with 37 of those occurring at night.
The B737, used almost exclusively by Southwest, was the most used aircraft with
an average of 437 operations per day. General aviation followed with 152, 5 of
which were helicopters.
Permanent Noise Monitor Locations
The report indicates the addresses of the 12 noise monitor locations near the
airport as reflected in relation to the Midway 2018 Noise Contour. The report
shows the results for October 2014 through December 2014 with quarterly
breakdowns and a 12 month rolling average. The 4th quarter 2014 results are
compared to those of the 4th quarter 2013.
Noise Hotline Report
There were 1,994 total complaints for the 4th quarter, 826 of those came from
Burbank from 4 complainants and 579 came from Chicago with 67 complainants.
The calls coming in from Chicago and Burbank comprised 57% of the total. 122
of the complaints were nighttime. This report gives a breakdown of complaints
from 18 communities and also includes a breakdown by Chicago neighborhoods.
Per the recommendations of the Commission, the overall map image has been
zoomed out and the communities and the Chicago neighborhoods are now
delineated more clearly. The boundaries of the Chicago neighborhoods are
delineated in yellow.
Mr. Jackson went over several additional handouts. The first was the Chicago
Midway Annual Airport Operations.
B. Chicago Midway Annual Airport Operations Report
This report compares the 2014 yearly operation total to previous years. The total
2014 recorded operations were 249,252. This indicates an average of 680 daily
operations.
Chairman Baliga commented on the fact that while operations are going down
the complaints have increased. Mr. Frame responded that the complaints are up
due to the new flight paths implemented a year ago. He also mentioned that
there is a benefit to Midway economically because although there are fewer
flights the planes are accommodating more passengers.
Mayor Klein asked if the size of the aircraft generates more noise and Mr.
Jackson responded that the newer 737-700’s, which are larger and carry more
passengers, are actually quieter than the older models. He also stated that the
737-700’s are the largest planes that regularly fly Midway.

3

 FINAL Minutes of the January 22, 2015, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
C. Updated RSIP Property Locator
Mr. Frame discussed the handout providing a printout of the newly revised RSIP
Property Locator Program available on the Chicago Department of Aviation
website.
D. Updated Video of Midway Noise Contours
This handout and video provided information on the historical noise contours
from 1979 through the future 2018 which is currently in effect. It shows the size
of the contour shrinking from the most expansive in 1995, which covered 16.1
square miles down to the 2018 which covers 4.1 square miles. The shrinkage is
due to the use of much quieter aircraft.
Ms. Dulaj asked if all of the runways are the same length and Mr. Frame
responded that they are not. Mr. Ponio asked if longer runways would decrease
the noise level. Mr. Frame replied not necessarily.
Ms. Conwell asked if 22L is shorter than 31C and Mr. Jackson confirmed that it
is. Mr. Frame stated that those two are the main runways of the five at Midway.
He provided the members with the dimensions of the runways and mentioned
that those are also available on the Midway website.
Chairman Baliga asked if there were questions at this time. Ms. Dulaj asked if the
collection of the old meeting minute recordings have been destroyed and Mr. Frame
confirmed that they had.
CHAIR’S REPORT
A. Residential Sound Insulation Sub-Committee Report
Ms. Conwell presented the Residential Sound Insulation Sub-Committee Report
(see attached).
Chairman Baliga asked Mr. Frame how the current 2114 number of dwelling units
enrolled in the Program compares to the dwelling units that qualify. Mr. Frame’s
response was that over 2700 units qualify but 500-600 homes have elected not
to participate. Chairman Baliga asked where the majority of the declines were
located. Mr. Frame will investigate to determine the location.
Chairman Baliga asked when the actual construction would begin for Phase 15.
Mr. Frame stated that Construction for BP1, which is 500 homes, is scheduled to
begin field measurements in approximately 30 days. Once field measurements
are taken, the orders for the windows and doors can take from 8 to 10 weeks.
They then must be inspected by the RSIP staff to determine that orders are
correct and complete. BP1 construction is anticipated to begin sometime in April.
BP2 is still in the procurement process, and BP3, 4 & 5 will be advertised for
construction very soon.

4

 FINAL Minutes of the January 22, 2015, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
B. Discussion of Noise Monitors
Mr. Frame stated that, per the Commission’s recommendation, the permanent
noise monitor designated for installation in the northeast quadrant has been
ordered and the location is being finalized. Delivery is expected within the next
couple of months. A more complete update will be available at the April quarterly
meeting.
Chairman Baliga and Mayor Klein will be contacted before the next quarterly
meeting regarding the long term portable monitors being deployed in the
southeast, southwest and Burbank locations.
All of the aforementioned monitor installations are due to the new air traffic
patterns that went into effect last February.
Mr. Lazansky asked if weather plays a role in flight patterns and Mr. Frame
responded that the number one determining factor is the wind direction, the
second is the number of aircraft flying that day and the third is the aircraft
destination.
Mayor Klein stated that the phone numbers of Mr. Frame, the Congressman and
the State Senators will be published in the next Burbank Village newsletter. The
residents will be encouraged to contact all of the aforementioned to request
further investigation into the noise conditions that are now occurring as a result of
the new flight pattern. Ms. Conwell suggested that because the Burbank
residents are new to these noise levels, it may help to make them aware of
sources they can consult i.e. the Midway website, which may assist them in
gaining a better understanding of what factors contribute to the creation of the
noise contour. Mr. Frame stated that he would be willing to provide an
explanation for the change in noise levels to the residents at a Burbank Village
Hall meeting.
Chairman Baliga asked about the status of the Fly Quiet letter that was
discussed at the last meeting. Mr. Frame responded that the letter will be ready
by the 2nd quarterly meeting. He also stated that a copy of the Fly Quiet manual
will be sent to the airlines with the letter. The letter will focus on working to
reduce the number of nighttime flights.
Chairman Baliga also requested that an executive meeting be scheduled to
discuss the current noise issues with an FAA representative. Mr. Frame will draft
a letter of invitation for the Chairman’s signature.
NEW BUSINESS
A. Election of Chair and Vice-Chair
Mr. Lombaer of the Chicago Department of Law conducted the elections of the
Chair and Vice-Chair positions for 2015. He started by opening the floor for
5

 FINAL Minutes of the January 22, 2015, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
nominations. Mr. Lihosit nominated Chairman Baliga for the Chair position, Mr.
Lazansky seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously and Chairman
Baliga was re-elected.
Mr. Lihosit nominated Mayor Klein for Vice-Chair and Mr. Lazansky seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously and Mayor Klein was re-elected as
Vice-Chair.
Chairman Baliga asked if there were any further questions or new business.
There were no further questions or new business.
MEETING ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Baliga adjourned the meeting at 7:31 p.m. and informed those present that
the next meeting of the Midway Noise Compatibility Commission will be held on
Thursday, April 23, 2015 at 6:30 p.m. at The Mayfield, Chicago.

6

 Chicago Midway International Airport
Residential Sound Insulation Program
Sub-Committee Report
As of January 22, 2015

For Phase 15,
o

All addresses in the Midway 2018 Noise Contour have been invited to participate in
the Program and all Homeowner Briefings are complete.

o

There are currently 2,114 dwelling units enrolled in the Program.

o

Follow-up letters have been sent to homes that the owners did not attend the
briefings to which they were invited.

o

Property inspections have been conducted on 97% of the dwelling units enrolled in
the Program.

o

Home inventories have been completed on 80% of dwelling units enrolled in the
Program.

o

The first 500-home construction contract was awarded on January 12, 2015 . Field
measurements will commence in approximately one month.

o

Bids were opened for the second 500-home construction contract. The City is
processing the contract for award.

o

Three 400-home construction bid packages will be advertised this quarter.

 