FINAL Minutes of the January 25, 2018, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
The regular quarterly meeting and the annual meeting of the Midway Noise Compatibility
Commission (MNCC) was held January 25, 2018, at The Mayfield, 6072 S. Archer
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairman Thomas Baliga called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
Chairman Baliga opened the meeting by explaining that the MNCC meeting was held
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act and the Commission bylaws.
Chairman Baliga asked Jamie Waelti, a representative for the Chicago Department of
Aviation, to record the minutes.
The following members were present:
Jerry Ponio, Bedford Park (Representing Mayor David Brady)
Trustee Norma Pinion, Bridgeview (Representing Mayor Steve Landek)
Alderman Robert Contreras, Burbank (Representing Mayor Dan Foy)
Jose Alvarez, Cicero (Representing Mayor Larry Dominick)
Mark Masciola, Forest View (Representing Mayor Thomas Heller)
Tom Sheahan, Lyons (Representing Mayor Christopher Getty)
Trustee Mitch Milenkovic, Stickney (Representing Mayor Jeff Walik)
Mayor Sergio Rodriguez, Summit
Kenneth Pannaralla, Chicago Ward 13
Thomas Baliga, Chicago Ward 14
Christopher Koczwara, Chicago Ward 14
Stan Lihosit, Chicago Ward 14
Felix Kaczynski, Chicago Ward 23
Aaron Frame, Chicago Department of Aviation (Representing Commissioner
Ginger Evans)
The following members were not present:
Frank Damato, Cook County (Representing Board President Toni Preckwinkle)
Joseph Loduca, Chicago Ward 13
Also present:
Forest Lombaer, Chief Assistant Corporation Counsel, Chicago Department of Law
Jeffrey Jackson, Senior Managing Consultant, Landrum & Brown
Jamie Waelti, Executive Assistant, Cotter Consulting, Inc.
A quorum was achieved with 14 of the 16 members present.

1

 FINAL Minutes of the January 25, 2018, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
A. October 26, 2017 Meeting Minutes
Chairman Baliga asked if there were any changes to the October 26, 2017 meeting
minutes. A motion to approve the minutes as distributed was made by Trustee
Pinion and seconded by Mayor Rodriguez. The motion passed unanimously.
REPORT OF THE CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF AVIATION (“CDA”)
A. Update Regarding Odorous Windows
 Mr. Frame provided an update regarding odorous vinyl windows. The Chicago
Department of Aviation (CDA) released the results of the first phase of testing
earlier this month and we were pleased to report that the windows tested were not
found to have any significant impact on indoor air quality or related health
concerns. A copy of Amec’s report on phase one is also available to review on our
website – flychicago.com. The Chicago Department of Public Health has reviewed
the testing results in detail, as well as the methodology employed throughout the
first phase of testing, and found it to be credible. However, we still have work to
do. The initial results of testing—including small amounts of formaldehyde
revealed in one home, though not in exceedance of CDC guidelines for health
impact—warrant further study to give homeowners as well as the City a better
picture of what we are looking at with phase one. But more importantly, we must
conduct additional testing to develop more information on the odors and the off
gassing problem in general. The testing experts agree, and they have committed
to the next phase of testing to develop more information about the windows offgassing and sources of the odors, beginning this spring and summer. Amec will
be retained to conduct a second round of testing this spring and summer.
B. 4th Quarter 2017 Airport Noise Management System (ANMS) Report
Mr. Frame asked Mr. Jackson of Landrum & Brown to present the 4th Quarter 2017
Airport Noise Management System Report.
Mr. Jackson provided a brief overview of the information contained in the report
and proceeded with the details.
Runway Use Report
In the 4th Quarter the majority of arrivals were on Runway 31C and the majority of
departures were on Runway 31C.
October – The most used departure runway coming in from the southwest was 22
R/L with 44%, then 31C with 37%, followed by 04 L/R with 15% and last 13C with
4%.
The most used arrival runway coming in from the southwest was 22 R/L with 45%,
then 31C with 34%, followed by 04 L/R with 19% and last 13C with 2%.

2

 FINAL Minutes of the January 25, 2018, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
November – The most used departure runway was 31C with 51% followed by 22
R/L with 34%, next 04 L/R With 13% and last 13C with 3%.
The most used arrival runway was 31C with 49%, 22 R/L with 31%, and 04 L/R
with 17% of all arrivals followed by 13C with 3%.
December – The most used departure runway was 31C with 55% followed by 22
R/L with 36%, 04 L/R with 8%, and last 13C with 1%.
The most used arrival runway was 31C with 56%, followed by 22 R/L with 35%,
and 04 L/R with 9% and last 13C with 0%.
Airline and Aircraft Fleet Mix Report
There was an average of 663 operations per day with 84 of those occurring at
night. Southwest Airlines had the highest operations with an average of 449
operations per day with 68 of those occurring at night. The B737, used almost
exclusively by Southwest, was the most used aircraft with an average of 450
operations per day. General Aviation followed with 164 operations per day and 4
of which were helicopters.
Permanent Noise Monitor Locations
The report indicates the addresses of the 13 permanent noise monitor locations
near the airport as reflected in relation to the Midway 2018 Noise Contour. The
report shows the results for October 2017 through December 2017 with quarterly
breakdowns and a twelve-month rolling average.
Noise Hotline Report
In the 4th Quarter there was a total of 26,648 complaints. The highest number of
complaints came from Burbank with 18,169 and Geneva with 4,302. There was a
substantial decrease in the number of complaints in the 4th Quarter of 2017
compared to previous the 3rd Quarter of 2017. The number of communities that
submitted complaints in the 4th Quarter was greater than previous months.
C. Stage 5 Airplane Noise Standards and Stage 3 Helicopter Noise Standards
Mr. Jackson provided a brief overview of the federal noise standards for airplanes
and helicopters to the Commission.
REPORT OF THE STANDING COMMITTEES
A. Executive Committee Report
Tom Baliga presented the Executive Committee Report (see attached).
B. Residential Sound Insulation Sub-Committee Report
Stan Lihosit presented the Residential Sound Insulation Sub-committee Report
(see attached).
OLD BUSINESS
A. Deployment of a long-term portable monitor southeast of Midway
3

 FINAL Minutes of the January 25, 2018, Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
Mr. Frame is ready to resume the project and will deploy a monitor for a period of
3 months in the southeast quadrant.
NEW BUSNESS
A. Election of Chairman and Vice Chairman
Chairman Baliga stated an election of Chairman was in order. Mr. Lombaer opened
the floor for nominations. Stan Lihosit nominated Tom Baliga and Trustee Pinion
seconded the nomination. No further nominations were made and Tom Baliga was
elected by a unanimous vote.
Chairman Baliga stated an election of a Vice Chairman was in order. Mr. Lombaer
opened the floor for nominations. Stan Lihosit nominated Mayor Rodriguez and
Chairman Baliga seconded the nomination. No further nominations were made and
Mayor Rodriguez was elected by a unanimous vote.
B. Resolution 2018-A Meeting Schedule for 2018
Chairman Baliga announced the Midway Noise Compatibility Commission meeting
schedule for 2018. The schedule is as follows: January 25, 2018, April 26, 2018,
July 26, 2018 and October 25, 2018. Trustee Pinion made a motion to approve the
resolution and Mr. Kaczynski seconded the motion. The motion passed.
MEETING ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Baliga asked if there were any further questions or new business requiring
further discussion. With no further questions or other new business, a motion to adjourn
was made by Mayor Rodriguez and seconded by Alderman Contreras. The motion
passed.
Chairman Baliga adjourned the meeting and informed those present that the next meeting
of the Midway Noise Compatibility Commission will be held on Thursday, April 26, 2018
at 6:30 p.m. at The Mayfield, Chicago.

4

 Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
Executive Committee Report
January 25, 2018

The Executive Committee will meet next week on Tuesday, January
30, 2018, at the Midway AMC to review the Commission bylaws. If
any member has suggestions for updates to the bylaws, please let
me know before Tuesday.

That concludes my report.

Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
Residential Committee Report
January 25, 2018

The Chicago Department of Aviation is working with the FAA to
understand the changes to eligibility for sound insulation
programs across the country.

0 The Residential Committee will meet in February to discuss eligibility
for the next phase of sound insulation, which is Midway Phase 16.
For all members who are interested in participating in the Committee,
please let me know so I can add your name to the Committee roster.

That concludes my report, Mr. Chairman.

