FINAL Minutes of the April 2, 2013, Special Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
The Midway Noise Compatibility Commission (“Commission”) Special Meeting was held
April 2, 2013, at the Midway Airport Maintenance Complex (“AMC”), 6201 S. Laramie
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairman Thomas Baliga called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.
The following members were present:
Mayor Harry Klein – Burbank
Tom Sheahan – Lyons (Representing Mayor Christopher Getty)
Larry Gryczewski – Bedford Park (Representing Mayor David Brady)
Frank Damato – Unincorporated Cook County (Representing County Board
President Toni Preckwinkle)
Gail Conwell – Chicago Ward 13
Nance Dulaj – Chicago Ward 13
Kenneth Pannaralla – Chicago Ward 13
Stan Lihosit – Chicago Ward 14
Samuel Rivers – Chicago Ward 15
Thomas Baliga – Chicago Ward 23
Joseph Loduca – Chicago Ward 23
The following members were not present:
Trustee Norma Pinion – Bridgeview (Representing Mayor Steve Landek)
Terry Higgins – Cicero (Representing Mayor Larry Dominick)
Mayor Richard Grenvich – Forest View
Trustee Cody Mares – Stickney (Representing Mayor Daniel O’Reilly)
Chet Strzelczyk – Summit (Representing Mayor Joseph Strzelczyk)
Anthony Philbin – Chicago Ward 18
Christopher Koczwara – Chicago Ward 23
Michael Boland – (Representing Commissioner Rosemarie Andolino)
Also present:
Aaron Frame, Assistant Commissioner – Chicago Department of Aviation
Forest Lombaer, Chief Assistant Corporation Counsel – Chicago Department of
Law
Jeffrey Jackson, Project Manager – Landrum & Brown
Marcie Vasta, Administrative Assistant – Residential Sound Insulation Program
Quorum was met with 11 of the 19 members present.

(Note to reader: Throughout these meeting minutes, all references made to the 2012
noise contour and the 2018 noise contour should be construed to mean the Draft
Existing Conditions (2012) Noise Exposure Map and the Draft Future Conditions (2018)
Noise Exposure Map, respectively, as presented in the Draft Part 150 Update.)

1

 Final Minutes of the April 2, 2013, Special Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission

NEW BUSINESS
A. Commission Member Discussion of the Draft Part 150 Update
Noise Contours
Assistant Commissioner Aaron Frame stated that the purpose of the meeting
was to record the members’ thoughts on the new noise contour and the Draft
Part 150 Update. He stated that the public comment period ends Friday, April
5th, and the Commission has until April 20th. Once all Commission comments are
submitted, reviewed and responded to, the finalized document will be signed by
Chairman Baliga and forwarded to the FAA.
The Welcome handout distributed at the Public Hearing held on March 21st, was
used as the reference for the overview provided by Mr. Jeffrey Jackson of
Landrum & Brown and the discussion that followed.
The purpose of the Part 150 Study is to identify noise impacts and to develop
options to help minimize those impacts. The Part 150 has not been updated
since 1993. The Residential Sound Insulation Program is included in the current
update and, once approved by the FAA, will qualify for federal grant money.
Mr. Jackson discussed the content of the noise contour and impact boards
displayed. He explained that the FAA requires a comparison of the current 2012
contour and future 2018 contour. The FAA states that to qualify for funding,
noise mitigation must be made toward the future conditions. The new 2018
contour is smaller than the 2004, but larger than the 2012. In the 2012 contour
there was a total of 7,208 homes whether insulated or not. The 2018 contour has
a total of 8,371 homes.
Quadrant maps were discussed. The 2018 contour will include all residential
dwelling units inside the 65 DNL. This will include housing not included in the
past; examples are rental units, buildings with five units and up regardless of
ownership or who resides there, and mixed use (residential above commercial
property). The 2018 contour will also include the 4800 blocks of Keeler, Kedvale,
and Karlov along with homes on 49th Street at Pulaski.
The shape of the 2018 contour has changed because the FAA is implementing
new flight procedures including NextGen. This will result in new runway use. The
contour is larger due to an approximate 16% increase in operations.
Part 150 is divided into two parts, the Noise Contour and the Noise Compatibility
Program.
Mr. Joe Loduca asked how the increase in operations is predicted. Mr. Jackson
replied that the FAA forecast is used to determine the increase.

2

 Final Minutes of the April 2, 2013, Special Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
Regarding the 2018 contour, Chairman Baliga asked if there is a process used to
insure that there are no errors in the final outcome. Mr. Jackson’s response was
that reliance is on the FAA for the future fleet mix along with runway use.
Currently 22L does not have a precision landing approach but once the NextGen
procedures are implemented, there will be more arrivals on 22L.
Chairman Baliga stated that the northeast and southwest areas of the 2018
contour appear to deliberately exclude Burbank, Bridgeview and Bedford Park.
Mr. Jackson replied that the accuracy of the contour was confirmed by the FAA
and Mr. Frame stated that five different FAA offices provided the input.
Ms. Gail Conwell asked if the FAA requires two lines for landing purposes in the
northeast quadrant. Mr. Jackson stated that there are three, which is a result of
the new NextGen procedures.
Chairman Baliga asked what the recourse would be if actual flight operations
prove different from the 2018 projection. Mr. Frame responded that contours are
approved for approximately five years, thus the 2018 contour would remain in
effect. Mr. Jackson mentioned that only if something were to significantly change
would the FAA consider reevaluating the contour, such as if a large number of
unexpected increases in operations occurred or if there were consistent changes
in runway use that differed from what was forecasted. He suggested that this
would be an appropriate formal comment for the Commission to include.
Chairman Baliga asked how complaints regarding noise impact coming from the
southwest and northeast quadrants would be quantified. Mr. Frame suggested
there be continuous observation of the monitors in Burbank and Bridgeview.
Mayor Klein inquired about length of time before changes would be addressed
and Mr. Jackson replied that the FAA would have to provide that information.
Mayor Klein asked what would be considered significant.
Mr. Jackson
responded that FAA considers a 1.5 dB increase in noise inside the 65 DNL and
a 3 dB increase outside.
Ms. Conwell asked if 31C will remain the primary departure runway and Mr.
Jackson confirmed that it would. Due to the procedure changes, 13C would also
be used more frequently in the future.
Mayor Klein asked if it would be advisable to move the monitor because the
contour shows traffic further west of Burbank and the monitor location is a mile or
two east. Mr. Jackson’s response was no. Before and after readings are what is
looked for and the degree they move up and down.
Chairman Baliga asked when the flight path changes will start taking place. Mr.
Jackson said the soonest would be in late June of this year if the FAA
environmental assessment has been approved. Chairman Baliga suggested that

3

 Final Minutes of the April 2, 2013, Special Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
this be a regular CDA discussion point on the quarterly meeting agenda until the
changes have been implemented.
Mayor Klein asked for an overlay of the two contour maps for contrast purposes.
Mr. Frame will provide the Commission with the overlay.
Ms. Conwell inquired if there was a protocol in place for addressing noise issues
not coinciding with what was forecasted in the contour. Mr. Frame responded
that issues were covered quarterly and the FAA receives a copy of that report. If
the issues become recurring, the City would look into the issue further and
determine if it would be considered a short-term situation or a long-term trend. If
the City cannot provide answers, FAA Airport and Air Traffic staff can provide a
presentation explaining why the results are recurring. If it is a long-term trend, a
formal inquiry letter could be sent to the FAA.
Mayor Klein inquired about the 16% increase in operations year by year. Mr.
Jackson directed the members to page 10 of Appendix D of the Draft Part 150
Update.
B. Discussion of the Welcome Handout
Noise Compatibility Program Measures
The measures are comprised of four sections: Continued Measures, New
Measures, Completed or Withdrawn Measures, and Not Recommended
Measures.
Continued Measures
Referencing #5 in Continued Measures, Mr. Samuel Rivers asked about
the School Sound Insulation Program specifically no schools meeting
eligibility requirements. Mr. Jackson and Mr. Frame responded that there
are no additional schools in the 2018 contour that currently fall within the
60 DNL that have not already been insulated.
New Measures
These are currently implemented.
* See below for further detailed Residential Sound discussion.
Completed or Withdrawn Measures
Chairman Baliga requested clarification of the mandatory phase out. Mr.
Frame responded that congress required conversion to Stage 3 aircraft in
2000. Conversion was completed before the mandatory phase out
deadline.
Mr. Lihosit asked if the current 1996 cutoff date would change in the new
contour. The response was that would be determined by the FAA.

4

 Final Minutes of the April 2, 2013, Special Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
Not Recommended Measures
Chairman Baliga asked for definition of avigation easement in #2. Mr.
Jackson replied that it is an agreement of the homeowner to give up the
rights of the airspace above their property when sound-insulating their
home.
Draft Flight Procedures Environmental Assessment (EA)
Future runway use, fleet mix and use of new and conventional procedures are
contained in the Draft EA.
How to Comment on the Noise Compatibility Study
Locations for viewing the document and methods for submitting comments are
provided. April 5th is indicated as the deadline for public comment submittals.
Next Steps
All comments, including the Commission’s, will be reviewed and incorporated into
the Final Part 150 document and submitted to the FAA. FAA approval is
anticipated in late 2013. Following the FAA’s approval the Commission will adopt
the new contour.
* Residential Sound Discussion
The FAA has been informed that there are 8,371 homes in the 2018 contour. Of
those homes, 5,579 have been sound Insulated, 85 are in progress, 1,178 were
previously dropped (with possibility of renewed eligibility) and 1,529 are newly
eligible. The eligible properties in the worst noise areas will be done first over the
next three years.
The FAA requires that only homes within the 65 DNL be included in the Part 150,
which excludes block-rounding from the document. The Commission will request
to continue block-rounding in their comments.
Now with federal funds, any changes to the 1997 eligibility cut off year would be
determined by FAA.
The current contract bidding procedures will remain in place and FAA will not be
involved in option packages.
The current exclusion of non-building code compliant property will remain in
effect. The CDA and the Department of Law will clearly define non-compliance.
Regarding the sound insulation of townhomes and condos, the condo association
or board must make the call, not the Commission. They must decide whether all
units will be sound proofed or none at all and what option package is chosen.
Regarding apartment buildings, one owner makes the decision for the whole
building.

5

 Final Minutes of the April 2, 2013, Special Meeting of the
Midway Noise Compatibility Commission
Homes immediately outside of the contour and not included in block-rounding
can consult the Sound Insulating Your Home handbook for guidelines for having
the work done themselves.
Commissioner Baliga asked if there were any additional questions. With no other
business, he asked if there was a motion to adjourn, which was made by Mayor Klein
and was seconded by Ms. Conwell. The motion passed.
MEETING ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Baliga adjourned the meeting at 8:17 p.m. and informed all those present that
the next meeting of the Midway Noise Compatibility Commission will be held on
Thursday, April 25, 2013, at 6:30 p.m. at The Mayfield, Chicago.

6

 