MIDWAY NOISE COMPATIBILITY COMMISSION

Thomas S. Baliga
Commission Chair

Mayor Harry Klein
Commission Vice Chair

Regular Meeting Agenda
Thursday, July 28, 2016, 6:30 p.m.
The Mayfield, 6072 S. Archer Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, 60638
Final action may be taken by the Commission on any item listed on this Agenda.
I.

Call to Order

II.

Roll Call

III.

Approval of Meeting Minutes
A. Approval of the minutes for the April 28, 2016, meeting

IV.

Report of the Chicago Department of Aviation (“CDA”)
A. Noise Monitors
i.
Status of equipment installation for New Site 314
ii.
Deployment of long-term portable monitor southeast of Midway
B. 2nd Quarter 2016 Airport Noise Management System (“ANMS”) Report

V.

Report of the Standing Committees
A. Residential Sound Insulation Committee

VI.

Old Business
A.
Review of the Commission bylaws
B.
Planning for the celebration of the Commission’s 20th anniversary

VI.

New Business
A. Late renewal of Intergovernmental Agreements (“IGAs”)
i.
Motion to approve reinstatement of Town of Cicero
ii.
Motion to approve reinstatement of Village of Lyons
iii.
Motion to approve reinstatement of Cook County
B. Other New Business

VII.

Adjournment

VIII.

Audience Question and Answer Session
The Commission encourages orderly public participation and has established the following
guidelines for presenting comments and questions at our meetings:



Questions or comments should be limited only to items placed on the meeting agenda, or
those that are included as part of the Commission’s work plan, which focuses on aircraft
noise management for Chicago Midway International Airport.
Before making comments or asking questions, identify yourself to the Commission Chair
and members by providing them with your name and address.

The next regular meeting of the full Commission is scheduled for October 27, 2016, at 6:30 p.m. at The
Mayfield, 6072 S. Archer Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, 60638. The public is invited to attend.
Aircraft Noise Complaints by telephone: (800) 914-8537 (rolls over to City of Chicago 311)
Aircraft Noise Complaints by Internet: http://www.flychicago.com/midwaynoise
Residential Inquiry Line for sound insulation eligibility questions only: (773) 894-3255
RSIP Property Locator: https://gisapps.cityofchicago.org/AviationPropertyLocatorWeb/ (Click on “Midway”)

 