MEETING MINUTES
Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center Advisory Board Meeting
Wednesday December 19, 2018
Noon – 2:00pm
Attendance:
Board Members:
Meade Palidofsky
Darius Ballinger
Esther Franco Payne
Dakeda Horton
Marjorie Berk Moss
Garien Gatewood
Amanda Klonsky
Sandra Wortham
Christopher Huff
Others:
Ali Abid
Delrice Adams
Shay Robinson
I.

Review and Approval of Board Minutes

Certain omissions in attendance and spelling were corrected. Minutes were approved.
II. Goals for 2019 for Board Discussion
A wide ranging discussion took place regarding the main area(s) of focus for the 2019 annual
report. Poll results on most popular topics began the discussion.
There was a discussion regarding the audience and utility for the report and it was determined
that the Advisory Board should make the most of it’s reporting to the Board of Commissioners
and ensure that they have the information and recommendations they need to enact any needed
changes or advocacy.
Disciplinary policy was among the most popular topics and well supported in the group.
However there was also much interest in trauma and re-entry. It was determined that going after
disciplinary policy alone may not be as helpful as framing it within trauma, both from an ability
to reach out to necessary parties and to develop recommendations.
This formulation gained the support of the members present:

 “An examination of trauma, specifically with respect to previous traumas experienced by
residents before entering the JTDC, the impact of disciplinary and other policies on those
already traumatized residents while detained, and the potential barriers created by any increase
in trauma during their detention to the residents’ successful re-entry into the community.”
Re-entry was also set aside as a topic worth focusing on more on its own in the future of the
board.
III. Reviewing Draft Annual Report and Feedback
Report was approved of by members present.
Ali Abid will contact board members not present to make sure they also approve of this
formulation to include and release in the 2018 report.
IV. Public Comments
No public comments
V.

Adjourn

 