OFFICE OF THE
JUSTICE ADVISORY COUNCIL, COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
69 W. WASHINGTON STREET, SUITE 1110
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
TELEPHONE 312-603-1133
FACSIMILE 312-603-9974

Meeting Minutes
Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center Advisory Board Meeting
Wednesday, August 1, 2018
10am-Noon
69 W. Washington – 22nd floor Conference Room A

Attendance:
Meade Palidofsky (board member)
Dakeda Horton (board member)
Esther Franco-Payne (board member)
Garien Gatewood (board member)
Amanda Klonsky (board member)
Darrius Ballinger (board member)
Marjorie Berk Moss (board member)
Sandra Wortham (board member)
Delrice Adams
Shay Robinson
Ali Abid
Judith Everly
I.

Overview of Board for New Members

Discussion was led by Ali Abid and included an overview of juvenile justice system, an overview
of the JTDC advisory board ordinance, and responsibilities of board members.
II. Discussion of Advisory Board Goals
The remainder of this calendar year will likely be planning for 2019
One discussion was framing upcoming meetins as a ‘listening tour’; getting individuals such as
youth development specialists, JTDC detainess and/or their families (dependent upon dealing
with confidentiality issues and permission), those working in post-release programs, and more to
come to future JTDC Advisory Board meetings.
With respect to Data Collection, we could reach out to UIC and University of Chicago, or Annie

 E. Casey as possible visitors. Annie E. Casey in particular, has done previous evaluative work at
the JTDC Before.
Possible items for future discussion: Center closings at the JTDC and the impact of that;
disciplinary and holding policies at the JTDC which were recently noted in the press.
Future tasks: developing questions for JTDC staff.
Other next steps:
 The JAC/President's office will write a letter of introduction to Dixon regarding the new
board, we will then work to schedule a meeting between the Board and the JTDC Staff/
hopefully complete with tour. The letter will include an invitation to forthcoming
meetings of the board.
Working groups:
 Program & Policy - What policies are needed to improve outcomes for those in the
JTDC? [Dakeda Horton and Marjorie Moss volunteered to lead]
 Data & Information - What information is needed to better gauge the status of and build
policy from to improve the outcomes for those in the JTDC? [Garien Gatewood and
Meade Palidofsky volunteered lead]
o putting the ‘&’ in there because some of information won't necessarily be in data
format such as anecdotes/narrative and more.
 Community Engagement - what forms of community engagement and connectedness
would improve the JTDC, what are some things the Advisory Board could do to
encourage/create this? [Darrius Ballinger volunteered to lead]
A number of individuals volunteered to be a part of these groups, noted above. Others should
reach out in the coming weeks.
Formulating Goals for next few meetings:
Develop an action plan for 2019
- focus on tangible goals
- work out plan specifics
Documents needed:
- contacts at JTDC
- Contact information of JTDC Board members
- Progress to date
- A SharePoint site will be developed and shared with all board members that will contain
all of these.
Upcoming Meetings Plan:
- Full board meeting in September
- Working groups meet in October/November
- Full board meeting in December

 Board chair elections are annual. Esther Franco Payne be chair of the JTDC Advisory board
through the year and Meade Palidofsky will be the co-chair.
III. Public Comments
One public comment provided by George Blakemore.
IV. Adjourn
Motioned passed.

 