Cook County JTDC Advisory Board Meeting
Meeting Minutes
August 7, 2019 12:00pm-1:30pm
69 West Washington, 22nd Floor, Conference Room C
Participants: Esther Franco Payne, Dr. Dakeda Horton, Garien Gatewood,
Marjorie B. Moss, Meade Palidofsky, Savannah Felix, DED Steward (by phone)
I. Welcome and Overview
II. Review Minutes
III. Conversation with JTDC DED William Steward
a. Role
i. As Deputy Executive Director of Resident Daily Life, he is responsible
for everything to do with residents from policy to compliance.
b. Disciplinary Processes at the JTDC
i. The first step to the disciplinary process is talking with the youth.
That accelerates to separation from the group, passive force, then
hands on. Hands on is the first step only in cases where there is
active fighting.
c. Disciplinary Changes at the JTDC
i. They changed their approach to the level system. Young people are
able to move up levels weekly (Level 1, 2, 3, 4) and level decisions
are made by groups of staff rather than individual staff. Of the ~180
youth at the JTDC, there are ~48 Level 4s and 19 Level 3s.
ii. He reported a 25% reduction in confinements since the end of Earl
Dunlap’s term as Superintendent. He also reported a reduction in the
longest period of confinement from 36 hours to 24 hours.
d. Collaboration Recommendations
i. This is a good start to building a strong relationship.
ii. He mentioned that the JTDC completes a yearly Master Report that
includes information about confinement. This report used to be sent
to advocates, but that may no longer be true. He recommended that
we send a request to him to receive the master report. He also
mentioned that he would be more than happy to present to a work
group on the Master Plan in early October.
e. Youth Perspectives
i. DED Steward reported that they have a Resident Advisory Board that
meets with individuals to discuss their experiences. He stated that he
would be open to a few of the JTDC AB members meeting with these
youth.
IV. Working Group Check-Ins

 V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.

a. The “During” Group developed standardized questions for youth
interviews.
Report Recommendations and Assignments
a. Recommendations should be graded against a rubric or pinned to
tangible goals, which are highlighted in the JTDC’s strategic vision.
New Business
a. None
Public Comments
a. None
Adjourn
a. The next JTDC Advisory Board meeting will be held on October 4, 2019
from 12:00pm-1:30pm.

 