Cook County JTDC Advisory Board Meeting
Meeting Minutes
June 5, 2019 12:00pm-1:30pm
69 West Washington, 22nd Floor, Conference Room C
Participants: Esther Franco Payne, Sandra Wortham, Dr. Dakeda Horton,
Marjorie B. Moss, Meade Palidofsky, Savannah Felix, Ali Abid, Dr. Brian
Conant, Amanda Halawa
I. Welcome and Overview
II. Review Minutes
III. Conversation with Dr. Conant
a. Background
i. Prior to 2017, mental health services at the JTDC were provided by
the Isaac Ray Center. In 2017, Northwestern was rewarded a
temporary contract to provide mental health services at the JTDC. In
2018, the contract was awarded to Cook County Health.
b. Staf
i. 11 Mental Health Specialists (LSW/LCSW or LPC/LCPC), 5
Psychologists (Psy.D), 1 Chief Psychologist (Psy.D), 2 Psychiatric Social
Workers (LCSW), 1 Medical Social Worker (LCSW), 1 Tele-Psychiatrist
(MD), 1 Psychiatrist (MD), 1 Consult Psychiatrist (MD), and 1 Chief
Psychiatrist (MD)
c. Assessment
i. Upon arrival, receive assessment of suicidality
ii. Nursing Screening, which includes questions about suicidality
iii. Within 4 hours, MAYSI-2 Assessment
iv. If high score on MAYSI-2, immediate MH Assessment; if not, MH
Assessment within 72 hours
a. Strengths/Interests
b. Medical History
c. Mental Health History
d. Substance Abuse (if substance abuse needs, referral to Gateway)
e. Relationships
f. Prenatal History
g. Eating/Sleeping Habits
h. Sexuality (if LGBTQI, referral to LGBTQI Committee)
i. Abuse/Neglect History
j. PREA (supplement to detention screening-if risk of victim or
perpetrator, referred to PREA Committee)
k. Education (if educational needs, referral to Nancy B. Jefferson)
l. Pathways to Desistance Questionnaire

 m.GRAFT
n. Suicide/Self-Harm Assessment (will be replaced with Columbia
Suicide Assessment soon)
o. Life Events Assessment (will be replaced by CAT-MH soon)
p. Mental Status Exam/Adjustment to Detention
v. If placed on the roster, status of treatment plan reviewed at weekly
treatment team meeting
a. 35-50% of youth that receive assessments are added to the roster
b. Stabilization Unit used if higher mental health needs
vi. Milieu Observation throughout stay
vii. If stay up to a year, receive an Annual Psychiatric Assessment
viii. Considerations: over/under-diagnosis of youth, assessment
throughout stay/assessment fatigue, testing for lead and fetal alcohol
syndrome, monitor youth that get no visits from family, improved
communication between systems
d. Court
i. Judges may petition for information if a youth has significant/known
MH issues
e. Parental Involvement
i. There is no collateral call to the parent at intake; however, youth do
receive collateral calls to parents and other providers if they are on
the roster
ii. If needed, family sessions are held
f. Re-Entry/Transition to Other Facility
i. If on the roster, youth will work with the medical social worker and
their primary clinician on re-entry planning/transition to another
facility
ii. If on the roster and transitioning to another facility, the mental health
team will provide a summary to the facility; the youth will transition
with discharge paperwork after an assessment by nursing
iii. 4 Care Coordinators, 2-3 Community Health Workers, and 1
Supervisor will be hired to manage coordination of care of youth on
the roster leaving detention
g. MH Strategic Plan
i. Standardized/streamlined assessment
ii. Enhancement of evidence-based interventions
iii. Expansion of continuity of care
iv. Trauma-informed organized practices
v. Outcome metrics
IV. Conversation with Amanda Halawa
a. Background
i. Completing a system review by RFK on how to restructure processes
with youth and families

 ii. AOIC adopted Illinois Juvenile Risk Assessment
iii. Probation Officers have an average caseload size of 21
b. Services
i. Specific services are determined by a youth’s court order
ii. All probation officers provide linkage to community-based resources
iii. Clinical Services (in-house and via community partners): MST,
Intensive In-Home Family Program, National Youth Advocate Program,
Individual and Family (In-house, MHJJ, SGA, etc.)
iv. Substance Abuse Services: TASC and community providers
c. Assessments (Probation Post-Trial)
i. Social Investigation with risk assessment: in-home interview with
youth and parent, records request and review, and collateral
interviews (if needed)
ii. If in court order, Clinical Intake Assessment: in-depth interview with
youth and parent, records request and review from
hospitals/community providers, and CAT-MH
d. Clinical Staf
i. 3 Art Therapists (group and individual treatment), 4 CBT Therapists,
Sex Ofender Treatment, Gender/LGBTQ Programming (focus on
human trafficking-need screening tool)
ii. To be a Clinical Probation Officer, one must have an advanced degree
e. Training
i. All staf receive MH First Aid training and Think Trauma (in progress)
ii. River Edge and Hartgrove provide advanced trainings for interested
probation officers
f. Court
i. Given that treatment is court ordered, probation officers (clinical and
non) provide the court with an update on attendance/participation in
the service
g. Information-Sharing
i. There is currently an info-sharing agreement between Juvenile
Probation and the JTDC. The agreement allows MH staf in both
spaces to communicate about youth receiving clinical services.
ii. MH staf from the JTDC provide an updated roster of MH youth 2x per
week to the Juvenile Probation Team. JTDC MH staf have access to
JEMs.
V. Detailing Next Steps on Action Plan and Planning for Next Meeting
a. Ali will invite D.E.D Steward to the next JTDC Advisory Board Meeting.
b. Ali will reach out to the President’s Office to get a copy of the report
referenced in OCJ’s response letter, then reach out to Steve Brandt from
OCJ to follow-up about the group’s request.
c. Savannah will follow-up with work groups to schedule follow-up
meetings.

 d. Savannah will send out the notes for the meeting.
e. The “during” team will coordinate with the “re-entry” team to connect
with impacted youth.
f. Please share notes/resources with Savannah and Ali as you complete
interviews or collect information.
VI. New Business
a. None
VII. Public Comments
a. None
VIII. Adjourn
a. The next JTDC Advisory Board meeting will be held on August 7, 2019
from 12:00pm-1:30pm.

 