Cook County JTDC Advisory Board Meeting
Meeting Minutes
April 3, 2019 12:00pm-1:30pm
69 West Washington, 22nd Floor, Conference Room C
Participants: Esther Franco Payne, Jonah Newman, Amanda Klonsky, Delrice
Adams, Rebecca Janowitz, Sandra Wortham, Dr. Dakeda Horton, Marjorie B.
Moss, Darrius Ballinger, Meade Palidofsky, Debra Vines, Shay Robinson
I. Welcome and Overview
II. Conversation with Jonah Newman
a. Background of Article (https://www.chicagoreporter.com/solitaryconfinement-of-juveniles-on-the-rise-in-cook-county/)
i. The article started as a reflection on the lack of transparency at the
JTDC.
ii. Jonah filed a request with the Office of the Chief Judge through Pat
Milhizer and received information on room confinements after
notifying Pat that he would be writing an article on the lack of
transparency.
1. Received 2.5 years of data (starting in 2015) and the report from
Children’s Law and Policy
2. Jonah separated out the data by punitive confinements.
iii. Interviews were held with Superintendent Leonard Dixon, General
Council Zenaida Alonzo, and youth selected by the Superintendent
1. Note that the youth selected were on level 4 and may have had
limited experience with room confinement as compared to the
general population
iv. Other Concerns Noted by the Group:
1. Youth held at the JTDC on DCFS holds
a. Status hearings held weekly
b. This population has declined to ~5-10 kids per day (may be
even lower)
b. Recommended Next Steps
i. Request data on room confinements for all of 2018 via written
request to Pat Milhizer at OCJ
ii. Identify key indicators from the JTDC Strategic Plan 2017-2020 and
request data on those indicators to determine the status of the plan
iii. Obtain data on how quickly and often the same kids are cycling in
and out of the JTDC
1. JDAI data from Avik Das
2. CPS data (re-enrollments into Nancy B. Jefferson)

 3. May be a recommendation in the report to track this as a key
indicator
iv. Learn how MH policies and practices have changed
1. Dr. Brian Conant is invited to the next JTDC Advisory Board
Meeting.
v. Request meetings with Director of Juvenile Probation Avik Das, DED of
RDL William Steward, ED of CCLP Mark Soler, Dr. Brian Conant
III. Working Group Updates
a. “During”-Meade, Amanda, Marjorie, Dr. Horton
i. The group has started to develop a work plan, identify key questions,
and collect helpful materials. The group is focusing on trauma that
youth may endure during their stay at the JTDC, particularly as a
result of disciplinary practices.
ii. Meade was able to get a copy of IDJJ’s youth manual. Marjorie
received a copy of the JTDC’s youth manual and disciplinary policies.
Dr. Horton has copies of the assessments that are completed with
youth at the JTDC.
iii. The team will be reaching out to orgs and youth to discuss their
experiences.
1. Free Write is happy to connect the group with impacted youth. We
may consider doing a focus group with identified youth.
2. Circles and Ciphers should also be considered as a resource to
connect with impacted youth.
3. It would be powerful to include audio with the young people to
balance the report.
b. “Before”-Sandra
i. Sandra is trying to paint a picture of the experiences of youth coming
into the JTDC.
ii. Sandra will send the links that were provided by Esther with
background information.
iii. Sandra will also consider the ACES study and Linda Teplin’s report on
the JTDC in her research.
c. “Re-Entry”-Darrius and Debra
i. The group is identifying stakeholders in youth re-entry. They will focus
on the traumatic impact of a stay at JTDC on re-entry and care
coordination.
ii. An interview was completed with P.O. Vargas of Juvenile Intensive
Probation.
IV. Detailing Next Steps on Action Plan and Planning for Next Meeting
a. Savannah and Ali will invite Avik Das and Dr. Brian Conant to the next
JTDC Advisory Board Meeting.
b. Ali will send out guiding documents: structure, updated work plan, and
goals.

 c. Marjorie will complete the first draft of the OCJ data request within 2
weeks. The “during” team will coordinate the completion of the draft.
The final request will be complete and sent within a month.
d. Savannah will send out the notes for the meeting.
e. The “during” team will coordinate with the “re-entry” team to connect
with impacted youth.
f. Sandra will send the links that were provided by Esther with background
information on youth entering the JTDC.
g. Report Timeline: Recommendations Due in August and Draft Report Due
in October
h. Please share notes/resources with Savannah and Ali as you complete
interviews or collect information.
V. New Business
a. None
VI. Public Comments
a. None
VII. Adjourn
a. The next JTDC Advisory Board meeting will be held on June 5, 2019 from
12:00pm-1:30pm.

 