MEETING MINUTES
Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center Advisory Board Meeting
Wednesday, October 24, 2018
Noon – 2:00pm
118 N. Clark St., 4th floor, Conference Room 4S- A
Attendance:
Board Members:
Meade Palidofsky
Darius Ballinger
Esther Franco Payne
Debra Vines
Dakeda Horton
Marjorie Berk Moss
Garien Gatewood
Others:
Ali Abid
Delrice Adams
Jonah Newman
Warren Callahan
Quabeeny Daniels
I.

Introductions

There was a discussion of what each individual hopes to work on and what expertise they draw
upon as part of this board.
II. Review and Approval of Board Minutes
One spelling correction was made to the board meeting minutes from 8/1/18. Meade Palidofsky
moved to approve board minutes. Garien Gatewood seconded. All approved.
III. Shared Vision Exercise
The group carried out a shared vision exercise facilitated by Delrice Adams. Board members put
up examples of areas they would want to work on with respect to the JTDC on this board. The
results were then put up and discussed.
Some of recurring themes included the following:



Programming and preparation for re-entry
Coordination with community based organizations

 













Supportive services and rehabilitation
And programming within
Recidivism got less discussion
Solitary confinement, disciplinary issues
Data: Communicating in different ways
Racial Equity
Trauma Informed
Restorative Justice
Impact of staff capacity
Looking at population
Developmental challenges
Developmental issues
What to with resources issues.

There were lengthy discussions on community engagement and the need to determine the areas
we are working on to help develop and focus a direction for community engagement.
There was a discussion on the need for trauma-informed services and for the board to explore
that, noting that although there is already a large population in the detention center that suffers
from mental illness, if that is expanded out to everyone with trauma that would include everyone
in the center.
There was also a discussion of the need to explore the probation connection, to explore why so
many children cycle in and out of the probation and the detention center.
Action item: In order to hone down on a few items of focus at the next meeting, the JAC would
circulate on an online survey based on the responses to the vision exercise for board members to
select and rank their priority areas so that a smaller list would be available at the next meeting.
Action item: the board would meet again in December, in advance of which they’d review the
draft annual report and discuss topics to focus on for the following year.
IV. New Business
No new business.
V. Public Comments
No public comments.
VI. Adjourn
Esther Franco Payne moved to adjourn. Debra Vines seconded. All approved.

 