Lakeview SSA 27
Commission Meeting Minutes
July 11, 2019, 8:30 AM
Sheil Park, 3505 N. Southport Ave., Chicago, IL 60657
Present:​ Jason Aragon, Darian Campise, Paul Leamon, Matt Lederer (by phone), Terese McDonald, Luis
Monje (by phone), Erin Schwartz, Chuck Stewart, Doug Zylstra
Absent: ​Amy Novotny, TJ Walczak
Staff:​ Dillon Goodson
Guests:​ None
Call to Order
Terese McDonald called the meeting to order at 8:33 AM.
Reading of Mission Statement
Terese McDonald read the SSA 27 mission statement.
Public Comment
There was no public comment.
Reading and Approval of Minutes
Doug Zylstra motioned to approve the minutes from the SSA Commission meeting on June 13, 2019,
seconded by Erin Schwartz; motion carries.
Committee & Task Force Reports
●
●

Low-Line Committee: ​Darian Campise and Dillon Goodson updated Commissioners on the
construction of the remaining SSA portion of the Lakeview Low-Line.
Streetscape Committee:
○ Holiday Décor Contract: ​Luis Monje provided an overview of the proposed changes to
the SSA’s 2019 holiday décor contract that were recommended by the Streetscape
Committee. This includes doubling the number of lights and increasing the amount of
ornaments on the tree at the intersection of Lincoln/Southport/Wellington and
replacing the ribbon and bows along street poles with a wider candy cane striped
option. He also reported that the SSA would reinstall a menorah and work with the
Chabad of Lakeview to provide community programming this year. Commissioners
discussed how any programming should be inclusive of all holidays and suggested using
the upcoming Streetscape Committee meeting to brainstorm other ideas. Doug Zylstra
motioned to approve a contract not to exceed $43,000 with Southport Construction that
includes the installation of a holiday tree at the intersection of
Lincoln/Southport/Wellington and decorations on the SSA’s light poles, seconded by
Jason Aragon; motion carries with 6 voting in favor and 1 opposed.
○ People Spot Transition Plan:​ Luis Monje reported that the City of Chicago has approved
in principal the donation of the SSA’s People Spots to Friends of Lakeview, which could
then facilitate the sale or sponsorship of the People Spots, pending board approval and

 further input by the City’s Law Department. The Streetscape Committee is finalizing bid
documents to allow the SSA to begin soliciting the sale or sponsorship of the SSA’s
People Spots, and the Committee has been discussing permanent solutions to replace
both of these temporary assets.
President’s Report
Terese McDonald recapped the positive feedback the SSA received from Aldermen during conversations
about the 2020 budget and work plan.
Treasurer’s Report
Matt Lederer shared the SSA’s financials through May 2019.
●

2020 Budget, Work Plan and Sole Service Provider:​ Matt Lederer presented the proposed final
2020 Draft Budget & Work Plan. He explained that the equalized assessed value (EAV) had
increased by approximately 16% based on the latest figures released by the Cook County Clerk
and recommended increasing the budget by $40,000 to accommodate the following new
programs in the work plan:
o Developing a new printed neighborhood guide to promote local businesses
o Piloting a new technology to gather real-time pedestrian data in the SSA
o Creating a Lakeview neighborhood snapshot report capturing neighborhood
demographics and other economic data to attract tenants and fill vacant storefronts
o Providing supplemental security as-needed during select special events and holidays,
pending further evaluation and discussion
Commissioners shared feedback on the final budget and work plan. They discussed limiting the
scope of any supplemental security program until the Commission had a chance to conduct
further research. Doug Zylstra motioned to approve the 2020 Budget and Work Plan, and for the
Lakeview Chamber of Commerce to remain the sole service provider of SSA 27 in 2020,
seconded by Jason Aragon; motion carries.

Partner Board Reports
●
●

Lakeview Chamber of Commerce: ​Dillon Goodson updated the Commission on upcoming
community programming hosted by the Lakeview Chamber.
Friends of Lakeview: ​Erin Schwartz invited Commissioners to a fundraising ride at SoulCycle to
support the Lakeview Low-Line. She shared that Friends of Lakeview would have an
announcement soon about a major donation to support Phase 2 of the project.

Staff Report
●

Short-Term Priorities to Support the Strategic Blueprint: ​In his new role as Executive Director,
Dillon Goodson recommended a series of short-term priorities for the next year in support of
the Strategic Blueprint adopted in 2018 by SSA 27 and its partner entities, the Lakeview
Chamber of Commerce and Friends of Lakeview. The three priorities included growing the
capacity of all three organizations by bringing in additional revenue and creating new staff roles;
building a stronger and better-connected Lakeview by forming new relationships within the

 community and striving for a more diverse and welcoming neighborhood; and anticipating
future needs by developing new resources focused on supporting local businesses and by
preparing for major capital improvement projects and strategic planning needs. Doug Zylstra
motioned to affirm the document as presented, seconded by Chuck Stewart; motion carries.
Announcements
●

●

Dillon Goodson updated Commissioners on Lincoln Hub Nest market, scheduled for the first
weekend in August, and reported that Chicago Special Events Management was not receiving a
strong response from vendors. Commissioners shared concerns that the event might not meet
its expectations without a larger presence of vendors. Paul Leamon motioned to cancel the
event, seconded by Chuck Stewart; motion carries.
Dillon Goodson updated Commissioners that job applications for SSA program manager were
due by July 15, and that the response has been strong. He said he is targeting for the new staff
member to start work in August.

Adjourn
Doug Zylstra motioned to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Chuck Stewart; meeting adjourned at 9:45
AM.

 