City of Chicago
Office of the City Clerk

O2019-5548

Document Tracking Sheet

Meeting Date:

7/24/2019

Sponsor(s):

Lightfoot (Mayor)

Type:

Ordinance

Title:

Amendment of Municipal Code Section 2-56-110 regarding
authority to release confidenfial invesfigatory files and
reports of Inspector General to public
Committee on Ethics and Government Oversight

Committee(s) Assignment:

 OFFICE

OF THE MAYOR

C I T Y OF C H I C A G O
L O R I E. L I G H T F O O T
MAYOR

luly24, 2019

LO THE HONORABLE, THE CI TY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Al the request ofthe Corporation Counsel, I transmit herewith an ordinance amending
Chapter 2-56 of the Municipal Code regarding conditions for release of reports.
Your favorable consideration ofthis ordinance will be appreciated.

Very truly yours.

Mayor

 ORDINANCE

BE IT ORDAINED

BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO:

SECTION 1. Section 2-56-110 ofthe Municipal Code is hereby amended by
adding the underscored text and deleting the struck-through text, as follows:
2-56-110 Files and reports confidential - Public statements authorized
when,
(a) Except as otherw^ise provided heroin in this section, all investigatory files
and reports ofthe office of inspector general shall be confidential and shall not be
divulged to any person or agency, except to the United States Attorney, the Illinois
Attorney General or the State's Attorney of Cook County, or as otherwise provided
in this chapter or Chapter 2-156. The inspector general is authorized to issue public
statements in the following circumstances: (a) upon written request by (i) a person
publicly known to have been under investigation that exonerates that person; or (ii)
an elected official publicly known to have been under investigation that results in a
not-sustained finding; (b) if an investigation, audit or review concerns inefficient or
wasteful management; and (c) in a public summary of each investigation resulting
in sustained findings of misconduct. The public summary shall briefly state, without
disclosing the name of any individual who was the subject of such investigation, (i)
the nature of the allegation or complaint; (ii) the specific violations resulting in
sustained findings; (iii) the inspector general's recommendation for discipline or
other corrective measures; and (iv) the ultimate jurisdictional authority's response
to and final decision on the inspector general's recommendation.
(b) The Corporation Counsel, in his sole discretion, is authorized to release
reports ofthe Office of Inspector General to the public as provided in this subsection
(b). Any release pxirsuant to this subsection (b) shall be limited to reports containing
sustained findings regarding conduct that either (1) is associated with a death, or
(2) is or may be a felony as defined in the Illinois Criminal Code and is of a
compelling public interest. Prior to releasing any reports in whole or in part
pursuant to this subsection (b). the Corporation Counsel shall determine, following
a non-binding consultation with the Inspector General, that such a release would
not: (i) constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; (ii) interfere with
due process in an ongoing or contemplated City employment or disciplinary process;
(iii) impede an ongoing or contemplated administrative, civil or criminal
investigation or proceeding; (iv) compromise law enforcement or investigative
operations: (v) reveal the identity of confidential sources, inckiding protected
witnesses: (vi) endanger the life or safety of any person or cause a threat to security,
or (vii) contravene applicable law, court order, or collective bargaining agreement.

 SECTION 2. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval.

 