COOK COUNTY COMPLETE COUNT CENSUS COMMISSION
September 9, 2019
2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.
Cook County Building
118 North Clark Street, 5th Floor, Board Room
Chicago, Illinois 60602
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Moore, Vice Chair Deer, Vice Chair Anaya, Vice Chair Arroyo, Jr.,
Banerji, Everett, Flores, Ford, Garcia, Garrett, Gonzalez, Logan, Lumpkin,
McMorris, and Wilbon (15)

Absent:

Kang, Lightford, Samuel, and Valentin (4)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Moore asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code.
No public speakers
COMMISSION MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 08/05/19.
A motion was made by Commissioner Everett, seconded by Commissioner McMorris, to
approve the meeting minutes. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Moore, Vice Chair Deer, Vice Chair Anaya, Vice Chair Arroyo, Jr.,
Banerji, Everett, Flores, Ford, Garcia, Garrett, Gonzalez, Logan, Lumpkin,
McMorris, and Wilbon (15)

Absent:

Kang, Lightford, Samuel, and Valentin (4)

 I.

Update from the Bureau of Economic Development
• Andre Ashmore, Deputy Bureau Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
o Recommended vendor for the Cook County Census 2020 Program
Administrator was submitted to the Cook County Board of Commissioner’s
meeting on September 5th and referred to Committee. It will be voted at
the Board of Commissioner’s Meeting.
o Census Outreach application is live on the County’s website. The Bureau is
actively getting the word out about the application to elected officials and
community organizations.
• Three application deadlines – October 1, 2019, January 1, 2020,
and April 1, 2020.
o The Bureau of Economic Development and Chairman Moore’s staff are
working on an events calendar to collaboratively go out into the
community and educate Cook County residents about the 2020 Census.

II.

Cook County GIS Presentation on Hard-to-Count Map
• Todd Schuble, GIS Manager, Cook County Bureau of Technology
o The Cook County Bureau of Technology have partnered with the Cook
County Complete Count Census Commission and the Bureau of Economic
Development to develop an interactive map to help identify hard-to-count
areas in the 2020 Census.
o This online map is live with a link on the Bureau of Economic
Development’s website for community-based organizations and
municipalities to use as they conduct 2020 Census outreach efforts.

III.

Census Commission Subcommittee Updates
• The chairs of the Census Commission Subcommittee provided high level updates
about the progress of their respective subcommittee:
o Lamell McMorris – Community and Faith-Based Organizations
o Sean Garrett – Business
o Emmanuel Garcia – Marketing and Communications
o Dr. Marlon Everett – Education

IV.

Cook County 2020 Census Goal Setting
• Warren Callahan, Chief of Staff, Chairman Moore, provided the Census
Commission an update on the progress of the Cook County 2020 Census goal
setting.
o Over the past two months, the Census Commission has begun the process
to identify goals that will guide the work of the Commission.
o Goal setting is important to the success of both the Census Commission
and the Cook County 2020 Census.
o The recommended goals will be presented for vote at the October meeting.

 ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Vice Chair Anaya, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Moore, Vice Chair Deer, Vice Chair Anaya, Vice Chair Arroyo, Jr.,
Banerji, Everett, Flores, Ford, Garcia, Garrett, Gonzalez, Logan, Lumpkin,
McMorris, and Wilbon (15)

Absent:

Kang, Lightford, Samuel, and Valentin (4)

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

 V.

Cook County Complete Count Census Commission Sub-Committees
• Chairman Moore discussed the importance of the Commission’s Sub-Committees
beginning to meet and operate before the Census Outreach application is released.

 