MEETING OF THE LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
70 W. Madison, Suite 1925
Chicago, IL 60602
Minutes for the September 19, 2019, Meeting of the Committee
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County are herein collectively referred
to as the “Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call at 11:18 am.
Trustees Present:

Patrick J. McFadden (Chair), Robert DeGraff, John E. Fitzgerald, Bill
Kouruklis, Kevin Ochalla, Dennis White, Joseph Nevius, Lawrence L.
Wilson (entered during Item 2)

Staff Present:

Regina Tuczak, Executive Director; Margaret Fahrenbach, Legal Advisor;
Gary LeDonne, Director Benefits Administration

Others Present:

John McCabe, John McCabe and Associates; Robert Molaro, John
McCabe & Associates; Mary Pat Burns, Burke Burns & Pinelli, Ltd.;
Edward Nelson, Cook County Bureau of Finance

Public Comment
Trustee McFadden, Chair of the Legislative Committee, opened the meeting for public comment. No
one requested to address the Committee and the next item of business on the Agenda was addressed.
1. Review and Consideration of August 21, 2019, Legislative Committee Meeting Minutes
It was moved by Trustee Ochalla and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the presented minutes of the
Legislative Committee meeting held on August 21, 2019, be adopted.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

2. Update and Approval of County Request Regarding Draft Legislation

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
70 W Madison St, Suite 1925   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 Regina Tuczak, Executive Director, provided a status report regarding the funding legislation that
the Board had approved at their regular meeting on September 5, 2019. She stated that the Board
had approved the legislation and the cover letters for the County and labor representatives that were
to be provided with the proposed legislation. She confirmed that the documents had been delivered
the afternoon following the Board’s meeting. A representative from Commissioner Bridget Gainer’s
office contacted the Executive Director the morning after the cover letter and proposed legislation
was delivered and requested a call to discuss the material submitted. A brief meeting was then
scheduled for that afternoon.
The Executive Director attended the meeting requested by Commissioner Gainer, at which Mr.
Ammar Rizki, the Chief Financial Officer for Cook County, also appeared. At the meeting,
Commissioner Gainer stated that the County was surprised by the Board’s letter and proposed
legislation and added that it was not helpful for the Board to focus on the funding issue alone. Mr.
Rizki stated that the County was looking for a counterproposal from the Board with respect to the
County’s draft legislation. The Executive Director reminded him that after the Board received the
County’s proposed legislation, it promptly prepared a list of issues that were of concern and
delivered the list to the County in May. The Executive Director reported that Mr. Rizki indicated
that he would send a letter to the Board addressing the matter, but such letter has not been received.
Commissioner Gainer inquired if the Board would advise the County prior to submission of the
funding legislation.
The Executive Director stated that after the Board meeting on September 5, 2019, and with the
concurrence of external counsel, she had polled the individual trustees to confirm that the Fund’s
legislative representative would begin the process of finding sponsors for the funding legislation,
however, submission of the actual legislation would be deferred to allow some time to have further
communication with the Employer. Six of the trustees had responded affirmatively within the next
business day. Mr. John McCabe of John McCabe & Associates, the Fund’s Legislative
Representative, stated that no chair had been appointed for the Personnel and Pensions Committee in
the House of Representatives. He stated that Senator Martwick, who was now a member of the
Senate’s Government Accountability and Pensions Committee and a possible sponsor, wanted to be
advised about whether there were any discussions between the County and the Board regarding the
funding legislation. Mr. McCabe advised that it was possible that the legislation could be introduced
on October 13, 2019, during the perfunctory session or when the veto session begins on October 28,
2019.
The trustees discussed that the County did not seem receptive to any compromise on the County’s
proposed legislation when its representatives had appeared before the Board and when they had met
with Fund representatives at a later time. The trustees discussed that while they had identified their
concerns about the proposed legislation, the County never provided a written response and had not
demonstrated a real interest in finding any middle ground. The trustees also discussed that a letter

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 should be prepared for the County which summarizes the actions taken by the Board regarding the
County’s legislation. The County should also be advised that meetings between the County and the
Fund representatives were unproductive largely because the County’s attorney implied that
negotiations on the issues raised by the Fund would be futile. The letter should also address that the
County had never provided a written response to the items of concern that had been presented by the
Board. The trustees also asked that the Executive Director resend to them the letter and list of
concerns about the legislation that had been delivered to the County in May.
Robert Molaro of John McCabe & Associates stated that the Cook County Pension Fund has a better
funding status than do most of its local sister funds and while it is not at a crisis point, it is one of the
few public retirement systems in Illinois that do not have actuarial based funding. Although the
County has proposed actuarial based funding in its proposed legislation, it is also seeking additional
changes that are not related to funding. The differences between the County and the Board may be
worked through either before any legislation is introduced or in the course of the legislative process
after a bill has been filed. The Board could also move the process by preparing the letter as had been
discussed.
The trustees directed the Executive Director to prepare a letter for the County as discussed by the
Committee. The trustees noted that the Investment Committee was scheduled to meet on Thursday,
September 26, 2019, and proposed that the Legislative Committee also meet that day at 11:00 am,
or following the conclusion of the Investment Committee, to consider the draft correspondence and
any other matters related to the County’s proposed legislation.
3. Old Business/New Business
The trustees expressed some concerns about being limited to email addresses assigned to them under
the “countypension.com” domain name because of difficulty in accessing those accounts. Mary
Patricia Burns, fiduciary counsel, advised that the trustees could request that emails be sent to
another domain address, in addition to the “countypension.com” domain name, so long as the
trustees limited the use of such additional email accounts to Fund business.
4. Adjournment
There being no further business before the Committee, it was moved by Trustee DeGraff and
seconded by Trustee Fitzgerald that the meeting be adjourned at 12:15 pm.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 