ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

Regular Board Meeting
Thursday, June 27, 2019
10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois
AGENDA

I.
II.

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of Minutes

III.

Chairperson’s Remarks

IV.

Executive Director’s Report

V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
X.

Update on State Budget and ICJIA Financial Health
Justice Assistance Grant Strategic Plan Recommendations Discussion and Vote
Executive Staff Update
Committee and Board Member Update
Public Comment
Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent State and Federal laws
upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should contact by telephone, email, or letter John Klaer: (312) 793-8946, john.klaer@illinois.gov, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St., Suite 200,
Chicago, Illinois, 60606-5150. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Board Members

From:

Patrick Delfino, Vice Chair, and Megan Alderden, Acting Executive Director

Date:

June 21, 2019

Re:

June 27th ICJIA Board Meeting

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority’s (ICJIA) Quarterly Board Meeting will be held
Thursday, June 27th, from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority, located at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, in Chicago. All ICJIA Board meetings are subject to
the Open Meetings Act. Members of the public are encouraged to attend.
At the April Board meeting, executive staff provided members with an overview of ICJIA’s grant making
process and the agency’s financial health. As part of this discussion, staff provided an overview of the
Governor’s proposed budget for the agency, the agency’s fiscal well-being associated with its grant
making process, and proposed recommendations from staff moving forward. The second part of the
meeting focused on our Justice Assistant Grant (JAG) planning efforts. States are required to submit to
the U.S. Bureau of Justice Assistance a five-year strategic plan for their uses of JAG funds. An Ad Hoc
Committee of the Board was created to assist with that planning effort. Included with your packet are the
minutes from that meeting.
The June 27th meeting will build on the information discussed during the April Board meeting. Staff will
provide the Board with an update to our final state budget for the year, highlighting the notable
differences in our budget from that outlined during our discussion in April. The second part of the
meeting will focus on the recommendations from the Ad Hoc Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Committee.
That Committee met on June 3, 2019 and identified five priorities for JAG funding. Staff members will
provide an overview of the key themes and grant making issues discussed and the final committee
recommendations. Members will be asked to vote to approve the recommendations. A copy of the
strategic plan is included with your materials.
We look forward to your participation and guidance.
Patrick Delfino
ICJIA Vice Chair

Megan Alderden
Acting Executive Director

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Board Members

From:

Angie Weis, Acting Deputy Director & Chief Financial Officer
Robin Murphy, Acting General Council
Gregory Stevens, Acting Associate Director of Grants
Megan Alderden, Associate Director of Research

Date:

June 21, 2019

Re:

Executive Staff Update

Fiscal Update
State Fiscal Year 2020 Budget
There were notable differences between the Governor’s proposed SFY20 ICJIA budget and the
final SFY20 ICJIA budget passed by the legislators during the spring session. The attached
table provides an overview of the state grant funds outlined in our final budget.
In addition to the changes noted in Table 1, ICJIA’s budget contained $1.5 million in funding
for ICJIA to provide technical assistance and navigation of the Grant Accountability and
Transparency Act; $835,600 for costs associated with the supporting the Recovery, Reinvest,
Renew program; and our requested $309,800 increase in our general operating budget.
Audits
ICJIA staff continue to work on implementing corrective actions related to the audit findings
outlined in the Auditor General’s report date Jan 29, 2019. In total, there were 10 material and
3 immaterial findings. There are only a few remaining issues we are in process of addressing.
Two audits have started since the last Board Meeting on April 24, 2019. The first is a state
compliance audit covers two years ending in June 30, 2019. Auditors began their work June 3,
2019. The second is a Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General audit of the state’s
FY15, FY16, FY17, FY18 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) program. The kickoff meeting for
this audit was June 17, 2019.
General Council Update
Just a general reminder for new Board members that Members who have a conflict of interest,
actual or apparent, with an applicant recommended for designation must recuse themselves
during the Budget Committee meeting from both the discussion and vote on that applicant’s
award. Additionally, it is important to remember that Board Members and staff must not

 communicate information made or received as a result of ex parte communications at ICJIA
Board or Budget Committee meetings. A copy of our Competitive NOFO Conflict Policy is
included with these materials.
Grants Update
The Federal and State Grants Unit is working diligently to program the new state funds in
addition to those funds that require new competitive solicitations. Table 2 provides a newly
revised schedule that reflects the changes in ICJIA’s SFY20 budget.
Research Update
Research staff continue to work on various projects (see Table 3). Our newest project is an
evaluation of police department-based victim assistance programs. The Research and Analysis
Unit has contracted with the University of Illinois to conduct an evaluation of four of the
programs funded by ICJIA.
Just this week the Research and Analysis Unit was notified that it has received grant funding
from the Bureau of Justice Statistics for two State Justice Statistics (SJS) projects. The first
grant will allow research staff to develop an application that will enable web-based querying of
Illinois’ Criminal History Record Information statistical summaries through our public website.
The second grant entails ICJIA exploring the link between unintentional opioid overdose
deaths and prior criminal history. Both projects will begin this fall.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
February 15, 2018
Page 2

 Table 1. ICJIA State Budget for SFY 2020

Fund Name

Requested

Final

Funds Available
for Grant
Administration

Other State Funds
Adult Redeploy Illinois
$
10,018,000
$
10,018,000
Yes
Death Penalty Abolition Fund
$
4,930,700
$
4,930,700
Yes
Community LE Partnership for Deflection and Addiction Treatment*
$
500,000
No
Recovery, Reinvest, Renew Program
$
10,000,000
Yes
Crime Stoppers
$
7,800
$
7,800
No
Equity Commissions
$
1,000,000
No
Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal
$
150,000 $
150,000
No
Metropolitan Enforcement Groups / Task Force
$
500,000 $
500,000
No
Police Memorial Parks
$
2,500,000 $
2,500,000
No
Violence Prevention Portfolio
Safe from the Start
$
1,200,000 $
1,200,000
Yes
Family Violence Coordinating Councils
$
525,000 $
525,000
Yes
Community Based Violence Prevention Programs
$
9,541,300 $
7,541,300
Yes
Bullying Prevention
$
443,000 $
443,000
Yes
Metropolitan Family Services
$
6,094,300 $
6,094,300
Yes
Street Intervention/Violence Prevention A
$
5,000,000
Yes
Street Intervention/Violence Prevention B
$
4,000,000
Yes
Street Intervention/Violence Prevention C
$
3,000,000
Yes
City of Danville
$
75,000
No
Trauma Centers
$
3,361,700
Yes
Safer Foundation
$
500,000 $
1,000,000
No
TOTAL
$
36,410,100 $
61,846,800
*Funds not expended at the close of business on June 30, 2019 will be added to this amount for programming during SFY20.

 Table 2. Anticipated NOFO Release Schedule – Updated June 19, 2019
Funding stream
Safe from the Start
Victims of Crime Act
Victims of Crime Act
Safe from the Start
Prescription Pill and Drug
Disposal Program
Violence Prevention/Street
Intervention
IL Family Violence
Coordinating Counsel
National Forensic Science
Improvement Act
Residential Substance Abuse
Treatment
Victims of Crime Act
Victims of Crime Act
Violence Against Women Act
Justice Assistance Grants
Victims of Crime Act

Program area
Violence prevention - implementation
Illinois HEALS demo site
Domestic Violence Hotline
Violence prevention - evaluation
Prescription drug disposal

Release period
2nd Quarter
2nd Quarter
2nd Quarter
3rd Quarter
3rd Quarter

Violence prevention

3rd Quarter

IFVCC Planning

3rd Quarter

Forensic laboratory backlog reduction

3rd Quarter

Substance abuse treatment

3rd Quarter

Illinois HEALS
InfoNet
Public safety
Research and analysis
Transitional housing

3rd Quarter
3rd Quarter
3rd Quarter
4th Quarter
4th Quarter

 Table 3. Current Research and Analysis Unit Projects
Project Focus/Description
Key Research Projects
 Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (or questioning) Victimization Survey
 Survey of Probation Departments on Drug Testing Policies and Practices
 Vicarious Trauma Organizational Assessment
Program Evaluations of ICJIA-Funded or Led Programs or Initiatives
 Transitional Housing
 Chicago Survivors
 A Way Out – Lake County Police Deflection Program
 IL HEALS Initiative
 Targeted Violence Prevention Program Training
 Intensive Supervision Probation with Services Outcome Evaluation (External Evaluator
Oversight)
 Evaluation of Police Department Based Victim Assistance Programs (External Evaluator
Oversight)
Evaluations in Partnership with Other State or Local Agencies
 Redeploy Illinois (Juvenile) – Illinois Department of Human Services
 Students, Teachers, and Officers Preventing (STOP) School Violence Initiative– Illinois
State Board of Education
 Link between Violent Death and Criminal History – Illinois Department of Public Health
 DuPage County’s First Offender Call Unified for Success (FOCUS) Program
Partnerships with Other Research Entities
 University of Chicago, RAND Corporation, Urban Institute, Northwestern University,
Justice Research and Statistics Association

 January 2018
Office of General Counsel
ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

ICJIA Conflict of Interest Policy on Funding Recommendations and Decisions
Purpose. ICJIA is committed to ensuring that its grant funding selection process is fair and transparent,
and free of undue influence or conflicts of interest. In order to prevent any such risks, ICJIA staff
should follow federal guidelines, including those set forth in the 2017 Department of Justice Grants
Financial Guide. These guidelines forbid funding decisions where conflicts of interest, actual or
apparent, exist in order to maintain and convey absolute independence and objectivity.
Actual Conflicts of Interest. Staff should not participate in any funding decisions, recommendations,
or evaluations of potential award recipients involving the following:





an immediate family member;
partner;
organization in which they serve as an officer, director, trustee, partner, or employee; or
any person or organization with whom they are negotiating or who has an arrangement
concerning prospective employment, has a financial interest, or for other reasons can have less
than an unbiased transaction.

Apparent Conflicts of Interest. Staff shall also refrain from creating an appearance of conflict in any
funding decisions, recommendations or evaluations, including the following:





using an official position for private gain;
giving special treatment to any person, losing complete independence or objectivity;
making an official decision outside official channels; or
affecting negatively the confidence of the public in the integrity of the state or federal
government, or the program.

Disclosure. If a potential conflict of interest, actual or apparent, arises, staff shall immediately inform
ICJIA’s Ethics Officer, in writing, of the conflict of interest.
Improper/Ex Parte Communications. Staff shall not make, or respond to, an ex parte communication
– a private written or oral communication that imparts or requests material information, or makes a
material argument concerning, a grant award – to another staff member or Board member who
participates personally and substantially in the award decision.
ICJIA Board and Budget Committee Meetings. At Budget Committee meetings, Board Members
who have a conflict of interest, actual or apparent, with an applicant recommended for designation must
recuse themselves from both the discussion and vote on that applicant’s award. Board Members and
staff must not communicate information made or received as a result of ex parte communications at
ICJIA Board or Budget Committee meetings.
Page 1 of 1

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ICJIA Quarterly Board Meeting
April 24, 2019 at 10:00a - Noon
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200, Building Conference Room
Chicago, IL 60606
Roll Call
ICJIA Vice-Chair Patrick Delfino welcomed Board members and guests to the ICJIA
Board Meeting. He called the meeting to order at 10:03 a.m. and asked Acting General
Counsel Robin Murphy, to call the roll.
ICJIA Board Member
Sheriff Dwight Baird

Present

Telephone

Absent

X

Director John Baldwin
Public Defender Carla Barnes

X

Clerk Dorothy Brown

X

Public Defender Amy Campanelli

X

Director James Chadd

X

Sheriff Tom Dart

X

Director Patrick Delfino, Vice Chair

X

Director Brent Fischer

X

State’s Attorney Kim Foxx

X

Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson

X

Clerk Maureen Josh

X

State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler

X

John Carroll for Attorney General
Kwame Raoul

X

Director David Olson

X

Chief Joseph Perez

X

President Toni Preckwinkle

X

 Director Kathy Saltmarsh

X

Director Brendan Kelly

X

Director Ngozi Ezike

X

Director Marc Smith

X

Director Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X

Director Paula Wolff

X

Designees Present

Present

Rick Krause

X

Nicole Kramer

X

Peter Korcerka

X

James Piper for Director Brendan Kelly

X

Antwan Turpeau for Director Marc Smith

X

Telephone

Absent

Also in attendance were:
Quinn Rallins – Director of Justice Equity & Opportunity Initiative, Lieutenant
Governor’s Office
Juliana Stratton – Illinois Lieutenant Governor
Charles Watkins – Chief of Staff, Lieutenant Governor’s Office
ICJIA Staff
Megan Alderden – Acting Executive Director
Maureen Brennan – Grant Monitor
Shataun Hailey – VAWA Program Manager
Marilyn Jackson – Administrative Specialist
Robin Murphy – Acting Chief of Staff
Greg Stevens – Acting Association Director of Federal & State Grants
Zina Smith – Associate Director of Human Resources
Angela Weis – Acting Chief Financial Officer
Other Authority staff members and guests

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Authority Board Meeting
April 24, 2019
Page 2

 Approval of Minutes
Mr. Murphy stated a quorum has been achieved. Vice-chair Delfino stated there are two
sets of minutes to be approved. The Board unanimously approved the minutes of the
August 22, 2018 and December 11, 2018, Authority Board meetings; motioned by
Director Brent Fischer and seconded by Honorable Maureen Josh.
Chairman’s Remarks
Mr. Delfino welcomed everyone again for attending the board meeting and asked State of
Illinois Lieutenant Governor, Juliana Stratton to address the board.
Lieutenant Governor Remarks
Lt. Gov. Stratton thanked Board members for their commitment to serving and Dr.
Alderden for taking on the responsibilities of ICJIA Acting Executive Director. She said
the governor had signed an executive order establishing the Justice Equity and
Opportunities Initiative and that her office was responsible for coordinating the justice
constellation in the state of Illinois, including the state’s justice departments and
agencies. She said every agency in Illinois can impact justice, including those offering
resources on housing, education, access to healthcare, employment, and other services in
communities. Lt. Gov. Stratton also introduced her chief of staff, Charles Watkins, and
Quin Rallins, director of the Justice Equity and Opportunities Initiative.
Executive Director’s Report
Dr. Alderden stated it is the practice of the Board to recognize individuals their hard work
and dedication. She presented commendations to Hon. Elizabeth Robb, former ICJIA
Board Chair; John Maki, former ICJIA Executive Director; Maureen Brennan, an ICJIA
grant monitor, who was retiring after 20 years; and Salvatore Perri, Jr., former assistant
web developer, in memoriam.
Dr. Alderden then introduced an overview of ICJIA’s grant making process, financial
health of the agency, and progress the agency has made over the last few years. She
explained the Board had a fiduciary responsibility to ensure the agency was using federal
and state grant funds properly to support administration through grant-making and
oversight. She said Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) planning efforts were under way and
that ICJIA was required to submit a five-year strategic plan for use of JAG funds to the
U.S. Bureau of Justice Assistance.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Authority Board Meeting
April 24, 2019
Page 3

 ICJIA Financial Health
Ms. Weis presented on the various funds that comprise the agency’s budget, notable
changes in the Governor’s proposed state fiscal year (SFY) 2020 ICJIA budget in
comparison to the SFY19 budget, and uses and limitation of ICJIA’s administrative
funds.
First, Ms. Weis reported budget changes between state fiscal years 2019 and 2020
included increases in funding to support personnel in the area of Personal Services, a
$351,700 increase, and Activities in Support of Federal Assistance Programs, a $100,500
increase.
Ms. Weis said the SFY20 budget also shows a $2 million increase to Community Based
Violence Prevention Programs, adding ICJIA began administering the programs in
SFY18.
Ms. Weis noted two new lines in the FY20 Criminal Justice Information Projects Fund
reflected newly enacted legislation. She said ICJIA will act as a pass-through entity for
HB 5513/PA 100-647, which created a new scratch-off ticket for state police memorials.
Funds will be distributed equally to the Chicago Police Memorial Foundation Fund, the
Police Memorial Committee Fund, and the Illinois State Police Memorial Park Fund.
She said ICJIA also will pass-through funds garnered equally to the Department of State
Police drug task forces and Illinois Metropolitan Enforcement Groups, she said.
Ms. Weis noted administrative funds to support the work entailed by these pass-throughs
were uncertain and described the four types of administrative funds in the ICJIA budget:
General Revenue operations funds, license plate funds, and state and federal grant
administrative dollars. She said most federal grants allow 10 percent of the total award to
support administration, however, VOCA, ICJIA’s largest grant, allows only 5 percent.
Ms. Weis said 10 percent of the total awards is needed to responsibly administer state
grant programs, however, state grant administration funds are not guaranteed and vary in
amount. The variances result in uneven funding levels, as much of the administrative
workload is the same across grants, she added.
Ms. Weis reported the SFY20 budget indicates about $12.5 million, or 7 percent of all
grants funds, will be available to administer all ICJIA programs, a budget shortage. She
said the shortage becomes compounded when the agency’s non-grant administering
responsibilities are considered, including research and analysis and policy and planning
work. She said the following expenditures must be supported with the $12.5 million
allocated for administration:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Authority Board Meeting
April 24, 2019
Page 4

 





Personnel: $10 million
Professional service contracts, including administrative contracts with lead
entities: $1 million
Rent, utilities, and telecom: $650,000
Grant Accountability & Transparency Act costs: $60,000
Electronic equipment and software subscriptions: $155,000

With just $600,000 left to cover all travel, printing, office supplies, association fees, and
unforeseen costs (no staff), the budget will be tight, she noted.
Ms. Weis explained VOCA, VAWA, and JAG awards can be spent over three years and
that their respective administrative funds should be spent accordingly at 33 percent of the
total allotted per year; however, ICIA exceeded that threshold in both VOCA and JAG to
offset impacts of the state’s budget impasse.
She said administrative costs in some of ICJIA’s state programs have exceeded 10
percent by a significant margin and that staff wishes to implement a policy of typically
spending no more than 10 percent on state grant administration. This would require a
clear delineation of programmatic and administrative funds at the beginning of the year.
Ms. Weis reported state agencies have been asked to cut spending by 4 percent and that
making such cuts without serious consequences would be challenging. Ms. Weis directed
members to a chart of funds outlining the SFY19 appropriations and SFY20 requests and
gave examples of internal and external controls on the agency’s spending.
Lt. Governor Stratton and Ms. Brown expressed gratitude for the fiscal detail Ms. Weis
presented to the Board.
Justice Assistance Grant Planning Overview and Discussion
Mr. Stevens continued discussion on the five-year strategic JAG plan. He said ICJIA
grant sources were comprised of approximately 78 percent federal funds and 22 percent
state funds. He said ICJIA received about a $6.5 million JAG award for the current
federal fiscal year and described program areas supported by the grant; law enforcement,
prosecution and court, prevention and education, corrections community corrections and
reentry, drug treatment and enforcement, planning and evaluation, crime victim and
witness, and mental health. Ms. Salazar then detailed the strategic plan requirements,
process, and timeline for submission to the federal government.
Dr. Alderden said an Ad Hoc JAG Strategic Planning Committee would be created to
develop the plan, which would be presented to the Board for approval at the next
Quarterly Board Meeting in June. She said the committee would include representation

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Authority Board Meeting
April 24, 2019
Page 5

 of the judiciary, prosecutors, law enforcement, corrections, providers of indigent defense
services, victim services, juvenile justice delinquency prevention, community corrections
and reentry services.
Executive Staff Update
Dr. Alderden directed members to the memos in the meeting materials describing agency
unit activities.
Ms. Weis, gave an update on an agency compliance audit. She said the audit revealed 10
material findings and three immaterial findings. She said one finding was regarding
conducting a specific number of site visits, which was based on an internal policy ICJIA
had implemented.
Mr. Murphy, gave an overview of the Office of General Counsel activities. He said four
attorneys staff the office and serve in a supporting role ensuring agency compliance with
the various federal and state grant rules and regulations. He said the attorneys advise,
train, and draft policies on rules and regulations, grant-making, privacy issues and
criminal record appeals.
Mr. Murphy also described four bills working their way through the General Assembly,
including proposed legislation regarding racial discrimination, which could be
burdensome as ICJIA does not have the funds nor the staff to implement the bill’s
requirements. Dr. Alderden said the bill was important, but staffing levels would prohibit
implementation as required.
Mr. Stevens, summarized the activities of the February 28, 2019, and April 18, 2019,
Budget Committee meetings. He said 13 notices of funding opportunities across six
federal and state grant funding streams were released, and 233 grants were awarded
through 18 federal and state grant programs with designations totaling $111,206,638.
Dr. Alderden gave the Research and Analysis update. She described the process for
considering whether to evaluate programs when requests were made. She said the
considerations include level of state interest, staffing capacity and funding to take on the
evaluation, and value to the field of criminal justice research. She said R &A maintains
an open projects list that included key research projects, program evaluations, and
research and evaluation partnerships with external groups.
Mr. Turpeau asked if there has been research in the past on sex trafficking in Illinois. Dr.
Alderden stated ICJIA received a request from University of Chicago to partner on
human trafficking research.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Authority Board Meeting
April 24, 2019
Page 6

 Committee and Board Member Update
There were no updates from the committee or board.
Public Comment
Ms. Vicki Smith, Executive Director of Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence
(ICADV), said while her organization received a contract to administer $21 million in
Victims of Crime Act domestic violence and victim services funding, only 1 percent of
the award could be used to administer the grant. She said managing the 70 agency
contracts without administration funds to support staff was burdensome. She said
ICADV’S 17 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) grants are managed by the agency
without any administrative funds. She said her two grant monitors were expected to
conduct site visits with at least 35 of 70 agencies in person. She said ICADV needs more
administrative funds to be responsible and accountable. She added ICADV has a very
good working relationship with ICJIA and she would like to maintain the relationship.
Ms. Saltmarsh asked why ICADV only received 1 percent of the grant for administration.
Ms. Weis said while she agreed with Ms. Smith that more money is needed for grant
administration, by federal rule, ICJIA can take only 5 percent of the VOCA award for
administration and the administrative funds given to ICADV are subtracted from that.
She stated that ICJIA was considering opportunities to increase the amount of
administrative funds given to ICADV, including under VAWA.
Adjourn
Vice-Chair Delfino asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Baird made a motion
to adjourn. The motion was seconded by Dr. Olson. The meeting was adjourned at 11:43
a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Authority Board Meeting
April 24, 2019
Page 7

 State of Illinois
J.B. Pritzker, Governor
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Megan Alderden, Acting Executive Director

Illinois Edward Byrne Memorial Justice
Assistance Grant (JAG) Strategic Plan
2019-2024

 ILLINOIS EDWARD BYRNE MEMORIAL JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANT (JAG)
STRATEGIC PLAN - 2019-2024

June 2019

Prepared by:
Megan Alderden, Ph.D., Acting Executive Director
Christin Devitt Westley, M.S., Manager, Center for Criminal Justice Data and Analytics
Luisa Salazar, Grant Specialist
Gregory Stevens, Acting Associate Director of the Federal and State Grants Unit

This project was supported by Grant #16-DJ-BX-0083, awarded to the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority by the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs’ Bureau of
Justice Assistance. Points of view or opinions contained within this document are those of the
authors and do not necessarily represent the official position or policies of the U.S. Department
of Justice.
Suggested citation: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority. (2019). Illinois Edward
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Strategic Plan – 2019 – 2024. Chicago, IL: Author.

 INTRODUCTION
The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) is the primary provider of federal
criminal justice funding to state and local jurisdictions. JAG funds provide states and units of
local governments with monies necessary to support a range of program areas and are intended
to help state and local entities leverage other available funding.
JAG funding is administered in Illinois by the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
(ICJIA), a state agency under the executive branch that serves as the State Administering Agency
(SAA) for Illinois. ICJIA brings together key leaders from the justice system and public to
identify critical issues facing the criminal justice system in Illinois, and to propose and evaluate
policies, programs, and legislation that address those issues. The agency also works to ensure the
criminal justice system in Illinois is efficient and effective. The 25 members of the ICJIA Board
include the Illinois Attorney General and the Directors of the following eight State agencies:
Illinois Departments of Corrections; Illinois Department of Public Health; Illinois Department of
Children and Family Services; Illinois State Police; Office of the State's Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor; Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board; Sentencing Policy and
Advisory Council; and Office of the State Appellate Defender.
By statute, Board membership is balanced between the State’s largest metropolitan area of
Chicago/Cook County and the agencies outside this region. Cook County representatives serve
as ex-officio members, while non-Cook representatives are appointed by the Governor to sixyear terms. These current appointments are: Kendall County IL Sheriff’s Office; McClean
County Public Defender’s Office; Clerk of the Circuit Court DeKalb County; State’s Attorney of
Effingham County; Metra Police Department; the President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners; and six members of the public.
The JAG strategic plan presented here was developed by ICJIA staff as the culmination of
research work completed over the last four years. Research staff conducted surveys, engaged in
process and outcome evaluations or criminal justice programming, analyzed crime and public
health data, reviewed and summarized research on best practices, and examined the scope of
available criminal justice resources across the state. From this work, ICJIA staff identified four
key themes that were presented to the Ad Hoc Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Committee for
review and discussion.
The ICJIA Board established the Ad Hoc JAG Committee to ensure that the JAG strategic plan
was designed in consultation with stakeholders from local governments and representatives of all
segments of the criminal justice system. That committee was charged with reviewing crime and
justice system data in relation to the JAG priority areas and proposing funding priorities and
goals for the next five years.
Stakeholders representing each purpose area who participated in the strategic planning process
through the Ad Hoc JAG Committee included:

1

 •

•

•
•

•

•

•

•

Law enforcement programs
o Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
o Chicago Police Department
o Illinois State Police
Prosecution and court programs, including indigent defense;
o Office of the Illinois Attorney General
o Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
o State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecution
o Cook County Public Defender
o Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts
Prevention and education programs;
o Heartland Alliance
Corrections, community corrections and reentry programs;
o Illinois Department of Corrections
o John Howard Association
Drug treatment and enforcement programs;
o Illinois State Police
o Chicago Police Department
o Heartland Alliance
Planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs
o Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
o Loyola University, Criminal Justice and Criminology Department
o Sentencing Policy Advisory Council
o Office of Illinois Lt. Governor
o Office of the Cook County President
Crime victim and witness programs (other than compensation)
o Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence
o Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault
o Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Mental health programs and services
o University of Chicago, Urban Social Work Program

The committee meeting was held on June 3, 2019. During that meeting, members offered input
and represented the viewpoint of their respective professions in the criminal justice system as it
related to the JAG funding priorities, crime trends and patterns, state criminal justice reform
priorities, existing and future funding areas, and unaddressed gaps. The Committee’s
recommendations for five-year JAG funding priorities and goals are presented here.
ICJIA also engaged entities absent from or not serving on the Committee by sending a notice to
those stakeholders requesting their input on the JAG strategic plan. A public notice was also
posted requesting public input on the federal fiscal year 2019 JAG application. All input was
considered to help guide this JAG five-year strategic plan.
ICJIA staff will present this plan to the full Board at its next quarterly meeting on June 27, 2019
for review and approval.

2

 JAG ASSISTANCE HISTORY AND USE
State administering agencies (SAA), like the ICJIA, are required to ensure that a portion of JAG
funds support local units of government based on a statutorily set formula. Currently, 72 percent
of Illinois’ Federal Fiscal Year (FFY) 2019 award administered by the ICJIA must go to local
units of government; a portion of that allocation must to go local units of government ineligible
for direct funds. The remaining 28 percent is split between administrative funds allocated to the
Authority to support grant making (10 percent) and funding to state agencies (18 percent). In
FFY 2019, the federal government also stipulated that the state set aside three percent of the
state’s grant to support implementation of the National Incident Based Reporting System. For
FFY 2019, that set-aside totals $197,268.
JAG Priority Areas
JAG funds may be used to support the eight priority areas listed below. The first three areas
listed reflect the major components of the criminal justice system—law enforcement, courts, and
corrections. The remaining five reflect types of programs, practices, or initiatives that can be
supported at the state or local level.
JAG Priority Areas
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Law enforcement programs
Prosecution and court programs, including indigent defense
Corrections, community corrections and reentry programs
Prevention and education programs
Drug treatment and enforcement programs
Planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs
Crime victim and witness programs (other than compensation)
Mental health programs and services

The JAG solicitation also contains suggested “BJA Areas of Emphasis.” For FFY 2019, the
additional areas of emphasis include: reducing violent crime, officer safety and wellness,
southwest border rural law enforcement, and responding to the opioid crisis. JAG funds may be
used for any of these emphasis areas in addition to the priority areas listed above.
States and local entities are not required to allocate JAG funds for each priority area. Rather,
JAG funds are intended to help states leverage other funds by either complementing those
monies or by addressing funding gaps.

3

 Historical Use of JAG Funds

Figure 1. Federal Fiscal Year JAG Awards

JAG funds administered by ICJIA have
decreased significantly over time. In 2005,
JAG funds administered by the state
peaked at $14.3 million dollars. Since then,
the amount available has declined and
remains around $6.5 million (Figure 1).
Over the last five years JAG funds
administered by ICJIA have supported law
enforcement programs (36 percent),
prosecution/ defense/court programs (41
percent), correctional facility and
community correctional programs (12
percent), and planning, evaluation, and
technology improvement programs (11
percent) (Figure 2). Within these four
areas, funding has been used to address
substance misuse, mental health, sex
offender supervision, training, drug
enforcement, focused deterrence,
prosecution initiatives, defense initiatives,
and crime analysis (Table 1).

Figure 2. JAG Funds Designated, FFY13 through FFY17

JAG Funding in Relation to Other
Authority Funds
As the SAA for criminal justice-related
funds, ICJIA manages eight federal and 10
state grant programs, with designations
totaling $111.2 million as of April 10,
2019. Appendix A provides a brief
description of each of these funds. Many of these funds also support JAG funding Priority Areas
(see Table 2).

4

 Table 1. Current Programs Funded through JAG
JAG Priority Area

Program Type

Law Enforcement Programs / Drug
Treatment and Enforcement Programs

Drug Diversion/Deflection

Law Enforcement Programs

Illinois Partnerships to
Reduce Violent Crime

Law Enforcement Programs / Drug
Treatment and Enforcement Programs

Multijurisdictional Narcotic
Trafficking Enforcement

Prosecution and Court Programs,
Including Indigent Defense / Drug
Treatment and Enforcement Programs

Prosecution Multijurisdictional Narcotic
Prosecution Units

Prosecution and Court Programs,
Including Indigent Defense

Prosecution - Community
Justice Centers

Prosecution and Court Programs,
Including Indigent Defense
Prosecution and Court Programs,
Including Indigent Defense

Public Defense - Mitigation
Initiative

Prosecution and Court Programs,
Including Indigent Defense

Human Trafficking Task
Force

Prosecution and Court Programs,
Including Indigent Defense / Mental
Health Programs and Services

Winnebago Youth Court

Planning, Evaluation, and Technology
Improvement Program

Planning and Evaluation

Planning, Evaluation, and Technology
Improvement Program

Technology Improvement

Public Defense - Training

Program Description
Deflection programs involve substance users either voluntarily contacting the
police or being contacted via outreach efforts. Police diversion program models
typically engage individuals after they have had involuntary contact with police
officers, linking them to treatment services.
The goal is to reduce violent crime and strengthen the relationship between law
enforcement and communities using a focused deterrence model that incorporates
problem identification and analysis, targeted enforcement, and social services.
Multijurisdictional drug task forces, which are made up of law enforcement
officers from state, county, and local police departments, pool resources to more
efficiently and effectively combat the drug distribution in multiple jurisdictions.
Narcotics units work with police officers to provide prosecutorial oversight to
those cases so that the evidence will withstand legal challenges and lead to a
successful prosecution.
The Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office Community Justice Centers (CJC)
were founded on the principle that prosecutors have a responsibility to not only
prosecute cases but to solve public safety problems, prevent crime, and improve
the quality of life for communities. The community justice centers collaborate with
police, businesses, faith-based organizations, elected officials, schools, government
entities, social service agencies, and community groups.
The Cook County Public Defender’s Office Mitigation Initiative provides counsel
for its indigent clients who are charged with crimes.
The DNA & Digital Evidence Program provides forensic training to attorneys who
represent indigent residents of Cook County and much of northern Illinois.
The Human Trafficking Outreach Coordinator Program is a part of the larger Cook
County Human Trafficking Task Force that works to provide comprehensive
services for victims and provide training to stakeholders.
Winnebago County Youth Recovery Court provides mental health services to
youths aged 10-17 and their families.
Supports the Illinois Statistical Analysis Center (ICJIA's Research and Analysis
Unit) in carrying out data collection, analysis, research, program evaluations, and
dissemination of findings on criminal justice topics that are priorities for the state.
Purchase of an Acquisition Station, an Analysis Station, and a Stereo Zoom
Microscope, to utilize National Integrated Ballistic Information Network (NIBIN)
technology.

5

# of
Grantees
3

3

17

9

1

1
1
1

1

1

2

 Table 2. Other Funds Administered by the Authority Related to JAG Priority Areas
JAG Priority Area

Other Funds Administered

Law enforcement programs

•

State Death Penalty Abolition – LE Training - $690,000

Prosecution and court programs, including
indigent defense

•

State Adult Redeploy Illinois – Courts - $8 Million*

Prevention and education programs

•

State Violence Prevention - $30 Million

Corrections, community corrections and reentry
programs

•
•

State Adult Redeploy Illinois – Probation - $8 Million*
State Reinvent, renew, and restore program – $10 Million (new)

Drug Treatment and Enforcement Programs

•
•
•
•

State Community-Law Enforcement Partnership for Deflection and Substance
Abuse Treatment - $500,000
State Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal - $150,000
Federal Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act - $130,000
State Drug TF/MEG – unknown

Planning, evaluation, and technology
improvement programs

•

Federal National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act - $740,000

Crime victim and witness programs (other than
compensation)

•
•
•
•
•
•

Federal Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) - $71 million
Federal Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) - $6 Million
Federal OVC Discretionary Training and Technical Assistance - $310,000
State Family Violence Coordinating Councils - $500,000
State Death Penalty Abolition – Homicide Survivors - $2 Million
State Trauma Centers - $3 Million (new)

Mental health programs and services

•

State Adult Redeploy Illinois – Mental Health Courts - $8 Million*

Note. State dollars reflect annual amounts available for programming subject to yearly appropriations. Federal dollars reflect 12 to 24 months of
funding currently designated. * Adult Redeploy Illinois funds total $8 million, but cover three JAG priority areas.

6

 NEEDS ASSESSMENT
Research staff at ICJIA completed several different activities in support of the JAG strategic
planning effort over the past four years. This included examining justice system administrative
data, conducting various surveys of criminal justice professions to learn more about the specific
needs and issues facing those professions within the JAG funding priority areas, engaging
stakeholders in discussions around key issues facing the criminal justice system both in terms of
the types of crime impacting their communities and the challenges and barriers experienced in
providing services to victims and those who are justice-involved, and conducting several
extensive literature reviews about the causes and consequences of specific crime-related issues
and when possible identified evidence-based and promising programs and practices that address
those issues. Many of these activities resulted in publications posted on the ICJIA’s website
http://www.icjia.state.il.us/research/publications.
Based on the data collected and analyzed, ICJIA research staff identified four primary themes for
consideration by the JAG Planning Ad Hoc Committee as it made recommendations for JAG
funding goals during the next five years.
Theme 1: Interpersonal and gun-related violence are chief concerns for local
communities.
Theme 2: Substance misuse and mental health concerns are precipitating factors to
justice system contact and deep system involvement.
Theme 3: Transportation, housing, and immediate connections to needed services are
barriers to recieving effective treatment and participation in the criminal justice
system for justice-involved populations.
Theme 4: Training for practitioners that keep them up-to-date on new and innovative
practices is a long-standing, continuing need.
Data and information that support these identified these needs and priorities are provided below.

7

 Violent Crime in Illinois

Violent crime, particularly interpersonal and firearm-related violence, was identified as a
significant issue facing many communities in Illinois. Research indicates that exposure to
violence, whether directly or indirectly, can produce long-term negative outcomes for youth and
adults. It can increase fear, distrust, and feelings of being unsafe, weakening existing familial and
community-level informal social control. Exposure to violence is linked to increased
internalizing behaviors (e.g., anxiety disorder, Major Depressive Disorder, post-traumatic stress
disorder [PTSD]), externalizing behaviors (conduct disorder, oppositional defiant disorder), i and
family stress and conflict.ii Gun carrying is also associated with exposure to violence. Data from
the Project on Human Development in
Chicago Neighborhoods indicate that youth
Figure 3. Illinois and U.S. Index Crime
who report carrying firearms also reported
Rates, 1960-2018
high rates of witnessing, hearing, or
experiencing violent victimization.iii
Overall reported crime for Index offenses in
Illinois (murder, rape, robbery, aggravated
assault/battery, burglary, theft, motor vehicle
theft, and arson) is down when considered
within the larger historical context. Both the
violent index crime and the property index
crime rates in 2018 were comparable to the
rates experienced in the early (property index
rate) and late (violent index rate) 1960s.
Today, the violent Index rate in Illinois
mirrors the rate nationally for the first time,
while the property Index rate in Illinois is
now lower than the national rate (Figure 3).
Property crime accounts for most of the
state’s index crime (82% in 2018) and
generally drove the overall crime trend.
Although less frequent than property crime,
violent crime in Illinois is an area of concern.
In 2015 and 2016, Illinois experienced an
uptick in violent Index crimes. While the
national violent Index crime rate also
increased during this time period, it was not
at the same magnitude as that noted in
Illinois. The uptick in Illinois appears to be
primarily limited to 2015 and 2016; in 2017
and 2018, the statewide violence crime
numbers declined.

Source: Illinois State Police, Uniform Crime Reports

8

 Arrests for Index crimes have also decreased since the mid-1990s. Despite the uptick noted in
reported violent Index crime occurrences, a similar increase in arrests did not occur. By 2018, the
arrest to Index crime ratio— the closest Illinois has to a crime clearance ratio —stood at 56
percent for murders, 16 percent for sexual assaults, 31 percent for aggravated assaults and
batteries, and 19 percent for robberies.
Figure 4. Arrests for Domestic Violence-Related
Offenses

Notable differences between rural and urban
counties were noted in the arrest to crime
ratios. Urban counties saw a decline in
violent Index crime to arrest ratios beginning
in 2005; that trend has continued through
2018. A similar decline was not noted for
rural counties; those ratios remained relative
stable.
Domestic Violence
Discussions with law enforcement agencies
and other criminal justice stakeholders
revealed that domestic violence was a key
concern across many communities in Illinois.
Although data on domestic violence are
limited in that there is no single data source
that accurately accounts for all victimization
experiences, those data that are available
support the concerns expressed.
Total arrests for domestic violence related
offenses, including simple and aggravated
assaults and batteries, violations of orders of
protection, and no contact orders, remained
relatively stable from 2013 and 2018,
hovering around 37,000 arrests per year.
However, when the total arrests figures were
disaggregated by type of offense—domestic
violence, aggravated domestic violence, and
violations of orders of protection and no
contact orders—it revealed that while arrests
for domestic violence declined from 2010 to
2018, arrests for violations of orders of
protection and no contact orders increased
staring in 2015 and aggravated domestic
violence increased from 2010 to 2018
(Figure 4).

Source: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority analysis of Criminal
History Records Information (CHRI) arrest records

9

 There was also a notable increase in the number of arrests for aggravated domestic violence
involving strangulation; that figure increased from 72 in 2010 to 903 in 2018. It is unknown how
much of that increase was due to greater awareness by law enforcement about strangulation as a
key indicator of future lethal domestic violence incidents or an increase in occurrence.
Firearm-involved Violence
One challenge facing Illinois is the inability
to track violent incidents involving firearms
at the state-level. The data currently available
are limited to state summary Uniform Crime
Reporting (UCR) and supplemental homicide
data.

Figure 5. Murder and Aggravated Assault and
Battery Incidents Reported to Police

The state’s summary UCR data contain
information on the number of murder and
aggravated assault and battery incidents
reported to police. Analysis indicate that
murder and aggravated assaults and batteries
increased in 2015 and 2016, followed by a
minor decline in 2017 and notable decrease in
2018. These data cannot be disaggregated by
weapon type (Figure 5).
The state’s supplemental homicide data, a
separate dataset containing detailed
information on homicides occurring in
Illinois, does allow for examination of
incidents by the weapon used. Those data,
which were reinstated in 2016, showed that
82 percent of homicides in Illinois in 2018
involved firearms, with handguns being the
most frequent type noted. This percentage
was close to that in 2016 (84 percent) and
2017 (86 percent).

Source: Illinois State Police, Uniform Crime Reports

Beyond those data sources noted above, the state’s criminal history record information (CHRI)
system can be used to examine firearm-involved arrests. One limitation of arrest statistics,
however, is that they reflect policing activities in response to crime rather than crime prevalence,
as not all incidents result in arrest.
These data indicate a recent increase in arrests for firearm-facilitated offenses.iv In 2015, there
were 4,118 arrests for offenses committed with a firearm. By 2018, that number was 5,338.

10

 Substance Misuse and Mental Health Needs

Another theme identified by criminal justice stakeholders was that substance misuse and mental
health needs continue to be precipitating factors that place individuals at risk for criminal justice
system contact or involvement. More than half of the 2 million persons living in prison or jail
have substance use disorders, and a significant number of individuals arrested for violent or
property crimes have illicit substances and/or alcohol in their systems at the time of arrest. v
Illinois has limited data available at the state level on the prevalence of behavioral health
disorders amongst those involved in the criminal justice system. What data do exist are generally
limited to drug arrests and drug-involved death data. UCR drug arrest data show a dramatic
decline in Illinois since 2015, largely driven by a decline in arrests for Cannabis Control Act
violations. In 2015, law enforcement agencies reported making 46,929 arrests for cannabis law
violations. In 2018, the number was down to 15,363. Similarly, there was a decline in arrests for
violations of the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act from 23,406 in 2015 to 10,484 in 2018. There
were, however, increases in arrests for the Controlled Substances Act, Hypodermic Syringe and
Needles Act, and Methamphetamine Control Act. In 2018, there were 24,599 arrests for
controlled substance, up from 22,289 in 2016. Arrests for illicit possession of syringes and
needles increased slightly from 986 in 2014 to 1,157 in 2018, while arrests for possession,
distribution, or trafficking of methamphetamine increased from 1,075 in 2012 to 4,828 in 2018.
The rise of methamphetamine availability and use in Illinois communities appears specific to the
southern and central parts of the state.vi
Opioid misuse has been a
Figure 6. Opioid-related Deaths in Illinois
concern for the state for the
last several years. More than
2,000 Illinois residents died
from opioid overdose in
2018, twice the number
observed six years ago. This
total exceeds the number of
fatalities in Illinois from
traffic accidents and gun
homicides combined. In
2017, 58 percent of fatal
opioid overdoses in Illinois
involved fentanyl as a
primary or secondary cause
of death. Although opioidrelated deaths have increased
dramatically in the past five
Source: Illinois Department of Public Health, Division of Vital Records; *2018 data are preliminary
years, it appears to have
plateaued (Figure 6). Illinois
public health officials reported growing concerns, however, about the potential for

11

 methamphetamine to increase in areas where opioid misuse was occurring, something other
states are also noting.
Although, no statewide data exists on the number of justice-involved persons in Illinois having a
mental health disorder, research indicates that a significant number of individuals processed by
the criminal justice system have mental health disorders.vii Information gathered from the field,
suggests that the mental health needs of community members is a chief concern of law
enforcement agencies. A survey of law enforcement agencies conducted by ICJIA in 2018 found
that 68 percent of respondents ranked addressing mental health in the top three concerns
(domestic violence and substance misuse were the other two).viii Mental health concerns were
similarly noted by probation and correctional agencies.
Foundational Needs of Justice-Involved Persons

There are no state level data available that can be used to identify the most significant needs of
justice-involved persons. Conversations with various stakeholders, however, identified three
primary issues. First, stakeholders identified lack of dependable transportation as a significant
barrier to linking individuals to needed services, meeting their pretrial, probation, or parole
requirements (e.g., drug testing, meeting with probation officer, obtaining/maintaining a job), or
attending court hearings. This concern was noted for both rural and urban communities. In rural
communities, the lack of services in some places generally meant clients could be required to
travel significant distances to attend treatment or obtain employment. In urban communities,
public transportation is not always available or reliable or may place clients at increased risk
when moving through various gang territories.
Second, safe, stable, and affordable housing was identified as a significant barrier to assisting
justice-involved clients. Lack of affordable housing is a significant contributor to homelessness
for both families and single individuals, and those who are justice-involved may be particularly
vulnerable. One study of the nexus between incarceration and homelessness, for instance, found
that 54 percent of those receiving homeless services had been previously incarcerated.ix A
national survey of jail inmates similarly found that more than 15 percent of the jail population
was homeless during the prior year. x Like transportation, lack of stable housing can also
negatively impact how successful clients are completing the terms of their probation or parole.
Continuing behavioral health treatment adherence and engagement xi and maintaining
employment is more difficult when individuals do not have reliable access to housing.
Finally, the reduced ability to link justice-involved clients to appropriate services, specifically
behavioral health services, was identified as an area of concern. Criminal justice practitioners
and other stakeholders noted that scarcity of programs was a significant barrier to serving client
behavioral health needs in many communities. They identified such underlying causes as the
state’s fiscal crisis, which precipitated closure of many non-profit agencies; restrictions on
program eligibility, such as exclusion criteria regarding prior violent arrests or convictions; lack
of insurance or diagnosis (in case of Medicaid); lack of professionals available to provide those
services, particularly in more rural communities; and long waiting lists.
12

 Training

The final issue identified by various stakeholders is the limited funding available for on-going
training. The need or mandated requirements for training were larger than what agencies could
afford. There were various reasons identified as the underlying cause. These include:
•

The need to train up new staff because a growing number of older practitioners are
retiring.

•

Changes in societal expectations necessitating new training or updated training around
revised policies and procedures.

•

Increased proficiencies required to implement evidence-based or informed practices that
often require practitioners to master new and challenging skills.

•

An existing gap between formal education and the practical skills practitioners need to
complete their work.

i

Cecil, C. A., Viding, E., Barker, E. D., Guiney, J., & McCrory, E. J. (2004). Double disadvantage: The influence of
childhood maltreatment and community violence exposure on adolescent mental health. Journal of Child
Psychology and Psychiatry, 55(7), 839-848. DOI 10.1111/jcpp.12213.
ii
Holtzman, R. J., & Roberts, M. C. (2012). The role of family conflict in the relation between exposure to
community violence and depressive symptoms. Journal of Community Psychology, 40(2), 264-275. DOI:
10.1002/jcop.20511.
iii
Molnar, B. E., Miller, M. J., Azrael, D., & Buka, S. L. (2004). Neighborhood predictors of concealed firearm
carrying among children and adolescents: Results from the Project on Human Development in Chicago
Neighborhoods. Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, 158(7), 657-664.
iv
Includes Aggravated assault or battery with a firearm, aggravated criminal sexual assault with a firearm;
aggravated discharge, aggravated possession of firearms; aggravated unlawful use of weapons; aggravated vehicular
hijacking with a firearm; armed robbery with a firearm; home invasion with a firearm.
v
Office of the National Drug Control Policy. (2010). ADAM II 2009 Annual Report. Washington, D.C.: Author.
vi
This conclusion is based on law enforcement conversations with various regional agencies, survey of law
enforcement agencies, and drug arrest data.
vii
DeMatteo, D., LaDuke, C., Locklair, B. R., & Heilbrun, K. (2013). Community-based alternatives for justiceinvolved individuals with severe mental illness: Diversion, problem-solving courts, and reentry. Journal of Criminal
Justice, 41(2), 64-71.
viii
Gatens, A. (2018). Law enforcement response to mental health crisis incidents: A survey of Illinois police and
sheriff’s departments. Chicago, IL: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.
ix
Metraux, S., Roman, C. G., & Cho, R. S. (2007). Incarceration and homelessness. National Symposium on
Homelessness Research, 9-1- 9-31.; Burt, M. R. (1999). Homelessness: Programs and the people they serve.
Findings of the national survey of homeless assistance providers and clients. Washington, DC: The Urban Institute.
x
Greenberg, G. A., & Rosenheck, R. A. (2008). Jail incarceration, homelessness, and mental health: A national
study. Psychiatric Services, 59(2), 170-177.
xi
National Healthcare for the Homeless Council. (2017). Addressing the opioid epidemic: How the opioid crisis
affects homeless populations. Nashville, TN: Author.

13

 JAG FUNDING PRIORITIES, 2019-2024
On June 3, 2019, ICJIA hosted the Ad Hoc Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Committee to
identify recommendations for the full ICJIA Board about the funding priorities for the next five
years starting with FFY 2019 JAG funds. The Committee reviewed crime and system data in
relation to the JAG priority areas, examined other funding streams programed by ICJIA that
address JAG priority areas, and discussed other challenges and issues facing the criminal justice
system, including the four themes noted above. The Committee came to a consensus that ICJIA
should use JAG funding to support programs that accomplish the following goals.
Goal 1: Reduce violent crime in Illinois communities, particularly domestic and firearmrelated crime.
Funding will be used to support evidence-informed violent crime reduction initiatives that
target underlying drivers of violence and are tailored to the unique characteristics of
violence occurring in Illinois’ diverse communities. Training to support the initiative will be
an allowable expense.
➢ JAG priority areas: Law enforcement programs, prosecution and court programs,
corrections, community corrections, and reentry programs, drug enforcement
programs.
➢ BJA area of emphasis: reducing violent crime.
Goal 2: Remove the lack of transportation as a barrier to justice-involved clients meeting
their pre-trial, probation, and parole requirements or attending other needed
programming.
Funding will be made available to established evidence-informed programs whose clients
are unable to connect to services due to the lack of reliable transportation.
➢ JAG priority areas: Law enforcement programs, prosecution and court programs,
corrections, community corrections, and reentry programs, mental health programs
and services.
Goal 3: Reduce substance misuse and availability in Illinois communities.
Funding will be used for programs proven to decrease substance misuse and availability in
Illinois communities. Training to support the initiative will be an allowable expense.
➢ JAG priority areas: law enforcement programs, prosecution and court programs, drug
treatment and enforcement programs.
Goal 4: Move the state toward National Incident Based Reporting System (NIBRS)
compliance and more reliable and useful crime data.
14

 Funding will be provided to the Illinois State Police to support the state’s effort to
implementation NIBRS statewide.
➢ JAG program requirement.
Goal 5: Support the Illinois Statistical Analysis Center (SAC) to assist the state in criminal
justice planning, data analysis, evaluation, and identification of evidence-based or informed
practices.
Funding will be used to support the state’s Statistical Analysis Center (SAC). The state’s
SAC provides objective analysis of criminal justice data for informing statewide policy and
practice. The Illinois SAC features five research Centers that assist practitioners and policy
makers in bridging the gap between traditional academic research and practice and
encourage and support data-driven practices and policies both at the state and local levels.
The unit conducts research in support of ICJIA’s grant making process and assists the grants
unit in developing the programmatic elements of grant solicitations.
➢ JAG priority area: Planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs.

15

 STRATEGIC PLAN IMPLEMENTATION
Upon adoption by the full ICJIA Board, agency staff will use this strategic plan and the Boarddetermined allocations among the recommended funding goals to guide the development of
Notices of Funding Opportunities (Illinois’ grant solicitation process). Specific program funding
decisions will be made in consideration of other funding streams programmed by ICJIA (see
Table 2, page 6), to ensure JAG funds are used to complement or leverage these dollars.
Funding decisions will also be made consistent with the agency’s funding principles. ICJIA has
established two sets of foundational principles for administering funds. The first set of
principles—Guiding Principles—is designed to direct ICJIA’s overall work, articulating a vision
for the Illinois’ criminal justice system and the purposes it should serve.
Guiding Principles
Legitimacy: Criminal justice practices and policy should provide an equitable justice system
for all Illinois residents by strengthening the trust between the public and the justice system
and promoting the fair distribution of rights, resources and opportunities.
Fair and Just: Criminal justice laws, policies, and practices should be fairly and effectively
enforced, ensuring that punishment is proportional to the seriousness of the offense
committed, designed to achieve offender accountability, victim restoration and public safety,
and limited to the amount necessary to achieve the intended outcomes.
Respect: Criminal justice practices and policy should ensure that victims are treated with
respect in regard to their dignity and privacy, and that their rights are enforced.
Due Process: Criminal justice practices and policy should ensure that all individuals are
afforded equal access to fair treatment under the law.
Recovery: Support and services should be provided to victims who suffer physical,
emotional or financial harm as the direct result of the offender’s criminal conduct. These
services should be provided whether or not the victims choose to participate in the criminal
justice system.
Rehabilitation: The criminal justice system should require and support offender
rehabilitation services to offenders who want them. These services should be provided in a
culturally competent, gender sensitive, and trauma informed manner.
Strengthen Communities: The criminal justice system should strengthen communities and
their capacities to prevent crime and violence.
Prevention: The criminal justice system should prevent crime and violence to mitigate its
harmful effects on individuals and communities.
16

 Research Informed: Criminal justice policies and practices should be informed by statistics,
research, and community input. Criminal justice data, statistical analyses, and research
should be accessible to all communities.
Collaboration: The sectors of criminal justice system and victim service providers should
collaborate to provide efficient, effective, and expedient justice. This collaboration should
foster cross-system coordination and appropriate information sharing.
Efficient: The criminal justice system should avoid unnecessary costs and maximize its
limited resources to achieve its intended outcomes.
While the Guiding Principles outline a broad vision for the State’s criminal justice system, the
second set of principles—Grantmaking Principles—articulate how the Authority will achieve it.
Grantmaking Principles
1. The Authority should strive to maximize the use of available federal and state funds, seeking
any and all reasonable alternatives to lapsing funds back to the federal or state government.
2. The Authority's decision to award federal and state funds should have a foundation in the
best available research, evaluation, practice and professional advice.
3. The Authority's decision to award federal and state funds should take into account the
balance of resources across the justice system and its potential impact in other areas of the
system.
4. The Authority's federal and state funds should not result in the duplication of efforts already
in place.
5. The Authority's federal and state funds cannot be used to supplant other funds.
6. The Authority's federal and state funds should be allocated (a) to areas demonstrating need
based on an analysis of the nature and extent of the problem(s) and (b) to programs in areas
where there is an opportunity to impact the identified problem(s). In addition, to the extent
permitted by program guidelines, some portion of available federal and state funds should be
used for the following:
• To encourage collaborative approaches to problem solving, planning and program
implementation.
• To encourage innovative pilot or demonstration projects.
• To evaluate funded projects and support an ongoing program of research designed
to further planning and program development.
• To build the capacity of those in the criminal justice system.
Together, these Guiding and Grantmaking Principles provide the Authority’s staff and
Board with the core purposes and operational imperatives inform and direct the agency’s
17

 core work.
Finally, ICJIA staff will work to ensure that funded programs are informed by evidence and data
as well as implementation science.
Implementing Evidence-informed and Evidence-Based Programs
Research has shown that organizations seeking to use evidence-informed and evidence-based
programs and practices face significant implementation barriers. Evidence-based programs often
involve multi-faceted interventions and coordinated practices that can make implementation
challenging. This is particularly so for agencies that lack capacity and resources, motivated
leadership, and an organizational climate that facilitates innovation (e.g., openness to change,
management support). Additionally, pressures to implement activities to address crime problems
often mean programs are designed and implemented in absence of comprehensive strategic
planning and consideration of how the program is or might be adapted to meet local needs. xii
Agencies in Illinois are not immune to these implementation issues. ICJIA staff, however, have
been working to address these issues in several ways. First, since Spring of 2015, the research
unit has worked to develop a host of articles and reports that outline evidence-informed and
evidence-based programs and practices and the scientific support that underlie them. These
articles and reports, which were written specifically for practitioners, legislators, and laypersons,
are available on the ICJIA website at: http://www.icjia.state.il.us/research/publications. To date,
staff have completed nearly 100 different articles and reports that cover various topics, including
implementation science and the challenges of executing evidence-based programs and practices.
The unit has also developed two continuums that take the sequential intercept model and
identifies the associated evidence-informed or evidence-based programs and practices for each
intercept. The interactive continuums focus on addressing substance misuse
(https://sudcontinuum.icjia.cloud/) and mental health (https://mhcontinuum.icjia.cloud/).
Second, starting in 2015, ICJIA researchers have been more purposively involved in the
designing of Notices of Funding Opportunities. A team of grants and research staff work
together to develop solicitations that incorporate evidence-based or evidence-informed programs
and practices whenever possible. This team-based approached allows for an information
exchange between the research and grants staff that further bolsters grant staff knowledge about
the programs their grantees are implementing, which in turn can strengthen the grant monitoring
process.
Third, ICJIA encourages grantees to use a planning process when proposing new programs that
include data analysis and problem identification. Grantees during the proposal process must
present evidence of the underlying problem and why the program or practice addresses the issues
identified. In some instances, grantees are required to complete a planning period that
incorporates data analysis and involves multiple community stakeholders.
Fourth, grantees are required to submit performance data that document program implementation
and outcomes. Performance metrics are designed in consultation with ICJIA researchers and are
based on the program design and logic model. These metrics go beyond those required in the

18

 JAG Performance Measure Tool (PMT), and are used to inform grant continuation decisions for
multi-year awards.
Finally, ICJIA researchers work with grant staff to identify programs that may be ready for
evaluation. Those programs deemed ready are then evaluated either by ICJIA researchers or by
contracted external researchers.
Data Availability and Access
Illinois currently has limited state-level that can be used to adequately examine crime trends and
patterns. The state continues to rely on summary crime data submitted to the Illinois State Police
as part of the state’s Uniform Crime Reporting program. Although efforts are underway to
implement NIBRS, to date, only the Rockford Police Department has been successful. At the
local level, the availability and usefulness of police data varies, making access to comparable
data challenging.
Detailed court data is similarly limited in Illinois. Data published by the Administrative Office of
the Illinois Courts is aggregated at the circuit or county level. These data, which document court
filings, convictions, sentencing, and probation, lack the specificity needed to fully understand or
identify changes over time in the profiles of individuals having contact with the system as well as
the efficacy and fairness of the system’s response. Accessing court data at the local level is
challenging for several reasons. One primary issue is that most counties have their own unique
case management systems, some of which do not allow for easy access to data for research
purposes.
To address the limitation of police and court data, ICJIA researchers rely heavily on Criminal
History Record Information (CHRI) data to examine arrest, prosecution, and convictions. While
CHRI data is an important source of information for the state, changes to state laws, particularly
those related to sealing and expungement of records, limits the data available for research
purposes. Research staff are continually monitoring the impact of these laws.
Data on those entering and leaving the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice and the Illinois
Department of Corrections are more detailed. ICJIA staff have access to these data and work
closely with researchers from these agencies when examining trends and issues.
Finally, detailed data at the local level about the various programs and practices already
underway is limited. ICJIA relies heavily on local agencies to share information about what is
occurring in Illinois communities. More recently, ICJIA has been working with other noncriminal justice state agencies to learn more about the programs they fund to bridge this gap in
knowledge. ICJIA researchers also work with these other state agencies to access data that may
help identify emerging or continuing trends (e.g., Illinois Department of Public Health, Illinois
Department of Human Services). Continued funding of the state’s SAC will ensure that data
availability and access issues are addressed through these agency collaborations and the design
and implementation of innovative data analysis and visualization tools.
xii

Gleicher, L. (2017). Implementation science in criminal justice: How implementation of evidence-based programs
and practices affects outcomes. Chicago, IL: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.

19

 Appendix A
Federal and State Grants Administered by ICJIA
Federal Programs
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program
The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) was designed to
streamline justice funding and grant administration. The program provides agencies with the
flexibility to prioritize and place justice funds where they are needed most.
JAG funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel,
equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice for any
one or more of the following purpose areas:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Law enforcement.
Prosecution and court programs.
Prevention and education programs.
Corrections and community corrections.
Drug treatment and enforcement.
Crime victim and witness initiatives.
Planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs.

National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act
The Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act authorizes funding to improve
the quality, timeliness, and credibility of forensic science services for criminal justice purposes.
Act funding is directed to crime laboratories and medical examiners’ offices based on population
and crime statistics. The program permits funding for facilities, personnel, computerization,
equipment, supplies, education, and training.
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act
The Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Program provides funding for treatment programs
in a correctional setting and is available to the Illinois Department of Corrections (IDOC) and
Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice. These funds are used to implement residential, jail-based,
and aftercare programs.
Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act
The Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act is Title I of the Adam Walsh Child
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248). The Act provides a comprehensive set
of minimum standards for sex offender registration and notification in the United States. The Act
aims to close potential gaps and loopholes that existed under prior law and generally strengthens
the nationwide network of sex offender registration and notification programs.

20

 Victims of Crime Act
The Victims of Crime Act is funded with fines paid by offenders convicted of violating federal
laws, supports direct services to victims of crime. The Act requires that priority be given to
services for victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, child abuse, and other groups identified
by the state as underserved victims of crime.
Victims of Crime Act Discretionary Training and Technical Assistance Grant
The Victims of Crime Act Discretionary Training and Technical Assistance Grant program
provides training and technical assistance to Victims of Crime Act victim assistance service
providers and others who work with crime victims. Activities funded through this program may
include, but are not limited to, establishment or enhancement of state victim assistance
academies, statewide training initiatives, crime victim-related conferences, basic training for new
programs, or scholarships to attend conferences and/or training for service providers and others
who work with victims of crime.
Violence Against Women Act
Congress first passed the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in 1994 and reauthorized the
Act in 2000. With a reauthorization in 2005, Congress began a new initiative of the S.T.O.P.
(Services * Training * Officers * Prosecutors) VAWA program by authorizing grants to states
for programs that would improve the response of the criminal justice system to female victims of
sexual assault and domestic violence. The program’s objectives include:
•
•
•

Providing services to women who are victims of sexual assault and domestic violence.
Developing, implementing, and evaluating a plan for training police, prosecutors, judges,
circuit clerks, probation officers, and service providers to promote an interdisciplinary
approach to sexual assault and domestic violence.
Implementing measures that document and assess the response of criminal justice
agencies in Illinois to sexual assault and domestic violence.

Violence Against Women Act - Sexual Assault Services Programs
The Violence Against Women Act Sexual Assault Services Program supports the provision of
hotline, advocacy, counseling, and outreach services to adults and children at 33 local victim
service agencies across Illinois.
State Programs
Adult Redeploy Illinois
The Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI) program was created by the Act to increase alternatives to
incarceration for non-violent offenders. Research shows that non-violent offenders are more
effectively rehabilitated in community settings, which are also less expensive than prison. ARI
provides grants to local jurisdictions to expand their capacity to safely supervise non-violent
21

 offenders in the community by investing in evidence-based practices shown to reduce
recidivism. In exchange for grant funding, sites agree to reduce by 25 percent the number of nonviolent offenders they send to the Illinois Department of Corrections from their target
populations.
Community Based Violence Intervention and Prevention
Community-Based Violence Intervention and Prevention services programs support
the following activities:
1. Convene or expand an existing community coalition to engage service providers,
governmental agencies (local and/or statewide agencies), law enforcement, faith-based, and
general community members to ensure that service providers and all potential participants are
aware of violence prevention resources available in community; develop collaborative
partnerships to ensure that clients’ immediate needs are met; and provide pro-social activities
for the community.
2. Educate the public about program services through wide distribution and various types of
program materials, public presentations and awareness events.
3. Provide at least one of the four following direct services:
o Street Intervention/Interruption-Active Outreach and Engagement – These programs
provide crisis intervention and de-escalation of high stress situations to at-risk youth
and young adults.
o Counseling and Therapy – These developmentally and culturally appropriate
therapeutic services are provided by a mental health professional.
o Case Management – Case management approaches that are more effective at longterm client retention and developing trust between agency and youth/families require
actively engaging participants (i.e., active reaching out, meeting youth/families in the
home, community engagement).
o Youth Development – Engaging young people to develop their emotional, physical,
social, and intellectual selves provides opportunities for youth to practice conflict
resolution and prosocial life skills.
Community-Law Enforcement Partnership for Deflection and Substance Abuse Treatment
The Community-Law Enforcement Partnership for Deflection and Substance Abuse Treatment
program helps law enforcement to develop and implement deflection programs that offer
immediate pathways to substance use treatment as an alternative to involvement in the criminal
justice system.
Street Intervention
The mission of Ceasefire Illinois, a unit at the University of Illinois at Chicago School of Public
Health, is to work with community and government partners to reduce violence in all forms and
help design interventions required to better define what should be included in a community or
city anti-violence plan. Growing up in communities where violence is an everyday occurrence,
youth learn that violence is normal and are thus more likely to use violence or become victims of
22

 violence. Ceasefire staff members work to engage this population. Staff members will help
change their behavior and connect them to resources that would otherwise be out of reach.
Death Penalty Abolition Act
The Death Penalty Abolition Fund was created by Public Act 725 ILCS 5/119(b). The Act
required transfer of all unobligated and unexpended moneys remaining in the Capital Litigation
Trust Fund to the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority to be used for services for
families of victims of homicide or murder and for training of law enforcement personnel.
Duane Dean Behavioral Health Center Fund
The Duane Dean Behavioral Health Center’s Community Diversion Program seeks to employ a
broad based comprehensive approach in Kankakee County to educate and increase access to
services to the local criminal justice systems, the local community and the opioid dependent
individuals. This program will incorporate community education and trainings, cognitive
behavioral counseling, medication-assisted therapy (MAT), case managers, peer support
specialist, and recovery coaches.
Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Councils
Family Violence Coordinating Councils, at both state and local/circuit levels, establish a forum
to improve the institutional, professional, and community response to family violence, including
intimate partner abuse, child abuse, abuse against people with disabilities, and elder abuse. The
councils engage in education and prevention as well as coordination of intervention and services
for victims and perpetrators. They work to improve the administration of justice when addressing
family violence.
Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal
In order to facilitate the safe disposal of drugs, the Illinois General Assembly passed Public Act
097-0545, which established the Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal Fund, a special fund in the
state treasury. The Act states, “monies in the Fund shall be used for grants by the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority to local law enforcement agencies for the purpose of
facilitating the collection, transportation, and incineration of pharmaceuticals from residential
sources that are collected and transported by law enforcement agencies. These funds will be used
to procure drug disposal boxes and arrange for their delivery to priority sites. Recipient agencies
will agree to follow this standard procedure for the receipt, storage, and disposal of the collected
drugs.
Safer Foundation Fund
The Safer Foundation (SF) partnership with Mount Sinai Hospital’s Sinai Urban Health Institute
(SUHI) seeks to better understand the issues connected to gun violence in Chicago’s west side
communities. As a referral partner, SUHI seeks to work with SF to build their previous study of
non-fatal gun violence victims who are treated and discharged quickly. The goal is to refer such
23

 persons for SF services and to identify their social needs, gaps, resources and barriers to
employment and workforce development comparing those with and those without
arrest/conviction records.
Safe from the Start
The Safe from the Start Program was initiated to address childhood exposure to violence. The
program implements and evaluates comprehensive and coordinated community models to
identify and respond children ages 0 to 5 who have been exposed to violence in the home or
community. Program components include coalition and collaboration building, direct services,
and public awareness.

24

 