 

Official Report of the Proceedings
ofthe

BOARD OF EDUCATION

of the City of Chicago

 

Regular Meeting-Wednesday, July 24, 2019
10:30 AM. 
(42 West Madison Street)

 

Published by the Authority of the Chicago Board of Education

Miguel del Valle Estela G. Beltran
President . Secretary

July 24, 2019
ATTEST:

whim,

Secretary of the Board of Education
of the City of Chicago

President del Valle took the Chair and the meeting being called to order there were then:

PRESENT: Ms. Rome, Ms. Melendez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd-Breland, Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo,
and President del Valle 7

ABSENT: None

ALSO Dr. Janice Jackson, Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Joseph Moriarty,
General Counsel, Ms. LaTanya McDade, Chief Education Officer, and Mr. Hal Woods, Director of
School Development.

The 2019-2020 Honorary Student Board Member position is not required to attend
meetings until the September Board meeting.

ABSENT: None
President del Valle provided the following remarks:

Before we proceed with the agenda today, I?d like to take a moment to talk about the
changes we made last month to how the Board conducts its business. In keeping with our
commitment to increased transparency and access, we have added a new section to discuss
public agenda items. We moved voting on public agenda items prior to Executive Session, created
a 30-day public comment period for all new rules and policies, and amendments to rules and
policies. We made translation services a permanent feature of every board meeting. We?re
committed to holding some Board Meetings out in the community in later hours. And today?s
meeting is our first Board Meeting to be livestreamed to allow for Board Meetings to be watched in
real time.

Understanding that many of those changes increased the length of the meeting, and
being responsive to your feedback from the last meeting, we are making some additional changes
today.

The new order of events will be as follows: We will start with Honoring Excellence followed
by CEO Remarks, we will have Public Participation. So Public Participation will be earlier, a lot
earlier than in the past. Then after Public Participation, we will have a 20-minute Recess, then
Reconvene for the CEO Report and Presentations, then followed by Discussion of Public Agenda
Items, Vote on Public Agenda Items, then Closed Session, our usual Executive Session, and then
returning to Vote on Closed Session Items.

As you will note, the changes include moving public participation to earlier on the agenda
and creating a 20 minute break. In addition, outside of union representatives, our Elected Officials
will not speak during public participation, but will be welcomed at any time after the recess to
Speak. We are also going to allow food and drink outside the board chambers. If you need to eat or
drink something, please leave the board room to do so, and then you can return.

Additionally, I am asking for your ideas, and this is very important, on how to improve the
public participation registration process. We will maintain our 60 speaker limit which equates to
over two hours of public participation. And while the on-line process has eliminated the need for
people to get up early in the morning and wait in line for hours to try to speak at the Board
Meetings, I am troubled by the fact that all 60 speaker slots fill so quickly each month, within a
matter of minutes.

July 24, 2019

We have been debating several options and would like to get the public?s input. Some
options we have considered include holding some seats for same-day registration, keeping the
registration process open for 24 hours and then running a lottery for the 60 slots, or some
combination of the two. Please visit cpsboe.org and give us your feedback using the link provided
for feedback on the public participation process. You?ll find the link easily, or call us at 773-553-
1600, or write us at 1 N. Dearborn. 

At last month?s meeting, we also announced that we would be creating a committee
structure. I am happy to announce that we?ve developed three committees thus far, and they are
Early Childhood, Work Force Development and Equity, and the Whole Child Committee. The core
purpose of each committee is to gather information to help inform the Board and shape
educational policies.

I want to thank Board Members Mel?ndez, Rome and Todd-Breland for volunteering to chair
these committees.

Board Member Melendez will chair the Early Childhood Committee. Quality early care and
education is widely recognized as having the potential to provide a strong foundation forfuture
school success. As the City of Chicago begins to implement ambitious expansion of preschool for
four-year olds, this committee will engage different constituencies, families, educators,
administrators, and community representatives and agencies, community-based organizations,
CPS and others, in a conversation of how strong collaboration may contribute to identify and
address the needs of children, families, and communities across the city.

Board member Rome will chair the Whole Child Committee to ensure that all students have
equitable access to learning opportunities. We need to provide focused and differentiated
supports for all students. This committee will focus on academic and social supports necessary to
ensure that all CPS students succeed.

And the third Committee will be chaired by Member Todd-Breland. It will be the Workforce
Development and Equity Committee. All students deserve access to highly effective diverse
teaChers, principals, and educational support staff. The focus of this Committee will be to build on
strategies and programs that aim to address some of our core challenges in the employment
diversity and equitable access to high quality education.

Committee Hearings will be held at schools and community sites, not here. At schools and
community sites, providing greater opportunity for students, parents, academics and researchers,
and community partners to contribute to educational policy at CPS.

The committee chairs will determine the specific topics to be discussed at each hearing,
and the time, length and frequency of hearings. And all hearings will be held in compliance with
the Open Meetings Act. All hearings will include public participation and the opportunity for
participants to contribute as we collectively and collaboratively address challenges and issues.

President del Valle thereupon opened the floor to the Honoring Excellence segment of the
Board Meeting: 1) Co-Valedictorians, Nannette Beckley and Naomi Beckley (Brooks High School)
and Tia Smith and Tyra Smith (Lindblom High School; 2) Westinghouse High School - Special
Olympics Team; 3) SEL Outstanding Teacher Hyam Elsaharty (Mather High School); 4) SEL
Outstanding Teacher - Peter Stover (Courtenay Language Arts Center); and 5) Crossing Guard of
the Year - Roxie Calhoun (Coonley Elementary School).

President del Valle thereupon opened the floor to the CEO Remarks segment of the Board
Meeting. Dr. Janice Jackson, Chief Executive Officer, provided remarks on faith-based
neighborhood organizations serving as Safe Haven sites; Summer for Change from the Office of
Safety and Security; thanked Mayor Lightfoot and sister agencies working on safety through
summer programs; the 13 upcoming Back-to-School Bashes citywide; and the continued
partnership with the Chicago Police Department fostering keeping schools safe and welcoming.

President del Valle thereupon opened the floor to the Public Participation segment of the
Board Meeting.

President del Valle thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of Public Participation.

2

July 24, 2019

Board Member Rome presented the following Motion:
19-0724-M02

MOTION RE: RECESS

MOTION ADOPTED that the Board take a 20 minute Recess.

Board Member Melendez moved to adopt Motion 19-0724-MO2.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Ms. Rome, Ms. Mel?ndez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd-Breland, Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo, and
President del Valle - 7

Nays: None
President del Valle thereupon declared Motion adopted.
After the Recess the Board Reconvened.

Members present after Recess: Ms. Rome, Ms. Mele?ndez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd-Breland,
Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo, and President del Valle 7

Members absent after Recess: None

President del Valle thereupon opened the ?oor to the CEO report segment of the Board
meeting. Dr. Janice Jackson, Chief Executive Officer, introduced the following presentations:
ALOPICharter School Amendments, provided by Mr. Hal Woods, Director of School Development,
through 19-0724-EX4, and Community Schools, presented by Mr.
Michael Deuser, Chief College Career Success Officer, and Update on Office of
Student Protections Title IX, presented by Ms. Camie Pratt, Title IX Officer. Mr. Nick Schuler,
Inspector General, provided a presentation on Update on Quarterly OIG Investigations on Sexual
Allegations.

President del Valle thereupon opened the floor to the Discussion of the following Public
Agenda Items.

1) Authorize a New Agreement with Equal Opportunity Schools for Establishing Equity
in Advance Placement and International Baccalaureate Course Selection 
Summary: Authorize a one year agreement to spend up to $235,200 to provide services to
establish equity in Advance Placement and International Baccalaureate course selection across 6
participating high schools in Year I (Access Opportunity) and to finish Year Ill supports with
existing E08.

2) Authorize a New Agreement with ADANI Systems, Inc for the Purchase of Portable
X-Ray Machines and Related lnstailation, Maintenance and Training Services 
Summary: Authorize a two year agreement to spend up to $1,996,520 to purchase new x-ray
machines.

3) Authorize a New Agreement with Advance Security Resources LLC for the Purchase
of Walk-Through Metal Detectors and Related Installation, Maintenance and Training Services


Summary: Authorize a two year agreement to spend up to $392,200 to purchase and install new
metal detectors 

President del Valle thereupon opened the ?oor to the Discussion of Additional Public
Agenda Items.

President del Valle thereupon proceeded with the Vote on Public Agenda Items.

3

July 24, 2019

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:

Mr. President I will begin with items on the public agenda, read the board report numbers
and titles. I will begin with resolutions and a Board rule. These items do require a vote. I would
like to note for the record that a separate vote, Mr. President, will be taken on PR4. This is the item
for the amendment for ALOP services, and this separate vote will be taken after the last delegable
Board Report on Agenda, which is AR1, and will call that out when we get to that section. So we?ll
proceed, Mr. President, with the items on the Public Agenda.

1 9-0724-RS1

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUE OF ONE OR MORE SERIES OF UNLIMITED
TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION REFUNDING BONDS OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO IN AN AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT NOT TO
EXCEED $432,000,000 FOR THE PURPOSE OF PAYING THE COST OF REFUNDING
OUTSTANDING BONDS OF SAID BOARD OF EDUCATION

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Article 34 of the School Code, 105 lilinois Compiled
Statutes 5 (the ?School Code?), the City of Chicago, having a population exceeding 500,000, constitutes
one school district (the ?School District?), which is a body politic and corporate by the name of the "Board
of Education of the City of Chicago? (the "Board?); and

WHEREAS, the Board is governed by the seven-member Chicago Board of Education, as
successor to the Chicago School Reform Board of Trustees (the "School Board"); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Local Government Debt Reform Act, 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 350
(the ?Debt Reform Act?) the School Board is authorized to issue general obligation bonds of the Board as
?Alternate Bonds" as provided in Section 15 of the Debt Reform Act: and

WHEREAS, the School Board has heretofore authorized and issued various series of Alternate
Bonds that are outstanding (the "Outstanding Bonds?); and

WHEREAS, the principal of and interest on the Outstanding Bonds is scheduled to become due
and payable on various future payment dates and the School Board does hereby determine that it is in the
best interests of the Board and the residents of the School District to refund certain of its Outstanding Bonds
and to restructure its indebtedness by refunding various installments of principal of and interest on its
Outstanding Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Outstanding Bonds include (but are not iimited to) the Unlimited Tax General
Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series 2008A, of the Board (the ?Series 2008A I
Bonds") and the Unlimited Tax General Obligation Refunding Bonds (Dedicated Revenues), Series 20083,
of the Board (the "Series 20083 Bonds?); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to this Resolution, the Board determines to authorize the refunding of
Outstanding Bonds and the restructuring of the debt service payable on Outstanding Bonds (the

"Refunding"); and

WHEREAS, Section 15(e) of the Debt Reform Act provides that Alternate Bonds (the "Statutory
Refunding Bonds") may be issued to refund or advance refund alternate bonds without meeting any of
the conditions set forth in Section 15 of the Debt Reform Act, except that the term of the refunding bonds
shall not be longer than the term of the refunded bonds and that the debt service payable in any year on

the refunding bonds shall not exceed the debt service payable in such year on the refunded bonds; and

July 24, 2019

WHEREAS, the Series 2008A Bonds and the Series 20088 Bonds were authorized pursuant to
Resolution No. 08-0227-RS13, adopted by the Board on February 27, 2008 (the ?2008 Authorization") and
Resolution No. 08-0326-RS1 adopted by the Board on March 26, 2008; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the 2008 Authorization, the Series 2008A Bonds, on a parity with other
Alternate Bonds issued pursuant to the 2008 Authorization, are payable from and secured by a pledge of
and lien on intergovernmental Agreement Revenues payable to the Board pursuant to the
Intergovernmental Agreement dated October 1, 1997 between the City of Chicago and the Board and
(ii) Personal Property Replacement Tax Revenues consisting of amounts allocated and paid to the Board
from the Personal Property Tax Replacement Fund of the State pursuant to Section 12 of the State Revenue
Sharing Act, or from such Successor or replacement fund or act as may be enacted in the future (collectively,
the Pledged Revenues?); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the 2008 Authorization, the Series 2008B Bonds, on a parity with other
Alternate Bonds issued pursuant to the 2008 Authorization, are payable from and secured by a pledge of
and lien on not more than $225,000,000 of State Aid payments to be made to the Board in any year pursuant
to Article 18 of the School Code, or such successor or replacement act as may be enacted in the future
(the Pledged Revenues?); and

WHEREAS, the 2008A Pledged Revenues and the 20088 Pledged Revenues are herein referred
to collectively as the ?Pledged Revenues"; and

WHEREAS, the 20083 Pledged Revenues constitute a ?governmental revenue source" pursuant
to the Debt Reform Act; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires at this time, pursuant to Section 15 ofthe Debt Reform Act, to adopt

this Resolution providing for the issuance of Alternate Bonds in an aggregate amount not to exceed

$432,000,000 for the purpose of refunding the Outstanding Bonds and restructuring of the debt service
payable on Outstanding Bonds, all on the terms and conditions set forth in this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, the Alternate Bonds to be issued pursuant to this Resolution are to be issued as
Statutory Refunding Bonds and are herein referred to as the ?Bonds"; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds may be issued in one or more series (each a "Series?); and

WHEREAS, each Series of the Bonds will be payable from such of the Pledged Revenues as
are currently pledged to the payment of the Outstanding Bonds to be refunded by such Series and (ii) the
ad valorem taxes levied or to be levied against all of the taxable property in the School District without
limitation as to rate or amount pursuant to Section 3 of this Resolution (the ?Pledged Debt Service
Taxes?), for the purpose of providing funds in addition to the Pledged Revenues to pay the principal of and
interest on the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds of each Series will be issued under and secured by one or more Trust
Indentures (each, an ?lndenture?) between the Board and such bank, trust company or national banking
association appointed to serve as trustee under the lndenture as provided in Section 2(a) of this Resolution

(the ?Trustee"); and

July 24, 2019

WHEREAS. the Bonds will be further secured by the Funds, Accounts and Sub-Accounts
established and pledged pursuant to the applicable lndenture; and

WHEREAS, the Board may elect to pay the debt service on the Bonds from time to time from other
sources and, in accordance with Section 13 of the Debt Reform Act, the Board may elect to pledge
additional moneys of the Board, which may be deposited into one or more special funds of the Board, to
pay the debt service on the Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Bonds of a Series may be sold to an underwriter or a group of undenivriters (the
?Undemriters") to be designated by the Senior Vice President of Finance with respect to one or more
Series of the Bonds pursuant to a separate Contract of Purchase (each, a "Bond Purchase Ag reement?)
between the Underwriters and the Board, (ii) in a private placement with an individual investor or group of
investors to be designated by the Senior Vice President of Finance (the ?Placement Purchasers?) with
respect to one or more Series of the Bonds pursuant to a separate Placement Agreement between the

Placement Purchasers and the Board or other similar agreement for the sale and purchase of the Bonds

(each, a "Ptacement Agreement") or following distribution of a Notice of Sale and a competitive bidding
process, to a bidder or syndicate submitting an offer to purchase one or more Series of the Bonds
determined by the Senior Vice President of Finance to be in the best ?nancial interest of the Board (the
?Competitive Purchasers? and, together with the Underwriters and the Placement Purchasers being
referred to herein as the ?Purchasers?) pursuant to an agreement between the Competitive Purchasers
and the Board (each, a ?Competitive Sale Agreement" and, together with the Bond Purchase Agreement
and the Placement Agreement, a ?Purchase and Sale Agreement?); and

WHEREAS. in connection with the Refunding, the Board may undertake one or more transactions
pursuant to which existing owners of Outstanding Bonds will agree to tender Outstanding Bonds for
purchase by the Board, (ii) the redemption of Outstanding Bonds at redemption prices that are at par or
less than per; (the ?Bond Purchase Plan?), and

WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Board to authorize the sale and issuance of the Bonds and to
approve and to authorize and direct the sale of the Bonds pursuant to one or more of the methods described
above. together with the execution of the Indenture, the Purchase and Sale Agreement and certain other
agreements with respect to each Series and the performance of acts necessary or convenient in connection
with the implementation of this Resolution, the Refunding, the Bond Purchase Plan and the issuance of the
Bonds:

NOW, THEREFORE, Be It Hereby Resolved by the Chicago Board of Education of the Board of
Education of the City of Chicago, as follows:

Section 1. Incorporation of Preambles. The preambles of this Resolution are hereby

incorporated into this text as if set out herein in full.

Section 2. Issuance of Bonds. There shall be authorized the borrowing on the credit of
and for and on behalf of the Board the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $432,000,000 for the
purposes of paying the costs of the Refunding, including the Bond Purchase Plan, (ii) capitalized interest

on the Bonds, and costs of issuance of the Bonds, including the cost of bond insurance or other credit

July 24, 2019

enhancement The Bonds are hereby authorized to be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $432,000,000. The Bonds may be issued from time to time, as Alternate Bonds, in one or more

Series, in said aggregate principal amount, or such lesser aggregate principal amounts, as may be

determined by either the President of the School Board (the ?President?), (ii) the \?ce President of the
School Board (the ?Vice President") or any Member of the Board who is authorized to execute documents
or take action in lieu of the President, the Chief Executive Of?cer, (iv) the Senior Vice President of
Finance or the Treasurer (each, a "Designated, Official?). The Bonds of each Series shall be
distinguished from each other Series by a designation or title, including the words ?General Obligation
Refunding Bonds? and with such additions, modi?cations or revisions as shall be determined to be
necessary by any Designated Of?cial at the time of the sale of such Bonds to reflect the order of sale of
such Bonds, whether such Bonds are Capital Appreciation Bonds, Current Interest Bonds, Convertible
Bonds or Variable Rate Bonds (each as de?ned herein) and any other authorized features of such Bonds
determined by any of the Designated Of?cials as desirable to be reflected in the tide of the Bonds being
issued and sold as part of such Series. The Designated Of?cials are each hereby authorized to appoint a
Trustee for each Series of the Bonds so issued; provided that such Trustee shall be a bank, trust company
or national banking association doing business and having a corporate trust of?ce in the State of 
and having capital and undivided surplus aggregating at least $15,000,000 or shall be a wholly owned
subsidiary of such an entity. I

Each Series of Bonds shall be issued as Statutory Refunding Bonds pursuant to Section 15(e) of
the Debt Reform Act.

The Bonds of each Series shall be issued and secured pursuant to the terms of an lndenture
authorizing Capital Appreciation Bonds, Current Interest Bonds, Convertible Bonds (a ?Fixed Rate
lndenture?) or (ii) authorizing Variable Rate Bonds (a "Variable Rate lndenture?). Each of the Designated
Of?cials is hereby authorized to execute and deliver, and the Secretary is hereby authorized to attest, each
Fixed Rate lndenture or Variable Rate lndenture on behalf of the Board, each such lndenture to be in
substantially the respective form executed and delivered in connection with previous issues of Fixed Rate
Bonds and Variable Rate Bonds and previous issues secured by some or all of the Pledged Revenues, but
with such changes therein as shall be within the authorizations granted by this Resolution as shall be
approved by the Designated Of?ciai executing the same, with such execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of such Designated Of?cial?s approval and this Board?s approval of any changes or revisions

therein from the respective forms of Fixed Rate lndenture and Variable Rate lndenture authorized hereby.

The details of the sale of each Series of the Bonds as described in the noti?cation of sale of such
Bonds delivered by a Designated Of?cial pursuant to Section 4(el of this Resolution and all provisions
relating to the authorized denomination, registration, transfer and redemption of such Bonds, within the
limitations set forth herein, shall be set forth in the applicable lndenture executed and delivered by a
Designated Of?cial as described herein.

Either of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to determine the redemption date of each
Outstanding Bond to be redeemed and the purchase date of each Outstanding Bond to be purchased

pursuant to the Bond Purchase Plan.

July 24, 2019

in order to secure the payment of the principal of, redemption price of, interest on and the
Compound Accreted Value (as hereinafter de?ned) of each Series of the Bonds, the Board hereby pledges
the 2008A Pledged Revenues and the 20688 Pledged Revenues, as appropriate, to the payment thereof,
and the Board covenants and agrees to provide for, collect and apply such Pledged Revenues, to the
payment of such Series of the Bonds and the provision of an additional .10 times annual debt service in the
case of Bonds to be paid from a governmental revenue source or an additional .25 times annual debt
service in the case of Bonds not to be paid from a governmental revenue source. Each of the Designated
Of?cials is authorized to allocate all or a portion of the Pledged Revenues. as appropriate to the payment
of the principal of, redemption price of, interest on, and the Compound Accreted Value of, the applicable-
Series of the Bonds and the Indenture pursuant to which such Series of Bonds is issued and the noti?cation
of sale of such Series of the Bonds delivered by the Designated Of?cials pursuant to Section 4(e) of this
Resolution shall identify the speci?c Pledged Revenues allocated to such Series.

Once issued, the Bonds shall be and forever remain until paid or defeased the general
obligation of the Board, for the payment of which its full faith and credit are pledged, and shall be payable,
in addition to the applicable Pledged Revenues, from the levy of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes as"
provided in the Debt Reform Act and as set forth in Section 3 hereof.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as bonds payable in one payment on a ?xed
date (the "Capital Appreciation Bonds?). Any Bonds issued as Capital Appreciation Bonds shall be dated
the date of issuance thereof and shall also bear the date of authentication, shall be in fully registered form,

shall be numbered determined by the Trustee and shall be in denominations equal to the original principal

amounts of such Capital Appreciation Bonds or any integral multiple thereof, each such original principal
amount representing Compound Accreted Value (as hereinafter de?ned) at maturity (the "Maturity
Amount") of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. As used herein, the ?Compound Accreted Value? of
a Capital Appreciation Bond on any date of determination shall be an amount equal to the original principal
amount plus an investment return accrued to the date of such determination at a semiannual compounding
rate which is necessary to produce the yield to maturity borne by such Capital Appreciation Bond.

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as Bonds bearing interest at ?xed rates and paying
interest Semiannually (the ?Current Interest Bonds?). The Current interest Bonds shall be dated such date
as shall be agreed upon by a Designated Of?cial and the purchasers of the Current interest Bonds, shall
be in fully registered form and shall be numbered as determined by the Trustee.

The Bonds may be initially issued as Capital Appreciation Bonds containing provisions for the
conversion of the Compound Accreted Value of such Bonds into Current Interest Bonds (the ?Convertible
Bonds?) at such time following the initial issuance as shall be approved by a Designated Official. While in
the form of Capital Appreciation Bonds, such Convertible Bonds shall be subject to all of the provisions and
limitations of this Resolution relating to Capital Appreciation Bonds and while in the form of Current Interest
Bonds, such Convertible Bonds shall be subject to all of the provisions and limitations of this Resolution
relating to Current Interest Bonds. In connection with the issuance and sale of any Convertible Bonds, the
terms and provisions relating to the conversion of the Compound Accreted Value of such Convertible Bonds
into Current Interest Bonds shall be contained in the Fixed Rate Indenture executed and delivered by a

Designated Of?cial at the time of sale of such Convertible Bonds.

8

July 24, 2019

All or any portion of the Bonds may be issued as bonds bearing interest at variable rates adjustable
and payable from time to time, including, but not limited to, bonds bearing interest at variable rates that are
adjusted and reset from time to time as may be necessary to cause such Bonds to be remarketable from
time to time (the "Variable Rate Bonds"). The Variable Rate Bonds shall be dated such date as shall be
agreed upon by a Designated Of?cial and shall be numbered as determined by the applicable Trustee. All
references herein to the payment of principal of any Variable Rate Bonds shall also include the payment of
tender or purchase price of such Bonds as shall be speci?ed in the Variable Rate Indenture executed and

delivered by a-Designated Of?cial pursuant to which such Variable Rate Bonds are issued.

The Bonds shall be dated as of a date not earlier than August 1, 2019, as determined by a
Designated Of?cial at the time of sale thereof. The ?nal maturity date of any Series of Bonds shall not be
later than the ?nal maturity date of the Outstanding Bonds refunded with the proceeds of such Series, all in
accordance with Section 15(e) of the Debt Reform Act. If issued as Current interest Bonds, Capital
Appreciation Bonds or Convertible Bonds, such Bonds shall bear interest at a rate or rates not to exceed
9 percent per annum (computed upon the basis of a 360-day year of twelveao-day months) and payable
on such dates as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of sale thereof, all as shall be
determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of sale of such Bonds. The Bonds shall be issued in such
denominations as permitted under the applicable Indenture securing such Bonds.

The Variable Rate Bonds shall bear interest from time to time at such rates determined by such
remarketing or other indexing agent as shall be selected by a Designated Official for that purpose or
(ii) pursuant to such index or indices as shall be selected by a Designated Of?cial for that purpose, which
interest rate or rates shall not exceed the maximum permitted by law for obligations of the Board, but in no
event more than 15 percent per annum, subject to the provisions of Section 4(d) of this Resolution. The
method of determining the interest rate to be borne from time to time by the Variable Rate Bonds of any
Series shall be speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate Indenture. Each Variable Rate Bond shall bear
interest at such rates payable on such dates as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the timeof
sale of such Bonds and speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate Indenture.

The Bonds of each Series may be redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the Board,
in whole or in part on any date, at such times and at such redemption prices (to be expressed as a
percentage of the principal amount of such Bonds being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the date of
redemption), as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of the sale thereof. The Bonds of
each Series may be made subject to sinking fund redemption, at par and accrued interest to the date ?xed
for redemption, as determined by a Designated Of?cial at the time of the sale thereof, provided, that such
Bonds shall mature not later than the respective ?nal maturity date determined as set forth in Section 2(d)

of this Resolution.

Any Variable Rate Bonds may be made subject to optional or mandatory tender for purchase by

the owners thereof at such times and at such prices (to be expressed as a percentage of the principal

amount of such Bonds being tendered for purchase) as shall be determined by a Designated Of?cial at the
time of sale of such Variable Rate Bonds and speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate lndenture. in
connection with the remarketing of any Variable Rate Bondsso tendered for purchase under the terms and
conditions speci?ed in the applicable Variable Rate Indenture, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby

9

July 24, 2019

authorized to execute on behalf of the Board one or more remarketing agreements with such national
banking associations, banks, trust companies, investment bankers or other ?nancial institutions as shall be
selected by a Designated Of?cial re?ecting the terms and provisions of the Variable Rate Bonds and
containing such provisions as the Designated Of?cial executing the same shall determine are necessary or
desirable in connection with the sale of some or all of the Bonds as Variable Rate Bonds.

The Bonds of each Series may initially be issued in book-entry only form as provided in the
applicable Indenture. The Bonds shall be executed by the manual or duly authorized facsimile signature
of the President or Vice President and attested by the Secretary of the Board by the manual or duly
authorized facsimile signature of the Secretary or her designee and prepared in the respective forms as
provided in the applicable lndenture. The applicable Indenture may also require or permit the additional
manual or duly authorized facsimile signature of the Chief Executive Of?cer, the Senior Vice President of
Finance or the Treasurer.

The determination that the term of the applicable Series of Bonds is not longer than the
term of the Outstanding Bonds to be refunded by such Series, and that the debt service payable in any
year on such Series of Bonds does not exceed the debt service payable in such year on Outstanding Bonds
to be refunded by such Series, shall be made by a Designated Of?cial, who shall also execute a certi?cation
attesting to said determination.

Section 3. Tax Levy; Pledged Debt Service Taxes. For the purpose of providing funds in
addition to the Pledged Revenues to pay the principal of and interest on the Bonds, there is hereby levied
upon all of the taxable property within the School District, in the years for which any of the Bonds are
outstanding, a direct annual tax for each of the years while the Bonds or any of them are outstanding, in
amounts suf?cient for that purpose, and there be and there hereby is levied upon all of the taxable property

in the School District the following direct annual taxes:

FOR THE LEW YEAR A TAX SUFFICIENT TO PRODUCE THE SUM OF:
2019 $31,000,000
2020 31,000,000
2021 30,000,000
2022 30,000,000
2023 30,000,000
2024 69,000,000
2025 69,000,000
2026 69,000,000
2027 69,000,000
2028 69,000,000
2029 68,000,000
2030 16, 000,000
2031 - 16,000,000
2032 16,000,000

provided, that in connection with the issuance of Variable Rate Bonds, in furtherance of the general
obligation full faith and credit promise of the Board to pay the principal and redemption price of and interest
on the Bonds, the Board will take all actions necessary to levy upon all of the taxable?property within the .
School District, in the years for which any of the Bonds are outstanding, a direct annual tax, including any
direct annual tax required to be levied in excess of that levied in this Resolution, for collection on a timely
basis to make such payments (the taxes levied or to be levied pursuant to this Section being referred

to herein as the ?Pledged Debt Service Taxes").

10

July 24, 2019

After this Resolution becomes effective and a Series of Bonds is sold, a copy of this
Resolution, certified by the Secretary of the Board, shallbe ?led with each of the County Clerks of The
Counties of Cook and DuPage, Illinois (the "County Clerks"); and the County Clerks shall in and for each
of the years required, ascertain the rate percent required to produce the aggregate Pledged Debt Service
Taxes hereinbefore provided to be levied in each of said years; and the County Clerks shall extend the
same for collection on the tax books in connection with other taxes levied in said year in and by the Board
for general corporate purposes of the Board; and in said year the Pledged Debt Service Taxes shall be
levied and collected by and for and on behalf of the Board in like manner as taxes for general corporate
purposes of the Board for said years are levied and collected, and in addition to and in excess of all other
taxes, and when collected, if required pursuant to any escrow or similar agreement executed and delivered

pursuant to Section 5 of this Resolution, the taxes hereby levied shall be deposited with the designated

bank, trust company or national banking association.

(0) At the time and in the manner set forth in each lndenture, the Board shall direct the
abatement of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes in whole or in part. i

The noti?cation of sale of any Series of the Bonds delivered by the Designated Of?cials
pursuant to Section 4(a) of this Resolution may provide for the allocation of all or a portion of the Pledged
Debt Service Taxes levied for any year pursuant to this Resolution to the payment of the principal and
redemption price of and interest on such Series of the Bonds.

Section 4. Sale of the Bonds, Purchase and Sale Agreements. Each Series of the Bonds
shall be sold and delivered to the Purchasers, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable
Purchase and Sale Agreement; provided, that the aggregate purchase price of any Current Interest
Bonds or Variable Rate Bonds shall be not less than 97 percent of the principal amount thereof to be issued
(less any original issue discount used in the marketing thereof) pius accrued interest from their date to the
date of delivery thereof, (ii) that the aggregate purchase price of any Capital Appreciation Bonds or
Convertible Bonds shall not be less than 97 percent of the aggregate original principal amount thereof and
that the compensation paid to the Purchasers in connection with the sale of any Variable Rate Bonds
shall not exceed 3 percent of the principal amount thereof. The Senior Woe President of Finance and the
Treasurer each individually are hereby authorized to execute and deliver on behalf of the Board a Purchase
and Sale Agreement with respect to the sale of the Bonds of each Series, which in the case of a Bond
Purchase Agreement or a Placement Agreement shall be in substantially the form used in previous and
similar ?nancings of the Board and (ii) in the case of a Competitive Sale Agreement shall contain terms and
provisions no less favorable to the Board as those contained in a Bond Purchase Agreement or Placement
Agreement. Any such Purchase and Sale Agreement shall contain such ?nal terms as shall be approved
by the person executing such document, such approval to be evidenced by such person?s execution thereof,
and the Senior Vice President of Finance and the Treasurer are each also individually authorized to do all
things necessary and essential to effectuate the provisions of such Purchase and Sale Agreement, as
executed, including the execution of any documents and certi?cates incidental thereto or necessary to carry
out the provisions thereof. The Senior Woe President of Finance or the Treasurer shall'make a ?nding in
connection with the execution of each Purchase and Sale Agreement that die Bonds sold thereunder

have been sold at such price and bear interest at such rate that neither the true interest cost (yield) nor the

11

July 24, 2019

net interest rate received upon the sale of such Bonds exceeds the maximum rate othenivise authorized by
applicable law, and (ii) that no person holding any of?ce of the Board, either by election or appointment, is
in any manner interested, either directly or indirectly, in his or her own name, in the name of any other
person, association, trust or corporation, in the applicable lndentdre, any escrow or similar agreement
executed and delivered pursuant to Section 5 of this Resolution, the applicable Purchase and Sale
Agreement or any agreement with a Bond insurer or Credit Provider authorized by paragraphs and 
of this Section, or in the issuance and sale of such Bonds, in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois
and the Code of Ethics of the Board (Board Rule No. 11-0525-P02, as amended).

in connection with any sale of the Bonds of each Series, each of the Designated Of?cials
is hereby authorized to obtain a bond insurance poiicy from such recognized bond insurer as such
Designated Of?cial shall determine (the ?Bond insurer") if said Designated Of?cial determines such bond
insurance policy to be desirable in connection with the sale of such Series of Bonds. Each Designated
Of?cial is also authorized to enter into such agreements and make such covenants with any Bond Insurer
that such Designated Of?cial deems necessary and that are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions
of this Resolution and to pay upfront or annual fees to the Bond Insurer in connection therewith.

in connection with the sale and issuance of any Series of Bonds each of the Designated
Of?cials may determine to establish and maintain a debt service reserve fund as additional security for the
payment of the Bonds of such Series.

in connection with the sale of the Bonds of any Series, to provide additional security and
liquidity for such Bonds. each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to obtain a letter of credit,
line of credit or other credit or liquidity facility, including similar agreements with or facilities issued by a
Bond insurer (a ?Credit Facility"), if determined by such Designated Of?cial to be desirable in connection
with such sale of Bonds. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby further authorized to appoint one or
more banks, Bond Insurers or other ?nancial institutions to issue such Credit Facility (the ?Credit Provider?)
and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Board a credit, reimbursement or similar agreement (the ?Credit
Agreement?) providing for the issuance of the Credit Facility and the obligation of the Board to repay funds
borrowed under the Credit Facility or advances made by the Credit Provider under the Credit Facility with

respect to such Bonds. The Credit Facility may be in a form that provides for the purchase 0f SUCH Bonds

by the Credit Provider (any such Bond so purchased being referred to as a ?Bank Bond?) and the lndenture
as executed and delivered shall re?ect the terms and provisions of such Bank Bonds. Any Bonds
outstanding as Bank Bonds shail be secured as provided in the applicable lndenture. The annual fee paid
to any Credit Provider for the provision of a Credit Facility shall not exceed 3 percent of the amount available
to be drawn or advanced under such Credit Facility.

The Credit Agreement may provide that alternative interest rates or provisions will apply during
such times as the Bonds constitute Bank Bonds orthe Board has outstanding repayment obligations to the
Credit Provider (the. "Credit Provider Rate?), which Credit Provider Rate shall not exceed the maximum

permitted by law, but in no event more than 15 percent per annum (the "Maximum Credit Provider Rate").

12

July 24, 2019

The Credit Agreement may further provide that to the extent the Credit Provider Rate determined at any
time pursuant to the Credit Agreement exceeds the Maximum Credit Provider Rate, such excess may
accrue at the then-applicable Credit Provider Rate (but in no event may such excess accrue at a rate in
excess of 25 percent per annum) and be added to the Credit Provider Rate at such time or times thereafter
as the Credit Provider Rate shall be less than the Maximum Credit Provider Rate; provided, that at no time
shalt the Credit Provider Rate per annum exceed the Maximum Credit Provider Rate.

Subsequent to the sale of the Bonds of any Series, any Designated Of?cials shall ?le in
the Of?ce of the Secretary of the Board a noti?cation of sale directed to the Board setting forth the
aggregate original principal amount of, maturity schedule, redemption provisions and interest rates for the
Bonds of each Series sold, (ii) a description of the speci?c Pledged Revenues pledged to the payment of
the principal of, redemption price of, interest on and the Compound Accreted Value of the Bonds of such
Series, the principal amounts of the Bonds of each Series sold as Current interest Bonds, Capital
Appreciation Bonds, Convertibie Bonds and Variable Rate Bonds, respectively, (iv) in the case of Bonds
sold as Capital Appreciation Bonds and Convertible Bonds, (A) the Original Principal Amounts of and Yields
to Maturity on the Capital Appreciation Bonds and Convertible Bonds being sold, and (B) a table of
Compound Accreted Value per $5,000 Maturity Amount for any Capital Appreciation Bonds and Convertible
Bonds being sold, setting forth the Compound Accreted Value of each such Capital Appreciation Bond and
Convertible Bonds on each semiannual compounding date, the interest rates on the Current Interest

Bonds sold or, in the case of Variable Rate Bonds, a description of the method of determining the interest

rate applicable from time to time to such Variable Rate Bonds, (vi) debt service schedules for the Bonds of
each Series and for the Outstanding Bonds to be refunded by such Series, demonstrating that the term
of the Bonds of such Series is not longer than the term of the Outstanding Bonds to be refunded by such
Series and (ii) the debt service payable in any year on the Bonds of such Series does not exceed the debt
service payable in such year on the Outstanding Bonds for such year, (vii) the terms and provisions for the
conversion of the Compound Accrued Value of any Convertible Bonds issued hereunder into Current
Interest Bonds, the application of the proceeds of such Bonds for the purposes and within the
limitations set forth in paragraph (9) of this Section, (ix) if a bond insurance policy is obtained as authorized
herein, the identity of the Bond Insurer issuing the bond insurance policy and the premium and any fees
required to be paid thereto, if a Credit Facility is obtained as authorized herein, the identity of the Credit
Provider issuing the Credit Facility, and a copy of the Credit Agreement between the Board and such Credit
Provider shall be attached to said noti?cation of sale, (xi) the identity of the Trustee designated pursuant to

Section 2 of this Resolution with respect to the Bonds of such Series, (xii) the applicable redemption date

or dates or purchase date or dates of the Outstanding Bonds being refunded, the identity of any bank
or trust company selected by a Designated Of?cial to serve as Refunding Escrow Agent pursuant to the
authorization granted in paragraph of this Section, (xiv) if an escrow or other similar agreement is to be
executed and delivered as authorized in Section 5 of this Resolution, a copy of such agreement shall be
attached to said noti?cation of sale and (xvi) the identity of and the compensation paid to the Purchasers in

connection with sale.

13

July 24, 2019

In the event that the Designated Of?cial executing such noti?cation of sale determines that the
Bonds have been sold in such principal amount or maturing or bearing interest so as to require the levy of
taxes in any year less than the amount speci?ed therefor in Section 3(a) of this Resolution, then such
Designated Of?cial shall include, in the noti?cation of sale described in this Section, the amount of reduction
in the amount levied in Section 3(a) of this Resolution for each year resulting from such sale, and in
addition, any one or more of the Designated Officials shall ?le in the respective of?ces of the County Clerks
certi?cates of tax abatement for such years. in the case of Variable Rate Bonds, such amounts to be
abated from taxes tevied may be determined by reference to any projections of debt service on such

Variabie Rate Bonds provided to the Board at the time of sale of such Bonds. No such reduction in the

amounts levied in Section 3(a) of this Resolution need be made nor must any certi?cate of tax abatement
be ?led as described in the preceding sentence until either or both of the Designated Of?cials have
determined that any amount so levied in Section 3(a) of this Resolution will not be needed to secure the
Bonds being sold at that time or any Series of Bonds to be sold in the future. Any certi?cate of abatement
delivered pursuant to this paragraph shall refer to the amount of taxes levied pursuant to Section 3(a) of
this Resolution, shall indicate the amount of reduction in the amount of taxes levied by the Board resulting
from the sale of such Bonds, which reduced amount is to be abated from such taxes. and shall further
indicate the remainder of such taxes which is to be extended for collection by the County Clerks. Each of
the Designated Of?cials is also authorized to ?le in the respective of?ces of the County Clerks certi?cates
of tax abatement reflecting the refunding of the Outstanding Bonds.

The distribution of a Preliminary Of?cial Statement, Private Placement Memorandum or
Notice of Public Sale relating to each Series of the Bonds (the ?Disclosure Document") in substantially
the respective forms delivered in connection with previous issues of Fixed Rate Bonds and Variable Rate
Bonds and previous issues secured by some or all of the Pledged Revenues, but with such changes as
shall be approved by a Designated Of?cial to reflect the terms of the Bonds proposed to be'sold and the
method of sale of such Bonds. is hereby in all- respects, rati?ed, authorized and approved and shall be
?deemed final" for purposes of Ruie 15:22?12, adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (?Rule and the proposed use by the Underwriters or the
Competitive Purchasers of a ?nal Of?cial Statement (in substantially the form of the Preliminary Official
Statement but with appropriate variations, omissions and insertions to reflect the ?nal terms of the Bonds
being sold or (ii) authorized herein for a Preliminary Of?cial Statement if none is used in the marketing of
the Bonds being sold) is hereby approved. Each Designated Official is hereby authorized and directed to
execute the ?nal Of?cial Statement or other Disclosure Document, as appropriate, on behalf of the Board.

In connection with the sale of a Series of the Bonds, the Designated Of?cials are hereby authorized
to provide to prospective Private Purchasers such information regarding the Board's operations and
?nances as would typically be included in 3 Disclosure Document and to enter into such discussions and
negotiations with such prospective Private Purchasers as such Designated Of?cials shall deem appropriate.

In addition, the Designated Of?cials are hereby authorized to prepare a Notice of Sale for distribution to

potential bidders in connection with a public. competitive sale of a Series of the Bonds and to take all actions

necessary to conduct any such sale.

14

July 24, 2019

The proceeds from the sale of each Series of the Bonds shall be applied to the payment
of costs of the Refunding, including the Bond Purchase Plan, (ii) capitalize such interest to become due on
such-Bonds for such period not to exceed 2 years as shall be determined by the Senior \?ce President of
Finance or the Treasmer, and the payment of the expenses related to the issuance of such Bonds,
including, without limitation, fees to be paid to Bond Insurers or Credit Providers, and such proceeds shall
be applied as provided in the applicable lndenture. In addition, proceeds from the sale of a Series of the
Bonds in the amount of not to exceed 10% of the principal amount thereof may be deposited into a debt
service reserve fund to be held under the applicable lndenture and such proceeds shall also be applied as
provided in the applicable Indenture. ,All of such proceeds are hereby appropriated for the purposes
speci?ed in this paragraph.

The Senior Vice President of Finance and the Treasurer are hereby each authorized
individually to enter into or approve such agreements with investment providers as shall be necessary or
advisable in connection with the investment of any funds on deposit under the Indenture, to the extent such
investments are authorized under the terms of the lndenture, the Investment Policy of the Board and
applicable law, as in effect from time to time.

For the purpose of providing for the Refunding, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby .
authorized to execute and deliver one or more refunding escrow agreements (each, a "Refunding Escrow
Agreement?) on behalf of the Board, attested by the Secretary of the Board, such Refunding Escrow
Agreements to be in substantially the form executed and delivered in connection with previous refundings
of obligations issued by or on behalf of the Board, but with such changes therein as shall be approved by
the Designated Official executing the same, with such execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such
of?ciai's approval and this Board's approval of any changes or revisions therein from such form of
Refunding Escrow Agreement. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to designate a bank .
or trust company to act as Refunding Escrow Agent under each Refunding Escrow Agreement. Each
Refunding Escrow Agreement may include, to the extent permitted by law, agreements entered into

between the Board and providers of securities under which agreements providers agree to purchase from

or sell to the Board speci?ed securities on speci?c dates at predetermined prices, all as established at the
time of execution of any such agreement

Section 5. Escrow of Pledged Revenues and Pledged Debt Sen/ice Taxes. if deemed
necessary and desirable to provide additional security for any Bonds, each of the Designated Of?cials is
hereby authorized to execute and deliver on behalf of the Board, and the Secretary is authorized to attest,
a form of escrow or other similar agreement with a bank, trust company or national banking association
having the same quali?cations as those set forth in Section 2(3) of this Resolution for a Trustee, re?ecting
the issuance of the Bonds and such segregation of Pledged Revenues and the segregation of Piedged

Debt Service Taxes as the Designated Of?cial executing such agreement shall deem appropriate.

Section 6. Pledged Taxes Escrow Direction. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby
authorized, pursuant to authority contained in Section 20-90 of the Property Tax Code, to execute a written
direction to the County Collectors of The Counties of Cook and DuPage, Illinois (the "County Collectors?),

to deposit the collections of the Pledged Debt Service Taxes as and when extended for collection directly

15

July 24, 2019

with such escrow agent designated pursuant to Section 5 of this Resolution in order to secure the payment
of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, and (ii) to the extent necessary, advising the County Collectors
of the abatement of the Piedged Debt Service Taxes. The Designated Of?cials are authorized to ?le a
certi?ed copy of this Resolution with each of the County Collectors.

Section 7. Bond Purchase Plan. A Bond Purchase Plan is hereby authorized with respect to
the Series 2008A Bonds and the Series 20038 Bonds. Under the Bond Purchase Plan, Series 2008A
Bonds and Series 20083 Bonds may be redeemed or purchased by the Board at such prices as determined
by the Senior Vice President of Finance or the Treasurer. The proceeds of sale of any Series of Bonds and
moneys held under the trust indentures securing the Series 2008A Bonds and the Series 20083 Bonds 
may be applied to pay the redemption price and purchase price (including in each case accrued interest)
of Series 2008A Bonds and Series 20088 Bonds redeemed or purchased pursuant to the Bond Purchase
Plan. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby authorized to take any action and to execute and deliver
any documents useful in connection with the Bond Purchase Plan, including (but not limited to) one or more

supplemental indentures amending one or more of the trust indentures securing the Outstanding Bonds.

Section 8. Conversion to Fixed Rate of interest. With respect to the Series 2008A Bonds and
the Series 20088 Bonds, each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby delegated the authority to provide for
the conversion of such Outstanding Bonds to a ?xed interest rate in accordance with the trust indenture
securing such Outstanding Bonds and in connection with such conversion to undertake actions and execute
and deliver documents, including (but not llmited to) one or more supplemental indentures amending one
or more of such trust indentures.

Section 9. Tax-Exemption and Non-Arbitrage. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby
authorized to take any other actions and to execute any other documents and certi?cates necessary to
assure that the interest payments with respect to the Bonds of each Series are excludable from gross
income for Federal income tax purposes, to assure that the Bonds do not constitute ?arbitrage bonds? or
?private activity bends" under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and to effectuate the
issuance and delivery of the Bonds, including but not limited to the execution and delivery of a Tax
Agreement; provided, however, that any of the Bonds may be issued as Bonds the interest on which is
includible in the gross income of the owner thereof for federal income tax purposes if determined by a

Designated Of?cial tobe bene?cial to the Board.

Section 10. Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. Each of the Designated Of?cials is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver one or more Continuing Disclosure Undertakings (each, a ?Continuing
Disclosure Undertaking") evidencing the Board's agreement to comply with the requirements of
Section of Rule 15c2-12, as applicable to the Bonds of each Series. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Resolution or any lndenture, the sole remedies for any failure by the Board to comply with
a Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the bene?cial owner of any Bond of the applicable
Series to seek mandamus or speci?c performance by court order to cause the Board to comply with Its
obligations under such Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. Each Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall

be in substantialiy the form used in previous financings of the Board, but with such changes therein as shall

16

July 24, 2019

be approved by the Designated Of?cial executing the same, with Such execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of such of?cial?s approval and this Board?s approval of any changes or revisions therein from such

form of Continuing Disclosure Undertaking.

Section 11. FurtherActs. Each of the Designated Of?cials, of?cials or of?cers of the Board are
hereby authorized to execute and deliver such other documents and agreements and perform such other
acts as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the Bonds, including, but not limited to, the
exercise following the delivery date of the Bonds of any power or authority delegated to such of?cial under
this Resolution with respect to the Bonds upon originai issuance, but subject to any limitations on or
restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth.

All actions of the of?ciais or of?cers of the Board that are in conformity with the purposes and intent
of this Resolution are hereby in all respects rati?ed, approved, and con?rmed.

Section 12. The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be
severable; and if any section, phrase, or provision shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases. or provisions.

Section 13. Repeaier and Effective Date. All resolutions or parts of resolutions in con?ict
herewith are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. This Resolution is effective immediately upon

its adoption.
1 9-0724-R82

RESOLUTION

AUTHORIZE THE PUBLIC BUILDING COMMISSION OF CHICAGO
TO GRANT ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENTS TO PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANIES
FOR THE INSTALLATION OF FACILITIES ON SCHOOL PROPERTIES

.. WHEREAS, the .Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the "Board") is a body corporate and
politic, organized and exrsting under and by virtue of the provisions of the School Code, 105 5l34-1
et seq. as amended; and

. WHEREAS, the Board exercises genera! supervision and jurisdiction over the establishment and
maintenance of pUbIlC schools and other educational of the Board including playgrounds and
other recreational facilities; and

WHEREAS, the Board is a member of the Public Building Commission of Chicago and

WHEREAS, the PBC holds title to Dulles School at 6311 S. Calumet and other school properties
for the Board; and .

WHEREAS, The Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company ("Peoples Gas?) is undertaking a
System Medemization Project as part of that project requires a permanent easement in the property
described. on Exhibit A for the purpose of replacing gas serving Dulles School at 6311 S.
Calumet and

WHEREAS, public utility companies and the City of Chicago may from time to time request
access. and easements on school properties for the purpose of modernizing, instailing. replacing,
Upgrading and extending their public utility service facilities; and

WHEREAS, the Board has authorized the General Counsel to execute access agreements on?
Board properties for this purpose;

NOW, THEREFORE, 1T IS HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION:
1. The Board of Education authorizes and requests the PBC to execute the Easement Grant

Agreement with Peoples Gas to enable it to replace gas service facilities on the Dulles
property described therein.

17

July 24, 2019

2. The Board further authorizes and directs the PBC, as title holder for the Board, to .
execute access and easement grant agreements with public utilities and the City of
Chicago upon the written request of the Board?s Chief Operating Of?cer or General
Counsel, approved as to legal form by the Board's General Counsel.

3. The Board authorizes its General Counsel'and its Chief Operating Of?cer to take all
necessary action required to grant access and easements to public utilities and the City
of Chicago that will improve and expand utility service to and on Board property.

4. This Resolution is effective immediately upon its adoption.

EXHIBIT A
[Legal Description]

For Easement Grant Agreement with Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company for
The Installation of Replacement Gas Service Facilities at Dulles School

A 33 foot wide easement strip, over the vacated North 350 feet of South Calumet Avenue as more
particularly described as follows:

THE EAST 33 FEET OF THE NORTH 350 FEET OF SOUTH CALUMET AVENUE VACATED BY CITY
OF CHICAGO ORDINANCE PASSED MARCH 9, 1962 AND RECORDED ON APRIL 13, 1962 AS
DOCUMENT NO. 18448638 IN THE EAST HALF OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 22.
38 NORTH, RANGE 14 EAST OF THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN IN COOK COUNTY,

1 9-0724-RS3

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZE APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS
TO LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCILS TO FILL VACANCIES

WHEREAS, the Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS authorizes the Board of Education of the
City of Chicago ('Board') to appoint the teacher, non-teacher staff and high school student members of
local school councils of regular attendance centers to ?ll mid-term vacancies after considering the
preferences of the schools? staffs or students, as appropriate, for candidates for appointment as
ascertained through non-binding advisory polls;

WHEREAS, the Governance of Alternative and Small Schools Policy, B. R. 07-0124-P02
("Governance Policy?), authorizes the Board to appoint all members of the appointed local school councils
and boards of governors of alternative and small schools (including military academy high schools) to ?ll
mid-term vacancies after considering candidates for appointment selected by the following methods and
the Chief Executive Of?cer's recommendations of those or other candidates:

Membership Categog Method of Candidate Selection

Parent Recommendation by serving LSC or Board

Community Recommendation by serving LSC or Board

Advocate Recommendation by serving LSC or Board

Teacher Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll

Non-Teacher Staff Member Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll .

JROTC Instructor Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll (military academy high
schools only)

Student A Non-binding Advisory Student Poll or Student Serving

as Cadet Battalion Commander or Senior Cadet
(military academy high schools)

WHEREAS, the established methods of selection of candidates for Board appointment to ?ll mid-
term vacancies on local school councils, appointed local school councils andlor boards of governors were
employed at the schools identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A and the candidates selected thereby and any
other candidates recommended by the Chief Executive Of?cer have been submitted to the Board for
consideration for appointment in the exercise of its absolute discretion;

WHEREAS, the Illinois School Code and the Governance Policy authorize the Board to exercise
absolute discretion in the appointment process; 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF
CHICAGO: - 

1. The individuals identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A are hereby appointed to serve in the speci?ed
categories on the local school councils, appointed local schools and/Or boards of governors of the
identi?ed schools for the remainder of the current term of their respective of?ces.

2. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon adoption.

18

PARENTS

Janice Buckham
Deidre Horton
Vincent Johnson
Verornica Jones
Robyn Latchman
Lakwanda Leonard
David Davis
Sheenita Robinson
Marcella Wheatley

TEACHER MEMBER
Patrice Cash
LaWanda Funches
Janice Shaw
Theopilus 'I'Ines
Nicole Naranjo
Marzanna Potolowicz
Katina Makn's

NON TEACHER
Samuel Marshalt
Jeannette Gutierrez
Camika Harding
Sean Cornell Pride

STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE

Ja'Vontae McGee
Christopher Se La 0
Aniah Pore

Angel Cruz

Karen Menez
Quamasia O?Neal

19-0724-RU1

Exhibit A

NEW APPOINTED LSC MEMBERS

 

REPLACING
Vacancy
Vacancy
Vacancy
Vacancy 
Vacancy
Vacancy
Vacancy
Vacancy
Vacancy

REPLACING
Tonya Fisher-Gary
Bailey
Reginald Spears
Robert Pincham
Michael Murphy
Eduardo Pineda
Vacancy

REPLACING
Croom
Jeylu Gutierrez
Tawanna Gault
Charles Alexander

REPLACING
Vacancy
Vacancy
Vacancy
Vacancy
Vacancy
Vacancy

SCHOOL
Bronzeville HS
Bronzeville HS 
Bronzeville HS
Bronzeville HS
Bronzeville HS
Bronzeville HS
Lindblom HS
Lindblom HS
Lindblom HS

SCHOOL
Bronzeville HS
Bronzeville HS
Doolittle ES
Harlan HS
Lyon ES

Reilly ES
Laura Ward ES

SCHOOL
Doolittle ES

. Hernandez MS

Mays ES
South Shore HS

SCHOOL

Chicago Military Academy
Curie HS

Hyde Park HS

Juarez 

Kelvyn Park'HS

Richards HS

AMEND CHAPTER BOARD RULE 2-6 REGARDING ADOPTION,
AMENDMENT, REPEAL OR SUSPENSION OF RULES AND POLICIES

THE GENERAL COUNSEL RECOMMENDS THAT:

The Board of Education amend Chapter II. Board Rule 2-6 regarding adoption, amendment, repeal or
suspension of rules and polipies as follows:

Sec. 2-6. Adoption, Amendment, Regal or and Suspension of Final Rules and Policies.

Adoptipn, Amendment, Repeal or Spspension of Final Rules and Policies. The Board of Education

(Board) enacts Ihe Rules and Policies1 pursuant to 105 5134-19 and such actions have the
force of ordinanCes. Rules and Policies may only be adopted or amended at a regular meeting and
by a vote of two-thirds of the full membership of the Board. Rutes and Policies of the Board of

Education may only be repealed or suppended at a regular meeting by a vote of two-thirds of 
full membership of the Board. Except as provided by subsections and below, adoption,

amendment, reppaler or suspension must be preceded by the foliowinq actions:

 

July 24, 2019

The proposed ado?on or_a_mendment of a Ruie or Policy or motion for repealer or

rescission of a Board Rule or Policy has been posted on the district?s website for a period
of thim (30) calendar days with an invitation to the general public to provide public

comment.

(ii) Ali public comment has been published to the general public on the district?s website,
provided however the comments that reveal con?dential or private information or use

expletives or defamatopy, vulgar or threatening language may be redacted or omitted.

All public comment has been provided to Board members at least ten (10} calendar gays
prior to their consideration of proposed new or amended ruie or motion to respind or repeal.

19

July 24, 2019

Interim Rules or Policies and Interim Amendments to Rules and Policies. The Board may adopt
an interim Rule or Policy or amend a Rule or Policy on an interim basis prior to a public comment
m?od andlor before meeting any or all of the prereguisites outlined in paragraphs law) to as

an interim Rule to meet legal reguirements or other exigent circumstances provided that the interim

or Pplicy.

Form of Rule Addition, Amendment or Repeal. Any and all additions, amendments or repeal of
these Rules shall specify thereinrthe chapter and section thereof sought to be added, amended 0;

repealed.

Suspension of Rules and Policies The Rules and Policies may be suspended at any regular
meeting by a majority of the full membership then serving. Any-h suspension of a Rule or Policy shall
be for a speci?ed time period. - - -

 

 

Effective date. The amended pgrtiops of this Rule are effective September 26, 2019 and thereafter.

 

1 The Board uses the term ?Policy? interchangeably with. and it has the same meaning as the word
"regulationIsl?, as used in 105 5/34-19. .

Board Member Sotelo moved and Board Member Mel?ndez seconded the motion to adopt
Board Reports 19-0724-RS1 through 19-0724- RS3 and 

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Ms. Rome, Ms. Mel?ndez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd- Breland, Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo, and
President del Valle? 7

Nays: None

President del Valle thereupon declared Board Reports 19-0724-RS1 through 19-0724- R83
and 19-0724- RU1 adopted.

19-0724-601

COMMUNICATION RE: LOCATION OF
BOARD MEETING or AUGUST 28, 2019

Miguel del Valle President, and
Members of the Board of Education
Luisiana Melendez
Sendhil Revuluri
Amy Rome
Lucino Sotelo
Elizabeth Todd-Breland
Dwayne Truss

This is to advise that the Regular Meeting of the Board of Education scheduled for Wed nesday.
August 28, 2019 will be held at:

CPS Loop Of?ce
42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Board Room
Chicago, lL 60502

The Board Meeting will begin at 10:30 am.

Public Participation Guidelines are available on or by calling (773) 553-1600.

For the August 28, 2019 Board Meeting, advance registration to speak and observe will be available
beginning Monday, August 26?? at 10:30 am. and will close on Tuesday, August 271" at 5:00 pm. or until all slots
are ?lled. You can advance register during the registration period by the following methods:

. Online: (recommended)

0 Phone: (773) 553?1600
. In Person: 1 North Dearborn, Suite 950

20

July 24, 2019

To ensure equity of access to address the Board, an individual may not speak at two (2) consecutive
Board Meetings. in the event an individual registers to speak at a consecutive Board Meeting. the individual will
not be called to address the Board.

Although Advance Registration is recommended, you can also register to observe a meeting on the
day of a Board Meeting via:

0 Same Day In Person Observer Registration: 42 W. Madison Street lobby
. Registration Time: Opens at 10:15 am. and will remain open for the duration of the Board
Meeting

Same Day, In-Person Observer Registrations are taken on a ?rst come, ?rst serve basis as seats
become available.

The Public Participation segment of the meeting will begin as indicated in the meeting agenda and
proceed for no more than 60 registered speakers for the two hours.

1 

*[Note: The complete document will
be posted on cpsboemrg}

TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Various Units and Objects

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

The various transfers of funds were requested by the Central Of?ce Departments during the month of June. All
transfers are budget neutral. A brief explanation of each transfer is provided below:

1. er from lewood ool

Rationale: Returning funds to granting unit

Transfer From: Transfer To:
49161 TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School 10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities Supplies 57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113035 All CityAris K-12 113035 Atl CityArts K42
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs 000000 Default Value
Amount: $1,000
2. wn mm nl EIeman
Rationale: Returning funds to granting unit
Transfer From: Transfer To:
23631 Woodlawn Community Elementary School 10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies 57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113035 All City Arts K-12 113035 All City Arts K-12
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs 000000 Default Vaius
Amount: $1.000
3. Hog College [reaming High 19 Ag
Rationale: Returning funds to granting unit
Transfer From: Transfer To:
49091 Hope College Preparatory High School 10390 Arts
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies 57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113035 All CiryArrs K-12 113035 All City Arts K-12
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs 000000 Default Vaiue
Amount: $1,000
4. ran a El choo
Rationale: Retuming funds to granting unit
Transfer From: Transfer To:
29261 Edgar Allan Poe Elementary Classiml School 10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies 57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113035 All City Arts K-12 113035 All City Arts K-12
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs 000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,000

21

July 24, 2019

 

5. sfer Office of Wellnes to Of?ce of Stude ea eiiness
Rationale: Conference Fees
Transfer From: Transfer To:
14050 Of?ce of Student Health Wellness 14050 Of?ce of Student Health Wellness
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
54215 Car Fare 54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
213011 Health Services 213011 Health Services
000000 Default Value 000000 Default Value
Amount $1,000
6. 0 Social otion Rationale: Supplies needed for OSEL programs
Transfer From: Transfer To:
10698 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide 10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense 53405 Commodities - Supplies
211012 Social And Emotional Learning Supports 211012 Social And Emotional Leaming Supports
000000 Default Value 000000 Default Value
Amount: $1,000
7.
Rationale: Professional Services.
Transfer From: Transfer To:
14060 Family a Community Engagement Of?ce 14060 Family Community Engagement Of?ce
324 Miscellaneous Federal. State Local Grants 324 Miscellaneous Federal. State Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies 54125 Services - ProfessionallAdrninistrative
300008 CommunitylParent involvement 300008 CommunityIParent involvement
320520 innovative Bridge Transition Program 320520 Innovative Bridge 8: Transition Program
Amount: $1.000 I
8. Transf Ne 5 Echo ical a
Rationale: funding incentive
Transfer From: Transfer To:
02651 Network 15 46641 Richard Crane Medical Preparatory HS
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges 53405 Commodities - Supplies
221080 - improvement Of instruction 320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value 000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs
Amount: $1.000
1165. as rfromc ?rai - i Wide to LauraSW men oh I

1166.

Rationale: Funds Transfer From Award# 2015-476?00?01 To Project# Change Reason: NA

Transfer From: Transfer To:
12150 CapitalIOperalions - City Wide 24991 Laura Ward Elementary School
476 Modem Schools 476 Modern Schools
56310 Capitalized Construction 56310 Capitalized 
009426 All Other 009559 BoilerIMeohaniwi
000000 Default Value 000000 Default Value
Amount: $9,920,337
sf rfrom Ea childhood Dev Rationale: Transfer of funds for Universal Curriculum
Transfer From: Transfer To:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide 10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
362 Early Childhood Development 115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative 53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (instructional)
410001 Payment To Other Government Units 221206 Learning Technology
376663 State Preschool For All Age 0-3 Community 000000 Default Value

Partnerships Fy19

Amount: 59.921335

22

July 24, 2019

1167. MW -

Rationale: Transfer of funds to support Universal Curriculum costs.

Transfer From: Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide 10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
115 General Education Fund 1 15 General Education Fund
57810 Debt - Interest Expense 53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
514001 Bond Interest 221206 Learning Technology

000000 Default Value 000000 Default Value
Amount: $10,000,000 

1168. fr VI - -

Rationale: Transfer of funds for Universal Curriculum expenditures.

Transfer From: Transfer To:
11385 Earty Childhood Development - City Wide 10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
362 Early Childhood Development 115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - ProfessionalIAdministrative 53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
410001 Payment To Other Gayemment Units 221206 Learning Technology
376670 State Preschool For An Age 35 Community 000000 Default Value

Partnerships Fy19
Amount: $12,237,383

1169. 2,35 - 12 Curriculum go Pre-K - 12 Qum'ggigm

Rationale: Transfer of funds for Universal Curriculum

Transfer From: Transfer To:
10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum 10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
115 General Education Fund 115 General Education Fund
53307 Commoditiesz? Software Licenses (Instructional) 53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
221206 Learning Technology . 221206 Learning Technology
000000 Default Value 000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,237,383

1170. Jagger tom Nm?tlgn ?ggport ?gir? - City Wig; to Pre-K - 12 
Rationale: Transfer of funds to support Universal Curriculum costs-
Transfer From: Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide 10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
312 Lunchmom Fund 115 General Education Fund

53210 Commodities - Donated Food 53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)

256009 Food Service 221206 Learning Technology

000000 Default Value 000000 Default Value

Amount: $13,338,057

*[Note: The complete document will be on File in the Office of the Board and posted on
cpsboe.org] 

1 9-0724-EX2

AMEND BOARD REPORT 18-0425-EX6
AMEND BOARD REPORT 17-0828-EX9
AMEND BOARD REPORT 16-0427-EX21 
AMEND BOARD REPORT 15-0929-EX5
AMEND BOARD REPORT 15-0527-EX24
AUTHORIZE RENEWAL OF THE YOUTH CONNECTION CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

Authorize renewal of the Youth Connection Charter School Agreement (the "Charter School Agreement?)
for an additional ?ve-year period. A new Charter School Agreement applicable to this renewal term will be
negotiated. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written Charter School
Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board within 120 days of the
date of this Board Report The agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon certi?cation by the
Illinois State Board of Education. Information pertinent to this renewal is stated below.

This September 2015 amendment is necessary to ratify the voluntary suspension of educational services
at the YCCS \?rtual High School Campus for the 2015-2016 school year. The 191 seats that were once
allocated to the YCCS Virtual High School Campus have been temporarily redistributed across the 15
YCCS campuses as identi?ed below. Youth Connection Charter School must notify the Of?ce of Innovation
and Incubation of its intention to reinstate its educationai services at YCCS Virtual High School
Campus for the 2016-2017 school year by submitting a material modi?cation that proposes a new campus
location and outlines the educational and operational practices at the campus.

23

July 24, 2019

This September 2015 amendment is also necessary to ratify theapproval of Charles Hamilton Houston
Alternative High School Campus to remain at its location at 7847 S. Jeffery Boulevard until YCCS has
provided l&l with all necessary zoning and occupancy permits and health and safety approvals for that
campus to relocate into the independent facility at 6620 S. King Drive. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the Charter School Agreement is not executed
by the Board and the charter schools governing board within 120 days of the date of this amended Board
Report.

This April 2016 amendment is necessary to change the name of the Association House - El Cuarto Ano
Campus to Association House High School Campus, extend the suspension of me YCCS \?rtual High
School Campus for one additional year until the 2017-2018 school year and update the location for
Charles Hamilton Houston Alternative High School Campus to 6620 South King Drive. The authority granted
herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the Charter School Agreement is
not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this
amended Board Report.

This August 2017 amendment is necessary to authorize an extension of the suspension of the YCCS
Virtual High School Campus for one additional year until the 2018-2019 school year, changing the name
of the Charles Hamilton Houston Alternative High School Campus to the Progressive Leadership Academy
Campus, changing the name of the Ada S. McKinley Lakeside Campus to McKinley Lakeside
Leadership Academy Campus and an increase in the at capacity enrollment of the Westside Holistic
Leadership Academy Campus by 200 students to 435 students, thereby increasing the overall at capacity
enrollment of the charter school by 200 students to 4,417 students beginning in the fall of 2017. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event that a written amendment to the Charter School
Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter School?s governing board within 120 days of the
date of this amended Board Report.

This April 2018 amendment is necessary to authorize an extension of the suspension of the YCCS Virtual
High School Campus for one additional year until the 2019-2020 school year and a change in the name
of the Westside Holistic Leadership Academy Campus to the West Campus. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind in the event that a written amendment to the Charter School Agreement is not
executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board within 120 days of the date of this
amended Board Report. -

This July 2019 amendment is necessary to authorize an extension of the suspension of the YCCS Virtual
High School Campus for one additional year until the 2020-2021 school year. The authorin granted herein
shall automatically rescind in the event that a written amendment to the Charter School Agreement is not
executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this
amended Board Report.

SCHOOL Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS), an not-for-pro?t corporation
CHARTER SCHOOL: 10 W. 35th Street, Suite 11F4-2
. Chicago, Illinois 60616

(312) 328-0799

Contact Person: Sheila Venson, Executive Director

Of?ce of Innovation and incubation
42 West Madison Street, Floor
Chicago, IL 60602
Phone: 773-553-1530 
Contact Person: Mary?Bradley Hendrik R. Woods, interim Executive Director

 

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original Charter School Agreement (authorized by Board Report 97-0723-
EX9) was for a term commencing August 1, 1997 and ending June 30, 2002. The agreement authorized
YCCS to operate a multiple-campus charter school serving dropouts throughoutChicago. The agreement
also limited their enrollment to no more than 1850 students. YCCS is governed by a single board with
uniform policies that apply to all campuses regarding admissions, curriculum, school calendar, student
assessments, performance goals, student discipline and employment policies. The charter and Charter
School Agreement (authorized by Board Report were subsequently renewed for a term
. commencing July 1, 2002 and ending June 30, 2007. The agreement authorized YCCS to operate a
multiple campus charter school with an enrollment gradually increasing toa maximum enrollment of 3200
students in 2006-07. The charter and Charter School Agreement were further renewed (authorized by
Board Report for a term commencing July 1, 2007 and ending June 30, 2012. The charter
and Charter School Agreement (authorized by Board Report 12-0328-EX14) were further renewed for a
term commencing July 1. 2012 and ending June 30, 2015, serving no more than 4,004 students. The charter
and Charter School Agreement were subsequently amended as follows:

- Board Report Approved the relocation of Charles Hamilton Houston Alternative High
School to 4701 S. King Drive and the removal of the Rudy Lozano Leadership Academy from the
list of YCCS Campuses. Also approved the relocation of the Innovations High School of Arts
Integration to 17 N. State Street and the correction of the at capacity enrollment at each of the
YCCS Campuses.

- Board Report 12-0822-EX5: Approved the establishment of a new campus called YCCS Chatham
Academy opening in the fall of 2012 with an at capacity enrollment of 141 students.

24

July 24, 2019

0 Board Report 13-0123-EX3: Approved the relocation of Charles Hamilton Houston Alternative High
School to 7847 South Jeffrey Boulevard, effective January 31, 2013, and the removal of the Paul
Simon Academy (Job Corps) from the list of YCCS Campuses. The 40 seats that were once
allocated to the Paul Simon Academy (Job Corps) were redistributed across the following 5 YCCS
Campuses: Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican High School (5 seats), Community Services
West~Cornmunity Christian Academy (5 seats), innovations High School of Arts integration (5
seats), West Town Academy Alternative High School (15 seats) and Howard Area Alternative High
School (10 seats).

. Board Report Approved the removal of Options Laboratory School (175 seats) and
the Howard Area Alternative High School (114 seats) from the list of YCCS campuses. The 289
seats that were allocated to both campuses were redistributed . across the following YCCS
campuses: Ada S. McKinley? Lakeside (11 seats), YCCS Chatham Academy (40 seats), Sullivan
House Alternative High School (54 seats), Jane Adams (5 seats), Olive Harvey Middle College
High School (5 seats), Truman Middle College High School (10 seats), YCCS Virtual High School
(26 seats), Association House El Cuarto Ano (15 seats), innovations High School of Arts Integration
(37 seats), West Town Academy Alternative High School (14 seats), Austin Career Education
Center (5 seats), ASPIRA Antonia Pantoj'a' (17 seats) and Westside Holistic Leadership Academy
(50 seats). Also approved the correction of the effective date of the relocation of the Charles
Hamilton Houston Alternative High School from '4701 South King Drive to 7847 South Jeffrey-
Boulevard from January 31, 2013 to July 1, 2013.

CHARTER RENEWAL PROPOSAL: Youth Connection Charter School submitted a renewal proposal on
November 12, 2014 to continue the operation of a multi-campus charter school serving dropouts throughout
the city under a uni?ed mission. The charter school shall serve grades 9 through12 with a maximum
enrollment of 4,217 students.

in April 2015, Youth Connection Charter School submitted a material modi?cation to change the location of
its Charles Hamilton Houston Alternative High School Campus to 6620 S. King Drive. A public hearing on
the proposed relocation was held on Thursday, May 21, 2015. The hearing was recorded and a summary
report is available for review.

The agreement will incorporate an accountability plan in which the charter school is evaluated by the Board
each year based on numerous factors related to its academic, ?nancial and operational performance.

In July 2015, Youth Connection Charter School submitted a material modi?cation to voluntarily suspend
educational services at the YCCS Virtual High SchoOI Campus for the 2015?2016 school year. The 191
seats that were once allocated to the YCCS Virtual High School Campus have been temporarily
redistributed across the following 15 YCCS campuses: Community Service West - Academy of Scholastic
Achievement (20 seats), ASPIRA Antonia Pantoja (10 seats), Association House - El Cuarto Am (5
seats), Austin Career Education Center (10 seats), Community Services West Community Christian
Academy (10 seats), YCCS Chatham Academy (23 seats), Charles Hamilton Houston Alternative High
School (10 seats). Community Youth Development institute (10 seats), Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto
Rican High School (5 seats), innovations High School of Arts integration (15 seats), Jane Addams (5 seats),
Latino Youth Alternative High School (8 seats), Olive Harvey Middle College High School (10 seats),
Sullivan House Alternative High School (30 seats) and West Town Academy Alternative High School (20
seats). Youth Connection Charter School must notify the Of?ce of innovation and Incubation of its
intention to reinstate its educational services at YCCS Virtual High School Campus for the 20164017
school year by submitting a material modi?cation that proposes a new campus location and outlines the
educational and operational practices at the campus. 

in July 2015, Youth Connection Charter School submitted a material modi?cation requesting that the
Charles Hamilton Houston Alternative High School Campus remain at its location at 7847 S. Jeffery
Boulevard. Youth Connection Charter School must provide with all necessary zoning and occupancy
permits and health and safety approvals in order for that campus to relocate into the independent facility at
6620 S. King Drive.

The public hearing on the proposed changes was held on Tuesday, September 22, 2015. The hearing was
recorded and a summary report is available for review.

in January 2016, Youth Connection Charter School submitted an application to request a change in the
name of the Association House - El Cuarto Ano Campus to Association House High School Campus and 
approval to extend the suspension of the YCCS Virtual High School Campus for one additional year until the
2017-2018 school year.

Also, in January 2016, Youth Connection Charter School relocated its Charles Hamilton Houston Alternative
High School Campus into the independent facility at 6620 South King Drive after receiving the approval of
l&l and the CPS Facilities Department which included, without limitation, the receipt of all necessary zoning
and occupancy permits and health and safety approvals for that site.

A public hearing on the proposed changes was held on Tuesday, April 19, 2016. The hearing was recorded
and a summary report is available for review.

25

July 24, 2019

In February 2017, Youth Connection Charter School submitted an application for amendment to extend
the suspension of the YCCS Virtual High School Campus forone additional year until the 201 8-2019 school
year, change the name of the Charles Hamilton Houston Alternative High School Campus to the
Progressive Leadership Academy Campus, change the name of the Ada S. McKinley Lakeside Campus
to McKinley Lakeside Leadership Academy Campus, and increase the at capacity enrollment of the
Westside Holistic Leadership Academy Campus by 200 students to 435 students, thereby increasing the
overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school by 200 students to 4,417 students beginning in the fall of
2017.

A public hearing on the proposed changes was held on Monday, August 21, 2017. The hearing was
recorded and a summary report is available for review.

In February 2018, Youth Connection Charter School submitted an application for amendment to extend
the suspension of the YCCS Wtual 'High School Campus for one additional year until the 2019?2020 school
year and change the name of the Westside Holistic Leadership Academy Campus to the West Campus.

A public hearing on the proposed changes was held on Wednesday, April 11, 2018. The hearing was
recorded and a summary report is available for review.

In April 2019- Youth Connection Charter School submitted an application for amendment to extend the
suspension of the YCCS Virtual High School Campus for one additional year until the 2020-2021 school

ear.

A public hearing on the proposed extension was held on Monday. July 15. 2019. The hegrinq was recorded
and a summapg report is available for review.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

At
At Capacity - Capacity
Campus Name Address Grades Enrollment
Community Service West- Academy of
Scholastic Achievement 4651 W. Madison Street 9?12 237
McKinley Lakeside Leadership Academy 2920 S. Wabash Avenue 9-12 204
-Antonia Pantoia 3121 N. Pulaski Avenue. 9-12 192
1116 N. Kedzie Avenue, 4th
Association House High School Floor 9?12 155
Austin Career Education Center 5352 W. Chicago Avenue 11-12 195
Community Services West - Community 
Christian Academy 1231 S. Pulaski Avenue 9-12 241
YCCS Chatham Academy . 9035 3. Langley Avenue 9- 12 204
Progressive Leadership Academy 6620 S. KingDrive 9-12 151
Community Youth Development Institute 7836 S. Union Street 10 -12 260
Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican 2739 W. Division Street 
High School 2700 W. Haddon Avenue 9-12 184
Innovations High School of Arts
Integration 17 N. State Street 9?12 366
Jane Addams 1814 s. Union Street 9-12 210
. . 9-12
Latmo Youth Alternative High School 2001 8. California Avenue 201
Olive Harvey Middle College High
School 10001 S. Woodlawn Avenue 9-12 199

 

 

 

26

July 24, 2019

 

 

 

Sullivan House Alternative High School 8164 S. South Chicago Ave. 9-12 334
Truman Middle College High School 1145 W. \MIson Avenue 9-12 210
9
(voluntary

suspension for
2015-16, 2016-
17. 2017-2018

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 2018-2019,
YCCS Virtual High School TBD TBD and 20192020
school years
West Town Academy Alternative High 94 2
School - 500 N. Sacramento Blvd. 189
West 4909 W. Division Street 9- 12 435
Youth Connection Leadersl? 3424 S. State Street 9-12 250

 

CHARTER EVALUATION: After receiving the charter renewal proposal, the Of?ce of Innovation and
Incubation conducted a comprehensive evaluation of Youth Connection Charter School?s academic
performance, ?nancial viability, and legal and contract compliance. This evaluation included a review of the
proposal, academic results, ?nancial performance, governance documents, parental issues, facilities
surveys, and special education documentation. A public hearing was held on May 20, 2015 for all charter
schools going through renewals to receive public comments, including Youth Connection Charter School.
The Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation recommends that, based on the school?s performance on these
and other accountability criteria, Youth Connection Charter School be authorized to continue operating as
a charter school.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of Youth Connection Charter School's charter and agreement is being
extended for a ?ve (5) year term commencing July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2020. The YCCS Virtual

High School Campus has been suspended for the 2015-2016, 2016-2017, 2017-2018,anel 2018-2019 
2019-2020 school years.

ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS: No. additional terms and conditions are included as an
attachment to the Charter School Agreement with Youth Connection Charter School.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including any
indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement and amendment.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the written Charter School Agreement and amendment.
Authorize the Executive Director of the Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation to issue a letter notifying the
Illinois State Board of Education of the action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved
proposal and signed Charter School Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education for certi?cation.
Authorize the General Counsel to further negotiate and execute any amendments to the Charter School
Agreement required by the illinois State Board of Education.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: The ?nancial implications wiil be addressed during the development of the 20483?2049gg
?scal year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent ?scal year budgets.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. .

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213, which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 25, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to
time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

27

July 24, 2019

1 9-0724-EX3

AMEND BOARD REPORT 18-0425-EX7
AMEND BOARD REPORT 17-0828-EX10
AMEND BOARD REPORT 18-1207-EX6
AUTHORIZE RENEWAL OF THE CHICAGO INTERNATIONAL CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT
WITH CONDITIONS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

Authorize renewal of the Chicago International Charter School Agreement (the ?Charter School
Agreement?) with conditions for an additionaII-seven-year period. A new Charter School Agreement
applicable to this renewal term will be negotiated. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind
in the event a written Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's
governing board within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. The agreement authorized herein will
only take effect upon certi?cation by the Illinois State Board of Education. Information pertinent to this
renewal is stated below.

This August 2017 amendment is necessary to authorize an extension of the term of the Charter School
Agreement from its current end date of June 30, 2022 to June 30, 2024. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and
the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report.

This April 2018 amendment is necessary to authorize a change in the education management organization
for the following campuses of Chicago International Charter School, effective July 1, 2018: Lloyd Bond
Campus from Charter Schools USA to Chicago Rise LLC and Longwood and Loomis Primary
Campuses from Charter Schools USA to ignite Learning Collaborative LLC. The authority granted herein
shall automaticain rescind in the event a written Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board
and the charter school's governing board within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report. The
agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon certi?cation by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This Jul 2019 amendment is necessa to rati Chica 0 Charter School Foundation's termination of the
education management organization agreements for the following campuses of Chicago International
Charter School. effective Julv 1. 2019: la) Llovd Bond Campus from Chicago Rise LLC, and Longwood
and Loomis Primagy Campuses from Empowered Community Schools (flkla Ignite Learning Collaborative
The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written Charter School
Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school?s governing board within 120 days of the
date of this amended Board Report. The authorized herein will only ta__ke effect upon certi?cation

by the Illinois State Board of Education.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: Chicago Charter School Foundation, an IL not-for-prof corporation
11 Adams Street Suite 600
Chicago Illinois 60603
Phone: 312-651-5000
Contact Persons: Laura Thonn, Board President
Elizabeth Shaw, CEO

CHARTER SCHOOL: Chicago International Charter School
11 E. Adams Street, Suite 600
Chicago. Illinois 60603
Phone: 312-651-5000
Contact Person: Elizabeth Shaw, CEO

OVERSIGHT: I Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation
42 W. Madison Street, Floor
Chicago, IL 60602
Phone: 773-553-1530
Contact Person: Mary?Bradley Hendrik R. Woods, Interim Executive Director

 

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original Charter School Agreement (authorized by Board Report 97?0122-
EX4 as amended by Board Report was for a term commencing July 1, 1997 and ending June
30, 2002 and authorized the operation of a charter school serving no more than 5,000 students in grades
through 12. The charter and Charter School Agreement were subsequently renewed for a term
commencing July 1, 2002 and ending June 30, 2007 (authorized by Board Report The
charter and Charter School Agreement were further renewed for a term commencing July 1, 2007 and
ending June 30, 2012, serving no more than 7,647 students (authorized by Board Report 07-0523-EX5).
The charter and Charter School Agreement were then renewed for a term commencing July 1, 2012 and
ending June 30,2017, serving no more than 10,111 students (authorized by Board" Report 12-0328-EX11). 
The charter and Charter School Agreement were subsequently amended as follows:

28

July 24, 2019

. Board Report Rati?ed the authorization to change the educational management
organization at Chicago International Charter School Irving Park Campus from Victory
Educational Partners to Distinctive Schools effective July 1, 2013. Also corrected the at capacity
enrollment at Chicago International Charter School - Ralph Ellison Campus from 630 to 570
students which decreased the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school from 10,111 to
10,051 students. Also approved an increase in the at capacity enrollment at Chicago International
Charter School Northtown Campus by 50 students to 900 students which increased the overall
at capacity enrollment of the charter school to 10,101 students in spring of 2015.

a Board Report Rati?ed the authorization to change the education management
organization for the following campuses of the Chicago lntemational Charter School from Edison
Schools Inc. to Charter Schools USA, effective July 1, 2012: Larry Hawkins Campus, Lloyd Bond
Campus, Longwood Campus and Loomis Primary Campus. Also corrected the at capacity
enrollment for Chicago International Charter School Ralph Ellison Campus from 570 to 630
students thus increasing the overall at capacity enrollment of the charter school from 10,101 to
10,161 students.

- Board Report Revoked the Chicago international Charter School Larry Hawkins
Campus at the end of 2015-2016 school year, thus decreasing the overall at capacity enrollment
of the charter school to 9,261 students by the fall of 2016. Also authorized an amendment to the
Charter School Agreement and a campus wind down agreement with respect to the revocation of
the Larry Hawkins Campus. 

- Board Report Rati?ed the authorization to change the education management
organization for the following campuses of Chicago international Charter School from Victory to
ReGeneration Schools. effective January 1, 2016: Avalon/South Shore Campus, Basil Campus
and Washington Park Campus. Also changed the student enrollment capacity for Chicago
International Charter School from the individual campus-level to the network~ievel beginning in the
fall of 2016. The overall networkLIevel at capacity enrollment of the charter school will remain
unchanged at 9,261 students.

CHARTER RENEWAL PROPOSAL: Chicago Charter School Foundation submitted a renewal proposal
on September 14. 2016 to continue the operation of Chicago International Charter School under a uni?ed
mission using, Civitas, Chicago Quest, Distinctive Schools, Charter Schools USA and ReGeneration
Schools for comprehensive school management services. The charter school shall continue to serve grades
through 12 with a maximum enrollment of 9,261 students. The student enrollment capacity for the charter
school shall continue to be at the network-level. The charter school can change student enrollment between
campuses based on parameters set forth in the agreement so long as the overall network-level at capacity
enrollment of the charter school does not change. 

Also, in December 2015, the governing board of Chicago Charter School Foundation voted to no longer
serve grades 6 through 8 at the Chicago International Charter School - ChicagoQuest North Campus
beginning in the 2016-2017 school year. In December 2015, Chicago International Charter School held
parent meetings to support families with placement at other Chicago international Charter School
campuses. All 8"1 grade students were supported in matriculating to the grade at ChicagoQuest North.
Beginning in the 2016-2017 school year, no Gill?8?1 grade students were enrolled at ChicagoQuest North.

In October 2016, Chicago Charter School Foundation submitted a material modi?cation to the Office of
Innovation and Incubation to only serve grades 9 through 12 at the Chicago International Charter School -

ChicagoQuest North Campus.

The Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation recommends ratifying the authorization for Chicago Charter School
Foundation to only serve grades 9 through 12 at the Chicago International Charter School - ChicagoQuest
North Campus, effective July 1, 2016.

in February 2017, Chicago Charter School Foundation submitted an application for amendment to extend
its Charter School Agreement beyond a ?ve-year term. The term of the Charter School Agreement is being
extended from its current and date of June 30, 2022 to June 30, 2024. A public hearing on the proposed
extension was held on Monday, August 21, 2017. The hearing was recorded and a summary report is
available for review. .

In April 2018, Chicago Charter School Foundation submitted an application for amendment to change the
education management organization for the following campusesof Chicago International Charter School,
effective July 1, 2018: Lloyd Bond Campus from Charter Schools USA to Chicago Rise LLC and 
Longwood and Loomis Primary Campuses from Charter Schools USA to Ignite Learning Collaborative LLC.

A public hearing on the proposed changes was held on Wednesday, April 11, 2018. The hearing was
recorded and a summary report is available for review.

In May 2019, Chicago Charter School Foundation submitted a letter to the Of?ce of Innovation and

Incubation reguesting to terminate the education management organization agreements for the following
camguses of Chicago International Charter School. effective July 1. 2019: Llovd Bond Campus from"

Chicago Rise LLC, and Longwood and Loomis Primary Campuses from Emgowered Communiy

Schools (fIk/a Ignite Learning Collaborative LLC).

 

29

July 24, 2019

A public hearing on the promsed changes was held on Monday, July 15, 2019. The hearing was recorded
and a summary report is available for review.

 

Estimated

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

School Year Campus Address At 2016?2017
Management Opened Name Capacity Enrollment At Capacity
Co. Grades Enrollment"
Civitas LLC 2002 Northtown 3900 W. 9-12 908 900
Peterson
2006 Ralph Ellison 1817 W. 80th 9-12 441 630
Street
2005 Wrightwood 8130 S. K-8 784 785
California
Chicago Quest 2011 ChicagoQuest 1409 1443 9-12 288 801
North N. Ogden
Distinctive 1997 Bucktown 2235 N. K-8 704 670
Schools Hamilton
2007 Irving Park 3820 N. 556 536 
Spaulding
1997 Prairie 1 1530 S. 420 405
Prairie
Avenue
2002 West Belden 2245 N. 531 500
McVicker
Chicago-Rise 2009 Lloyd Bond 13300 S. KG 341 350
L429 Langley
None ..
ignite 1997 Longwood 1309 W. 95th 3412 1,361 1,475
beaming Street
Geilaberative 2008 Loomis 9535 S. 550 590
i=i=G Primary Loomis
None
ReGeneration 2005 AvalonISouth 1501 E. 83rd 501 426
Schools Shore Place
2002 Basil 1816 W. K-8 749 733
Gar?eld. 
2001 Washington 6105 S. 482 460
Park Michigan

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*At cap enrollment at individual campuses may ?uctuate but overall network-level at cap enrollment will remain unchanged.

The agreement will incorporate an accountability plan in which the charter school is evaluated by the Board
each year based on numerous factors related to its academic, ?nancial and operational performance.

CHARTER EVALUATION: After receiving the charter renewal proposal, the Of?ce of Innovation and
Incubation conducted a comprehensive evaluation of Chicago International Charter School?s academic
performance, ?nancial viability, and Iegai and contract compliance. This evaluation included a review of the
proposal, academic results, ?nancial performance, governance documents, parental issues, facilities
surveys. and special education documentation. A public hearing was held on November 21, 2016 for all
contract and charter schoolsgoing through renewals to receive public comments, including Chicago
lntemational Charter School. The Of?ce of Innovation and incubation recommends that, based on the
school's performance on these and other accountability criteria, as well as the schooi's demonstration of
intent to satisfy the "Additional Terms and Conditions? referred to herein below, Chicago Internationai
Charter School be authorized to continue operating as a charter school.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of Chicago lntemational Charter School's charter and agreement is being
extended for a seven (7) year term commencing July 1. 2017 and ending June 30, 2024.

ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS: Additional terms and conditions will be communicated to the
charter school by the Chief Executive of?cer or his designee in a formal Letter of Conditions and will be
included as an attachment to the Charter School Agreement with Chicago Charter School Foundation.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including any
indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize the
President and Secretary to execute the written Charter School Agreement. Authorize the Executive
Director of the Office of innovation and Incubation to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of
Education of the action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and signed Charter
School Agreement to the iliinois State Board of Education for certification. Authorize the General Counsel
to further negotiate and execute any amendments to the Charter School Agreement as required by the
State Board of Education.

LSC of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: The ?nanciai implications will be addressed during the development of the 204819204920
?scal year budget. Since the School Code of illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unleSs an

appropriation has-been previously made, expenditures beyond FY4819 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent fiscal year budgets.

30

July 24, 2019

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General- Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not-be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 ILCS 5134?21 .3, which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness- The Board' 5 indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 (96- 0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics- The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to
time shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

1 9-0724-EX4

AMEND BOARD REPORT 18-0822-EX3
AMEND BOARD REPORT 17-1206-EX9

AUTHORIZE RENEWAL OF THE CHICAGO COLLEGIATE CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT WITH
CONDITIONS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

Authorize renewal of the Chicago Collegiate Charter School Agreement (the ?Charter School Agreement?)
with conditions for an additional ?ve-year period. A new Charter School Agreement applicable to this
renewal term will be negotiated. The authority granted herein shall automaticallyrescind in the event a
written Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board
within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. The agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon
certi?cation by me Illinois State Board of Education. lnforrnation pertinent to this renewal is stated below.

This August 2018 amendment is necessary to change the temporary relocation of the 9?1 grade to an
independent facility at 10909 5. Cottage Grove beginning in the tail of 2017 to the fall of 2018 and to
increase the grades being temporarily relocated to grades 7*'1 - 10'? in fall 2018, 1111' in fall 2019, and 12th
in fall 2020. The Board approval for each grade to occupy this temporary site is contingent upon the
subsequent approval of the facility by the CPS Facilities Department which shall include, without
limitation, the receipt of all necessary zoning and occupancy permits and health and safety approvals for
that site. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written Charter School
Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board within 120 days of the
date of this amended Board Report. The agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon certi?cation
by the Illinois State Board of Education.

This July 2019 amendment is necessapl to change the location of grades and 8th from the facilipg
at 10909 8. Cottage Grove to the facilig at 11816 S. Indiana Avenue beginning in the fall of 2019 and fall

of 2020. respectively: and bl chanqe the status of the facility at 10909 S. Cottage Grove from a temporam
to a permanent location. The Board approval for this Ermanent location is contingent upon the

subseguent approval of the facility by the CPS Facilities Department which shall include. without

limitation, the receipt of all necessary zoning and occupancy permits and health and safegr approvals for
that site. The authority granted herein shall automaticaily rescind in? the event a written amendment to the
Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board within
120 days of the date of this amended Board Report.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: Chicago Collegiate, lnc., an lL not-for-pro?t corporation
11816 S. Indiana Avenue
Chicago, Illinois, 60628
Phone: 773-536-9098 
Contact Beth Carrera Napleton, Executive Director

CHARTER SCHOOL: Chicago Collegiate Charter School
11816 S. Indiana Avenue
Chicago, Illinois, 60628
and 
10909 S. Cottage Grove Avenue (temporary-facility}
Chicago, Illinois 60628
Phone: 773-536-9098
Contact: Beth Carrera Napleton, Executive Director

OVERSIGHT: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation
42 W. Madison Street, Floor
Chicago, IL 60602
Phone: 773-553-1530

Contact Person: Macy?KrBraaley-Hendrik R. Woods, interim Executive Director

31

 July 24, 2019

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original Charter School Agreement (authorized by Board Report 13?0424-
5x15) was for a term commencing July 1, 2013 and ending June 30, 2018 and authorized the operation of
a charter school sewing no more than 630 students in grades 4 through 12. The charter and Charter School
Agreement were subsequently amended as follows:

. Board Report 17-0828-EX4: Approved the temporary relocation of the 9'h grade to an independent
facility at 10909 S. Cottage Grove Avenue beginning in the fall of 2017 contingent upon the
subsequent approval of the facility by'the CPS Facility Department. Also approved the addition of
grades through 3 to the grades served at the charter school and the increase in the maximum
enrollment by 220 students to 850 students beginning in the fall of 2018, which approval was
contingent upon renewal of the charter and Charter School Agreement.

CHARTER RENEWAL PROPOSAL: Chicago Collegiate, Inc. submitted a renewal proposal on July 31,
2017 to continue the operation of Chicago Collegiate Charter School. The charter school shall continue to
be located at 11816 S. Indiana Avenue and 10909 S. Cottage Grove Avenue (temporary facility beginning
with grade) and shall Serve grades through 12 with a maximum enrollment of 850 students.

The agreement will incorporate an accountability plan in which the charter school is evaluated by the Board
each year based on numerous factors related to its academic, ?nancial-and operational performance.

The temporary relocation of the 9?h grade to an independent facility at 10909 S. Cottage Grove beginning
in the fall of 2017 did not occur due to renovations not being completed as scheduled. The temporary
relocation has been changed to the fall of 2018. Also, in July 2018, Chicago Collegiate, Inc. noti?ed the
Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation that the charter school wanted to increase the grades being temporarily
relocated to grades 10th in fall 2018, 11?h in fall 2019, and 12??1 in fall 2020. The Board approval for each
grade to occupy this temporary site is contingent upon the subsequent approval of the facility by the CPS
Facilities Department which shall include, without limitation, the receipt of all necessary zoning and
occupancy permits and health and safety approvals for that site.

A public hearing on the proposed changes was held-on Thursday, August 16, 2018. The hearing was
recorded and a summary report is available for review.

In Februarv 2019. Chicago Collegiate, Inc. submitted an application for amendment to change the
location of grades and 8m from the temporapg independent facility at 10909 8. Cottage Grove to the
facilig at 11816 S. Indiana Avenue beginning in the fall of 2019 and fall of 2020 respectively; and (bi
change the status of the facilig at 10909 S. Cottage Grove from a temporary to a permanent location.
The Board approval for this permanent location is contingent upon the subseguent approval of the 

by the CPS Facilities Department which shall include. without limitation. the receipt of all necessapy
zoning and occupancv permits and health and safetv approvals for that site.

 

 

 

Public hearings on the proposed changes were held on Wednesday, April 10-2019. and Monday. July
15, 2019. The hearings wererecbrded and summapy reports are available for review.

CHARTER EVALUATION: After receiving the charter renewal proposal, the Of?ce of Innovation and
Incubation conducted a comprehensive evaluation of Chicago Collegiate Charter School's academic
performance, ?nancial viability, and legal and contract compliance. This evaluation included a review of the
proposal, academic results, ?nancial performance, governance documents, parental issues, facilities
surveys, and special education documentation. A public hearing was held on November 6, 2017 for all
contract and charter schools going through renewal to receive public comments, including Chicago
Collegiate Charter School. The Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation recommends that, based on the school's
performance on these and other accountability criteria, as well as the school's demonstration of intent to
satisfy the "Additional Terms and Conditions? referred to herein below, Chicago Collegiate Charter School
be authorized to continue operating as a charter school.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of Chicago Collegiate Charter School's charter and agreement is being
extended for a five (5) year term commencing July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2023.

ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS: Additional terms and conditions will be communicated to the
charter school by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee in a formal Letter of Conditions and will be
included as an attachment to the Charter School Agreement with Chicago Collegiate, Inc.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including any
indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement and amendment.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the written? Charter School Agreement and amendment.
Authorize the Executive Director of the Of?ce of Innovation and incubation to issue a letter notifying the
Illinois State Board of Education of the action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved
proposal and signed Charter School Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education for certi?cation.
Authorize the General Counsel to further negotiate and execute any amendments to. theCharter School
Agreement as required by the Illinois State Board of Education.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: The financial implications will be addressed during the development of the 204-8?-20-1-9?
?scal year budget. Since the School Code of illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FY4833 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent ?scal year budgets.

32

July 24, 2019

GENERAL CONDITIONS: -

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, inaccordance with 105 
5134431 the Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. .

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation. of the
Provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213. which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one?year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. - -

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to
time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Board Member Todd-Breiand abstained on Board Report 19-0724-EX4.

1 9-0724-P R1

AMEND BOARD REPORT 184331 ?31
AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
FOR ADMINISTRATION OF THE SELECTIVE ENROLLMENT SCHOOLS ADMISSIONS
EXAMINATION FOR STUDENTS APPLYING TO KINDERGARTEN THROUGH EIGHTH GRADES FOR
THE CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS OFFICE OF ACCESS AND ENROLLMENT 

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst renewal agreement with Illinois Institute of Technology (ilT) to provide administration of
the Selective Enrollment Elementary Schools admissions examination for students applying to
kindergarten through eighth grades for Chicago Public Schools Of?ce of Access and Enrollment
at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. A written
document exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No payment shalt be made to Illinois
Institute of Technology (IIT) during the option period prior to execution of the written document. The
authority granted herein shall automatically rescind In the event a written document is not executed within
90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

This Jul 2019amendm ntisn see lncreas FY20s endfo . 52 57 227 5. The

authority granted herein ehell egtemetiglly in the event written amendment ie net exeegted
i ti i stated bel
Specification Number: 15350073

Contract Administrator Wright. Mr. Thaddeus I 773-553?2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor it 26500
ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

3424 STATE ST TC-4TH FLR
CHICAGO, IL 60616

George Langlois

312 567-3035

Ownership: Not-For-Pro?t

USER INFORMATION 

PM Contact: 11201 - Access and Enrollment
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Howard, Mr. Tony 
773-553-3546

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $1 ,024,000.54 is for
a term commencing August 1, 2016 and ending July 31, 2018 with the Board having two (2) options to
renew for two (2) years each. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to
former Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for two (2) years commencing August 1, 2018 and ending
June 30, 2020.

33

July 24, 2019

PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one (1) option period for two (2) years remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

For Students applying to take the K-8 entrance examination to gain admission into the regional gifted
centers. academic centers. classical schools, and international gifted programs. the Center for Research
and Service In the institute of at the Illinois Institute of Technology will continue to: (1) provide
a testing site, (2) hire quali?ed personnel that are trained in assessment and standardization procedures,
(3) administer assessment instruments as recommended by the Of?ce of Access and Enrollment, (4)
score kindergarten entrance examinations and provide quality control by rechecking scores, (5) ensure
the confidentiality of all test scores and assessment materials, (6) provide CPS with kindergarten score
reports via database, (7) update students test status in designated database system, and (8) provide a
phone bank to answer parent questions regarding testing.

DELIVERABLES:

The Center for Research and Service In the Institute of at the Illinois Institute of Technology
will continue to provide the Of?ce of Access and Enrollment with test results via database. All data will be
checked by the institution for accuracy and it will be the assessment center's responsibility to ensure the
accuracy of scores reported to the Chicago Public Schools. The Center for ReSearch and Service in the
Institute of at the Illinois Institute of Technology will also continue to provide a phone bank to
answer questions from parents regarding their children's test scores.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor?s services will result In a cost-ef?cient method of supporting the application and assessment
process for the Chicago Public Schools gifted programs, while making the process transparent, objective
and valid.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shalt be paid during this option period as speci?ed in the option document; estimated annual
costs for this option period are set forth below:

$502,445 FY19

55217556725 $722,7?5 FY20

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document and amendment. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document m;
immanent. Authorize the Executive Director of Access and Enrollment to execute all ancillary
documents required to administer or effectuate this option agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women? Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts (MIWBE Program), this contract 15 exempt as this agreement is for a
Not-for-Protit organization.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approvai is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund: 115

Of?ce of Access and Enrollment, 11201

$502 445 FY19

$5217556725 $722,2?5, FY20

Total not to exceed 99176241660514! $1,225,239

Future year funding? IS contingent upon budget approval and appropriation.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to condUct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered Into In violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be Incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation In the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

34

July 24, 2019

1 9-0724-PR2

AUTHORIZE THE SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH RIVERSIDE ASSESSMENTS, LLC DBA
RIVERSIDE INSIGHTS FOR THE PURCHASE OF TEST MATERIALS AND RELATED SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second renewal agreement with Riverside Assessments, LLC DBA Riverside insights,
successor in interest to Houghton Mif?in Harcourt Publishing Company, to provide selective enrollment
test materials and related services to the Of?ce of Access and Enrollment at an estimated annual cost set
forth in the Compensation Section of this report. A written document exercising this option is currently
being negotiated. No payment shall be made to vendor during the option period prior to execution of the
written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this
option is stated below.

Contract Administrator Wright, Mr. Thaddeus I 773-553-2280
VENDOR: 

1) Vendor 40681
RIVERSIDE ASSESSMENTS, LLC DEA
RIVERSIDE INSIGHTS
ONE PIERCE PLACE, 900W

ITASCA, IL 60143

Tony 
630 467-6708

Ownership: For Pro?t: Alpine investors VI,
LP - 94.5%, All others is less than 10%

USER INFORMATION 

Project

Manager: - 11201 - Access and Enrollment
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, lL 60602
Howard, Mr. Tony 
773-553-3546

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 15-0826- In the amount of $730, 898 00' Is for a
term commencing September 1, 2015 and ending August 31, 2017, with the Board having three (3)
options to renew for two (2) year terms. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis
pursuant to former Board Rule 7-2. The original Agreement was subsequently renewed' in the amount of
$678,291.10 (authorized by Board Report for two (2) years commencing September 1
2017 and ending August 31, 2019.

OPTION PERIOD: 7
The term of this agreement is being renewed for two (2) years commencing September 1, 2019 and
ending August 31, 2021.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one (1) option period for two (2) years remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

The vendor shall continue to provide tests, pre?ID labels, answer sheets and custom reporting services for
Selective Enrollment Elementary Schools (SEES), prekindergarten through seventh grades, Accelerated
Placement Act third through seventh grades, and the kindergarten Comprehensive Gifted Program
(CGP). The vendor shall also continue to provide customized answer sheets, test books, and reporting
services for Selective Enrollment High Schools (SEHS).

DELIVERABLES:

The vendor shall continue to provide the Of?ce of Access Enrollment with tests, pre-lD labels, and
customized reporting services during the SEES, SEHS, Acceierated Placement Act, and the CGP
application season.

OUTCOMES:

This purchase will result in identifying students for Selective Enrollment Elementary Schools, Selective
Enrollment High Schools, Accelerated Placement Act, and the Comprehensive Gifted Program.

35

July 24, 2019

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in the agreement; estimated annual
costs for the two (2) year option period are set forth below:

$631 ,492 FY20
$635,411 FY21

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize the Director
of Access and Enrollment to execute ali ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
option agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts (MIWBE Program), this contract is waived of the participation goals of 30%
M35 and 7% WBE, because the contract is not further divisible.

REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: .
Fund 115, Office of Access and Enrollment, 11201

$631,492 FY20
$635,411 FY21

Not to exceed $1,266,903.00 for the two (2) year term.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered Into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other tem1lnatlon of their terms of
of?ce. 

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

1 9-0724-P R3

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS 
ORGANIZATIONS FOR COMMUNITY SCHOOLS INITIATIVE (CSI) SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY
SCHOOL SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst renewal agreements with various not-for?pro?t organizations (Lead Partners) to provide
Community Schools Initiative Partner Agency Services to all units at an estimated annual cost set
forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Written documents exercising this option are currently
being negotiated. No payment shall be made to a not-for-pro?t organization during the option period prior
to execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shalt automatically rescind in the
event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information
pertinent to this option is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 18-350012
Contract Administrator Wright, Mr. Thaddeus I 773-553-2280

36

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 11371 - Student Support and Engagement

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, lL 60602

Burke, Mrs. Mary Elizabeth
773-553-1 000

PM Contact:
10870 - College and Career Success Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago. IL 60602
Deuser, Mr. Michael K.
773-535-5100

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $10,000,000 was for
a term commencing July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2019, with the Board having three (3) options to
renew for one (1) year terms. The original Agreement was extended for a period commencing July 1,
2019 and ending August 31, 2019 pursuant to Board Rule 7?15. The original Agreement was awarded on
a competitive basis pursuant to former Board Rule 7-2. -

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing September 1, 2019 and
ending August 31, 2020.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING: 
There are two (2) option periods for one (1 year remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Lead Partners shall continue to work with the community schooi(s), referred to as'Partner Schooi(s), to
ful?ll the goals of the CPS CSI-SCS Initiative, including the following: (1) improve the physical, social and
emotional well-being of participating students and (2) improve student academic development and
performance. To accomplish these goals, each Partner School and its Lead Partner shall provide a safe,
supportive environment within the school building for out of school time educational, cultural, and
recreational activities tailored to meet the needs of high-risk students and their families. Adult family
activities and services may take place during the regular school day. Student and family activities and
services will be tailored to the needs speci?c to each school site as determined, in part, through the CSI
Needs Assessment.

Lead Partners will be required to provide programs and services in the following categories: (1) academic
programs for students, (2) health referrals to students and families, (3) social emotional learning and
supports for students and families, (4) enrichment and recreational activities for students, and (5) family
programming. The opportunities provided must align to the Illinois Common Core Standards, the school's
Continuous Improvement Work Plan (CIWP), and the lliinois Social and Emotional-Learning Standards,
where relevant. Students and their families shall be able to choose from a variety of recreational, cultural
and enrichment activities that provide opportunities to explore and develop skills, talents, and hobbies.

DELIVERABLES: -

The speci?c services Lead Partner will provide to Participants at a Partner School shall be detailed in the
CSI Service Plan Lead Partner electronically submits to the CSI Program Manager for approval. Service
Plans shall only include those types of Services described herein and may not include any Services not
described in Lead Partner's Scope of Services.

OUTCOMES: .
Lead Partners Services shall result in the following: (1) Improvement of the physical, social and emotional
Well-being of participating students; and (2) Improved student academic development and performance.

COMPENSATION:

The not-for-pro?ts shall be paid as speci?ed in their respective agreement; the sum of payments to all
not?for-pro?t organizations during the one (1 yearterm shall not exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate.
From time to time, the Chief Of?cer of College and Career Success may reallocate funds among the
not-for-pro?t organizations and change school assignments. Not-for-pro?t organizations shall be paid as
invoices are submitted and veri?ed by the school. Estimated annual costs are set forth below:

$8,000,000, FY20
$2,000,000, FY21

37

July 24, 2019

July 24, 2019

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize Chief Of?cer
of College and Career Success to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
option agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts Program), this contract is exempt as this pool is comprised of
not-for?pro?t organizations;

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Multiple Funds, Multiple School Units

$8,000,000, FY20

$2,000,000, FY21

Not to exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate for the one (1) year term.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5134-111, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s). .

38

2)

3)

4)
Vendor 47733

AMERICA SCORES CHICAGO
600 W. CERMAK RD #204

CHICAGO, IL 60616

Amy Mummery
312 666-0496

Ownership: Non Pro?t

5)
Vendor 96479

BLOCKS TOGETHER
3711 W. Chicago Ave.

IL 60651

Cecil Carroll

773 940-23 1 9

Ownership: Non Pro?t

6)
Vendor 42703

BOYS GIRLS CLUBS OF CHICAGO 1
550 w. VAN BUREN ST., SUITE 350
CHICAGO, IL 6060?"

Janet Soto

312 235-8048

Ownership: Non Pro?t

39

July 24, 2019

Vendor 39142
BRIGHTON PARK NEIGHBORHOOD

COUNCIL (BPNC)
4477 s. ARCHER AVE.

CHICAGO, IL 60632

Patrick Brosnan

773 523-7110
Ownership: Non Pro?t

Vendor 34824

CHANGING WORLDS
329 WEST 18 STREET, SUITE 506

CHICAGO, IL 60616

Nicole Cotto

312 421 -8040
Ownership: Non Pro?t

Vendor 13374

COMMUNITIES IN SCHOOLS OF CHICAGO
815 W. VAN BUREN
CHICAGO, IL 60607

Ceclla Lozano

312 829-2475

Ownership: Non Pro?t

7)

3)

9)

10)
Vendor 45510

EN LACE CHICAGO
2756 S. HARDING AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60623

Docia Buf?ngton

773 542-9233

Ownership: Non Pro?t

11)

Vendor 48890

FAMILY FOCUS, INC.
310 S. PEORIA ST., SUITE 301

CHICAGO, IL 60607

Sherneron Hilliard

312 777-1919

Ownership: Non Pro?t

Vendor 19545 12)
KENWOOD OAKLAND COMMUNITY

ORGANIZATION
4242 S. COTTAGE GROVE AVE.

CHICAGO, IL 60653

J. Brian Malone

773 548-7500

Ownership: Non Pro?t 

40

July 24, 2019

Vendor 62669

KUUMBA LYNX
4501 . CLARENDON

CHICAGO, IL 60640

Jaquanda Villegas, Jacinda Hall

773 550-4229
Ownership: Non Pro?t

Vendor 24486
LOGAN SQUARE NEIGHBORHOOD

ASSOCIATION
2840 N. MILWAUKEE AVENUE

CHICAGOI IL 60618

Nancy Aardema

773 384-4370
Ownership: Non Profit

Vendor 46701

METROPOLITAN FAMILY, SERVICES
1 NORTH DEARBORN-STE 1000
CHICAGO, IL 60602

Theresa 

312 986-4000

OWnership: Non Pro?t

13) 16)
Vendor 99419

NORTHWEST SIDE HOUSING CENTER
5233 W. DIVERSEY AVE

CHICAGO, IL 60639

James Rudyk
773 283-3888

Ownership: Non Pro?t

14) 17)
Vendor 34171

SGA YOUTH FAMILY SERVICES, NFP
11 EAST ADAMS SUITE 1500

CHICAGO, IL 60603

Martha Guerrero

312 447-4323

Ownership: Non Pro?t

15)
Vendor 27486

SOUTHWEST ORGANIZING PROJECT
2558 63rd Street
Chicago, IL 60629

Chris Brown

773 471 -8208

Ownership: Non Pro?t

1 9-0724-PR5

July 24, 2019

Vendor 23713

THE PUERTO RICAN CULTURAL CENTER
2739 WEST DIVISION STREET

CHICAGO, IL 60622

Juan Calderon

773 551-0281
Ownership: Non Pro?t

Vendor 1 1060

YOUTH GUIDANCE
1 NORTH LASALLE ST., #900

CHICAGO, IL 60602

Michelle Morrison

312 253-4900

Ownership: Non Pro?t

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH EQUAL OPPORTUNITY SCHOOLS FOR ESTABLISHING
EQUITY IN ADVANCE PLACEMENT AND INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE COURSE

SELECTION

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with Equal Opportunity Schools to provide services to establish equity in
APIIB course selection at an estimated cost of $235,200 for a twelve (12) month term. Vendor was 
selected on a non-competitive basis. This item was presented to the Single/Sole Source Committee on
June 12, 2019 and approved by the Chief Procurement Of?cer. Prior to approval as a Single Source, the
item was published on the Procurement website on June 12. 2019, found here: cps.edulprocurement.
The item will remain on the Procurement website until the July 24, 2019 Board Meeting. This process
complies with the independent consultant's recommendations for sole source procurements and the
Board's "Single/Sole Source Committee Charter.? A written agreement for Vendor's services is currently
being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior
to the execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the
event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information

pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Contract Administrator 

41

Wright, Mr. Thaddeus I 773-553-2280

July 24, 2019

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 18678
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY SCHOOLS
130 NICKERSON ST #200

SEATTLE, WA 98109

Eddie Lincoln
206 547-1167

Ownership: Not for Pro?t

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10845 - Magnet, Gifted and Programs

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Nash, Miss Veronica
773-535-5100

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on August 1. 2019 and shall and July 31. 2020.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT: 
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendor will:
During the Term of the Agreement, Vendor will do the following:

3. Provide resources and expertise on the impact and feasibility of closing the APIIB participation gaps by
drawing on Vendor's own data and experience, as well as third party research;

b. Conduct comprehensive analyses of student academic records and survey results inorder to develop
detailed ?ndings about the size and causes of participation gaps;

Use deep analysis, best practices, and local leadership context to make recommendations for closing
such gaps;

d. Support Access Opportunity (A0) and Extending Equity (EE) schools developing the following: (1)
missing student outreach and recruitment plans; (2) missing student academic support plans: and (3)
APIIB teacher professional development/support plans;

8. Assist in developing metrics, evaluation standards and an annual APIIB reporting framework to the
Board aligned with high school strategy;

f. Provide four (4) Equity Leader Lab sessions for (EE) Schools

Vendor will provide one District Partnership Director (PD) to A0 Schools. The PD will visit each of the six
schools in-person at least ?ve (5) times from September to May for approximately two (2) hours per
school per visit. The meetings will be scheduled in advance by the PD in conjunction with the district lead
and site iead. Meeting outcomes will be determined by each individual school and the PD. During the off
months, the PD will provide webinars or conference calls with the schools. The PD will
provide meeting notes and next steps to each school within forty-eight (48) hours of each of these
meetings.

in addition, the PD wilt provide support to the six EE schoois. When receiving these services, EE Schools
will continue to have access to the EOS portal and suite of tools to identify students for courses.
Leadership from EE schools will also attend four (4) ELLabs sessions.

The PD or Manager assigned to the District will serve as a dedicated, strategic thought partner and
project manager throughout implementation, and will monitor and track progress during and in-between
in?person visits over the course of the year. Additional EOS staff supporting the District may include
Regional Partnership Directors, Partnership and Data Support 

Vendor will also hold meetings between the PD and CPS leadership will occur one (1) hour per
month (two hours max per month) from September 2019 through June 2020 via Google Hangouts or in
person while the PD is visiting schools. The PD will be responsible for the cadence of the meetings.

42

July_24, 2019

DELIVERABLES: -

Vendor will provide the Board with a PD who will be assigned to work with a total of (12) schools
throughout the school year: six (6) A0 schools and six (6) EE schools. Vendor will also provide the Board
reports that analyze student and staff surveys whose results will be used by schools to support
programming. Vendor will provide four (4) reports throughout the year (Equity Gap Charts, Equity
Pathway Reports, Support Report and End of the Year Report) along with Access Opportunity,
Experience Success, and Extend Equity milestone marker comparisons for each of the 12 participating
high schools. Vendor will provide access to online tools found in the EOS portal as well as:

a. Student Survey. Staff Survey and Staff Recommendations

1. Vendor will provide a Fall student survey and staff survey and collect student and staff
recommendations. These surveys and recommendations will serve as two (2) seminal data collection
tools and are needed to create most of Vendor?s products including outreach and recruitment lists,

Student Insight cards, Equity Pathways reports and Support Reports.

2. Vendor will remotely manage online survey administration by providing a series of district and school
level updates on rates of survey completion and helping schools troubleshoot technical problems. Survey
data will be incorporated into the Student Insight Cards and Student Lists tools.

b. Vendor Student Experience Survey and Report

1. The Student Experience Survey and Report provides a year?end portrait of the quality of student
experiences in APIIB classes in each school. As students complete their coursework,
understanding their experience will assist each school in sustainability planning for the following school
year?s equity goal. The analysis provides strength areas and recommendations to improve the 
experience. EOS will remotely manage the APIIB experience surveys, and provide analysis and
recommendations based on the results.

c. Student insight Cards (SIC)

1. SICs are student level pro?les that visually provide key insights into student interest. motivation.
academic and performance assets, barriers. and staff advocates

d. Outreach Lists

1. Outreach Lists. lists containing underrepresented students, will be provided for all 10th and 11th grade
students at the 12 high schools receiving EOS services. An additional Outreach List or 9th grade students
will be available upon request. The Outreach Lists will contain students Identi?ed through E08 proprietary
model and indicates whether each student could bene?t from and succeed in coursework'al their
speci?c schools by using student and school level characteristics. These lists can be used for planning
student outreach and recruitment.

e. Outreach and Enrollment Tracker

1. The Outreach and Enrollment Tracker allows schools to execute against and track outreach activities
that lead to equitable enrollment. Outreach data entered into the portal is analyzed in partnership with
course request enrollment data to highlight outreach trends that impact equity.

f. Course Registration Enrollment Updates

1. Vendor will provide course request and course registration updates periodically but at least every two
weeks starting in Semester Ii. These updates will be of student course requests and registrations that are
based on individual schools completing course requests in the district student information system called
ASPEN.

9. Evaluation tools

Vendor will provide a variety of evaluation tools to all E08 highs schools including: Data visuals of
schools APIIB access reality compared to' access for the previous school year; Gaps Charts showing
enrollment for 11thI12th graders by race segment; and Equity Bars capturing the rate at which
underrepresented students enroll in relative to benchmark students.

h. APIIB Exam Analysis

1. Vendor will analyze and present corresponding data visuals to district and school level EOS partners
that compare APIIB exam passing performance to prior year passing performance (as measured by
number of students passing APIIB exams and APIIB pass rates) and how each pertain within and among
all groups. -

i. On-Site School Meetings1. Vendor will conduct on campus meetings a minimum of ?ve (5) times and ?a
maximum of seven (7) times per year with A0 and EE schools to support schools with outreach and
support plans. policies and practices analysis, pathways reports, etc.

j. Off-Site School Meetings
Vendor will conduct online school meetings at least four (4) times during months in lieu of on campus/in 
person meetings for the purpose of supporting schools with their outreach and support plans, policies and
practices analysis, pathways reports, etc.

k. ELLabs Sessions for EE Schools

1. Four (4) ELLabs sessions will be held for EE Schools leadership. This may include administrators,
counselors and teachers--those who will have the most impact on sustainability of AP and/or IB programs
on the respective campuses.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in an increase number of students being identi?ed for APIIB course work, as
well as an increased percentage of underrepresented students enrolling in and having access to rigorous
course work at all twelve (12) participating high schools. The access gaps to these courses at A0
and EE schools will also be reduced. Under this Agreement, EE Schools will alsa have the same tools
available to them from Vendor as A0 schools. but these schools will also be able to establish school level
practices and procedures that will allow for continued equitable access and success in AP and 13
programs. School teams will be able to effectively access Vendor online tools and resources to: .

a. identify participa?on gaps and Missing Students;b. Suggest a root cause behind the demographic
participation gaps and a theory of action to address them;c. Develop school-speci?c plans to connect
Missing Students to AP and/or [8 programs;d. Evaluate the effectiveness of those plans at closing the
participation gapse. ELLabs participants will be able to effectively use Vendor's Method in their
classrooms as demonstrated by student performance on Vendor's pre- and post-tests.

43

July 24, 2019

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as set forth in the agreement. Estimated annual costs for the twelve (12) month term
shall not exceed $235,200.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
Vender shall be reimbursed as detailed in the agreement.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Education Of?cer or
designee to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MIWBE Program), this contract is exempt as this agreement is for a
Not-for?Pro?t organization.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115, Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs, Unit 10845

$235,200 FY20 

Not to exceed $235,200 for the twelve (12) month term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS 
58443.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered Into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period folloviring expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

1 9-0724-P R6

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT FOR HOSTED SOFTWARE AND RELATED SERVICES WITH
MANAGEBAC INC. FOR INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE MANAGEBAC SOFTWARE

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement for hosted software and reiated services with ManageBac Inc. to be used by
33 international Baccalaureate (IB) Schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation
Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a non-competitive basis. This item was presented to the
Single/Sole Source Committee on June 12, 2019 and approved by the Chief Procurement Of?cer. Prior to
approval as a Single Source, the item was published on the Procurement website on June 12,2019,
found here: cps.edu/procurement. The item will remain on the Procurement website until the July 24,
2019 Board Meeting. This process complies with the independent consultant's recommendations for sole
source procurements and the Board's "Single/Sole Source Committee Charter." No use of software or
services shall begin and no payment shall be made to vendor prior to the execution of their written
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is
not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is
stated below.

Contract Administrator Wright, Mr. Thaddeus 1' 773-553-2280

44

VENDOR:

1} Vendor 96845
MANAGEBAC INC.
548 MARKET ST., #40438

SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94104

Beatrice Conley
866 297?7022

Ownership: Fan'a Systems-100%
USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10845 - Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Nash. Miss Veronica
773-535-5100

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on September 1, 2019 and shall and August 31, 2021. The
Board shall have one (1) option to renew this agreement for a period of one (1) year.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: .
ManageBac inc. offers the only software, ManageBac, licensed by the lntemational Baccalaureate
Organization (IBO) to use their unit planning templates and link directly to IB's exam registration system.
ManageBac provides a comprehensive solution by providing a portal to monitor individual student
performance while also providing a space for teachers to collaborate and share IB unit plans that re?ect
lB assessment criteria.

DELIVERABLES:

ManageBac is a comprehensive planning, assessment, tracking, and reporting tool that is tailored to the
unique aspects of IB programmes as needed, particularly as the number of IE students grows.
ManageBac unit planning and collaboration tools will increase ef?ciency in staff time and provide the best
opportunity for CPS IB teachers to plan in accordance with IE unit planning standards, collaborate across
schools, and track and report student progress in 18 courseWork. School leaders, particularly at wall to
wall IB schools, are eager to utilize ManageBac software and are devoting dollars from their schoot
budgets to purchase school licenses.

COMPENSATION: 
Estimated annual cost for the two (2) year term is set forth below:

$192,663, FY20
$192,663, FY21

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions In the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Chief Education Of?cer or
designee to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MIWBE Program), this contract is exempt as this agreement is for
Proprietary Software

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Funds 115, 332, 353, 225, Funded through School Budgets

Unit 10810 .

$192,663, FY20



Not to exceed $385,326 for the two (2) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

45

July 24, 2019

July 24, 2019

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all lnfon?nation and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. .

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 58421.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of

of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be Incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year Is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

19-0724-PR7 -

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS PERSONALIZED
LEARNING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst renewal agreements with various vendors to provide professional development for
personalized learning to all schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of
this report. Written documents exercising this option are currently being negotiated. No payment shall be
made to vendors during the option period prior to execution of the written document. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind In the event a written document rs not executed within 90 days
of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Contract Administrator Wright, Mr. Thaddeus I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:
1) Vendor 67462

COOPERATIVE EDUCATIONAL SERVICE

AGENCY #1
N25 W23131 PAUL RD. STE 100

PEWAUKEE, WI 53072

Teresa Barch
262 787-9500

Ownership: Non-Pro?t
2) Vendor 99637
LEAP INNOVATIONS
222 w. MERCHANDISE MART PLAZA. STE

1212
CHICAGO, IL 60654

Amy Huang
312 809-7029 X706

Ownership: Non-Pro?t
USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 12670 Education General - City Wide

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Taylor, Ms. Erikka N.

773-553-2560

46

July 24, 2019

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $2,800,000 is for a
term commencing September 1, 2016 and ending August 31, 2019, with the Board having two (2) options
to renew for a one (1) year term each. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis
pursuant to the former Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing September 1, 2019 and
ending August31, 2020. 

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one (1) option for one (1) year remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: 7
Vendors will continue to provide professional development services that will support the overall district
vision of accelerating the adoption of personalized learning and expand the number of schools that are
using innovative strategies and technology to personalized learning for students.

DELIVERABLES:

Cooperative Educational Service Agency and LEAP Innovations will continue to provide two stages of
professional development to schools in order to provide entry points that align to a school's prior
experience in personalized learning, as describe below.

Stage A Piloting Personalized Learning: Cooperative Educational Service Agency will provide
professional development to equip schools with the framework to Implement personalized learning
strategies and techniques in individual classrooms. School leaders and teachers with foundational
knowledge of personalized learning are eiiglble to participate and should be piloting personalized teaming
by the end of the 6-9 session experience. The professional development should utilize both in-person and
online formats, and is intended to be organized as a cohort experience with 25-30 participants.

Stage - Whole-school Redesign for Personalized Leamlng: Cooperative Educational Service Agency
and LEAP innovations will provide holistic training to schools who intend to implement personalized
Ieaming school-wide. This professional development will include training on change management, school
operations, and instructional strategies aligned to personalized learning. Depending on a school's prior
experience, by the end of this stage schools should either have achieved whole-school adoption, or have
a detailed plan to implement personalized learning school-wide. Schools who have prior experience
piloting personalized learning will participate in a one year experience with 9-10 sessions, utilizing both
in-person and online formats. Schools without prior experience but are Invited for Whole-school Redesign
will receive approximately 25-30 sessions, for 15-30 participants per school, over a three year period as
part of a cohort experience.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in participants being equipped with the skills needed to develop a plan for
implementation, moving from personalized teaming in a subset of classrooms to whole school
implementation.

COMPENSATION:
Estimated annual costs for this option period are set forth below:
Not to Exceed $1,000,000 in aggregate for both vendors.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize the Director
of Personalized Learning to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
option agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts (MIWBE Program), this contract is exempt as this pool is comprised of
not-for-pro?t organizations.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

School Discretionary Funds (353, 115, 358, 225)

Department of Personalized Leamlng, Unit 10825

$1,000,000, FY20

Not to exceed $1,000,000 in the aggregate for the one year term.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those Investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be Iegaliy binding on the Board it entered into In violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

47

July 24, 2019

lndebtedness- The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability- The agreement shall contain the ctause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation In the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

1 9-0724-P R8

AUTHORIZE THE SECOND AND FINAL RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH MULTIPLE VENDORS FOR
THE PURCHASE OF LIBRARY BOOKS, REFERENCE BOOKS. E-BOOKS AND RELATED
SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second and ?nal renewal agreements with various vendors for the purchase of library
books, reference books, e?books and related services for all schools at an estimated annual cost set forth
inthe Compensation Section of this report. A written document exercising this option is currently being
negotiated. No payment shall be made to vendors during the option period prior to execution of their
written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind In the event a written

document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this
option is stated below. 

Speci?cation Number 14-350032

Contract Administrator Wright, Mr. Thaddeus I 773-553-2280

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10814 - Pre?K - 12 Curriculum

42 W. Madison

Chicago, lL 60602
Thorstenson, Ms. Kara Leann
773?553-2523

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report In the amount of $11. 000, 000 are
for a term commencing September 1, 2015 and ending August 31, 2017,? with the Board having two (2)
options to renew for two (2) year terms. The first renewal agreement (authorized by Board Report
In the amount of $11,000,000 Is for a two (2) year term commencing on September 1, 2017
and ending on August 31, 2019. The original agreements were awarded on a competitive basis pursuant
to the former Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:

The term of this agreement is being renewed for two (2) years commencing September 1, 2019 and
ending August 31, 2021.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendors will continue to provide:

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:
Goods: Library books. reference books, E-books, classroom library books and related services

Quantity: Unlimited
Unit Price: Varies .
Estimated Annual Cost: $3,000,000

OUTCOMES:
This purchase will result In price discounts and increased choice of library books, e-books and reference
books, online ordering and other incentives as outlined in the agreement.

COMPENSATION:

Vendors shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in their renewal agreement; Estimated
annual costs for the two (2) year option period are set forth below: 

$3,000,000 FY20

$3,000,000 FY21

48

July 24, 2019

AUTHORIZATION: 

Authorize the General Counsel to include? other relevant terms and conditions in the written renewal
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the renewal agreements. Authorize Chief
Education Of?cer or designee to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
option.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: 7

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women?Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts (MIWBE Program), the goals for this contract are 10% MBE and 5% WBE.
The User Group has committed to achieve the Business Diversity goals through the utilization of the
certi?ed diverse suppliers and certi?ed diverse subcontractors.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Funds: Various

All Schools and Departments

$3,000,000, FY20

$3,000,000. FY21

Not to exceed $6,000,000 for the two (2) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 
5134?131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered Into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of theirterms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03). as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

49

1I

2)

3)

4)
Vendor 31279

PLUS, INC.
1387 DUTCH AMERICAN WAY

BEECHER, IL 60401

John G. Walsh
800 230-1279

Ownership: Kevin G. Walsh 100%
Category: Print 

Vendor# 19546

5)
COUGHLAN COMPANIES, LLC DBA
CAPSTONE .
1710 ROE CREST DRIVE

NORTH MANKATO, MN 56003

Connie Ruyter

800 747-4992

Ownership: Robert Coughlan 50%, James
Coughlan 50%
Category: Print

6)
Vendor 79776

FOLLETT SCHOOL SOLUTIONS, INC.
1340 RIDGEVIEW DRIVE

MCHENRY, IL 60050

Wayne Schumann

888 511-5114

Ownership: Follett School Solutions Holdings,
Inc. - 100%

Category: Print and Digital

50

July 24, 2019

Vendor 47325

GL GROUP INC. DBA BOOKSOURCE DBA
THE BOOKSOURCE DBA THE

BOOKSOURCE WC.

1230 MACKLIND AVE
ST LOUIS, MO 63110

Nick ?Dreyer

800 444-0435

Ownership: Sanford Jaffe 25%, Gary Ja?e
25%, Neil Jaffe 25%, Donna Ja?e 25%
Category: Pn'nt

Vendor 82240

LECTORUM PUBLICATIONS, INC.-
205 CHUBB AVE.

NJ 07071

Femando Febus

201 559-2240

Ownership: Lectorum Holdings LLC - 100%
Category: Print -

Vendor 21757

MACK-IN BOOK COMPANY DBA MACKIN

EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES
3505 COUNTY RD 42 WEST

BURNSVILLE, MN 55306

Teresa Henning
800 245-9540
Ownership: Kay Helse - 51%, Randal 

Heise - 49%
Category: Print and Digital

7)

8)

9)

1 9-0724-P R9

Vendor 94713

OVERDRIVE, INC.
ONE OVERDRIVE WAY

CLEVELAND, OH 44125

Mike Kertesz

216 573-6886

Ownership: OverDrive Holdings Inc - 99%,
OverDrive Intermediate Holdings. Inc 1%
Category: Digital

Vendor 45062

RAINBOW BOOKS, INC. DBA RAINBOW

BOOK COMPANY OF ILLINOIS
P.O. BOX 159

CRETE. IL 60417

Sadie Witvoet

800 255-0965

Ownership: Children's Plus, Inc. - 50%
Category: Print

Vendor 14970

SCHOLASTIC INC.
2931 E. MCCARTY STREET

JEFFERSON CITY, MO 651 O1

Bernie Grant-Hill

630 323?3700

Ownership: Publicly Traded
Category: Print

AUTHORIZE THE SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH FISHER SCIENTIFIC COMPANY LLC

FOR SCIENCE LABORATORY EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second renewal agreement with Fisher Scienti?c Company LLC to provide science
laboratory equipment and supplies to any school as needed at as estimated annual cost of $750,000 for
this one (1) year period. A written document exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No
payment shall be made to Fisher Scienti?c Company, LLC during the option period prior to execution of
the written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this
agreement Is stated below.

Contract Administrator 

VENDOR:

1)

Vendor 41947
FISHER SCIENTIFIC COMPANY LLC
4500 TURNBERRY DRIVE

HANOVER PARK, IL 60133

David Isphording
800 955-1 177

Ownership: ThermoFisher Scienti?c Inc 
100%

Wright, Mr. Thaddeus I 773-553-2280

51

July 24, 2019

July 24, 2019

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10871 - Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs

42 Madison

Chicago, 60602

Mahon, Mrs. Jessica 
773-553-6422

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $3,000,000 is for a
term commencing September 1, 2014 and ending August 31, 2018 with the Board having 2 cption(s) to
renew for a one (1) year term. The ?rst renewal agreement (authorized by Board Report 18-0725-PR4) in
the amount of $750,000 is for a one (1) year term commencing on September 1, 2018 and ending on
August 31 2019. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to an RFP (RFP
#0804026) issued by Hartford County Public Schools and Fisher Science Education entered
into a Master Agreement. Pursuant to former Board Rule 7-2., the Board is authorized to purchase
biddable items through the School Purchasing Network or a governmental purchasing cooperative
contract.

OPTION PERIOD: 
The term of this agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing September 1, 2019 and
ending August 31, 2020. .

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendor will continue to provide science laboratory equipment, supplies, and furniture.

DELIVERABLES: 
Vendor will continue to provide science laboratory equipment, supplies and furniture.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in schools receiving optimal pricing for quality laboratory supplies, equipment,
and furniture.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid during this option period in accordance with the unit prices contained in the
agreement; estimated annual costs for this option period are set forth below:

$625,000 FY20
$125,000 FY21

AUTHORIZATION: 

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize Chief
Education Of?cer or designee to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
option agreement. 

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts (MNVBE Program), the Business Diversity participation goals are 7.5%
MBE and 7.5% WBE. This participation will be achieved by utilizing a variety of diverse vendors.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
All Funds. All Units

$625,000 FY20
$125,000 FY21 

Not to exceed $750,000 for the one year term.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
5134-134, the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

52

July 24, 2019

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134?21 .3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time. shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (1 1-0525-P02), as amended from time to time.
shall be Incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

1 9-0724-PR10

AMEND BOARD BEPOBT 16-1 026-1338
AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH VARSITY BRANDS HOLDING CO INC DBA BSN
SPORTS, LLC FOR THE PURCHASE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with BSN Sports LLC for the purchase of physical education supplies and
equipment to all schoois and departments at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation
Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to a Request for Proposal
(#16-07) issued by Region 4 Education Service Center (ESC) as the Lead Public Agency, with the
assistance of The Purchasing Cooperative Network (TCPN). Subsequently, BSN Sports LLC entered Into
a Vendor Contract with Region 4 E80 and TCPN The Board desires to purchase physical
education supplies and equipment based upon that Vendor Contract pursuant to Board Rule 7?2.7. which
authorizes the Board to purchase non-biddable and biddabie items through government purchasing
cooperative contracts. A written agreement for this purchase is currently being negotiated. No goods may
be ordered or received and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is
not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement Is
stated below.

       

.. -nen '..ulnl.
68 'ectdus frtee 'i ofth ree n. owritte ame

nisei.

Contract Administrator: Cantero, Mrs. Nanzi I 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 22464
VARSITY BRANDS HOLDING 00.. INC
DBA BSN SPORTS, LLC

640 SHILOH ROAD BLDG 2 SUITE 200
PLANO. TX 75074

Brad Ciesielski

800 622-2946

Ownership: 100% Owned By Varsity Brands
Holdings 00., Inc

USER INFORMATION 

Project 13737 - Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Manager: Wide

2651 W. Washington 
Chicago. IL 60612

Kemp, Mr. Kari A
773-534-0700

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on November 1, 2016 and shall and on October 31 2019.
This agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

OUTCOMES: 7
This agreement will result in the District-wide purchase of physical education supplies and equipment.

53

July 24, 2019

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in the agreement; Estimated annual
costs for the three (3) year term are set forth below:

FY17 $1,333,333.33

FY18 $2,000,000.00

FY19 $2,000,000.00

FY20 $1,466,666.67
AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other releVant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Chief Procurement Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: 

Pursuant to the Remedial Programs for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts (MIWBE Program), the Business Diversity participation goals are 18%
MBE. The participation will be achieved by utilizing a variety of diverse vendors. -

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Charge to various schools and departments. 

FY17 $1,333,333.33

FY18 $2,000,000.00

FY19 $2,000,000.00

FY20 05066766616? mm .
Not to exceed 06,800,00000 for the three (3) year term.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS: 7

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct these investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134?21 .3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. .

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

19-0724-PR1 1

FINAL

REPORT ON THE AWARD OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND CHANGES TO CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACTS FOR THE BOARD OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

This report details the award of Capital Improvement Program construction contracts in the total amount of
$38,324,485.15 to the respective lowest responsible bidders for variousconstruotion projects, as listed in
Appendix A of this report. These construction contracts shallbe for projects approved as part of the Boards
Capital Improvement Program. Work involves all labor, material and equipment required to construct new
schools, additions, and annexes, or to renovate existing facilities, all as called for in the plans and
speci?cations for the respective projects. Proposals, schedules of bids, and'other supporting documents .
are an file in the Department of Operations. These contracts have been awarded in? accordance with section
7-2 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago. 

This report also details changes .to existing Capital Improvement Program construction contracts, in the
amount of $575,008.16 as listed in the attached July Change Order Log. These construction contract
changes have been processed and are being submitted to the Board for approval in accordance with
section 7-13 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, since they require an increased

commitment necessitated by an unforeseen combination of circumstances or conditions calling for

immediate action to protect Board property to prevent interference with school sessions.

54

 July 24, 2019

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report. 

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: The General Contracting Services Agreements entered into by each of the pre-
qualified general contractors and other miscellaneous construction contracts awarded outside the pre-
qualified general contractor program for new construction awards and changes to existing construction
contracts shall be subject to the Board?s Business Diversity Program for Construction Projects and any
revisions or amendments to that policy that may be adopted during the term of any such contract.

FINANCIAL: Expenditures invoived' In the Capital Improvement Program are charged to
the Department of Operations Capital Improvement Program.

Budget classr?cation Fund? 412, 425, 427, 431, 435, 436, 437, 439, 485 486, 487 &488
will be used for all Change Orders (July Change Order Log); Funding source for new
contracts IS so indicated on Appendix A

Funding Source: Capital Funding

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be Iegaily binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

55

July 24, 2019

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wpmlumum?e
M953
HIM 
dem mm

WM Humanizm's
rilwuma'b
mumam Nut

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

61502

vupuadtlv

 

 

amendment:

3mm
mmzs?a?
I wet?aw: slozlotlo uorm'w not MIBSE lawman aw: Jaw. same
I sud-In rid-law Pu- ?animus LII-05M [mt-I910 Woo my: ?lms atu. 1m am 1595 no em: erozlrsie 6102mm no'uns?tt :10! anus: ?was sun um ?In
I madam-mus puwouumtms 9m 9w am *0 m: atoms/a sloz/om an! sums: mucus-no: manna. nasannm
1 5mm "Imam? mm no sun was an): 510210th nonos?ez not yams: noun-um: m1 Jam. 
I mm? mm? .. .. 960 96a 9661. am no: stozhsia 6102mm wous?u 30! ?Mrs: W03 run 4:141. mm acumen
34min lumw mum $0 960 asst 9m GIOZ ?emu: ?oz/om na'ooa'su :mI sum: human mm. mm!
I . . In 51mm 31mm 9dr?! so we no em mantle 610mm oarooa?Lsz not sum: ml M421. anomalous
I ?minim-am? . .. . . . '11. 1m 969 9m m: 510mm 5 :ml mm: M1 um. maavav 00qu
I Inn . 6m: mans/8 uo'aoa'ee 5 Jul Bums unmasuto 5m: area/Isle ou'oou'n 3 :ml sums Housman ?Mum. own
I . . . {?912 . .1 9599 not amt/Isis smzfuI/v ou'rss'es 3 DUI mm: anus
are: atoms/a arozlnm ooms'm 3 vol mats: "cinnamon am am mam"
.. . Inuit-Imam. 9m 9m an: amzhm ?oz/om oo'oos'az 5 ml mm: nos-ammo: am am (mama
main [mamas PW uonmutius?m It-vmmo SWIM unmadnmu 9m eloz atoms/a 510219 arrows; 5 no! tum: ?Own-mutt) autumn. aws
I 14. 360 96:12 no em: men?s :10! 59mm: ?053mm; mum 
minimum?! non-Ithm?mwl?nmlo mum my! Hit-arm 9599 am: owe/tilt: stealth wooa?os not zomss: bn-uv noun.
Hindu rum-us put non-alum: nut-sun It-IqutI mm? 9w 960 9m me am: EIOZIIFJB 6m oo'oo 3?95 3 no! cams: and
I: sandal [um-as put Manama nuns-u tum-tut sum W10 adws mu 9a: 9m am an): BIOUISIB am :le1; man no 5 not name Ina-1N sumac
7. ?Ma: luv-nus put ?unmask-mm "=1:qu rum II-Iomo ideas an. Inn 969 960 am. an: area/Isle stealth moon? 5 no! seams: Lia-m usual
I: Minimums-us mamas-Imam? adtm Nu. Inn 9m 6m stozlm arouses not mam: Ina-m 1139213:
I .I?mwm mm 6mm 969 9w 5693 am: ozozhh ou'ouz'ezr not seams IDs-m nusmm
1 . "11. 960 me am: malts/a smith woods; 5 no! name ?a-nv aumu
1 95w rum-us Put admsatu. Ian 960 me am HOZIIEIB stealth an] muss Illa?mi Hum
I: ?xed? [HI-buns put: Hummus amul- [ammo 960 191. am stozlsm canons 5 out 9159st IIla-m1 NOSIOYR
?ied? tum futon? [ammo MSW mm. 960 1659 am 510mm slot/Liz oo'onssa' not mam na-uv 1VNGILDOAODVJIH3
I . . . ?mm 1'11. 960 960 $627. aluz ?oz/Iain swam/t 00700599 5 not Blsatsa Kan-mt 'nu.
I . Lumen: 5mm ?mum . u. 960 950 am am nodule worms 5 not Sea-1w mmnzox
mar-mum? In mpadnmtu. sea an In as? are: enamels "calm moons not Illa-mt mm
I: mean lumm DUI noun-mans 1mm"! lam-I110 aslmoa W10 34?? Nu 9629 9m 9a: use: ?02 Mama?s ?with not ?(3559 ?ll-1w 
sauna [mum Inn-.2. am mu. *0 use 560 seen no: omens no! tssetse aha-1w sauna
I ugedu lumen-15 In"! won animus?weul mnum sum ideas mu. 9669 Isa: 6m stealth woos? assets: SH sammd
I min rumpus pu- memo ado? 960 960 cm: amt/Isis stozlosh oo?ooe?or not LSS9ISE Lia-av 9mm:
I Saudi: [animus p? Mn-IummIm-ut rum-1:10 Won W10 Idols atu. 960 159:. 6:0: 6th alts/a stozhh 0000672 5 30! 1395M: Ira-mi ua'nna
1 mm II mu.? m. '56s 9m 9m nu 6:0: 6E0 alts/e stow-h we on? not 18% Lia-mi 1mm
1. snowman-mm? It-wlw masuwmsn =de Nu. w. 960 ms 560 6:0: Homers ?oz/om oouzz'm UM Mon
LEVEBSE
ammo admaIu. w. 950 9m am no: atoms/a Home!? oo-ommt': 39 Hams-ram ?wash-1151mm
I. 9m 950 me 954 ?oz atoms/a aams?ur'z :19 [1181638 mm mau'wequnu
wonmuu mm: mama alumna-mm admin m: am: am am: mans/a na?su?ru 39 0212555 avav wan
mass:
I. ammsnadmsau am 960 an: my mania slazlazh 39 'nzms: ?Minimum 5? 
1. mama-I mammal-?lawn: aims Wu. 9m 9m 9m 5m 51on 1:19 ?awlh uom'm as mass: nuclei-?dun Ham
1. Manna? mama $151810: W10 Ida? 968 M: 610: 610mm 6102191!? 39 920585: usual-dual "mu
5 snub: ?1?!qu bw?muuo mm W30 mu. 960 m: mam/z: 8102mm ss?ess'su sol 1.02m: mu: tit-1m
i 91th mum slams/a 910mm: sum; :01 8mm: mama PIO (30011me
I uwdal mm?lnmma mam Mon? trim an 0m 950 $25 so 6102 stazllsie ?mam i 30! 4:02st ?pawn: sun-ammo (DOD 
1 . . . . 9669 990 9m 5m 6m: slazltsia swans/at nus?n not 910195: ?nan-amen wumnm I306 Hana
1 main -. - ms. 990 9?6! am am: slat/Isle swirls]:- man's: 3 no! 2052155 mun-me: tut-Imam mm
8 93'3? m1 MN =10 SWAP ?in? 96!} about 91:0 no: 51 nzluh aware; causes: save! a Jud-Inn luv mamas
Hinduwuml imam sum-I 'mulmldamup assim- suwuo 6'u. m. sea 9w 968E awn sin-chin modal/Ir aa'oao'taz?t 35 1.506898 "0mm?: Iald ?0mm: 
mans:
I. am In?: am no: awz/sh mamas? 39 'zsusas: Hana-mun Inna a?lnmamn'aw
nil-?896
mammal momma =1?ij WIMP Id? mu. 950 963: as: am: mm?lsln alozlah 00000168 5 39 '90 uass ?awn-u 3v alum 
a manquwmml?n ll'd?la minnow-m ?mm. ILL 950 Sis: am am: mums ?oz/uh na'osn'us 35 959065: ?aw mean:
8 ?mvmn?m?u 169 960 stat 9652 5:0: stuns/a ?oz/Eh an naqmdlu ?mam
. ms ms. in no 5101 ?oz/Isl: smash so?ut'szs?s an mazes: mumwas: no: omits/a atozleh aoist?uo?s: an B92E85E non-Imus aurl um. Il-Ild all-(mush 39 5:94:35: Ike-1w mme?
and! m? Hui-Int: mw'I altos mu. 950 mi am an: anthem 6101/92]: to: zest: ?Mains
am -
um avzu mo ma ?Inn 110va
suosvn suou anvuoos .ualou nomv 'mm mm unvmum 13mm: nvuuna unmuoa ammo: 192395

56

57

CPS A JULY2019

Chicago Public Schools These change order approval cycles range from 6/28/19
Ca-ltai Im-rovcment Pro am 0410112019 to 0413012019 Pa-_e 1 of 14

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revleed Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract 01 Oracle Board Number
A?ount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

       

CapltalIOperetlone - City Wide

2018 42 Madison PTG 201B-12150-PTG -
Murphy Jones 00., inc. $342,767.00 3 $22,216.00 $364,965.00 6.48%

Change Date App Date Change Order - 393M
3552384

03122119 04102119 Contractor to provide labor and material to install plywood, sheet metal, and back painted glass Owner Directed $11,940.00
marker board panels with aluminum angle edging in 3 classrooms.

03122119 04102119 Contractor to provide labor and material to install additional corner guards at various locations on Owner Directed $6,890.00
project site. .

 

Project Total: $18,830.00

CapltallOperatlone - City Wide

2019 OIG Of?ce ICR 
F.H. Paschan, S.N. Nleisen 8. Assoc $393,000.00 . 3 $32,725.99 $425,725.99 8.33%

Change Date AELDELE Change 0rd?rQ??crigllons eason de
. 3545539

03124119 04102119 Contractor to provide labor and material for moving services provided on project site. Discovered Conditions $6,841.86

 

Project Total: $6,841.88

Louis A Agassiz Elementary School

2018 Agasslz UAF 2018-22031-UAF 
Kee Construction, LLC $297,000.00 4 $16,212.57 $313,212.57 5.46%

Change Date Apr; Date Chen Order Des lions Beacon Ego
8513908

04111119 04126119 Contractor to provide labor and material to repair an existing depression In the asphalt north of the School Request $5,613.00
besketbeil hoop.

 

 

Project Total: $5,610.00

 

The ionowlng change orders have beenapproved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

July 24, 2019

58

 

CPS . JULY2019

Chi?Eago Public These change order approval cycles range from 6128/19
Cautai hnurovement Prey am 0410112019 to 0413012019 Paze 2 of 14

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

Original Number at Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

Newton Bateman Elementary School

2013 Batcman MEP 2018-22171-MEP
KR. Miller Contractors, Inc $4,579,660.00 13 $201,663.42 $4,781,323.42 4.40%

Wig my; Change Qrder; Beacon Code
3496132 I 3514104
03127119 04119119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to install new electric unit heaters in the existing heater School Request $2,156.76
locatlcn in classrooms 145 and 151. - -

 

Project Total: $2,156.76

George Rogers Clark Elementary School

2017 Clark E3 MGR 2017-22191-MCR
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc $2,167,000.00 23 $86,892.34 $2,253,692.34 4.01%

Change Date AQQ Date Chan Order Descri lions 30850" Code

 

- 3282112
02107119 04102119 Contractor to provide credit for roo?ng allowances not required to complete new rooting Allowance Credit 

 

Project Total: $14,062.00

George School

2018 Cases" MCR 2018-22651-MCR
Old Veteran Inc $4,666,865.86 23 $368,001.08 $5,034,866.96 7.69%

Change Date App Date Chan 9 Order Descri tions Beacon Code

 

3485359 1 3512369
04110119 04119119 . Dlscovered Conditions $3,571.00

Contractor to provlde labor and materlale to replace athletic strip flooring along multiple waits adjacent
to the multipurpose room.

03125119 04115119 Contractor to provlde labor and materials to install marker boards with tack surfacing in various Discovered Conditions $22,756.30
classrooms.

 

Project Total: $26,327.30

 

The following change ordara have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arreara.

July 24, 2019

59

CPS . JULY 2019

Chicago Public Schools These change order approval cycles range from 6/28/19
Cautal Im-rovernent Pro-,4 am 0410112019 to 0413012019 Pine 3 of 14

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number contract Change Change Contrast of Oracle Beard Number
Amount Orders Order; Amount Contract PO Number

        
         

Henry Clay Elementary School

2018 Clay ACD 2016-22731-ACD -
MZI Building Services, Inc. $55,020.00 1 -$676.00 354344.00 -1.23%

Change Qate App Date Change Order Descriptms BM
3405374
04124119 Contractor to provide credit for new window shades. Allowance Credit -$676.00

 

Project Total: ?676.00

Dewitt Clinton School

2018 Clinton MGR 2010-22751-MCR
The George Construction Co. 313.332.254.00 26 $291,292.00 $13,623,546.00 2.18%

Change Date Ago Date Chen 3 Order Descri tions Reason Code - I
3505609 I 3512370

04I?l5l19 04/26/19 Contractor to provide labor and materials to repair masonry outside of the auditorium. Discovered Conditions $3,305.00

 

04/2609 Contractor to provide labor and materials to modify the light support within the work site. Discovered Conditions $6,074.00

08105100 04/02119 Contractor to provide labor and material to remove a dead tree con?icting with the new handicap Discovered Conditions $6,969.00
entrance.

 



Project Total: $18,348.00

St. Turblus

2017 St. Turibius CSP .
Friedler Construction Co. $7,863,000.00 22 $363,035.15 $8,246,035.15 4.61 To

Change Date Apr; Date Chan is Order Descri lions Reason Code

 

3500206
04100119 04/19119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to install two AED units to comply with state code Owner Dlrecled $2,824.23
requirements at east basement area and main office area.

03122119 04I19119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to install a new marquee sign on project site. Owner Directed $20,086.82

 

Project Total: $30,011.05

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

July 24, 2019

60

CPS

Chicago Public Schools
Carital 1m movement Pro 9 am

 

JULY2019

These change order approval cycles range from
041002019 to 04130I2019

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total

    
    

School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract 5% of

Rudyard Kipling School

Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract

2016 Kipling ACD 2018-24081-ACD
Building Services, inc. $23.540.00 1 -$676.00 $22,664.00 - ?2.87%

mm

04l03! 19 04I2flr'19

Wendell Green

 

Beacon Code

Contractor to provide credit for new window shades at select locations from base scope. Allowance Credit

6/28/19
Prue 4 of 14

 

Oracle Board Number
PO Number

 

3485376
-$676.00

 

2018 Green MEP 2018-24131-MEF

McDonagh Demolition

Change Date App Date
04I16119 04126I19

069937033 1 $22,081.19 3722.052.? 3.15%
88950? 

Contractor to provide labor and materials to install LED light ?xtures In two classrooms with associated Discovered Conditions
environmental remediation.

 

Project Total: ?$678.00

3510803
$22,081.19

 

George McClellan Elementary School

2018 McClellan MGR 
The George Soliltt Construction Co. $6,260,752.00 11 $146.333.94 $6,407,085.94 2.34%

Change Date Apr; Date
04/10119 04126119

04I10119 

04l10/19 04126!?

Cha eOrderDescrI lions

 

Liam

Contractor to provide labor and materials to Install vinyl strips around the garbage disposal space. Omission 

Contractor to provide labor and materials to perform tuck-pointing and water proo?ng to prevent future Discovered Conditions
Water issues in the newly remodeled bathrooms cafeterias and elevator foyers.

Contractor to providelabor and materials to upgrade the Ai-phone. Owner Directed

Project Total: $22,081.19

351 6347
$454.70

$8,941 .00

$14,123.17

 

Project Total: $23,518.81

 

The following change orders have seen approved and are being reported to the Board in encore.

July 24, 2019

61

CPS JULY 2019

Chicago Public Schools 6/28/19

These change order approval cyclee range from
Ca - Hat 1111 movement Pro am 0410112019 to 0413012019 P018 5 0f14

 

CHANGE ORDER LOG
Origlnel Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract 14 or Oracle Board Number
Amount Ordore Order! Amount Contract PO Number

James Monroe School
2010 Monroe ROF 2018-24531-ROF
Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. $2.981.587.00 14 $64,704.37 $3,046,291.37 2.17%

Change Date AM Reason Cage
3482033 I 3514108

03I11l19 04119l19 Contractor to provide credit for base civil scope to be removed from the roof project and added to the Omission 659,543.00
site Improvement project currently underway at the school.

 

 

Project Total: 659,543.00

Donald Merrill Mathematics 0 Science Specialty School

2018 ACD 201B-24571-ACD .
Building Services, inc. $44,430.00 1 45670.00 $43,754.00 -1 52%

Change Date App Dale Chan 9 Order Descri tione Began Code
3485385

04115109 04.123119 Contractor to provide credit for new shades at select locations from base scope of work. Allowance Credit 4676.00

 

 

Project Total: ?676.00

John Palmer School

2018 Palmer MCR 2018-24821-MCR 
Blinderman Construction Co $13.407,720.00 6 $410,099.99 513.817.819.99 3.06%

Change Date App Date Beacon Code
3490691 13512366

03/26119 04.123119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to rebuild four deteriorated bathroom wetwalls. Discovered Conditions . $21,204.47

 

 

Project Total: $21,204.47

 

The {allowing change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board In arrears.

July 24, 2019

62

 

CPS . JULY 2019

Chicago Public Schools 6128119

. These change order approval cycles range from
Cantal Im-rovement Frog: am . 0410112019 to 0413012010 Page 6 of 14

CHANGE ORDER LOG
Original Number of Total Revised Total

School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract PO Number

     

Sidney Sawyer School

2018 Sawyer ROF 2016-25231-ROF
Friedler Construction Co. $9,038,000.00 19 $426,712.57 $9,464,712.57 4.72%

Change. Date Apr; Date Chan Order Descri tions Beason C?e

 

3482029 1 3514111
03118119 04102119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to upgrade BAS controls to be consistent with overall CPS Owner Directed $69,077.27
systems operations.

03121119 04128119 Contractor to provide labor and materials for standards and code review changes tor structural steel Standard Modification $56,179.31
work, chilled water pump electrical repairs.

11107118 04102119 Contractor to provide tabor and materials for ?ooring changes due to discovered conditions within the Discovered Cond1tions $35,125.27
project scope.

09107118 04125119 Contractor to provide labor and materials for code compliance changes as part of the permit review Code Compliance $44,644.13
process, including structural steel changes, electrical repairs and masonry work.

 

Project Total: $205,226.03

James Shields Elementary School

2010 Shields ACD 2010-25361-ACD
Courtesy Electric Inc. $77,125.00 1 $1,248.00 375,877.00 4.62%

Change gate gadgets; a 90 de Desci tions Reason Code
3485308

04101119 04124119 Contractor to provide credit for uninstalled window shades at setect locations from base scope of Allowance Credit $1,248.00
work.

 

 

Project Total: 41,248.00

 

The tailoring change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

July 24, 2019

63

CPS . JULY 2019
Chicago Public Schools

Cauital Im-rovement Pro am 0410112019 to 0413012019

CHANGE ORDER LOG
Original Number of Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change

Amount Orders Order:

   

 

 

Adlai Stevenson School

201: Stevenson ACD 20134541141150 .
Courtesy Electric inc. $90,125.00 1 

Change Date App Data Change Order 

These change order approval cycles range from

 

 

Revised Total
Contract 1% of
Amount Contract

388,981.00 4.27%
as 

04101119 04124119 Contractor to provide credit for window shades at select locations trom base scope of Allowance Credit



Morton School of Excellence

2017 Morton NCP 2017-25091-Nce
Frladler Construction Co. $1,180,800.00 9 $109,113.64

menace

 

6/28/19
Pa1e 7 of 14

       

Oracle Board Rot Number
P0 Number

3515306
,144.00

 

$1,297,913.64 9.18%

Mom

03129119 04102119 Contractor to provide material and labor for discovered conditions and additional asphalt repair at Discovered Conditions

sewer lie-In.

James Weldon Johnson Elementary School oi Excellence

2018 Johnson BAS 2018-26231-BA8
ideal Heating Company $44,000.00 1 $13,753.00

Change Date App Date Cha 9 Order Deecrl tions

04108119 04119119 Contractor to provide materials for unlimited user licenses.

 

Project Total: 41,144.00

3468627
$19,896.40

 

$57,753.00 31.26%
Reason Code

Owner Directed

Project Total: $19,696.40

3467378
$13,753.00

 

Project Total: $13,753.00

 

The lollowlng change orders have been approved and are being reported to Iho Board In enema. 

July 24, 2019

64

CPS JULY 2019

Chicago Public Schools These change order approval cycles range from 6/28/19
Caaital Im-rovement Pro; am 0410112010 to 0413012019 Pa1e 8 of 14
CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract PO Number

     
       

Mary Mcdowell Elementary School

2018 McDowell ACD 2018-26421-ACD
MZI Building Services, lnC. $5,610.00 1 -$676.00 $4,934.00 42.05%

Change Date Apr; Date season Code
3485384

04"15119 04124119 Contractor to provide credit for window shades at select locations from base scope of Allowance Credit $676.00
work.

 

 

Project Total: $676.00

Medgar Evers School

2018 Evere ACD 201B-26591-ACD
MZI Building Services, inc. $36,850.00 1 -$676.00 $38,174.00 4.74%

Change Date App Date

 

Re 5

3485375

04103119 04124119 Contractor to provide credit for uninstalled window shades at select locations from base scope of Allowance Credit $676.00
work.

 

Project Total: $576.00

Durkln Park School

2018 Durkln Park ROF 2018-26831-ROF
All-Bry Construction Company $2,321,000.00 18 $157,819.45 $2.478.819.45 6.80%

App Date Change OrdarDesgriotiogs Reason Code

0410219 Contractor to provide labor and materials to expedite shop fabrication and installation for windows Owner Directed
from base scope of work.

 

348188913512365 
$22,943.78

 

Project Total: $22,943.78

 

The following change orders have been approved antlers being reported to the Board In arrears. .

July 24, 2019

65

CPS . JULY2019

Chicago Public Schools
These change order approval cycles range from
Can ital hnsrovement Pro am 0410112019 to 0413012010

CHANGE ORDER LOG
Original Number of Total Revleerl Total

School Vendor Project Number Contract Change chenge Contract '13 or Oracle Board Number
Amount Order: Orders Amount Contract PO Number

6/28/19
Pa1e 9 of 14

     
       

 

Disney ll Magnet School

2018 Disney ICR 2010-26921-ICR
Building Services. Inc. $129,927.00 1 $8,200.00 $138,127.00 6.31%

Change gate App Qate Chan 90 10 1] lo . Reason Code
3563874

03113119 04129119 Contractor to provide labor and materials for painting and additional lighting outside of the project School Request $8,200.00
scope.

 

Project Total: $0,200.00

James Modede Classical School .

2018 McDade ACD 201B-29181-ACD
Building Services. Inc. $27,820.00 1 $416.00 $27,404.00 4.50%

Change Qate AM 5 Code
3405383

04115119 04124119 Contractor to provide credit for uninstalled window shades at select locations from base scope of Allowance Credit -$416.00
work.

 

 

Project Total: 0416.00

John Vanderpoel Magnet School

2018 Venderpoel ACD 2018-29311 -ACD
MZI Building Services, Inc. $51,620.00 1 $676.00 $50,944.00 -1 .31%

Change Date App Date Chan eOrder De tlons Reason Code

 

3485387
04115119 04124119 Contractor to provide credit for uninstalled window shades at select locations tram base scope of Allowance Credit -$676.00
work.

 

Project Total: $676.00

 

The loilawlng change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

July 24, 2019

66

CPS . JULY 2019

Chicago Public sumo? These change order approval cycles range from 6/28/19
Caoital Im-rovement Prey am 0410112019 to 0413012019 Pa1e 10 of 14
CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract V. at Oracle Beard Number
- Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract P0 Number

     

 

      
  

Ted Lenart Regional Gifted Center

2018 Lanart ACD 2018-29361-ACD .
MZI Building Services, lnc. $34,080.00 1 -$676.00 $33,404.00 4.98%

Change Dale Ago Dale Chan Order Desc I tions Reagan ng
3485381

04I11I19 04I24I19 Contractor to provide credit for uninslalled window shades at select locations from base scope of Allowance Credit $676.00
work. . .

 

 

Project Total: $670.00

Robert A Black Magnet School

2018 Black ACD 2013-29301-ACD
MZI Building Services. Inc. $105,000.00 1 -$676.00 $107,324.00 -0.63%

Change Date Apr; Date Reason Code
3485371

04f03/19 04124119 Contractor to provide credit for uninstalled window shades at select locations from base scope of Allowance Credit ?$676.00
work.

 

 

Project Total: $676.00

Walter 3 Christopher Elementary School

2018 Christopher DOR 2010-30031-DOR
JV $175,131 0.70 2 310.157.21 $185,467.91 5.79%

Change Date App Date Chan 9 Order Descri lie 5 Code 
3515530

01I31119 04123l19 I Contractor to provide labor and material to Install Door Astregal at various locations identi?ed outside Discovered Conditions $534.99
of the base scope of work. 

 

 

Project Total: $534.99

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

July 24, 2019

67

CPS JULY 2019

Chicago Public Schools 6/28/19

These change order approval cycles range from
Ca-ltal 1m movement Pro; am 0419112019 to 0413012019 . Pa-_e 11 of 14

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract '16 at Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract PO Number

       

Plieen Community Academy

2018 Plisen ACD 
Courtesy Electric inc. $55,125.00 1 $624.00 $54,501.00 -1 .13%

_Q_Chan 9 Dale MD to Who; Belem
3435304

04101119 04124119 Contractor to provide credit for uninstalled window shades at select locations from base scope of Allowance Credit -$824.00
work.

 

Project Total: $624.00

Roeld Amundsen High School

2017 Amundsen UAF 2017-46031-UAF
Friedier Construction Co. $2,275,800.00 4 $1 19,535.80 $2,398,335.80 5.25%

Lee?90 an Dal male WM 9 so de
3504248

02119119 04119119 Contractor to provide labor and materials for the relocation of the 100 yard dash box on the athletic School Request $15,253.00
?eld.

 

Project Total: $15,253.00

 

The fottowlng change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

July 24, 2019

68

 

CPS JULY 2019

Chicago Public Schools 6128119

These change order approval cycles range from
Ca. Ital In'tnrovcmont am 0410112010 to 0413012019 Pa;e 12 of 14

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Order- Amount Contract PO Number

    
     

Hyde Park Career Academy

2018 Hyde Park ROF 2010-46171-ROF -
Tyler Lane Construction, lnc. 015.249.728.00 32 $849,025.00 $16,098.753.00 5.57%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri li .w
3478790

03120119 04101119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to remove and replace damaged exterior brick on west Discovered Conditions $19,028.00
elevation.

 

03120119 04103119 Contractor to provide credit for doors and hardware. Owner Directed 48,324.00
. 03120119 04101119 Contractor to provide credit for reduction of scope to install rooftop curbs. Ciscovered Conditions 

03121119 04105119 Contractorto provide labor and material for school requested work to remove commie wall tile. School Request $7,149.00
projection screen, devices from the wall. Contractor to repair and plaster well and
reinstall new board where needed.

10111110 04117119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to coat existing metal structure at ridge to match adjacent Discovered Conditions $15,678.00
metal color.

03120119 04105119 Contractor to provide labor and materials for removing and replacing existing diffusers to avoid newly Discovered Conditions $6,477.00
installed ceiling grid and lighting ?xtures. -

 

Project Total: $32,541.00

Benito Juarez High School

2017 Juarez ROF-1 2017-46421-ROF-1
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen 81 Assoc 51.493.000.00 6 $8,694.63 $1,404,305.37 058%

Change Date App Dale Cha 00 er Descri tions Rea 

 

3402243
04103119 04119119 Contractor to provide credit for removing a 13-foot roof ladder trom scope. Owner Directed 451,723.00

04102119 04105119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to modify skylight steel due to discovered conditions within Discovered Conditions $4,000.69
the project scope.

 

Project Total: $2,277.60

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears,

July 24, 2019

69

CPS . JULY2019

Chicago Public Schools 6/28/19

. These change order approval cycles range from
Cautal Irnurovement Pro 3 am 0410112019 to 0413012019 Pa1e 13 of 14

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

Original Number at Total Revleed Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract 16 at Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Order: Amount Contract P0 Number

 

Math and Science Academy High School

2017 Lindhlom ROF 
All-Bry Construction Company $8,570,000.00 43 $911,203.61 $9,481,203.61 10.63%

Change Date App Date Ch 5 rl i 
3299246
03129119 04119119 Contractor to provide labor and materials for the installation a new exhaust fan and remedial painting Owner Directed $15,181.93
of ceilings in two of the locker rooms and clean mold irorn the ceiling In two rooms.

 

Project Total: $15,131.93

Richard Crane Medical Preparatory HS

2018 Crane HS MEP 2010-46641-MEP .
Ideal Heating Company $1,378,443.00 12 $135,241.00 $1,513,684.00 9.81%

Change Date App Date ha eOrderDescri lions eas Cod

 

3564610
04102119 04129119 Contractor to provide labor and materlals to replace exhaust valves. School Request $7,493.00

04108119 04119119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to replace pump bearings. plates, screws, collars as Discovered Conditions $2,247.20
required to install new bearing.

04104119 04119119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to relocate electrical ctoset per discussions with Discovered Conditions $7,995.58
04108119 04119119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to replace the automatic air vents and ball valves at AHU. Discovered Conditions $2,276.00
03121119 04102119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to repair concrete floor stab for new chiller location. Discovered Conditions $7,026.98
04110119 04126119 Contractor to provide labor to Investigate load feed to determine if loads are active per Discovered Conditions $1,219.00

03121119 04102119 Contractor to provide labor to Investigate and confirm switchboard size and types of loads for Discovered Conditions $5,590.90
transformation load veri?cation as requested by 

04104119 04129119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to repair leaking steam booster coils. Discovered Conditions $75,932.00

04104119 04128119 A Contractor to provide labor and materials to repair existing steam control valve for AHU. Discovered Conditions $3,376.00

 

Project Total: $110,946.66

 

The toltowing change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Boatdin arrears.

July 24, 2019

70

 

 

CPS - JULY 20] 9

Chicago Public Schools
. These change order approval cycles range from
Caultal Im-rovement Pro; am 04/01/2010 to 0413012019

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract

     
        

 

   
  

6/28/19
Page 14 of 14

Oracle Board Number
P0 Number

 

Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School

2017 Curie SIP 201T-53101-SIP
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen 81 Assoc $14,583,000.00 53 $878,281.85 31546128135 6.02%

gnange Date App Date Reason cm

04/04/19 04/19/19 Contractor to provide labor and materials to conduct an investigation of problematic heating supply Discovered Conditions
areas In areas identified in the base scope of work. 

 

3299235
$25,833.26

 

Eckersall Stadium

2016 Eckersali Stadium UAF 2016-60010-UAF
Reliable 8. Associates 352.171.488.00 21 $204,460.16 $2,375,948.16 9.42%

Change Date ?ag Date . Change grger Descriptions Reason de

04/23/19 04/26/19 Contractor to provide labor and materials to paint new fencing and gates. Ovvner Directed

Project Total: 525,333.26

3459606
$3,228.00

 

Total Change Orders for this Period $575,008.16

Project Total: $3,223.00

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

July 24, 2019

July 24, 2019

1 9-0724-P R1 2

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH CBRE, INC. FOR REAL ESTATE BROKERAGE SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with CBRE, Inc. to provide real estate brokerage services to the Real Estate
Department in connection with the marketing of certain Board properties, at a total cost not to exceed the
amount set forth in the Compensation section of this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis
pursuant to Board Rule 7-3. A written agreement for Vendor's services is currently being negotiated. No
services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of
their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this
agreement is stated below. 

Contract Administrator Barnes, Miss Allison I 773-553-2280

CPOR Number 

VENDOR:
1) Vendor 38210

CBRE, INC.
321 N. CLARK ST. STE 3400

CHICAGO, IL 60654

Mike Nardinl
312 935-1030

Ownership: CBRE Group, Inc. (100%)

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
11910 - Real Estate
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Davis, Mrs. Sevara E.
773-553-2900

TERM:

The term of this agreement shatl commence on August 1, 2019 and shall and July 31. 2020. This
agreement shalt have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will develop comprehensive marketing strategies, target potential buyers, prepare marketing
materials, advertise in real estate listings, and coordinate showings to assist the Board In reaching the
largest potential market to sell properties.

DELIVERABLES: 
Vendor will provide all marketing materials and develop lists of prospective buyers, which will be updated
continuously as additional prospective buyers are identi?ed.

- OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in the implementation of a comprehensive marketing strategy for the Board,
including targeting potential buyers, preparing marketing materials, advertising in real estate listings and
coordinating showings.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid a brokerage fee of 2.5% of the sale price, not to exceed $250,000, in accordance
with the terms of the agreement.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Director of Real Estate to
execute ail ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation In
Goods and Services Contracts (MIWBE Program), this contract is exempt from MWBE review. because
there is no cost to the Board.

71

July 24, 2019

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 412

Department of Real Estate, 11910

Fee for service will be based on 2.5% of the sale price for each property sold.
Total compensation shall not exceed $250,000.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, In accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the 
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's-Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

19-0724-PR13

AMEND BOARD REPORT 19-0227-PR12 
AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH YOUTH AcvocATE PROGRAMS, mc FOR CHOOSE To
CHANGE YOUTH THERAPY SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTWE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with Youth Advocate Programs, Inc. to provide youth therapy services to
Chicago Public Schools students at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section Of this
report. Vendor was selected on a non-competitive basis. This item was presented to the Single/Sole Source
Committee on September 18, 2018 and approved by the Chief Procurement Of?cer. Prior to approval as a
Single Source, the item was published on the Procurement website on September 14, 2018, found here:
cpsedu/procurement. The item will remain on the Procurement website until the September 26, 2018
Board Meeting. This process complies with the independent consultant's recommendations for single
source procurements and the Board's "SinglelSole Source Committee Charter." A written agreement for
Vendor?s services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment
shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
amended Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

This February 2019 amendment is necessary to increase the maximum spend authority from $300,000 to
$975,000 and extend the term from March 15, 2019 to December 31, 2019. The proposed increase is a
result of the City of Chicago granting additional funds to support the ?Choose to Change" program through
an IntergovernmentalAgreement.

IpisJulv 2019 amendment is necessary to increase the maximum spend authority from $975,000 to
$2,375,000. The proposed increase is a result of the City of Chicago qrantinq additi?laj funds to support the
"Choose to Change" summer programming for 400 youth from high risk situations through an
Intergovernmental Agreement. This amendment was presented to the Single/Sole Source Committee on
July 2, 2019 and approved by the Chief Procurement Of?cer. Prior to approval as a Single Source, this
amended item was published on the Procurement website on July' 1, 2019, found here:
cpsedu/procurement. The amended item will remain on the Procurement website until the July 24, 2019
Board Meeting. This process complies with the independent consultant's recommendations for sindle
source procurements and the Board's "Single/Sole Source Charter." The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written amendment is not executed within 90 days of this Amended
Board Report. 

Contract Administrator Washington, Ms. Nealean I 773-553-2273

 

 

72

July 24, 2019

VENDOR:

1) Vendor# 10619
YOUTH ADVOCATE PROGRAMS, INC
2007 NORTH 3RD STREET
HARRISBURG, PA 17102
Keith Koenig
717 232-7580
Ownership: Not?for-Pro?t

USER INFORMATION 

Project 10610 - School Safety and Security Of?ce
Managen 42 West Madison Street

Chicago, IL 60502

Chou, Mrs. Jadine P.

773-553?3030

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on October 15, 2018 and shall and December 31, 2019. This
agreement shall have no options to renew.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will operate to serve 158 CPS youth. Children' 5 Home and Aid will provide group therapy to the
youth referred by Youth Advocate Programs for the intervention. This funding will support the Youth
Advocate Program component of the full Choose to Change initiative. Additionally, Vendor will provide

summer programing to 400 youth from high risk situations, including the district Options schools.

The model uses "advocates" who may spend 12 to 20 hours a week working with youth to engage them in
positive and pro-social activities. As the youth stabilizes in the community, hours are often reduced to 7.5 to
5 hours per week. The YAP model includes the following components including educational support and
interventions, safety plans for youth and family around gang related threats, work component, basketball
league and a leadership program.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in youth being better able to manage the effects of trauma (such as
hypervigilance and aggression), which will lead to: an increase in the number of students who report that
they feel safe at school, at home and community; a reduction in the number of youth who are injured by gun
violence or are arrested for gun charges; and a reduction in out of school suspensions and major
misconducts. An additional goal of the project is to leverage resources in the community including work
programs and recreational services that lead to improved life skills.

COMPENSATION:

Estimated annual costs for the ?fteen (15) month term are set forth below:
$975,000 FY19

$1,400,000 FY20

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Chief of Safety and Security to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MIWBE Program), this contract is exempt as this agreement is for a Not For
Pro?t Organization.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approvalis not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 210, Safety and Security, Unit 10615
$975, 000 FY19



Not to exceed $915000 ?2,375,000 for the term.

Future year funding Is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

73

July 24, 2019

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34?1 3.1, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations. 

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics- The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25,2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liabiliw - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

19-0724-PR14

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH ADANI SYSTEMS, INC FOR THE PURCHASE OF
PORTABLE X-RAY MACHINES AND RELATED INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE AND TRAINING
SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with ADANI Systems, Inc. for the purchase of portable x-ray machines and
related installation, maintenance and training services for the Of?ce of School Safety and Security at an
estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a
competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. A written agreement for this purchase is available for
signature. No goods may be ordered or received and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the
execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automaticaily rescind in the event
a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. information pertinent
to this agreement is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 19-350030

Contract Administrator Washington, Ms. Nealean T1773-553-2273
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 42831

ADANI SYSTEMS . INC.
13631 POPLAR CIRCLE

CONCROE, TX 77304

Luke Ricards
303 931-5505

Ownership: Vladimir Linev? 50%, Elena
Lineva- 50%

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10610 School Safety and Security Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, lL 60602
Shableski, Mr. Ronan 
773-553?3039
TERM: .
The term of this agreement shall commence on August 1, 2019 and and July 31, 2021. This agreement

shall have three (3) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

74

July 24, 2019

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:
Vendor will provide:

Goods: Portable X-ray machine
Model: ADANI BV503OCA
Product Unit Price: $11,752.50
Repair Hourly Rate: $150/hour

Emergency Call Hourly Rate: $200Ihour
Extended Warranty 3 years: $1,500/unit
Removal Rate: $100/unlt
Disposal Rate: $150/unit

The purchase of goods will also include the below services:

Delivery and Set-up: The vendor will deliver, install and set-up new x-ray machines to schools designated
by the Office of School Safety and Security. Labor, equipment and materials to deliver and install will be
provided by the vendor. Set-up includes the complete assembly of the x?ray machine along with testing to
ensure the equipment is functioning properly.

Maintenance: The vendor will provide maintenance service fora minimum of one (1) year from the date of
installation of each unit In order to keep the equipment working at full capacity.

Repair Services: Repairs shall be required in inde?nite quantities on an as needed basis throughout the
term of the contract. All repairs shalt be completed within a reasonable time frame.

OUTCOMES:

This purchase of x-ray machines are a major component of our safety strategy in schools and have been
in very high demand based on recent tragic events around the country and within the City of Chicago. In
addition, with the Concealed Carry Weapons law, schools and parents have raised increased concerns.

Purchasing x-ray machines will help prevent weapons from slipping into Chicago Public Schools.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in the agreement. Estimated annual
costs set forth below:

FY20 $998,260

FY21 $998,260

Total not to exceed $1,996,520 for the two (2) year term.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief of Safety and
Security to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts Programs), this contract is in full compliance as the Prime vendor
has committed to the participation goals of 30% MBE and 7% WBE. The vendor has scheduled the
following 

Total MBE: 30% -
Enterprise, LLC (MBE)
1901 Old LaGrange Road
Mokena, IL 60448

Herman Andalcio

Total WBE: 7%

Zia Learning (WBE)
2150 Canalport Ave.
Chicago, IL 60608
Robin Gonzales

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Capital Funds and Various School Funds

Of?ce of Safety and Security, Unit 10610

FY20 $998,260 1

FY21 $998,260

Total not to exceed $1,996,520 for the two (2) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

75

July 24, 2019

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of. or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated Into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the ciausethat any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

19-0724-PR15

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH ADVANCE SECURITY RESOURCES LLC FOR THE
PURCHASE OF WALK-THROUGH METAL DETECTORS AND RELATED INSTALLATION,
MAINTENANCE AND TRAINING SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with Advance Security Resources LLC for the purchase of Walk-Through
Metal Detectors and related installation, maintenance and training services for the Of?ce of School Safety
and Security at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendor was
selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. A written agreement for this purchase is
available for signature. No goods may be ordered or received and no payment shall be made to Vendor
prior to the execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind
in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report.
lnforrnation pertinent to this agreement is stated below. 

Speci?cation Number: 19-350020
Contract Administrator: Washington, Ms. Nealean 773-553-2273
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 42834

ADVANCE SECURITY RESOURCES LLC
2125 24TH ST

CHICAGOI IL 60608

Salvador Leanos
773 680-0771

Ownership: Salvador Leanos - 100%

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10610 - School Safety and Security Office

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, lL 60602
Shableski, Mr. Ronan 
773?553-3039
TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on August 1, 2019 and shall and July 31, 2021 . This

agreement shall have three (3) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:
Vendor will provide:

Goods: Walk-through Metal Detectors
Model: Garrett P06500i

Product Unit Price: $3,350

Set-U and installation Price: $117lUnit
Delivery/Freight Price: $120/unit

76

July 24, 2019

Extended Warranty 3 years: $335/unit
FY20 Annual Quantity: 50
FY20 - Annual Cost: $196,100

FY21 - Annual Quantity: 50
FY21 - Annual Cost: $196,100

The purchase of goods will also include the below services:

Delivery and Set-up: The vendor will deliver, instali and set-up new metal detectors to schoois
designated by the Of?ce of School Safety and Security. Labor, equipment and materials to deliver and
install will be provided by the vendor. Set-up includes the complete assembly of the metal detectors along
with testing to ensure the equipment is functioning properly.

Maintenance: The vendor will provide maintenance service for a minimum of one (1) year from the dateof
installation of each unit in order to keep the equipment working at full capacity.

Repairs Services: Repairs shall be required in Inde?nite quanti?es on an as needed basis throughout the
term of the contract. All repairs shall be completed within a reasonable time frame.

OUTCOMES: 

This purchase will result in Metal Detectors as a major component of our safety strategy in schools and
have been in very high demand based on recent tragic events around the country and within the City of
Chicago. In addition, with the concealed carry weapons law, schools and parents have raised concerns.
Purchasing Metal Detectors will help prevent weapons from slipping into Chicago Public Schools.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid in accordance with the unit prices contained in the agreement. Estimated annual
costs set forth below: .

$196,100 FY20

$196,100 FY21

Total not to exceed $392,200 for the two (2) year term.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsei to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief of Safety and
Security to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: 

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation In
Goods and Services Contracts (MIWBE Programs), this contract ls' In full compliance with the Business
Diversity goals of 30% and 7% WBE as the Prime vendor Is 100% MBE.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval Is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Capital Funds and Various School Funds

Of?ce of Safety and Security, Unit 10610

$196,100 FY20

$196,100 FY21

Total not to exceed $392,200 for the two (2) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shaII not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in vioiatlon of the
provisions which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of theagreement.

Contingent The agreement shall contain the ciause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation In the subsequentI ?scal year
budget(s).

77

July 24, 2019

1 9-0724-PR16

AMEND BOARD REPORT 17-0828-PR8
AMEND BOARD REPORT 
AUTHORIZE NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR STUDENT TRANSPORTATION
SERVICES (SCHOOL BUS SERVICE)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize new agreements with various vendors to provide student transportation services to Student
Transportation Services Department and all schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the
Compensation Section of this report. Vendors were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule
7-2. Written agreements for Vendors' services are currently being negotiated. No services shall be
provided by and no payments shalt be made to any Vendor prior to execution of their written agreement.
The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each Vendor in the event their written
agreement is not executed withini120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to these
agreements is stated below.

This August 2017 amendment is necessary to: i) correct the name and vendor number for O?Neals
Transportation to re?ect Urban Habitats. Inc. dba O'Neal?s Transportation SVC, Inc. and ii) delete No
Stress Transportation LLC The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each
Vendor in the event their agreement is not executed within 30 days of the date of this amended Board
Report.

This July 2019 amendment is necessapy to report the Chief Procurement Of?cer?s consent under his
delegation of authority (former Board Rule 7-15.e.3.ii) to the (it assignment and assumption by First
Student, Inc. of the original agreement with Falcon Transportation, Inc. in 2017; (ii) assignment and
assumption by Caravan Transportation, mo. of the original agreement with Bus Company in 2018; and
assignment and assumption by Compass Transportation LLC of the original agreement with A1 Bus
Service, LLC (for ?eld trips only) in 2018.

This July 2019 amendment is aiso necessarv to (it delete Walls Transportation and William Ransgp
Transportation, Inc. due to early termination of their agreements with the Board; (ii) correct an error in
the numbering of ?scal years to align with the term of me Board Report; and add Compass
Transportation LLC as a vendor (for daily school routes) as a result of an additional solicitation
{Speci?cation No. 19-350024). This Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule
7~3. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to this Vendor in the event their agreement
is not executed within 90 days of the date of this amended Board Report.

 

Speci?cation Number: 16-350056, 19-350024
Contract Administrator Barnes, Miss Allison VI 773-553-2280
USER 

Contact: 11870 - Student Transportation
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, it. 60602
Mo Guire, Mr. Kevin P.
773-553?2860

TERM:
The term of each agreement shall commence on August 1, 2017 and shall end July 31, 2020. The term of

the Compass Transportation LLC agreement shall commence on August 1, 2019 and shall end July 31,
2020. The agreements shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors shall provide school bus services to and from school and other related activities to eligible students
participating in designated programs as per program guidelines and as set out in the written agreements.
Services will be provided during regular and summer school terms. Programs served by school bus
services includes but are not necessarily limited to: Diverse Learners, Selective Enrollment, Controlled
Enrollment Receiving Schools, Students in Temporary Living Situations, Parent Choice, ?eld trips, shuttle
services for schools, and other programs as the Board deems appropriate. Vendors will also provide bus
services for ?eld trips and athletic trips. The Board anticipates 70,000 to 100;000 trips per year. Each
Vendor is eligible to provide bus services for ?eld trips and athletic trips for all zones.

78

July 24, 2019

It is estimated that approximately 1,200 first runs and 600 second or third runs, and 225 mid-day runs
involving approximately 1,250 school buses of various sizes and con?gurations will be provided pursuant to
these agreements. The number of buses actually required to provide services to students is subject to
change when the school year is undenNay. Because the number of buses required is estimated, the total
cost of the agreements is also estimated. The annual and contract term cost estimates are based upon the
combined regular school year and summer school calendars established by the Board. The Board reserves
the right during the contract term to order the services of more or fewer bUSes than originally allocated as
the needs of students and/or programs change. The Board is only obligated for costs of buses actually
operating CPS routes.

DELIVERABLES: .
Vendors will provide buses for student transportation to school and extracurricular activities.

OUTCOMES:
Vendors' services will result in transportation of CPS students to schools and programs, safely and on time
in yellow school buses.

COMPENSATION:

Vendors shall be paid in accordance with prices indicated in their respective agreement. The pricing is
subject to an annual CPI adjustment and fuel cost adjustment. Total compensation for all vendors shall not
exceed $351 ,000,000 in the aggregate for the three year term. Total annual compensation amount
includes the cost of ?eld trips and athletic trips.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the Generai Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize Executive Director of Student
Transportation to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the agreements.

AFFIRMATIV ACTION:

   
 

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts (MNVBE Program), the Business Diversity goals for this pool are 35% MBE
and 10% WBE. This vendor pool is comprised of 13 vendors with 4 MBEs and 1 WBE. The User group has
committed to achieve the Business Diversity goals through the utilization of the certi?ed diverse suppliers

and certi?ed diverse subcontractors.

Total MBE vendors:
Ammons Transportation

Caravan Transportation

Jack Harris Transportation Inc.
Latino Express Inc.


Walls-Transportation

Total WBE vendors:
BJ's Transportation

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

General Operating Fund 115

Student Transportation Services, Parent Unit 11870

$115,000,000

FY4839 $117,000,000

FY4930 ?ll-979097099 $117,000,000

FY21 2 000 000 7

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shalt have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

79

July 24, 2019

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,

shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

1) Vendor 20287 4)
A.M. Bus Company, Inc.

100 WEST 91ST STREET
CHICAGO. IL 60620
Pamela Williams

773 396-5556

Ownership: Pamela Williams -100%

2) Veneer?#31943 5)

400%

Vendor 19097 7
COMPASS TRANSPORTATION LLC 6)
7508 ST. LOUIS AVE

SKOKIE IL 60076

Pinky Friedman
773 279-9110

 

Ownership: Pinchas Friedman - 55%, Yosef
Meystel 22.5%, David Schnell 22.5%

3) Vendor 46491 7)
ALLTOWN BUS SERVICE, INC.
2345 NELSON ST
CHICAGO, IL 60618
Greg Polan

773 248-0090

Ownership: Grey Polan ~100%

80

Vendor 32700
AMMONS TRANSPORTATION SERVICE,

INC.

9001 S. GENOA
CHICAGO. IL 60620
Benford Ammons
773 874-7777

Ownership: Benford Ammons Jr - 100%

Vendor 69841 -
TRANSPORTATION, INC

3005 87TH STREET
EVERGREEN PARK, IL 60805
Sandra Dean

708 907-6435

Ownership: Sandra Dean 51% And Jason
Dean 49%

Vendor 49337
FIRST STUDENT, INC. 3

1207 GREENWOOD AVE
MAYWOOD, IL 60153
Michael Ensign

630 730-9480

Ownership: America, Wholly Owned
Subsidiary 0f Inc Publicly Traded

8)

9)

10)

11)

12)

Vendor 72017 13)
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SCHOOL BUS

78 NORTH CHICAGO STREET
JOLIET, IL 60432

David Petersen

815 409?4052

Ownership: North America Central School Bu
Intermediate Holding Company, Us 100%

Vendor 11085
JACK HARRIS TRANSPORTATION

14218 SOUTH WESTERN
POSEN, IL 60469

Jack Harris

708 389-1843

Ownership: Jack Harris - 100% 14)

Vendor 39549
LATINO EXPRESS, INC.

3230 W. 38TH STREET
CHICAGO. IL 60632
Henry Gardunio

312 316-5451

Ownership: Michael Rosas - 33%. Henry
Gardunio - 33% And Joseph Gardunio - 33% 15)

Deleted

Vendor 18680

URBAN HABITATS INC DBA 
TRANSPORTATION SVC, INC.

1507 53RD ST #873

CHICAGO, IL 60615 16)
Pierre Glover

773 301-7433

Ownership: Pierre Glover 100%

17)

81

July 24, 2019

Vendor 35153
CARAVAN TRANSPORTATION

4610 W. WASHINGTON BLVD
CHICAGO IL 60644

Earne?st L. Aldridge
773 309-8212

 

Ownership: Earnest L. Aldridqe - 100%

Vendor# 16702
SUNRISE TRANSPORTATION LLC

8500 VINCENNES AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60620
Robert Hach

773 224-8050

Ownership: Leo Helmers - 70%, Paul Losos -
15% And Gregory Bonnett - 15%

Vendor 43809
UNITED QUICK TRANSPORTATION

2004 S. KOSTN ER
CHICAGO, IL 60623
Michael Rosas

312 431-3220

Ownership: Michael Roses - 33%, Henry
Gardunio 33% And Joseph Gardunio - 33%

July 24, 2019

19-0724-PR17

AMEND BOARD REPORT 
AMEND BOARD REPORT 18-0725-PR12
AUTHORIZE THE PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS OF AND NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS
VENDORS TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL PROFESSIONAL SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the pre-quali?cation status of and new agreements with various vendors to provide ?nancial
services at an estimated annual cost set forth in the compensation section of this report. Vendors were
selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written master agreements for vendors are
currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any vendor
prior to execution of their written master agreement. The pre-quali?cation status approved herein for each
vendor shall automatically rescind in the event such vendor fails to execute the Board's master agreement
within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. information pertinent to this master agreement is stated
below. .

This October 2018 amendment is necessary to add ?ve (5) new vendors to the list of pre-quali?ed vendors
as a result of the Supplemental RFQ issued. Written master agreements with the new vendors are being
,negotiated. The pre-quali?cation status approved herein for all vendors shall automatically rescind in the
event such vendor fails to execute the Board's master agreement within 120 days of the date of this
amended Board Report. Information pertinent to the master agreements is stated below

This July 2019 amendment is necessanLto increase the not to exceed amount from $2,250,000 to

$6,000,000 due to additional professional services needs for AP automation and Oracle ?xed assets
resulting from system issues encountered during the year. No written amendment is reguired.

 

 

Speci?cation Number: 18-350029, 18-350038
Contract Administrator: Washington. Ms. Nealean 773?553-2280
USER INFORMATION 

Project 1241 0 - Accounting

Manager: 42 West Madison Street
Chicago, lL 60602
Wilson, Ms. Megan
773-553-2710

TERM: -

The term of this pre?qualification period and each master agreement is three (3) years, effective August 1,
2018 and ending July 31, 2021. The term of each master agreement awarded pursuant to the supplemental
RFQ shall commerce upon date of execution and end July 31, 2021. The Board shall have the right to
renew the pro-qualification period and each master agreement for two (2) additional one (1) year periods.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendors will provide personnel to perform in at least one of the categories or sub-categories awarded as
described below. -

Category A: Finance Vendors shall provide sen/ices related to: treasury, investment, cash management,
budgeting, extemat audit support, ?nancial reporting, vendor payment and contract reviews, property tax
collections and allocations, ?nance project cost allocation, grant
accounting, management and compliance, process improvementlef?ciency and other related tasks.

Sub-Category A-1: External Audit Support-Vendors providing this category of services will support CPS's
annual external ?nancial audit, Federal Single Audit and the preparation and completion of the CPS
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report R), the State Board of Education Annual Financial
Report (AFR) and Schedule of Expenditure of Federal Awards (SEFA) and other respective reports.

Sub-Category A-z: Other Finance Functions?Vendors providing this category of services will support
treasury, investment, cash management, budgeting, financial reporting, vendor payment and contract
reviews, property tax collections and allocations, ?nance cost allocation,
grant accounting, management and compliance, process improvement/ef?ciency and other related tasks,
and have experience providing services to governmental entities.

Category B: Financial Information Technology?Vendors shall provide services in the areas of: financial
enterprise systems management, implementation, report creation, analytics, application development and
management, disaster recovery, and business continuity on as needed basis. These services will provide
technical support to the Finance Department for the annual external Financial and Federal Single Audit, the
Annual Financial Report for Illinois State Board of Education, the Federal Annual Financial Report
(Site-Level Report/ESSA), GL Wand (Excel4Apps), Kanban Tool and other Finance Department speci?c
software and technological processes, as directed. Vendors will be expected to work with the CPS ITS
Department and cooperate with other users of the CPS resources, including but not limited to third party
vendors.

82

July 24, 2019

Category C: Financial Staf?ng Services-Vendors shall provide staf?ng services on 'an as-needed basis as
determined by the CPS Finance Department. Such services may be related to ?nance, accounting,
accounts payable, revenue. payroll, budget. grants management. and treasury. Vendors will be expected to
provide CPS with services including: sourcing available candidates, providing candidate recommendations,
ensuring licensing/certi?cation requirements are met, and validating previous work experience.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid as follows:

Estimated annual amounts for the sum of payments to all pre-quali?ed vendors for the three (3) year
pro-quali?cation term are set forth below:

$474507000 ?2,500,000. FY 2019;
#7250900 2020;
547050.000 $1,500,000, FY 2021

The costs associated here with shall be reported to the Board on a quarterly basis pursuant to Board Rule
7-8.

USE OF POOL:

The Finance Department is authorized to receive services from the pro-quali?ed pool as follows: All
services will require a mini-bid process in which the unit is required to obtain quotes from the vendors in the
pre-quali?ed pool prior to making a selection.

AUTHORIZATION: .

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written master
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the master agreements. Authorize the Chief
Financial Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the master
agreements. 

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts (MIWBE Program). the Business Diversity goals for this pool are 30% MBE
and 7% WBE. The original vendor pool comprised 5 vendors. which included 1 MBE. This supplemental
solicitation adds 5 additional vendors to the pool, including 2 additional MBEs and 1 WBE. The total vendor
pool is now comprised of 10 vendors, inciuding 3 MBEs and 1 WBE. The user group has committed to
achieve the Business Diversity goals through the utilization of the certi?ed diverse supplier and certi?ed
diverse subcontractors.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Fund 115, Finance, Unit 11810, Corporate Accounting. Unit 12410. Accounts Payable. Unit 12430

#:4507000 ?2,500,000. FY 2019;
$472-$000 $2,000,000, 
?1,500,000, FY2021

Not to exceed $6,000,000 for the three (3) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 1051LCS
the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain

investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board it entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to'time, shail be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25. 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shalt contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

83

1)

2)

4)



6)
Vendor 91172
CROWE LLP.

225 WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO. IL 60606
Mark Maraccini

312 899-8346

Awarded: Category A1-Extemal Audit Support
and A2-Other Finance Functions. Ownership:
No partnerlprincipal has an ownership interest
over 1%

7)
Vendor 29159
ERNST YOUNG LLP

5 Times Square
New York, NY 10036
Gaurav Malhotra
212 773-2716

Awarded: Category A2-Other Finance
Functions. Ownership: No partner/principal has
an ownership interest over 1%
8)
Vendor 29477

LASALLE STAFFING. INC DBA LASALLE
NETWORK

200 NORTH LASALLE STREET, STE 2500
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Billy Ryan

312 419-1700

Awarded: Category C-Flnancial Staffing
Services. Ownership: Tom Gimbel-100%

Vendor 16669
GUIDEHOUSE LLP 9)

1800 TYSONS BOULEVARD
MCLEAN. VA 22102

Kevin Sanders

571 766-9220

Awarded: Category B~Financial information
Technology. Ownership: Guidehouse Holding
Corporation - 99%

Vendor 22804
SENRYO INC.

387 SHUMAN BOULEVARD 10)
NAPERVILLE, IL 60563

Jose Blanco

630 355?7429

Awarded: Category B-FInanciaI Information
Technology. Ownership: Dinkar Karumuri -
100%

84

July 24, 2019

Vendor 31413
BENFORD BROWN ASSOCIATES LLC

8334 S. STONY ISLAND AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60617

KImi Ellen

773 731-1300

Awarded: Category A1-External Audit Support
and A2-Other Finance Functions. Ownership:
L. Ellen 52.5%. Tlmothy S. Watson 37.5%
and Alyssia Benford 10.0%

Vendor 19604
DMD CONSULTING, LLC

230 S. CLARK STREET STE 1 13
CHICAGO, iL 60604

Darlene Marie Drab

312 809-6987 

Awarded: Category C: Financial Staf?ng.
Ownership: Darlene Marie Drab - 100%

Vendor 25690
MITCHELL TITUS LLP

333 WEST WACKER DRIVE STE 2650
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Lester McKeever

312 325-7418

Awarded: Category A1-External Audit Support
and A2-Other Flnance Functions. Ownership:
Anthony Kendall~33%, Elaine Allen-11%, Irene
Fred Davis?11%, Christopher

Brown-12% and Steven Mather-10%

Vendor 68985
RINGOLD FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
SERVICES, INC

850 SOUTH WABASH AVENUE
CHICAGO. IL 60605

Michelle Ringold

312 566-9705

Awarded: Category A1-Extemal Audit Support
and AZ?Other Finance Functions. Ownership:
Michelle Ringold 51% and Rick Ringold 49%

Vendor 29778
RSM US LLP

1 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60606-3392
Joseph Evans

312 634-4540

Awarded: Category A1-Extemal Audit Support
and A2-Other Finance Functions. Ownership:
All shareholds have less than 1% ownership

July 24, 2019

19-0724-PR18

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST OR SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR
AUDIT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst or second second renewal agreements with various vendors to provide audit services
at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Written documents
exercising this option are currently being negotiated with each vendor. No payment shall be made to the
vendors during this option period prior to execution of their written document. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind as to each vendor in the event their written document is not executed within 90
days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 15-35002?
Contract Administrator: Cantero, Mrs. Nanzi I 773?553?2280

USER INFORMATION 

Contact:
10430 - Of?ce of lntemal Audit and Compliance

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Jacob, Miss Angelica 
773-553-1990

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report 15-0722-PR10) in the amount of $1 ,500.000.00 are
for a term commencing September 1, 2015 and ending August 31, 2018, with the Board having two (2)
options to renew for one (1) year terms. The original Agreements were awarded on a competitive basis
pursuant to former Board Rule 7-2. Board Report 18-0822-PR7, In the amount of $750,000.00,
authorized the ?rst option to renew the original Agreements and authorized additional Agreements for a
term commencing September 1, 2018 and ending August 31, 2019. with the Board having one (1) option
to renew the additional Agreements for a one (1) year term.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of each Agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing September 1, 2019 and
ending August 31, 2020.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF .

Vendors will continue to provide school audit services and rotated other audit services for CPS
departments and networks. Speci?c audit projects will be assigned based on ?xed rates as the need
arises.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendors will provide the following deliverables: 1) School audit workpapers, including lead sheet and
documented workpaper support; 2) Detailed summary reports at the conclusion of the overall audit activity
Including. but not limited to, cost saving opportunities, best practice and recommendations for
improvements based upon observations and discoveries made during and throughout the audit; and 3)
Weekly progress reporting and status update.

OUTCOMES:
Vendors' services will result in: performing school and centrai of?ce audit services in an accurate and
timely manner.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid during this one year period as speci?ed in their respective Agreement. Total
compensation for all vendors shall not exceed $750,000.00 in the aggregate for the one (1) year term.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreements.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreements. Authorize Chief Financial Of?cer to
execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts (MIWBE Program), the Business Diversity goals for this pool are 30% MBE
and 7% WBE. The vendor pool is comprised of 11 vendors. The vendor pool is comprised of 5 MBEs and
2 WBEs. The User group has committed to achieve the Business Diversity goals through the utilization of
the certi?ed diverse supptiers and certi?ed diverse sub-contractors.

85

July 24, 2019

REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115

Internal Audit and Compliance, Unit 10430

$625,000 FY20

$125,000 FY21

Not to exceed $750,000 in the aggregate for the one (1 year period.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/344 3.1 . the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26. 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time. shall be Incorporated Into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year

budget(s).

4)

1)
Vendor 19608
ADELFIA LLC -

400 E. RANDOLPH STREET STE 705
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Maria Fides Balita

312 240-9500

Ownership: Stella Marie Santos - 17.3%;
Jennifer Roan - 17.3%; Annabelle Abueg

-1 Maria Fides Balita Maria 5)
Divina Valer ~17.3 2 other shareholders with
less then 10% interest.

Note: First Renewal

2

. Vendor 67104
BELL FINANCIAL HOLDINGS, WC
6945 STONY ISLAND AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60649
Alton Bell
773 994-8944

Ownership: Dwan Johnson Bell - 50% and 6)
Alton Bell - 50%
Note: Second Renewal

Vendor #31413
BENFORD BROWN 8: ASSOCIATES LLC

8334 S. STONY ISLAND AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60617

Kimi Ellen

773 731-1300

Ownershipr Kimi L. Ellen - 52.5%; Timothy S.
Watson - 37.5% and Alyssia Benford - 10%
Note: Second Renewal

86

Vendor 96159
BRONNER GROUP, LLC

120 NORTH LASALLE STREET
CHICAGO. 

Marilyn Katzin

312 759-5101

Ownership: Gila J. Brenner - 100%
Note: Second Renewal

Vendor 91172
CROWE LLP.

225 WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Bert Nuehring

310 899-8346

Ownership: More than 260 Partners. no one
owns more than 10%

Note: Formerly Known as Crowe Homath LLP.
Second Renewal

Vendor 19604
LLC

230 S. CLARK STREET STE 1 13
CHICAGO, IL 60604

Darlene Drab

312 809-6987 

Ownership: Darlene Drab - 100%
Note: First Renewal 

7)

8)

9)

10)

19-0724-PR1 9

Vendor 34148
GERARDO G. LIWANAG ASSOC., 

236 WAUKEGAN ROAD
GLENVIEW, IL 60025
Gerardo Liwanag

847 724-4331

Ownership: Gerardo Liwanag - 100%
Note: Second Renewal

Vendor 16669
GUIDEHOUSE LLP

1800 TYSONS BOULEVARD
MCLEAN, VA 22102

Kevin Sanders

571 766-9220

Ownership: PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP -
99%
Note: First Renewal

Vendor 23326
KPMG LLP

200 RANDOLPH STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60601

James Czamecki

312 665-3428

Ownership: Over 1900 partners in US. all are
limited partners.
Note: First Renewal

Vendor 68985
RINGOLD FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
SERVICES, INC

850 SOUTH WABASH AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60605

Michelle Ringold

312 566-9705

Ownership: Michelle Ringold - 51% and Rick
Ringold - 49%
Note: Second Renewal

11).

July 24, 2019

Vendor 16441
SIKICH LLP

200 W. MADISON STE 3200
CHICAGO, IL 60606

James Sikich

312 648-6679

Ownership: Various Partners No One Owns
More Than 10%
Note: Second Renewal

AMEND BOARD 13-0522-PR12

CONSULTANTS

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AND ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS OF THE
PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS AND AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS TECHNICAL SERVICE

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst renewal of the pre-quali?cation status and agreements with various vendors to provide
consulting services related to special project management system improvements to the district at an
estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. A written document exercising
this option is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to Vendors during the option period
prior to execution of their written document. The pre-quali?catlon status approved herein shaII
automatically rescind as to each Vendor In the event such vendor falls to execute the Board's master
agreement within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated

below.
his 

otiae.T re

01 menta?r t?ereinshal

lfre?' oas eul

WV 5 I
aticall res in ast 

gender in the agent eueh vendor fails te execute the Beards master egLeement within 90 gag ef the date
of this emeneed Board Report.

87

July 24, 2019

Speci?cation Number 18-350026, 19-350015

Contract Administrator Washington, Ms. Nealean I 773-553-2273

USER INFORMATION 

Project 12510 - Information Technology Services
Manager: 42 West Madison Street

Chicago, IL 60602

Dibartolo, Mr. Phillip Brian

773-553-1300

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:
The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $15,000,000 is for
a term commencing July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2019, with the Board having four (4) options to
renew for one (1) year terms. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to
Board Rule 7-2. master reement ith each 

on .

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being reneWed for one (1) year commencing July 1, 2019 and ending June
30, 2020.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are three (3) option periods for one (1) year each remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendor will continue to provide project-based consulting services for ?xed duration projects or short term
staff augmentation. Pre-quali?ed vendors will provide services in one or more of the following categories.

Group A: Project Management and Strategy. This domain is inclusive of the following roies: Project
Manager, (Business, Data, Technical), Technical Writer, Test ManagerlCoordinatorrl? ester,
Change Management Specialist

Group B: infrastructure and Client Computing. This domain is inclusive of the following roles: Network
Engineer, Windows Server Engineer, Server Engineer, Storage Engineer, Oracle
Supercluster Engineer, Device Engineer (Mac), Device Engineer (Chromebook), Device Engineer 608),
Windows Device Management Engineer, Mac Device Management Engineer, Device Management
Engineer

Group C: Application and Data Management. This domain is inclusive of the following roles: Oracle/SQL
Database Administrator, Software Developer (.Net, OAFIADF, Full Stack, Systems
Administrator (Windows, Solaris, Linux), Data Scientist, ETL Developer SQL, Ab lnitio)

Group D: Identity Management and Cyber Security. This domain is inclusive of the following roles:
Identity Management Architect, Identity Management Developer, Cloud Engineer, Information Security
Operations Engineer, Information Security Auditinngen Test Engineer, information Security
Analyst/Policy Writer

DELIVERABLES:
Vendor will continue to provide:

Project Based Work: The ITS team serves as the primary implementation project manager on most
enterprise level technology projects. To achieve its implementation goals, from time to time, may
require a pre-quali?ed partner to play various roles on these projects. The projects are of. varying degrees
of length, but all will have pre-de?ned start and end dates. Thesa roles include, but are not limited to,
enhancement development, new functionality/module implementation support, system architecture, report
development, functional analysis, business analysis, change management, project management, and
post-implementation production support. Pre-quaii?ed vendors, if requested by the Board, shall provide
quali?ed individual consultants to perform speci?c roles on projects under the management of CPS staff.
The actual skill sets and projects will vary, and pre-quahf ed firms will be presented with a formal
Statement of Work (SOW) with the speci?c requirements when needed by 

Staff Augmentation: From time-teatime departments are faced with unexpected staf?ng shortages that
need to be addressed in order to comply with the Board's administrative operations in support of the
district. Therefore, this pool of pro-qualified vendors has been selected as candidates to provide
temporary staf?ng services during these times with personnei that have a variety of skills necessary to ?ll
temporary personnel de?cits for short and long-term assignments. During the term of the contract,
pro-qualified ?rms will respond to Staff Augmentation Requests and, if accepted by CPS, will provide, on
an as needed basis, quali?ed individuals to perform a variety of technology based services as directed by
Staf?ng requirements will vary depending upon the needs of the various Board's departments and
school of?ces.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in the following organizational supports or benefits.

88

July 24, 2019

Administrative:
1. Execution of this pool will allow for a consolidation or replacement of multiple existing Board 'tech'
consulting agreements.

2. Use of a centralized/consolidated pool will allow for greater ?delity in tracking district technology spend
in the aggregate.

3. The pool will be used as the vehicle for staf?ng the ?rst formalized District Technology Project
Roadmap

4. The pool is structured to achieve a minimum MNVBE participation component (40110) that exceeds the
current district requirement 

5. Vendor performance will be assessed per annum and adjusted as required based on performance as
part of the renewal process

Scope Based:

1. The primary outcome for staff augmentation services is continued operational stability in the event of
staf?ng shortages. Primarily, this involves day to day continuity around the CPS intemet and phone
network and critical enterprise application systems such as email, student information, e?business and
HR.

2. The primary outcome for project based engagements will vary by project. Approved FY19 projects are
organized into support of three portfolios: initiatives will align to organizational goals around academic
progress, ?nancial stability and integrity.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid in accordance with prices contained in their agreement. Estimated sum to all
pre-quali?ed vendors for pie-quali?cation term shall not exceed below:

$15,000,000. FY20
Cost associated herewith shall be reported to the Board on a quarterly basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-10.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option
document W. Authorize Chief Information Of?cer to execute all ancillary
documents required to administer or effectuate this option agreement and the master agreements.

ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MNVBE Program), the Business Diversity goals for this pool are 40%
MBE and 10% WBE. This vendor pool is comprised of 46 Blvendors, with 23 MBEs, 1] WBEs. The
User group has committed to achieve the Business Diversity goals through the utilization of the certi?ed
diverse suppliers and certi?ed diverse subcontractors.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Various Funds

ITS, Unit 12510
$15,000,000. FY20

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector Generalof the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

89

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

Vendor 19815
ADAGE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

10 RIVERSIDE PLAZE SUITE 1500
CHICAGO, IL 60606-3836

Torn Ogan

312 258-1200

Ownership: Roy Chomko 90.4762%, Maihleu
Agee 9.5238%
6)

Vendor 13462
ADVANCE ELECTRONIC 81 COMPUTER, INC

3506 S. STATE STREET, UNIT 208
CHICAGO, IL 60609
Dan Gan

. 312 326-6183

Ownership: Dan Gan 100%
7)

Vendor 19820
AGEATIA TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANCY
SERVICES INC.

949 N. PLUM GROVE ROAD
SCHAUMBURG, IL 60173
Chandra Srinivasan

847 517-8415

Ownership: Chandra Srinivasan 100% 8)

Vendor 19824
APTRIS. INC

5636 2ND STREET
LOVES PARK, IL 61111
Steve Hon/ath

815 847?3498

Ownership: Timothy Ancona 100%

90

July 24, 2019

Vendor 19699
ARLENE GLADNEY DBA PRECISE 
REQUIREMENTS LLC

805 LAKE STREET PMB 324
OAK PARK, IL 60301

Arlene Gladney

708 308-9907

Ownership: Arlene Gladney 100%

Vendor #11912
CORP

ONE ATAND WAY
BEDMINSTER, NJ 07921-0752
Keneese Mcnamer

312 364-2982

Ownership: AT and Inc 100%

Vendor 31341
323 STRATEGIC SOLUTIONS. INC.

150 MICHIGAN AVE
CHICAGO. IL 60601
Donna Bryant

312 368-1700

Ownership: Donna Bryant'100%

Vendor 19836
BLACKWELL MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS.
LLC 

1912 WESTON LANE
SCHAUMBURG, IL 60193
Pamela Blackwell

312 513-3221

Ownership: Pamela Blackwell 100%

9)

10)

11)

13)
Vendor 63673
CDW GOVERNMENT, LLC

300 NORTH MILWAUKEE AVE.
VERNON HILLS, IL 60061
Meiissa Goldman

877 489?8641

Ownership: CDW Government LLC is a wholly
owned subsidiary of CDW which is a

wholly owned subsidiary of CDW Corporation,
which trades under the ticker symbol CDW on14)
the NASDAQ Stock Exchange

Vendor 16663
CHICAGO ADVISORS LLC

1440 SHERIDAN ROAD
WILMETTE, IL 60091
Baruna Singh
310 691-0503

15)
Ownership: Baruna Singh 51%, Saiyajit Singh
49%

Vendor 94558

CHRISTOPHER INC
1068 ARCADY DRIVE

LAKE FOREST, IL 60045
Christopher 

847 308-7265 16)

Ownership: Christopher 100%

Vendor 63035
CLARITY PARTNERS, LLC

20 N. CLARK ST. STE 3600
CHICAGO, IL 60602
Rodney Zech

312 920-0550

Ownership: David Namkung 51%,Rodney
Zech. 49%

91

July 24, 2019

Vendor 41798
COMPUTER SERVICES CONSULTING.
INC. DBA CSC CONSULTING GROUP

16W241 FRONTAGE ROAD, SUITE 40
BURR RIDGE. IL 60527

Babylon S. William

855 462?2267

Ownership: Caroline Sanchez Crozier, 100%

Vendor 19852
DIVERSIFIED TECHNOLOGY INC.

65 E. WACKER PLACE
CHICAGO, IL 60601
Darryl Henry

312 362-9600

Ownership: Darryl Henry 100%

Vendor 16547
EXPERIS US, INC.

525 MONROE STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60661

Steve Feest

312 730-1857

Ownership: Manpower 100%

Vendor 20861
GARTNER, INC.

12600 GATEWAY BLVD
FORT MEYERS, FL 33913
Bob Cutler

941 561-4398

Ownership: Bob Cutler 100%

17)

18)

19)

20)

21)
Vendor 16671
HOONUIT I LLC

15088 22ND AVE NE
LITTLE FALLS. MN 56445
Brian Fritzl

320 632-5064

Ownership: Atomic Leamlng Holdings LLC
100%

22) .

Vendor 16092
HITACHI CONSULTING CORPORATION

14643 Dallas Parkway Ste 800
Dallas, TX 75254

Sridhar Jambula

408 772-5279

Ownership: Hitachi Information and
Telecommunications Systems Global 
Corporation 99.6%

Vendor 18474
INNOFIN SOLUTIONS LLC

300 SPECTRUM CENTER DRIVE STE 400
IRVINE, CA 92618

Kim Champion

949 783-8334

Ownership: InnoFin Consulting Inc 25%, EBC34)
Inc 25%, Geyer Technoiogy Solutions 25%.
Spinnaker Solutions 25%

Vendor 19858
IYKA ENTERPRISES, INC.

2707 TURNBERRY RD.
ST. CHARLES. IL 60174
Poonam Gupta Krishan
630 372-3900 105

Ownership: Poonam Gupta Krishan 100%

92

July 24, 2019

Vendor 19217
JS TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS INC

3043 W. NORTH SHORE AVE.
CHICAGO, iL 60645

Jonathan Serle

773 865-2424

Ownership: Jonathan Serle 100%

Vendor 19860
JUDGE TECHNICAL SERVICES, INC.

151 S. WARNER ROAD, SUITE 100
WAYNE. PA 19087

Jared Cohler

312 585-0683

Ownership: Judge Group 100%

Vendor 32236
LIBRARY VIDEO COMPANY dba SAFARI
MONTAGE

300 BARR HARBOR 700
CONSHOKOCKEN. PA 19428
Judith C. Koss

610 645-4000

Ownership: Andrew Schlessinger 100%

Vendor 19882
MAETECH INC.

3702 CAPRI CT.
GLENVIEW, II.
Maleka 'Sumar
312 351 -5322

Ownership: Maleka Sumar 100%

25)

26)

27)

28)

29)
Vendor 70158
MIGRATION METRICS LLC

3246 JULINGTON CREEK RD.
JACKSONVILLE, FL 32223
Glen Bailey

312 543-4762

Ownership: Glen Bailey 100%

30)
Vendor 67404
MIND YOUR MANNERS DBA THE WILLIAM
EVERETT GROUP

35 EAST WACKER DRIVE, STE 914
CHICAGO, IL 60601
Ellen Turner

312 564-5680

OWnership: Ellen Turner 100%
31)

Vendor 87711
MIRAGE SOFTWARE INC DBA BOURNTEC
SOLUTIONS INC.

1701 EAST WOODFIELD RD
SCHAUMBURG, IL 60173
Srujana Gudur

224 232?5690

Ownership: Srujana Gudur 100%
32)

Vendor 12030
MONTEL TECHNOLOGIES, LLC

333 Ohio St Ste 101
Chicago, IL 60654
Ray Montelongo

815 966-1267

OWnership: Ray Montelongo 90%, Megan
Montelongo 10%

93

July 24, 2019

Vendor 19797
MPSK, INC.

233 S. WACKER DR. 84TH
CHICAGO, IL 60606
Michael Powell

312 568-7190

Ownership: Michael Powell 100%

Vendor 83836
NEXT GENERATION, INC.

444 WEST LAKE STREET, SUITE 1700
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Darrell ngueros

312 416-8699

Darrell Higueros 100%

Vendor 19698
OMKAYA CONSULTING INC.

1632 CLARA CT
AURORA, IL 60502
Sangita Singh

630 608-0217

Ownership: Sangita Singh 60%, Dheerendra
Singh 40%

Vendor 35082
RL CANNING INC.

8700 W. BRYN MAWR AVE STE 120N
CHICAGO. IL 6063?!

Rachel Canning

773 693-1900

Ownership: Rachel Canning 70%, Greg
Canning 30%

33)

34)

35)

36)

37)
Vendor 19700
SAVVY TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS, LLC

1431 OPUS PL, STE 110
DOWNERS GROVE, IL 60515
Suba Elangovan

630 386-1368

ownership: Suba Elangovan 95%, ther
Shareholder 5%

38)
Vendor 22804
SENRYO INC. DBA SENRYO
TECHNOLOGIES

387 SHUMAN BOULEVARD
NAPERVILLE, IL 60563
Jose Blanco

630 355-7429

Ownership: Dinkar Karumuri 100%
39)

Vendor 21472
SENTINEL TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

2550 WARRENVILLE ROAD
DOWNERS GROVE, IL 60515
Jack Reidy

630 769-4325

Ownership: Sentinel Technologies Employees
Stock Ownership Plan 42.7%, Other 40)
Management Shareholders-individuaI

ownership is less than 23.1% Dennis
Hoelzer 16.7%; Mary Hoelzer 12.9%,
Non-management shareholders 4.6%

Vendor 29748
SMART TECHNOLOGY SERVICES, INC

562 WEST WASHINGTON BOULEVARD
CHICAGO, IL 60661

Quentiin Patterson

312 612?8225

Ownership: Stephen Baker 100%

94

July 24, 2019

Vendor 14249
SNTIAL TECHNOLOGIES. INC.

150 N. MICHIGAN AVE. SUITE 2800
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Sandeep Main

312 863-8633

Ownership: Sandeep Nain 60%, Reena Nair:
40%

Vendor 23659
SOLAI CAMERON, INC

2335 NORTH SOUTHPORT AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60614

Mallar R. Solai

773 506-2720

Ownership: Mallar R. Solai 100%

Vendor 19800
CORPORATION

22 E. MIFFLIN ST. ST 400
MADISON, WI 53703

Ravi Kaila 
608 661-7602

Ownership: Ravi 100%

Vendor 85508
THIRD SIGHT TECHNOLOGIES
CORPORATION

1812 LISSON RD.
NAPERVILLE, IL 60565
Arasar 

847 682?5605

Ownership: Arasar Arullallar 100%

41)

42)

43)

44)

45)
Vendor 19811
V-SOFT CONSULTING GROUP INC

101 BULLITT LANE, STE 205
LOUISVILLE, KY 40222
Melissa Barnett

502 425?8425

Ownership: Puma Veer 40%, Radhika Veer
60%

46)
Vendor 19817
VIRTUCOM, INC.

5060 AVALON RIGE PKWY STE 300
NORCROSS, GA 30047

Tim Prince

800 890-2611

Ownership: Jenny Tang 100%

47)
Vendor 90597 -
VIVA USA INC.

3601 ALGONQUIN., STE 425
ROLLING MEADOWS, IL 60008
Ilango 

847 368-0860

Ownership: Vasanthi IIangovan 100% 48)

Vendor 19883
VTECH SOLUTION INC.

1100 STREET NW, SUITE 450
WASHINGTON, DC 20005
Anisha VataIiya

202 241-0167

Ownership: Anisha Vataliya 52.5%, Haresh 49)

Vataliya Kapil Kumar 45%

95

July 24, 2019

Vendor 91869
WEBITECTSCOM, INC

11 EAST ADAMS ST., STE 900
CHICAGO, IL 606036306
Bilyan Belchev

312 469-5444

Ownership: Paul Baker 85%, Biiyan Belchev
15%

Vendor 63090
ENTEPRISES, LLC

19081 OLD LAGRANGE RD STE 106
MOKENA, IL 60448

David R. Andalcio

312 256-9090

Ownership: DavId R. AndaicIo 100%


TI OFFI UTI LC

CHICAGO, IL 60659
Dimming
Z73 sag-33,33
Owri: arI'J 95? 

0 11

DISO

12. IV 7 FR.

Meganirigxson
1 AL 0
erhi'

SINA INNCL

sBMora 1 

Vendor 1901? 
ADVANCED INC,
29 BOX 3176
615 521-9924

ere" riWnn10?

July 24, 2019

50) 0 55) 
URA INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOG C. IN
223 W: JAQKSON BLVD SUI IE 225 AMHERST I BEET
I A 064 NASHUA, NH 03003
Ja 6 MM
?12422-?211 6 9 4
rshi: am 5 - wn i:l tVent Pa ners 59]"

ri ves 4. 
51) Vend 42836

925 INC. 55) mm
1&32 1?61Ij EVE NE HIE LLETT SCHOOL SOLU IN .
1 Evug 301A 

425 552?9175 - 
IEQQD 5304 Mama 88? 511-5115.
Chi?prolu 49% Ownership; Amman! Fiste: 100%
52) Vendor 45042 57) Vgngot 
WW
4 PI 0 A RD SUI 
NAP RVILLE 0564 OLUM 04
hma mm
6?0 865-6861 443 257-0086
0 hi Sul Ha' ?100?
53) 58) 

10 ut LaSaHe ui 10 0 
II 1599 39 I LAND WAY
Ben Alcaraz MVER MD 21
W11 re
rshi - hon Iva ?10 0? SAW
wne I a 100?
54) 39 
CREATIVE Cl 59) ndorQHICAGO 5060] 

323 330-3112 ?ri Patibangla
Own h' inc 


Srighar Pg?hg?dla 50%

96

60) Meade: 19537 65) Vendg: 12515
SERVIO LLC SLALOMOwersizanc oer 00? wnrhi' es ets 5?
an 
61 Vendor -
55) 4 7
A EBLV u) 40 
MARK
ershi ar ma 00?
62) Vgngor it ?982?
67) 7 5
500 QBAQLE PARKWA): 
REDWOOD SHQBES g5 949% 
mama L30
i 
anezship: Oracle Corporation 100205 AVE, 330]
CHIQAGQ, IL 
mm 
312 515-1925
er i at 
mums)
64) Vendor 15552
EVE INITE MED 

QBA POWERSCHOOL GROUE LLC
1 RKSH 

FOL 5 30

Mary Toner

388 

Ownership: Que: Pa?ners 49.7% Vista Egu?

nr 7?

1 9-0724-PR20

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENT CDW GOVERNMENT, LLC FOR THE
PURCHASE OF AUDIO VISUAL AND INTERACTIVE WHITEBOARD EQUIPMENT

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst renewal agreement with CDW Government, LLC for the purchase of audio visual and
interactive whiteboard equipment for the district at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation
Section of this report. A written document exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No
payment shall be made to vendor prior to execution of the written document. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind in the event the written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of
this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Contract Administrator Washington, Ms. Nealean I 773-553-2273

VENDOR:

1) Vendor 63673
cow GOVERNMENT, LLC
300 NORTH MILWAUKEE AVE.

VERNON HILLS, IL 60061

Sean Dillon
877 489-8641

Ownership: 100% Publicly Owned
97

July 24, 2019

July 24, 2019

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 12510 - Information Technology Services
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, lL 60602
Wagner, Mr. Edward Joseph
773?553-1281 .
ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $24,900,000 is for
a term commencing August 1, 2016 and ending July 31, 2019, with the Board having two (2) options to
renew for one (1) year terms. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to
former Board Rule 7~2.

OPTION PERIOD: .
The term of this agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing August 1, 2019 and ending
July 31, 2020.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one 1) option period for one 1) year remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendor will continue to provide the district with audio visual and Interactive whiteboard products,
accessories and related services. 

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will continue to provide:

Goods: Audio Visual and Interactive Whiteboards products and accessories

Services: Delivery, Installation, professional development training, technical support, asset tagging, asset
reporting, purchase program and environmental compliance.

Unit Price: Various, to be detailed in the contract pricing exhiblt.

OUTCOMES:
The district will have the ability to purchase audio visual and interactive whiteboard products and
accessories from a strategic source vendor with a positive track record within the schoot district.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid during this option period in accordance with the unit prices set forth in the option
document; estimated annual cost for the one (1) year option period is set forth below:

$8,300,000 FY20

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions In the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize the Chief
Infon'natlon Of?cer to execute atl ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: 

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts (MNVBE Program), the goals for this contract are 30% MBE and 7% WBE.
The Of?ce of Business Diversity has granted a partial waiver and the Prime vendOr has committed to the
participation goals applicable spend.

Total MBE: 30%

KBS Computer Services Inc
1259 South Laramie

Alsip. lL 60803

Ownership: Anthony Kitchens

Quantum Crossings

111 Wacker Dr. Suite 990
Chicago, lL 60601
Ownership: Rodger Martinez

Total WBE: 7%

Liquid PC LLC

124 Heritage Avenue Unit 3
Portsmouth, New Hampshire 03801
Loretta Sivret

LSC REVIEW: 
Local School Council approval is not appiicable to this report.

98

July 24, 2019

FINANCIAL:

Various Funds. All Units

$8,300,000 FY20

Not to exceed $8,300,000 for the one (1) year term

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that. in accordance with 105 
5134?131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce. 

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be Incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

President del Valle indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 19-0724-EX1
through 19-0724-EX4, 19-0724-PR1 through 19-0724-PR3, and 19-0724-PR5 through 19-0724-PR20,
w?lth the noted abstention, would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting
erefore.

President del Valle thereupon declared Board Reports 19-0724-EX1 through 19-0724-EX4,
19-0724-PR1 through 19-0724-PR3, and 19-0724-PR5 through adopted.

1 9-0724-PR21

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER REPORT FOR MAY 2019 ON THE DELEGATED AUTHORITY
EXERCISED UNDER BOARD RULE 7-13

Pursuant to 105 ILCS 5134-19, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago in Board Rule 7-13.
delegated certain purchasing and contracting authority to the Chief Executive Of?cer, Chief Operating
Of?cer, Chief Education Of?cer, Chief Financial Of?cer, Chief Procurement Of?cer, General Counsel,
Communications Of?cer and Chief Administrative Officer.

In accordance with that statute and under Board Rule 7-136), the Board requires that the Chief
Procurement Of?cer submit a report of the authority exercised pursuant to that delegation ("delegated
authority"). The report is to be made to the Board on the last day of each month and must detail the prior
month's delegated authority.

On July 1, 2019, the CPO submitted to the Board the attached report of delegated authority for the period
of May 1, 2019 to May 31, 2019, which is hereby submitted to the Board for'its acceptance.

99

100

UnitlDept
Number

02541
47051
24741

47081
24381

11010

12510
11010

10810

1 0870
22641
25061

24531

29321
12440

53101

22921
46551
24551
12410
46301

29161
25341

53101
25231

UnitIDept Name

Principal Quality .
Brooks College Prep
Oglesby ES

Von Steuben Metropolitan Science
Center

Roswell B. Mason Elementary
School
Talent Office

Information 8. Technology Services
Talent Of?ce 1

Teaching 81 Learning

College and Career Success
Aldridge Elementary School
RavenSWood Elementary School

James Monroe Elementary School

Beasley Academic Center
Treasury

Marie Sklodowska Curie
Metropolitan High School

Mariano Azuela Elementary School
Back of the Yards IB HS

Bernhard Moos Elementary School
Accounting

Roger Sullivan High School

LaSalie Elementary Language
Academy

William Sherman Elementary
School

Marie Sklodowska Curie
Metropolitan High School

Sidney Sawyer Elementary School

Board Rule 7-130) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

1 7387
63245
47670

18957
30271

3241 1

33123
63085

38147

1 81 97
47670
47670

19045

28424
1 1825

MA

NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA

NIA
NIA

N1A
NIA

Vendor Name

Deloitte Consulting LLP

Windy CityLimousine

Hemisphere Travel

PREMIER YACHTS, INC DBA
ODYSSEY CRUISES 

Schools Tours of America, LLC
Scenario Learning LLC dlbla Vector
Solutions 

The University of Chicago impact
Education Pioneers. Inc.

AMERICAN NATIONAL RED
CROSS 81 HS CONSTITUENT
CHAPTERS AND BRANCHES DBA
AMERICAN RED CROSS

Blackbaud, Inc.
Hemisphere Educational Travel
Hemisphere Educational Travel

Lakeiand Tours, LLC dlbla


Tour Services, Inc.
TransUnion, LLC

Kenneth Allen Law Group 

Midway Baseball Association

Brighton Park Neighborhood Council
Friends of Moos Elementary School
New Leader Group of Principals
BikeSaietyQuiz

Various Parents

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Aramark Sports Entertainment

Holocaust Museum

Type of Contract

Approve Pay
Approve Pay
Approve Pay

Competitive Solicitation
Competitive Solicitation

Competitive Solicitation

Competitive Solicitation
Delegation of Authority

Delegation of Authority

Delegation of Authority
Delegation of Authority
Delegation of Authority

Delegation of Authority

Delegation of Authority
Delegation of Authority

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Total


$9,200.00
$21 .000.00
$3,215.00

$28,208.98
$21 380.00

$74,999.00

$74,760.00
$19,000.00

$25,000.00

$1 8,522.00
$1 5,847.00
$30,760.00

$32,130.00

$43,663.00
$25,000.00

$1,000.00

$750.00
$4,327.20
$1,010.00
$125.00
$506.00

$600.00
$375.00

$1,405.31
$246.00

Start Date

51212019
511412019
512112019

511412019
21712019

612012018

11112019
91112018

51612019

71112017
511312019
511012019

41512019

512012019
51712019

512912019

512212019
513112019
51412019

41271201 9
513112019

513012019
51612019

50112019
51512010

End Date

NIA
NIA
NIA

512012019
51912019

612012019

1 213112019
813012019

51512020

613012020
512512019
61712019

61812019

6181201 9
51712020

512912020

61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9

513012020

61301201 9

61301201 9
613012019

July 24, 2019

101

UnitIDept
Number

46261
23461
29161

46361

.22591

24231

26721

46361
24331

25241

22851

46271
24331
24331
2431 1

49031

24751

31261
25871
46111

29151

2521 1
2521 1
2521 1

UnitIDept Name

Wendell Phillips Academy High

School

Robert Grimes Elementary School

LaSaiIe Elementary Language

Academy

Kenwood Academy High School

Skinner North

Josephine Locke Elementary

School

Socorro Sandoval Elementary

School

Kenwood Academy High School
Horace Mann Elementary School
Jonathan Scammon Elementary

School

Daniel Corkery Elementary School

Theodore Roosevelt High School
Horace Mann Elementary School
Horace Mann Elementary School
George Manierre Elementary School
Southside Occupational Academy

High School

Isabelle O'Keeffe Elementary

School

Jose De Diego Elementary

Community Academy
A.N. School

Christian Fenger Academy High

School

Maria Saucedo Elementary

Scholastic Academy

Sauganash Elementary-School
Sauganash Elementary School
Sauganash Elementary School

Board Rule 7-130) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA
NIA

NM

NM

NIA
NIA
NIA
N1A

NIA

NIA

NIA
N1A
NIA

NIA

NIA
N1A
NIA

Vendor Name

Megnetar Capital Foundation

The Christopher M. Susan Gust

Foundation

YourCauselBoelng

MARS .WRIGLEY CONFECTIONERY
US LLC - ART DEPT DONATION

SATURDAY EVENING POST

SOCIETY

Friends of Gilbert 

TIMSS

BERNARD LOYD - SCIENCE DEPT.

Mary Smothers
Goodman Theatre

IMC School Chicago Charitable

Foundation
Foot-ball Donation

Horace'Mann Alumni Class of 1981

Kirti Associates LLC
Nagarajan.Thangam

Hyatt Regency McCormick Place

Children First Fund

Chicago Children's Choir

Pritzker PTO

Fenger Reunion Committee. Class of

1959
Home Run inn, inc.

Little Star Guitar LLC

Instituto Cervantes of Chicago

iCook. Inc

Type of Contract

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $5th
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Total


$5,000.00
$3,936.00
$250.00
$500.00
$500.00
$250.00

$200.00

$100.00
$50.00

$1 300.00

$3000.00

$100.00
$2,125.00
$150.00
$200.00

$500.00
$271 .66

$1 1388.40
$875.00
$1,013.73

$248.54

$05.00
$119.00
$200.00

start Date

51712019

512812019

51912019

512912019

511712019

512512019

511712019

512012019
512312019

51281201 9

. 5120:2019

51912019

512012019
511312019
512712019

512912019

51912019

511312019
512912019
51301201 9

51912019

51301201 9
51301201 9
51301201 9

End Date
613012019
61301201 9
613012019
613012019
613012019
613012019

613012019

613012019
613012019

613012019

61301201 9

613012019
613012019
613012019
613012019

61301201 9
61301201 9

613012019
613012019
61301201 9

613012019

613012019
613012019
613012019

July 24, 2019

102

UnltIDept
Number

25101

29131

24431
4651 1
22671
23531
29231

23631
24071
46421
25681
26331

46361
23071
23601

26751

24681
25061

46361

23801
25371
23531

UnitlDept Name

Frank Reilly Elementary School

Hawthorne Etementary Scholastic
Academy

McCormick Elementary
Schoot 

Robert Math 81 Science
Academy HS

Thomas Chalmers Specialty
Elementary School

Charles Hammond Elementary
School

Walter Newberry Math Science
Academy ES

Woodiawn Community Elementary
School

John Kinzie Elementary School

Benito Juarez Community Academy
High School

Aiessandro Volta Elementary School
Richard Henry Lee Etementary
School

Kenwood Academy High Schooi

Edgebrook Elementary School

William Hibbard Elementary
School

Johnnie Colemon Elementary
Academy

William Nixon Elementary School
Ravenswood Elementary School
Kenwood Academy High School
William Hibbard Elementary
School .

A.N. Fritzker School

Charles Hammond Elementary
School

Board Rule 7-136) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
MA

MA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA
NIA

NIA

NIA
N1A
NIA

Vendor Name

Addison Minl Mart 81 Gas. Inc
PEPSICO

YourCause, LLC Trustees for Wells
Fargo 

Yourcause

Academy of Urban School
Leadership 

Latinos Progresando

Friends of Newbeny
Woodlawn Community Service
Corporation

.100 Investment Company

Angelica Garcilazo Agency

Bhavik and Krupaben Raval? Parent


MARGARET BRAGGSIAYANNA

WATKINS -ART DEPT

lL Holocaust Museum

Various members
20th Century Fox Television Mixtape
- YR 1

Snapdragon Book Foundation

New Leaders, Inc.

OF KENWOOD -
GENERAL SCHOOL PROGRAM

Chicago Nature Seekers/Barbara
Weiner

Pritzker PTO

Carole Robertson Center For
Learning

Type of Contract
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $501:

Total
CosthTE

$250.00
$40.00
$30.00
$3,000.00
$150.00
$100.00
$1,597.13

$300.00

$435.00

$250.00
$100.00
$2,020.00

$200.00
$200.00
$500.55

$5,000.00

$5,000.00
$125.00

$25,000.00

$900.00
$660.00
$50.00

Start Date
51112019

513012019
511' 1201 9

51301201 9
51291201 9
512 61201 9
51241201 9

51271201 9
51241201 9
51312019
51211201 9
51612019

512212019
51191201 9
511612019

511712019

512212019
51161201 9

512112019

511412019
512112019
512112019

End Date
61301201 9

61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
613012019
613012019
613 01201 9

613012019
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
613012019

1213112019
613012019
61301201 9

512012019

61301201 9
61301201 9

A 613012019

61301201 9
61301201 9
613012019 

July 24, 2019

103

UnitIDept
Number

52011
46181
31261

29191

,22641

55161

46201
46391
25101

47081

53101

53101

31041

29161

46371

46371

22671

24011
25101

22231

49061

23651
46281
2401 1

Unit/Dept Name

World Language Academy High
School

Thomas Kelly High School

Jose De Diego Elementary
Community Academy

Inter-American Elementary Magnet
School

lra Aldridge Elementary School

Daniel Hate Williams Prep School of
Medicine

John Kennedy High School
George Corliss High School
Frank Reilly Elementary School

Friedrich von Steuben
Metropolitan Science HS

Marie Sklodowska Curie
Metropolitan High Schooi

Marie Sklodowska Curie
Metropolitan High School

Crown Community Academy of Fine
Arts Center ES

LaSalle Elementary Language
Academy

Dr Martin Luther King Jr College
Prep HS

Dr Martin Luther King Jr College
Prep HS

Thomas Chalmers Specialty
Elementary School

Pablo Casals Elementary School
Frank Reilly Elementary School

Alexander Graham Bell Elementary
School

Jacqueline Vaughn Occupational
High School

Robert Healy Elementary School
Carl Schurz High School
Pablo Casals Elementary School

Board Rule 7-136) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

NIA
NIA
NIA

NIA
NIA
NIA

NIA
NIA
NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA
NIA

NIA

NIA

A
NIA
NIA

-..

Vendor Name

D?apnle -Crosstown real estate

Country Financial

Educa Entretlene

Rosalinda Greeley Scholarship Fund

Committee

The Linda Jemigan Foundation

South Shore Hospital

Special Children's Charities

Project Education Plus

WGN Kenneth Allen Law Group
Martin Rodriguez

Rigobelto Melendez mejia
Rigoberto Melendez meJia

Crown Family Philanthropies

Leigh Cavich~Grimes

Dorothy Young

Prom Donations - Seniors

Academy for Urban School

Leadership
AUSL

Tapla Jewelry Gifts and Flowers the

Friends of Bell

Bonness, Patricia

Healy Stars
Class of 1958
AUSL

Type of Contract

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Total
Costh?I'E

$1.000.00
$10.000.00
$20.399.70

$1,000.00
$2,000.00
$350.00

$1 .095.00
$500.00
$1 .000.00

61.400.00
$2,000.00
$10,000.00
$20,000.00
$548_.40
$25.00
$20.00

$250.00

67.300.00
$100.00

$10,879.46

$40.00

$432.00
$500.00
$250.00

Start Date

51112019
512112019
511512019

51201201 9
511 51201 9
51151201 9

511712019
511 31201 9
511 312019

51231201 9

511512019 

511512019
511212010
519/201 9
511412019
51212019

511412019

511312019
511412019

511312019

511312019

51612019
511312019
51212019

End Date

613012019
512112021
613012019

61301201 9
613 01201 9
61301201 9

61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9

613012019

613012019

61301201 9

613012019

61301201 9

61301201 9

61301201 9

61301201 9

613012019
61301201 9

613012019

61301201 9

613012019
613012019
613012019

July 24, 2019

104

UniUDept
Number

22641
51091

24371
22641
22541
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
23061
22641
22641
22641
22641?
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22541
22641
22641
22041
22641
22641
22641

UnItIDept Name

Ira Aldridge Elementary School

Roberto Clemente Community
Academy High School

Michael Faraday Elementary School

Ira Aldridge Elementary School
tra Aldridge Elementary School
he Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
lra Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School

George Curtis Elementary School

lra Aldridge Elementary School
lra Aldridge Elementary School
lra Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
lra Aldridge Elementary School
lra Aldridge Elementary School
lra Aldridge Elementary School
he Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School

Board Rule 7-13(i) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number
NIA
NIA

NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
N1A
NIA

Vendor Name
Bernadette Hicks
Timothy Pfannes

Keene S. Williams
Paloma Rodriguez
Aisha Tate-Odom
Falisha Carter
lngrid Reza

Setrice Thomas
Keya Black

Doris SMith
Marquita Morris
Hazel Gill

Diane Deaderick- Demantra
Just for Your Girlfriend Org.
AUSL

David Colog,
Kassandra Brown
Josette Rodriguez
Bridget Brown
Volette Howard
NORVELL 
Charmaigne Smith
Wayne Dean
Chanelle Taylor
Jasmine Finley
Patrice Matlock
Arian Johnson
RaShonda Johnson
Emma Thomas-Simms
Barbara Robinson
Ashley Hall
Michelle Davis
Ashley Garcia

Type of Contract
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $5011
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $501:
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Total 
CosthTE

$50.00
$3,000.00

$105.00
$100.00
$50.00
$50.00
$30.00
$19.00
$50.00
$90.00
$25.00
$20.00
$25.00
$100.00
$250.00
$80.00
$20.00
$50.00
$15.00
$25.00
$5.00
$20.00
$300.00
$20.00
$100.00
$00.00
$100.00
$25.00
$25.00
$5.00
$20.00
$100.00
$20.00

start Date
51912019
51512019

51912019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51212019
51712019
51712019 .
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
5171201 9

51712019

51712019

End Date
613012019
613012020

613012019
613012019
613012019
613012019
618 01201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
613012019
613012019
613012019
613 0120 1 9.
613012019
613012019
613012019
613 012019
613 01201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
613012019
613012019
613012019
613012019
613 01201 9

July 24, 2019

105


Number

22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641

22641

22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641
22641

23451
29021

22231
23361
45221

29081
29321

24231

22921
24331

31141

UnitiDept Name

Ira Aldridge Elementary School 

Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
lra Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
he Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
Ira Elementary School
Ira Aldridge Elementary School
ira Aldridge Elementary School
ire Aldridge Elementary School
ira Aldridge Elementary School

Waiter Gresham Elementary
School

Burnside Elementary Scholastic
Academy

Alexander Graham Bell Elementary

School
Virgil Glissorn Elementary School

Hyman Rickover Naval Academy

High School

Franklin Elementary Fine Arts
Center

Edward Beasley Elementary Magnet

Academic Center

Josephine Locke Elementary
School

Mariano Azuela Elementary School

Horace Mann Elemenlaiy School

Pilsen Elementary Community
Academy

Board Rule 7-1 3(1) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
N1A
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA
NIA
NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA
NIA

NIA

Vendor Name

Raven and Kenneth Nole
Chlqultha Mayberry
Bemedette Hicks

Rachel Wright

Afua Agyeman-Badu
Trina Poole

Candice Turner
Kathleen Croure
Catherine Sykes
Shandra Dotson
Shanyah Sutton-Taylor
April Norman

Angela Magee

Andrea Tinsley

Lynette Shakespeare
Nicole Reed

Ide Shaw-Crawley
Academy for Urban School
Leadership

Box Top Education General Mills

1_Friends of Bell

anonymous

Tyrone c. Hines

Bridgeport Coffee

Financial Recovery Strategies

Haiku FestivalfFestlval 2019

Malnati's Organization, inc.
Dolores McCarthy

YourCause.corn

Type of Contract

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $501:
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Total
CosthTE

$60.00
$25.00 
$50.00
$5.00
$250.00
$250.00
$20.00
$25.00
$250.00
$20.00
$50.00
$10.00
$10.00
$50.00
$20.00
$50.00
$40.00

$250.00
$1 1.40

$327.00
$290.00
$200.00

$30.00
$17,407.33

$100.00

$138.60
$500.00

$100.00

Start Date

51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019
51712019

51612019
51612019

51312019
51212019
611412019

61712019
61121201 9

61121201 9

611 112019
61312019

611012019

End Date

613012019
613012019
613012019
613 01201 9
613 01201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9
613012019
613012019
613012019

61301201 9 .

61301201 9
61301201 9
613 01201 9
613 01201 9
61301201 9
61301201 9

613012019

613012019

61301201 9
613 01201 9
61301201 9

61301201 9

613012020

613012019

613012019
613012019

613012019

July 24, 2019

106

UnitIDept
Number

2521 1
26791

23311
46181
46251

23581

22831

10210
10410
NIA

25931

23081
26651

26751
41051
51091
25291

46681
30031
22551

22681
14050

12050

47041
47091
461 1 1

UnitrDept Name

Sauganash Elementary School

Tarkington School of Excellence ES

Joseph Gary Elementary School

Thomas Kelly High School
Morgan Park High School

John Harvard Elementary School of

Excellence

Peter Cooper Elementary Dual
Language Academy

Law Of?ce
CEO
Various Schools

Ludwig Van Beethoven Elementary

School

Richard Edwards Elementary School
Mahalia Jackson Elementary School

Johnnie Colemon Elementary
Academy 

Michele Clark Academic Prep
Magnet High School 
Roberto Clemente Community
Academy High Schooi

Franz Peter Schubert Elementary
School

Walter Henri Dyett High School for

the Arts

Walter 3. Christopher Elementary

Andrew Carnegie Elementary
School

Eliza Chappeii Elementary School
Office of Student Health Wellness

Nutrition Support Services - City
1111100

John Marshall

Chicago HS for Agricultural Science

Fenger

Board Rule 7-13(i) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number
NIA
NIA

MA
MA
NIA

NIA

NIA

19065
33632
63601

26990

85015
37833

NIA

N1A

NIA

32049

NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA

NIA
MA
69091

Vendor Name

Chess Academy

Academy for Urban School
Leadership

ASD.com. lnc.
Lomard Lilac Festival
Denise and Gary Gardner

Chicago Humanities Festival

Children First Fund

Westat
Chicago Public Education Fund
Chicago Bears

Social Works

Data Recognition Group
Connie's Pizza

20th Century Fox

Chicago Mercantile Exchange

Butter?y Productions

Chicago Biackhawks

Mars Food

01 Day of Service

Donors Choose
Mercy Hospital Lactation Grant

No l?d Hungry by Share our Strength


ISBE
Alhambra Palace Restaurant

Type of Contract
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k
Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Donation Under $50k

Educational Agreement
Educationai Agreement
Educational Agreement

Fiim Agreements

F?m Agreements
Film Agreements

Film Agreements
Film Agreements
Film Agreements
Film Agreements

Film Agreements
Film Agreements
Gifts Under $50k

Gifts Under $50k
Grants Under $50k

Grants'Under $50k

Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Real Estate

Total
CostiNTE

$132.00
$450.00

$232.43
:51 ,50000
$50,000.00

$170.00

$500.00

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$0.00

$300.00
$175.00

$5,000.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$0.00
$0.00
$500.00

$414.19
$4,000.00

$5,000.00

$3,190.00
$4,773.00
56.000.00

Start Date
61712019
61612019

61512019
61512019
61412019

6131201 9

61312019

91112018
41112019
51912019

413012019

51312019
51241201 9

511712019
51612019

511512019
511312019

51131201 9
51131201 9
512512019

5131201 9
71112019

61241201 9

513112019
513112019
512412019

End Date
61301201 9
61301201 9

61301201 9
613012019
613012019

613012019

611712019

1213112021
313112020
611812019

413012019

51312019
512412019

51171201 9
5161201 9

51151201 9
511 31201 9

511312019
913012019
51251201 0

61301201 9
613012020

913012019

NIA
NIA
NIA

July 24, 2019

107

Unit/Dept
Number

46041
53071
46181
46101

14060

26331

02511

11010

13700

1 3735

02421

11405

10871

46251
23391
46041
47051
47041
51021
53101
46361
13735
53101
46391
46401
46151
22291

Unit/Dept Name
Bogan
Westinghouse
Kelly

Solorio

Family a Community Engagement
Lee

Network 11

Talent

Literacy

Sports Administration

Network 2

Computer Science

STEM

Morgan Park
Graham. 
Bogart
Brooks
Marshall
Harlan

Curie HS
Kenwood
Sports Administration
Curie HS
Corliss
Julian
Harper
Bradweil

Board Rule 7-1 3(1) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

69091
48219
48219
48219

12687

12687

1 2687

1 2687

12687

12687

12687

12687

12687

17110


28386
28386
45322
17320
18564
18564
DEA

18113
N?k

19664
19664
35366

Vendor Name

Alhambra Palace Restaurant

Metropolitan Pier Exposition
Metropolitan Pier Exposition
Metropolitan Pier Exposition

Board of Trustees of Community
College District No 508

Board of Trustees of Community
College District No 508

Board of Trustees of Community
College District No 508

Board of Trustees of Community
College District No 508

Board of Trustees of Community
College District No 508

Board of Trustees of Community
College District No 508

Board of Trustees of Community
College District No 508

Board of Trustees of Community
College District No 506

Board of Trustees of Community
College District No 508

City of Chicago
Chicago Lake Shore Hotel

- Chicago State University

Chicago State University
Dominican University
Drake Hotel Chicago
Fogo De Chao

Fogo De Chan
Guaranteed Rate Field
Hilton Chicago

Hilton Doubietree

Hilton Oak Lawn

Hilton Oak Lawn

Hilton Oakbrook Terrace

Type of Contract

Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Total


$14,820.00
$10,000.00
$15,000.00
$2,500.00

$2,905.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$1 .027.00

$0.00

$0.00
$0.00

$576.00

$10,000.00
$3,000.00
$7,638.00
$25,000.00
$800.00
$7,000.00
$10,500.00
$10,116.00
$0.00
$40,000.00
NIA
$5,000.00
$2,500.00
$4,500.00

Start Date

6/7/2019

6/11/2019
6/14/2019
6/12/2019

51181201 9

6/13/2019

5/17/2019

5/23/2019
5/8/2019
5/1 6/2019
8/1 61201 8
5/8/2019

5/15/2019

6/7/2019
5/1 8/2019
6/14/2019
6/1 0/2019
6/13/2019
6/1/2019
6/1 0/201 9
5/23/2019
5/20/2019
6/7/2019
6/7/2019
5/31/2019
6/7/2019
6/21/2019

End Date












6/2 6/ 20 1 9



















July 24, 2019

108

UnitIDept
Number

47061
46301
22291
47041
46311
46271
26661
22681
47041
46461
53111

5501 1
46241

46061

4621 1
10870
46401
51071
46221
4631 1

13735

13735

46241

4661 1

UnltIDept Name

Senn
Sullivan
Bradwall
Marshaii
Taft
Roosevelt
Uplift
Chappeit
Marshall
Spry HS
Manley

Phoenix Military Academy
Mather

Northside College Prep

Lake View 

College and Career Success
Julian

Wells

Lane Tech

Taft

Sports Administration

Sports Administration

Mather

Goods

Board Rule 7-136) Report - May 2019 Contracts

. Vendor Number

20461
20461
35424
35424
35424
35424
42264
42264
42284
81987
81967

43456
16529

16529

32021
48030
41605
24964
24984
NIA

32571

32571

32571

32571

Vendor Name

Hilton Palmer House Real Estate
Hilton Palmer House Real Estate
Hyatt Hotels Resorts Real Estate
Hyatt Hotels 8; Resorts Real Estate
Hyatt Hotels Resorts Real Estate
Hyatt Hotels 8: Resorts Real Estate
Magglano's Little Italy Real Estate
Maggiano's Little itaty - Real Estate
Maggiano's Little Italy Real Estate
Marriott Chicago Midway Real Estate
Marriott Chicago Midway Real Estate

Chicago Marriott Downtown
Magni?clent Mile A
Club LLC dba The Mid-America Real Estate

glfr?bc Club LLC dba The Mid-America Real Estate

Real Estate

Millennium Knickerbocker Hotel Real. Estate
National Louis University Real Estate
Pullman Community Center Real Estate
Sheraton Grand Chicago Real Estate
Sheraton Grand Chicago Real Estate
Community College District 504 Real Estate
The Board of Trustees of the

University of lilinois DBA University of Real Estate
.

The Board of Trustees of the

University of Illinois DBA University of Real Estate
Illinois

The Boa rd of Trustees of the

University of Illinois DBA University of Real Estate
Illinois

The Board of Trustees of the

University of ilitnois DBA University of Real Estate
Illinois

Type of Contract

Total
Costh'l'E

$18,000.00
$10,000.00
$2,500.00
$5,040.00
$41 .000.00
$8,000.00
NIA

$1 300.00
$1 200.00
$1,500.00
$2,915.00

$1 1 ?100.00
$20,325.00

$22,000.00

$24,000.00
$0.00
$7,500.00
$4,000.00
$70,000.00
$150.00

$8,000.00

$5,500.00

512.000.00

$12,500.00

Start Date

513112019
61812019
611912019
61812019
61712019
61112019
512412019
61712019
611112019
61112019
61712019

61812019
61812019

61712019

61112019
61712019
61141201 9
513112019
61612020
511712019

51912019

511912019

611512019

611112019

End Date
NIA

. NIA

NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA

N1A

NIA

NIA

NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA

NIA

512112019

NIA

NIA

July 24, 2019
G)

109

UnitJDept
Number

53041

46461
47081
29131
29131

49101
46381
40221

26451

29281
2271 1
23231

24531
2471 1
22821

26881
46101
22041
29171
24311
26861
46321
46321
22471
49121
46361
22231
25061

Name

Prosser

Spry HS

Von Steuben
Hawthorne
Hawthorne

Graham. Ray
Carver Military Academy
Lane Tech

Brighton Park

Skinner West
STEM Magnet
Telpochcaill 

Monroe
Norwood Park
Coonley

Suder
Sotorio
Alcott
Jackson. A
Manierre
Uplift
Lincoln Park
Lincoln Park
Bun

Little Village Multiplex
Kenwood
Bell
Revanswood

Board Rule 7-136) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

32571

256722
37159
18437
18437

30499

30499

30499

30499

18643
18643
18643

30499
96756
MIA

NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
WA
1 T1 10
24472
NIA
NIA
N1A
NIA

Vendor Name

The Board of Tmstees of the

Type of Contract

University of illinois DEA University of Real Estate

lilinois

Union League Boys Girls Club
DePaul University

Yellowstone Forever
Yellowstone Forever

Young Men's Christian Association of

Chicago

Young Men's Christian Association of

Chicago

Young Men's Christian Association of

Chicago

Young Men's Christian Association of

Chicago

YMCA Camp Edwards
YMCA Camp Edwards
YMCA Camp Edwards

Young Men's Christian Association of

Chicago
New Life Community Church

Chicago Baseball Academy dha L'll

Sluggers
Girls Rockl Camp

Midway Soccer Kids

Steve Kate

Steve Kate

Pedalheads

Uptown CoVenant Church
Valet Parking Authority

City of Chicago

Midtown Educational Foundation
Cicero Jaguars F.C., LLC
Bright Star Church of Chicago
Pedalheads 
Pedalheads

Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Total


$12,500.00

$2,450.00
$350.00
$7,709.00
$12,354.00

$2,010.00
$2,595.00
$2,568.00

$2,500.00

$9,024.00
$5540.00
$2385.00

$4,420.NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA

Start Date

611412019

61612019

511312019
812612019
91161201 9

512212019
811912019
812112019

51412020

511312019
512112019
511712019

1112112019
51112019"
51412019

712012019
511712019
612112019
012112010
612412019
21112019

101112017
512512019
612412019
513012019
412912019
612412019
612412019

End Date

NIA

61712019
N1A
81301201 9
912012019

51241201 9

812212019

N1A

51512019

51151201 9
51231201 9
511 81201 9

1 112212019
613012020
1 01261201 9

811 012019
91812019
812512019
812512019
813012019
211 12020
913012019
1012612019
6121201 9
812912019
411712020
813012019
812312019

10

July 24, 2019

110

UnltIDept
Number

24201
1021 0

10210

10210

10210

10210

10210

10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210

10210

10210
10210
10210
10210

10210

10210
10210

UnltIDept Name

Von Linne
Law Of?ce

Law Of?ce

Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce

Law Of?ce

Law Of?ce

Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Office

Law Of?ce

Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce

Board Rule 7-13(i) Report - May 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

32325
Vendor Name

MSRF. 1110.

Stevens, Erika (LBR)

Alexander, Lorenzo by Yushumlc
Moore

(Cir. Ct Cook Cnty 15 012552)
Troupe, Jeanette mother of .l'Syre
Stevenson and Angel Easter, mother

at Parls Vann
(Cir. Ct. Cook Cnty17 008615)

Faiz Hassan
(PTAB 15-3192)

5353 N. Elston - Roundy's
Supermarket

(PTAB 15-3631; 
33645)

2526 W. Cennak, 2507 2551
W. 21st Street

(PTAB 15-35205; 16-38328 8: 17?
31266)

Morales, Marilyn (17 WC18331)
Nnawuchl, Ndleze (1 BWCS4873)
Preston, Mauveline (16W025543)
Jones, Debra (18W623299)
Stewart. Qonetta (16W09189)

- Ammons. Kim (15WC2019)

Manuel, Latrice (14W02327)
Parsley, Audrey (10W031035)
Anderson, Kimberly (17WC1492)
Sanders, Renlta (12WC1315)
Ryan, Renee (16WCO11530)
Lockhart, Lorraine (1 M62666)
Kakish, Diana (15W07719)

Lyons, Valerle
13W033083 
14WC28247)

Calderson, Donnamarie (16WC4954)

Shlaimon, Farts (16WC15733)

Type of Contract

Real Estate
Settlement

Settlement

Settlement
Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement
Settlement

Settlement

Settlement
Settlement

Total
CosthTE

$53,800.00
$40,000.00

$10,000.00

$19,000.00

$6209.00

$21,193.00

$30,434.00

$1.00
$1,203.18
$2,020.13
$6,500.00
$7,500.00
$8,500.00
$12,000.00
$20,000.00
$22,800.69
$25,000.00
$37,979.60
$39,930.66
$41,325.00

$45,000.00

$45,818.50
$49,584.08

Start Date

31112019
NIA

NIA

NIA

NM

NM

NIA

NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA 
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA

NIA

NIA



End Date

212812023
41171201 9

512112019

51161201 9

51712019

512112019

511412019

51112019
51312019

511512019

51112019
511612019
511012019
511 51201 9
051 512019
511 512019
512412019
51312019
51? 1201 9
511 612019

?0512912019

51231201 9
511 31201 9

11

July 24, 2019

1 9-0724-EX5

July 24, 2019

REPORT ON PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (NEW)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copiesof the contracts with the principals listed below who were selected by the Local School
pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal?s Performance Contract #14-0625?5Xiz.

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by the local school councils of the individuais listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Principal Eligibility Policy, and approval of any additionai
criteria by the General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal?s
Performance Contract, Board Rules, and Law.

The Department of Principal Quality has veri?ed that the following individuals have met the requirements

for eligibility.

 

Vicki Brown

Regina Roberts

Shontell Smith

Jennifer Sutton

FROM

Contract Principal
Moos

Interim Principal
South Shore

Interim Principal
Sherman

Interim Principal
Warren

Interim Principal
Von Steuben HS

IQ

Contract Principal

West Park

Network: 5

PM. 112421
Commencing: 0710112019
Ending: 0613012023

Contract Principal

South Shore

Network: 12

P. N. 338652
Commencing: 0611112019
Ending: 0611012023

Contract Principal
Sherman

Network: AUSL

PM 247740
Commencing: 0710112019
Ending: 0613012023

Contract Principal
Warren

Network: 12

RN. 123978
Commencing: 611012019
Ending: 61912023

Contract Principal

Von Steuben HS
Network: 14

RN. 121406
Commencing: 071011201 9
Ending: 0613012023

Katherine Solimine Welsh Interim Principal Contract Principal
Mitchell Mitchell
Network: 5
RN. 119356

Commencing: 0710112019
Ending: 0613012023

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contracts with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in
the 2019-2020 school budgets.

111

July 24, 2019

1 9-0724-EX6 .

REPORT ON PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (RENEWALS)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copies of the contracts with the principals listed below whose contracts were renewed by
the Local School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance
Contract and 

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Principal Eligibility Policy, and approval of any additional
criteria by the General Counsel for the purpose of detennining consistency with the Uniform Principal?s
Performance Contract, Board Rules, and Law.

The Illinois Administrators Academy has veri?ed that the following principals have completed 20 hours of 
Professional Development. The RENEWAL contracts commence on the date speci?ed in the contract and
terminates on the date speci?ed in the contract. .

 

NAME - FROM 19.
Lawanda Bishop Contract Principal Contract Principal
Kipling Kipling
Network: ISP
P.N. 117524

Commencing: 07/01/2019
Ending: 06/30/2023

Georgia Davos-Vetas Contract Principal Contract Principal
Bateman 7 Baternan
Network: 1
P.N. 112984

Commencing: 12/17/2018
Ending: 12/16/2022

Sergio Ramirez Contract Principal Contract Principal
G. Washington G. Washington
Network: 13
RN. 126190

Commencing: 11/16/2019
Ending: 11/15/2023

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in
the 2019~2020 school budgets.

19-0724-AR1

REPORT ON BOARD REPORT RESCISSIONS

 

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

I. Extend the rescission dates contained in the foltowing Board Reports to September 25, 2019
because the parties remain involved in good faith negotiations which are likely to resultm
an agreement and the user group(s) concurs with this extension:

1. 16-1207-EX5: Authorize Renewal of the Chicago Excel Academy Agreement with Conditions.
Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

2, Authorize Renewal of the Providence Englewood Charter School Agreement
with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?Ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: in negotiations

112

July 24, 2019

3. 17-1206-0P4: Amend Board Report 01-0725-OP3: Approve Entering into a Lease Agreement
with the North Lawndale College Preparatory Charter High School for Use of Space at the George
Howland School of the Arts Located at 1616 South Spaulding Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

4. 17-1206-0P5: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with North Lawndale College Preparatory
Charter High School for a Portion of Collins High School, 1313 8. Sacramento Drive.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

5. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Urban Prep Academies inc. for a
Portion of the Englewood School Building, 6201 South Stewart Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Statue: In negotiations

6. 17-1206-OP10: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Young Women?s Leadership Charter
School for Senstake School, 2641 S. Calumet Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement .

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

7. 17-1206-0P14: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with KIPP Chicago Schools for Lathrop
Elementary School. 1440 S. Christiana Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

8. 17-1206-OP15: Amend Board Report Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
Chicago Charter School Foundation (Chicago International Charter School) for a Portion of The
Truth School Building, 1443 N. Ogden, and Annex, 1409 N. Ogden.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

9. Amend Board Report 16-1207-OP4: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
Chicago Schools for a Portion of Nash Elementary School, 4818 W. Ohio.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

10. 17-1206-OP17: Amend Board Report16-1207?OF?3: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
KIPP Chicago Schools for a Portion of Hope College Preparatory High School, 5515 S. Lowe
Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

11. Amend Board Report Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
KIPP Chicago Schools for a Portion of the Orr School Building, 730 N. Pulaski Road.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

12. Amend Board Report Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
KIPP Chicago Schools for a Portion of Penn School, 1616 S. Avers.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

13. 17-1206-OP20: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Camelot Alt LLC for
Guggenheim School, 7141 South Morgan Street.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

14. 18-0228-OP2: Approve Entering into an intergovernmental Use Agreement with the Chicago
Park District in Connection with the Construction and Use of the Park 580 (Read-Dunning)
Services: Construction and Use of Park 580

User Group: Facilities Operations

Status: in negotiations

113

July 24, 2019

15. 18-0822-EX3: Amend Board Report 17-1206-EXQ: Authorize Renewat of the Chicago
Collegiate Charter School Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of innovation and Incubation

Additional Action: This matter was inadvertently omitted from the January 23, 2019, Rescission
Board Report The extension of the rescission date is rati?ed to take effect as of the prior date
thereby extending the rescission date to August 28, 2019.

16. Authorize the First and Second Renewal Agreements with Ef?ciency Energy
LLC for 1790 Energy Consultant Services.

Services: Energy Consultant Services

User Group: Facility Operations and Maintenance

Status: in negotiations .

17. Authorize a New Agreement with ingenuity incorporated Chicago for
Educational Support Services.

Services; Educational Support Services

User Group: Arts

Status: in negotiations

18. Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Nursing Services.
Services: Nursing Services

User Group: Diverse Leaners Support Services

Status: 5 of 7 agreements are fully executed; the remainder are in negotiations

19. Authorize the Second and Third Renewal Agreements with Constellation
Newenergy, Inc. for the Supply of Electricity.

Services: Supply of Electricity

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance City Wide

Status: in negotiations

20 19-0123-EX4: Authorize Renewal of the Chicago Mathematics and Science Academy Charter
School Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and incubation

Status: in negotiations

21. Authorize Renewal of the Foundations College Preparatory Charter School
Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of innovation and incubation

Status: in negotiations

22. 19-0123-EX6: Authorize Renewal of The Great Lakes Academy Charter School Agreement
with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of innovation and incubation

Status: in negotiations

23. 19-0123-EX7: Authorize Renewal of the Horizon Science Academy Southwest Chicago
Charter School with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and incubation

Status: in negotiations

24. Authorize Renewal of the Namaste Charter School Agreement with Conditions.
Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of innovation and incubation

Status: in negotiations

25. Authorize Renewal of the Noble Street Charter School Agreement with
Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of innovation and incubation

Status: In negotiations

26. Authorize Renewal of the Chicago High School for the Arts Agreement with 
Conditions. 

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of innovation and incubation

Status: in negotiations

27. Authorize Renewal of the Excel Academy of South Shore Agreement with
Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of innovation and incubation

Status: in negotiations

114

1 9-0724-P R4

July 24, 2019

28. Authorize Renewal of the Excel Academy Southwest Agreement with
Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

29. 19-0123-EX13: Authorize Renewal of The Hope Institute Learning Academy Agreement with
Conditions. 

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

30. 19-0227-OP2: Approve License Agreement with UGP-Theater District Parking, LLC as
Licensor, by its Agent, Interpark LLC for the Use of the Parking Garage Located at 101 North
Dearbom Street for the Use of Chicago Public Schools Employees, Of?cials, and Invitees Traveling
to and From Central Of?ce.

Services: Use of Parking Garage

User Group: Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

31. 19-0227-PR9: Authorize the Pre-Quali?cation Status of and New Agreements with Various
Vendors to Provide Specialty Professional Consulting Services.

Services: Specialty Professional Consulting Services

User Group: Capital - Operations City Wide 

Additional Action: This matter was inadvertently omitted from the June 26, 2019 Rescission Board
Report The extension of the rescission date is rati?ed to take effect as of the prior date thereby
extending the rescission date to August 28, 2019.

32. 19-0227-PR11: Amend Board Report 18-0926-PR11: Authorize the Pre-Quali?cation Status
of and New Agreements with Various Vendors to Provide School, Band, and Security Uniforms,
Apparel and Spirit Wear.

Services: Provide School, Band, and Security Uniforms, Apparel and Spirit Wear.

User Group: Procurement

Status: In negotiations

33. Authorize the First Renewal Agreements with Various Vendors to Provide Safe
Passage Services for Designated Neighborhoods.

Services: Safe Passage Services

User Group: School Security and Security Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

34. Authorize a New Agreement with Lumity for Student Apprenticeship Services
Services: Student Apprenticeship Services

User Group: School Security and Security Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

Rescind the following Board Reports in part or in full for failure to enter into an agreement
with the Board. after repeated attempts, and the user groups have been advised of such
rescission:

President del Valle thereupon declared Board Reports 19-O724-PR21, 19-0724-EX5,
19-O724-EX6, and 19-O724-AR1 accepted.

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:

Mr. President, we will now proceed with the separate vote on PR4. This is the Amendment

to Authorize a New Agreement with Various Vendors for the Alternative Learning Opportunities
Program Services.

AMEND BOARD REPORT 19-0522-PR5

AUTHORIZE NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR ALTERNATIVE LEARNING

OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAM SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize new agreements with various vendors for Alternative Learning Opportunities Program (ALOP)
serwces. Vendors were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7?2. Written agreements for
Vendors' services are currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by any Vendor and no
payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreement. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 120 days
of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

115

July 24, 2019

This July 2019 amendment is necessary to increase the enrollment capacity for Ombudsman Educational
Services, Ltd. (by 250 students) and Pathways in Education-Illinois, Inc. (by 250 students) to allow

adeguate enrollment capacity for student transition planning, and to provide students with the most options

for a successful transition to a new school for SY19-20. The authori ranted herein shall automaticali
rescind in the event a written amendment is not executed within 120 days of the date of this Board Report.

 

Contract Administrator Wright, Mr. Thaddeus I 773?553-2280

VENDOR:
Vendor 10725

1) . OMBUDSMAN EDUCATIONAL SERVICES LTD.
1W
LIBERTYVILLE IL 60048
Rudolph D. Flores
847 367-6383
Ownership: For Pro?t: Chanceiight, Inc. 100%

 

 

2) Vendor 18327
PATHWAYS IN 

320 N. HALSTEAD ST., STE 210
PASADENA, CA 91107

Jamie Donahue

626 683-3500

Ownership: Non Pro?t

USER INFORMATION 

Project 13610 - Innovation and Incubation
Manager: 42 West Madison Street

Chicago, IL 60602
Mathias Mr. SamuelA

773-553-1530

 

TERM:
The term of each agreement shall commence on July 1, 2019 and shall and on June 30, 2022. Each
agreement shall have one (1) option to renew for periods of two (2) years.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate each agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors will provide ALOP services pursuant to Section 138 of the Illinois School Code {105 ILCS 51133-1
et seq.), which will include rigorous, high quaiity, comprehensive education program services for high
school?aged youth who have been out?of?school, are signi?cantly off-track for graduation, are chronically
truant, or are otherwise at-risk for academic failure. Vendor Program shall comply with CPS and state
graduation and promotion requirements and shalt be fully aligned to Illinois Ieaming standards, but is also
tailored to meet the needs of individuai students. Vendor Program shall provide personalized learning
plans comprehensive social-emotional supports, and intensive post-secondary planning to all students.
Vendors will be approved to serve the following number of students for the term of each of their

agreements: -- - . - 
Ombudsman Educational Services, (up to 1,500 students)
and Pathways In Education- i?llinois, Inc. (up to 1,150 students).

DELIVERABLES:
Vendors shall:
- Provide a Program with adequate and appropriate equipment and supplies.
- Provide areas in school conducive to Ieaming separate from the lunch and other activity rooms.
Provide a minimum 1:15 teacher to student ratio, and a minimum 1:60 Type 73?certified counselor to
student ratio and shail provide sufficient staff (teacher aides. related service providers, etc.) to effectiveiy
manage support, and educate students consistent with their needs.
- Administer academic progress and other assessments as required by ISBE and as directed by the Board
in its sole discretion in accordance with the SQRP for Options Schools.
Develop a student success plan for each enrolled student in accordance with Article 133-1515 of the
Illinois School Code.
- Provide multi-tiered systems of support for social and emotionai skills introduction for all students that
includes a trauma-informed, evidence-based interventions and strategies to support at?risk students who
have experienced high levels of trauma.
- Provide programs with a special component dedicated to truancy with attempts to encourage consistent
attendance of students and decrease truancy.
.- Report daily and attendance according to CPS guidelines and poliCies.- Provide a comprehensive
postsecondary programming process, with all post-secondary plans for all students logged in Naviance.

 

116

July 24, 2019

OUTCOMES:

Vendors? services will ensure that:

- All ALOP students earn credits toward graduation at an accelerated rate.

- School-wide performance in accordance with the metrics of the SQRP achieves an annual rating of Level
2+ or higher.

- At least 20% of its enrolled students obtain part-time jobs andlor internships through placement by the
Vendor.

- Attendance rate will be at least 70%.

- A school-wide credit attainment rate of at least 80%.

- All eligible students are provided the opportunity for dual credit.

Students create post-secondary pians upon intake and have post-secondary plans upon graduation.

Students are provided the curricular and credit opportunities to earn high school diplomas.

COMPENSATION:

Funding forthe program services will be consistent with the per pupil funding models used by the Board for
charter and contract high schoois. The details of the financial implications will be addressed during the
development of the fiscal year budgets for FY20, FY21 and FY22. Since the School Code of illinois prohibits
the incurring of any untess appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond the
speci?ed fiscal year are deemed to be contingent liabilities oniy, subject to appropriation in subsequent
fiscal year budgets.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement and amendment. Authorize the Chief
Executive Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women?Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts (MNVBE Program), this contract is waived of the participation goals of 30%
MBE and 7% WBE, because the contract is not further divisible.

REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Funding for the program services will be consistentwith the per pupil funding models used by the Board for
charter and contract high schools. The details of the ?nancial implications will be addressed during the
development ofthe fiscal year budgets for FY20, FY21 and FY22. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits
the incurring of any liability unless appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond the
specified fiscal year are deemed to be contingent liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent
?scal year budgets.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 

5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain

investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 5l34-21.3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscai
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

Board Member Rome moved and Board Member Todd-Breland seconded the motion to
adopt Board Report 19-0724-PR4.

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Ms. Rome, Mr. Revuluri, Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo, and President del Valle 5

Nays: Ms. Todd-Breland 1

117

July 24, 2019

Board Member Mel?ndez abstained on Board Report 19-0724-PR4.

President del Valle thereupon declared Board Report 19-0724-PR4, with the noted
abstention, adopted. -

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:
Chicago

1 Public
1,3chooh

  
 

 

Office of the Chief Financial Officer - 42 W. Madison, Floor - Chicago, Illinois 60602
Telephone: 773653-2700 - Fax: 773-553.2701

Report of the Senior Vice President of Finance (?Chief Financial Officer?)
pursuant to Board Rule 5-14 and Section 35 ILCS 200/ 18?60 of the Illinois
Property Tax Code

35 ILCS 200/ 18?60 of the Illinois Property Tax Code (?the Code?) requires that not less
than 20 days prior to the adoption of its aggregate levy, the corporate authority of each
taxing district shall determine the amount of money estimated to be necessary to be
raised by taxation for that fiscal year upon the taxable property in its district.

Section 18?70 of the Code provides in part that if the estimate of the corporate
authority made as provided in Section 18?60 is more than 105% of the amount
extended or estimated to be extended upon the final aggregate levy of the preceding
year, then the corporate authority is required to give public notice of and hold a public
hearing on its intent to adopt a levy in excess of 105% of the amount extended or
estimated to be extended in the prior year.

Board Rule 5? 14 delegates to the Senior Vice President of Finance (?Chief Financial
Of?cer?) the authority to annually determine the estimate of property taxes to be levied
as required under 35 ILCS 200/ 18-60 and to report that estimate to the Board
through the Office of the Secretary of the Board.

Board Rule 5-14 also requires that not less than 20 days prior to the adoption of the
Board?s aggregate levy, the Senior Vice President of Finance shall determine the
amounts of money estimated to be necessary to be raised by taxation for that ?scal
year upon taxable property in the district and that the estimate shall be deemed an
act of the corporate authority upon receipt of the Senior Vice President of Finance?s
report of the estimate by the Secretary of the Board.

The Senior Vice President of Finance hereby estimates that the amount of money
necessary to be raised by taxation upon the taxable property in the district as de?ned
in Section 18?60 of the Code is $3,161,560,136 and certifies that this estimated
amount is less than the limit defined in Section 18?70 of the Code.

This report is filed with the Secretary of the Board this 24th day of July, 2019.

President del Valle proceeded to entertain a Motion to go into Closed Session.

Board Member Truss presented the following Motion:

118

July 24, 2019


MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION
MOTION ADOPTED that the Board hold a closed session to consider the following

subjects:

(1) information, regarding appointment, employment, compensation discipline, performance,
or dismissal of employees or legal counsel for the public body pursuant to Section 
of the Open Meetings Act;

(2) collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of
employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(3) the purchase or lease of real property for'the use of the Board pursuant to Section 
of the Open Meetings Act;

(4) the setting of a price for the sale or lease of real property owned by the Board pursuant to
Section of the Open Meetings Act;

(5) security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond to an actual, a
threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students, staff,
the public, or public property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act:

(6) matters relating to individual students pursuant to Section 2(c)(10) of the Open Meetings
Act;

(7) pending litigation and litigation which is probable or imminent involving the Board pursuant
to Section 2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act; and

(8) discussion of closed session minutes pursuant to Section 2(c)(21) of the Open Meetings

Act.
Vice President Revuluri moved to adopt Motion 19-0724-M01.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Ms. Rome, Ms. Melendez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd-Breland, Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo, and
President del Valle - 7

Nays: None
President dei Valle thereupon declared Motion 19-0724-MO1 adopted.

CLOSED SESSION
RECORD OF CLOSED SESSION

The following is a record of the Board's Closed Session:
(1) The Closed Meeting was held on July 24, 2019, beginning at 4:23 pm. at the CPS Loop

Office, 42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Conference Room and Chicago Illinois
60602.

119

July 24, 2019

(2) PRESENT: Ms. Rome, Ms. Melendez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd-Breland, Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo,
and President del Valle 7

(3) ABSENT: None

Litigation 

Counsel Retention
Warning Resolutions
Terminations

Personnel

Collective Bargaining
Real Estate

Security

Closed Session Minutes
Individual Student Matters
Other Reports

.093?



No votes were taken in Closed Session.
After Closed Session the Board reconvened.

Members present after Closed Session: Ms. Rome Ms. Melendez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd?
Breland, Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo, and President del Valle? 7

Members absent after Closed Session: None
President del Valle thereupon proceeded with Agenda Items.
19-0724-AR2

AUTHORIZE CONTINUED RETENTION OF THE LAW FIRM MASTERSLAW
THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:
Continued retention of the law ?rm MastersLaw.
DESCRIPTION: The General Counsel has continued retention of the law firm MastersLaw to represent the
Board and its agents in appellate matters and such other matters as determined by the General Counsel.
Additional authorization is requested in the amount of $100,000 for the firm?s services. As invoices are
received, they will be reviewed by the General Counsel and, if satisfactory, processed for payment.
LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL. Charge $100 000.00 to Law Department" Professional Services: 
BudgetClassi?cation . 

120

July 24, 2019
GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shail acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 5/34-
131 the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to
conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into In violation of the provisions
of 105 ILCS 5134-2133 which restricts the employment of. or the Ietting of contracts to, former Board members
during the one year period fotlowing expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adOpted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a ccntingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

Board Member Rome moved and Board Member Sotelo seconded the 
Board Report motion to adopt

The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Ms. Rome, Ms. Melendez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd-Breland, Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo, and
President del Valle -

Nays: None

President del Valle thereupon declared Board Report adopted.
19-0724-AR3

TRANSFER AND APPOINT FIRST DEPUTY GENERAL COUNSEL
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
RUOHI VERMA
THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

Transfer and appoint the following named individual to the position listed below effective October 13,

2019.
DESCRIPTION:
NAME: FROM: TO:
Ruchi Verma Functional Title: Manager Functionat Title: Of?cer
External Title: Deputy Genera! Counsel External This: First Deputy General Counsel
Pay Band: A08 Pay Band: A09
Department of Law Department of Law
Pesition No. 245082 Position No. 245053
Flat rate Fiat rate
Annual Salary: $143,500 Annuai Salary: $165,000

L86 REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: Not appiicable.
FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this report is not in excess of the regular budget appropriation.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The position to be affected by approval'of this action Is contained in the
FY20 School budget.

121

July 24, 2019

19-0724-AR4

APPROVE PAYMENT OF PROPOSED SETTLEMENT REGARDING
RINEHART V. BOARD, CASE NO. 1:16-cv-10413

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING SETTLEMENT:

DESCRIPTION: Subject to Board approval, the Board and Plaintiff, Bailey Rinehart (Rinehart), have reached a
settlement disposing of all claims against the Board in Case No. ?ted November 7. 2016, in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Eastern Division. The General Counsel recommends approval
of the settlement, which includes the payment of sixty seven thousand and ?ve hundred dollars to resolve

all of Rinehart?s claims for alleged damages. including attorneys' fees and costs, against the Board. The Board's total
payout will not exceed $67,500.00.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: Charge a total of $67,500.00 as described above to the Law Department.

Budget Classi?cation Fiscal year 2020 12470-115
AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to execute the Settlement Agreement and all ancillary documents
related thereto.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ?.08 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain investigations and
that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary to conduct those
investigations. 

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the provisions of
105 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former Board members during
the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board?s indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from time
to time shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time, shall be
incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal year
is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation inthe subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

President del Valle indicated that if there are no objections, Board Reports 19-0724-AR3
and would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting
ere ore.

ClPresident del Valle thereupon declared Board Reports 19-0724-AR3 and 19-0724-AR4
a op .

19-0724-EX7

TRANSFER AND APPOINT TREASURER
EFFECTIVE JUNE 23, 2019 AND RATIFY ALL LAWFUL ACTIONS TAKEN
As TREASURER SINCE JUNE 23, 2019
(WALTER STOCK)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THAT THE BOARD:

(1) Transfer and appoint Walter Stock to the position of Treasurer, effective June 23, 2019 at the salary set
forth below.

(2) The Board ratify, adopt. and assume all lawful acts taken by Walter Stock as Treasurer between 12:00
am. June 23. 2019 and the Board?s approval of this Board Report.

122

July 24, 2019

 

DESCRIPTION:
NAME . FROM 19
Walter Stock External Title: Assistant Treasurer External Title: Treasurer
Functional Title: Director Functional Title: Chief
Position No: 248290 Position No: 422168
Basic Salary: $137,500.00 Basic Salary: $167,000.00
Pay Band: A07 Pay Band: A10
Budget Classi?cation:
12440.115.52100.252302.000000
FINANCIAL: The expenditure involvedin this appointment is not in excess of the regular budget
appropriation. The position approved by this action shall be included in the FY20
department budget.
1 

APPROVE APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF OF SCHOOLS
EFFECTIVE JULY 8, 2019 AND RATIFY ALL LAWFUL ACTIONS TAKEN
AS CHIEF OF SCHOOLS SINCE JULY 8, 2019
(ALFONSO CARMONA)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THAT:

1) The Board approve the appointment of Alfonso Carmona to the position of Chief of Schools, effective
July 8. 2019 as set forth in the description below.

2) The Board ratify, adopt. and assume all lawful acts taken by Alfonso Carmona as Chief of Schools between
12:00 am. July 8, 2019 and the Board?s approval of this Board Report.

 

DESCRIPTION:
Milli?F- FROM 
Alfonso Cannons New Employee External Title: Chief of Schools
. Functional Title: Chief
Position No: 545664
Basic Salary: $162,500
Pay Band: A09
Budget Classi?cation:
02501.115.51100.221080.000000
FINANCIAL: The expenditure involved in this appointment is not in excess of the regular budget
appropriation. The position approved by this action shalt be included in the FY20
department budget.

President del Valle indicated that if there are no objections Board Re
ports and
would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting therefore.

(I dPresident del Valle thereupon declared Board Reports 19-0724-EX7 and 19-0724-EX8
a op .

123

 uly 24, 2019


RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT PERSONNEL

WHEREAS, on July 19, 2019, the Chief Executive Officer submitted a written recommendation, including
the reasons for the recommendation. to the Board to dismiss the following educational support personnel
pursuant to Board Rule 4-1:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name School Effective Date
Kalani Baez Ellen H. Richards Career Academy High School July 24, 2019
Duryea Briscoe John Charles Haines Elementary School July 24, 2019
William H. Ryder Math Science Specialty
Allan Hatfield Elementary School J1m24, 2019
Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High
LaValle Jackson School JuliLZ4, 2019
Cleotha Jones Edmond Burke Elementary School Juli24, 2019
Jeffrey Latimore Theophilus Schmid Elementary School July 24,@19
Darius Madison City Wide Transportation July 24, 2019
Sergio Mata City Wide Facility Operations and Maintenance July 24, 2019
Carl McKenzie George B. McClellan Elementary School July 24, 2019
Luis Ortiz William F. Fink] Elementary School Jujthl, 2019
Christopher Payne Consuella B. York Alternative High School 2019
Hilton Robles Jonathan Y. Scammcn Elementary School July 24@19
LaShawn Williams Joseph Warren Elementary School July 24,2019
Mary E. Courtenay Elementary Language Arts
Michael Williams Center July 24, 2019
Marsie Wrigh_t Martha Ruggles Elementary School July 24, 2019

 

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer followed the procedures established by her prior to making the
recommendation;

-WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Officer's recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Of?cer or her designee has previously notified the affected educational
support personnel of their pending dismissal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Rule 41, the above-referenced educational support personnel are dismissed
from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Of?cer or her designee to
effectuate the dismissal of the above-named educational support personnel.

3. The Chief'EXecutive Officer or her designee shall notify the above-named educational support
personnel of their dismissal.

1 9-0724-RS5

RESOLUTION APPROVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RECOMMENDATION
TO DISMISS PROBATIONARY APPOINTED TEACHERS

WHEREAS, on July 19, 2019, the Chief Executive Officer submitted written recommendations, including
the reasons for the recommendations, to the Board to dismiss the following probationary appointed
teachers pursuant to Board Rule 4?1 and 105 5i34-84:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name School Effective Date

Kellie Hock Spencer Technology Academy July 24, 2019
Caleb lshman Charles S. Deneen Elementary School July 24, 2019
Leyla Nazif Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School July 24, 2019
Theresa Patterson Burnham Elementary Inclusive Academy July 24, 2019
Damien Robinson Chicago Military Academy High School July 24, 2019
Miguel Salazar Lake View Jug 24, 2019

 

124

July 24, 2019

WHEREAS. the Chief Executive Officer followed the procedures established by her prior to making the
recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed the reasons for the Chief Executive Officer?s recommendation;

WHEREAS, the Chief Executive Officer or her designee has previously notified the affected probationary
appointed teachers of their pending dismissal; .

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. That pursuant to Board Rule 4-1 and 105 ILCS 5/34-84. the above-referenced probationary appointed
teachers are dismissed from Board employment effective on the date set opposite their names.

2. The Board hereby approves all actions taken by the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to
effectuate the dismissal of the above-named probationary appointed teachers.

3. The Chief Executive Of?cer or her designee shall notify the above-named probationary appointed
teachers of their dismissal.

The Secretary presented the following Statement for the Public Record:

Por the record on July 19, 2019, the Board members and the Office of the Board received
the CEO 5 recommendation to dismiss Probationary Appointed Teachers pursuant to Board Rule 4-
1 and 105 ILCS 5I34-84. Her recommendation included the names of the teachers affected and the

reasons. She also noted that the teachers affected will be notified of their dismissal after adoption
of the Resolution.

President del Valle indicated that if there are no objections Board Re
ports 19-0724-RS4 and
19-0724-R85 would be adopted by the last favorable roll call vote, all members voting therefore.

dPresident del Valle thereupon declared Board Reports 19-0724-RS4 and 19-O724-RSS
a op .

Vice President Revuluri presented the following Motion:


MOTION RE: ADOPT AND MAINTAIN AS CONFIDENTIAL
CLOSED SESSION MINUTES FROM JUNE 26, 2019

MOTION ADOPTED that the Board adopt the minutes of the closed session meeting of
June 26, 2019 pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act. Board Members reviewed
these minutes and determined that the need for confidentiality exists. Therefore, the minutes of

the closed session meeting held on June 26, 2019 shall be maintained as con?dential and not

available for public inspection.
Board Member Todd-Breland moved to adopt Motion 19-0724-MO3.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Ms. Rome, Ms. Melendez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd-Breland Mr 
President del Valle 7 Mr. and

Nays: None
President del Valle thereupon declared Motion adopted.

Board Member Mei?ndez presented the following Motion:

125

July 24, 2019



MOTION RE: APPROVAL OF RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS OF MEETING
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC JUNE 26, 2019

MOTION ADOPTED that the record of proceedings of the Board Meeting of June 26, 2019
prepared by the Board Secretary be approved and that such records of proceedings be posted
on the Chicago Board of Education website in accordance with Section 2.06(b) of the Open

Meetings Act.
Board Member Truss moved to adopt Motion 19-0724-MO4.
The Secretary called the roll and the vote was as follows:

Yeas: Ms. Rome, Ms. Mel?ndez, Mr. Revuluri, Ms. Todd-Breland, Mr. Truss, Mr. Sotelo, and
President del Valle 7

Nays: None
President del Valle thereupon declared Motion 19-0724-MO4 adopted.
OMNIBUS

At the Regular Board Meeting held on July 24, 2019, the foregoing motions, reports and
other actions set forth from number 19-0724-M01 through 19-0724-M04 except as otherwise
indicated, were adopted as the recommendations or decisions of the Chief Executive Officer and
General Counsel.

Board Member Todd-Breland abstained on Board Report 19-0724-EX4 [Chicago Collegiate,
Inc., an Not for Profit Corporation].

Board Member Mel?ndez abstained on Board Report 19-0724-PR4 no vendor
noted].

ADJOURNMENT

President del Valle moved to adjourn the meeting, and it was so ordered by a voice vote,
all members present voting therefore. 

President del Valle thereupon declared the Board Meeting adjourned.

l, Estela G. Beltran, Secretary-of the Board of Education and Keeper of the records thereof,
do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct record of certain proceedings of said
Board of Education of the City of Chicago at its Regular Board Meeting held on July 24, 2019 held
at the CPS Loop Office, 42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Board Room, Chicago, Illinois, 60602.

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

126

July 24, 2019
INDEX

AR - REPORTS FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL
19-0724-AR1 Report on Board Report Rescissions 112 - 1 15

19-0724-AR2 Authorize Continued Retention of The Law Firm MastersLaw 120, 121

19-0724-AR3 Transfer and Appoint First Deputy General Counsel Department of Law
Ruchi Verma 121

Approve Payment of Proposed Settlement Regarding Rinehart v. Board,
Case No. 1:16-cv-10413 122

CO COMMUNICATION
19-0724-CO1 Communication Re: Location of Board Meeting of August 28, 2019 
CPS Loop Of?ce, 42 W. Madison, Garden Level, Board Room, Chicago, IL 60602 ..20, 21

EX EPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
19-0724-EX1 Transfer of Funds 21 - 23

19-0724-EX2 Amend Board Report 18-0425-EX6 Amend Board Report 17-0828-EX9
Amend Board Report 16-0427-EX21 Amend Board Report 15-0929-EX5
Amend Board Report 15-0527-EX24 Authorize Renewal of the Youth
Connection Charter School Agreement 23 - 27

19-0724-EX3 Amend Boa_rd Report 18-0425-EX7 Amend Board Report 17-0828-EX10
Amend Board Report 16-1207-EX6 Authorize Renewal of the Chicago
International Charter School Agreement with Conditions 28 - 31

19-0724-EX4 Amend Board Report 18-0822-EX3 Amend Board Report 17-1206-EX9
Authorize Renewal of the Chicago Collegiate Charter School Agreement

 

with Conditions 31- 33
1 9-0724-EX5 Report on Principal Contracts (New) 111
19-0724-EX6 Report on Principal Contracts (Renewals) 112

19-0724-EX7 Transfer and Appoint Treasurer Effective June 23, 2019 and Ratify all
Lawful Actions Taken as Treasurer Since June 23, 2019 (Walter Stock) 122, 123

19-0724-EX8 Approve Appointment of Chief of Schools Effective July 8,2019 and
Ratify all Lawful Actions Taken as Chief of Schools Since July 8,2019

(Alfonso Carmona) 123
MO - MOTIONS
19-0724-MO1 Motion to Hold a Closed Session 119
19-0724-M02 Motion Re: Recess 3

19-0724-MO3 Motion Re: Adopt and Maintain as Confidential Closed Session Minutes
from June 26, 2019 125

19-0724-MO4 Motion Re: Approval of Record of Proceedings of Meeting Open to the Public
June 26, 2019 126

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCURENT OFFICER
19-0724-PR1 Amend Board Report 18-0321-PR1 Authorize the First Renewal Agreement
with Illinois Institute of Technology for Administration of the Selective
Enrollment Schools Admissions Examination for Students Applying
to Kindergarten through Eighth Grades for the Chicago Public Schools
Office of Access and Enrollment 33, 34

July 24, 2019
PR REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER (Continued!
19-0724-PR2 Authorize the Second Renewal Agreement with Riverside Assessments, LLC
dba Riverside Insights for the Purchase of Test Materials and Related
Services 35, 36

19-0724-PR3 Authorize the First Renewal Agreements with Various Not-for-Profit
Organizations for Community Schools Initiative (CSI) Sustainable
Community School Services 36 - 41

19-0724-PR4 Amend Board Report Authorize New Agreements with Various
Vendors for Alternative Learning Opportunities Program Services 115 - 117

19-0724-PR5 Authorize a New Agreement with Equal Opportunity Schools for
Establishing Equity in Advance Placement and International Baccalaureate
Course Selection41 - 44

19-0724-PR6 Authorize a New Agreement for Hosted Software and Related Services with
ManageBac Inc. for International Baccalaureate ManageBac Software 44 - 46

19-0724-PR7 Authorize the First Renewal Agreements with Various Vendors Personalized
Learning Professional Development Services 46 - 48

19-0724-PR8 Authorize the Second and Final Renewal Agreements with Multiple Vendors
for the Purchase of Library Books, Reference Books, E-Books and Related
Services 48 - 51

19-0724-PR9 Authorize the Second Renewal Agreement with Fisher Scientific
Company LLC for Science Laboratory Equipment and Supplies 51 - 53

19-0724-PR10 Amend Board Report 16-1026-PR8 Authorize a New Agreement with Varsity
Brands Holding Co, Inc dba BSN Sports, LLC for the Purchase of Physical
Education Supplies and Equipment 53, 54

19-0724-PR11 Report on the Award of Construction Contracts and Changes to
Construction Contracts for the Board of Education's Capital Improvement
Program 54 - 70

19-0724-PR12 Authorize a New Agreement with CBRE, Inc. for Real Estate Brokerage
Services 71, 72

19-0724-PR13 Amend Board Report Authorize a New Agreement with Youth
Advocate Programs, Inc for Choose-to Change Program's Youth Therapy
Services 72 - 74

19-0724-PR14 Authorize a New Agreement with ADANI Systems, Inc for the Purchase of
Portable X-Ray Machines and Related installation, Maintenance and
Training Services 74 - 76

19-0724-PR15 Authorize a New Agreement with Advance Security Resources LLC for the
Purchase of Walk-Through Metal Detectors and Related Installation,
Maintenance and Training Services 76, 77

Amend Board Report 17-0838-PR8 Amend Board Report 17-0322-PR10
Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Student
Transportation Services (School Bus Service) 78 - 81

19-0724-PR17 Amend Board Report 18-1024-PR7 Amend Board Report 18-0725-PR12
Authorize the Pre-Qualification Status of and New Agreements with Various
Vendors to Provide Financial Professional Services 8 2 - 84

July 24, 2019
PR - REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER (Continued!

19-0724-PR18 Authorize the First or Second Renewal Agreements with Various Vendors
for Audit Services 85 - 87

19-0724-PR19 Amend Board Report Authorize the First Renewal and Entering
Into New Agreements of the Pre-Quali?cation Status and Agreements with
Various Technical Service Consultants 87 - 97

19-0724-PR20 Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with CDW Government, LLC for
the Purchase of Audio Visual and Interactive Whiteboard Equipment 97 - 99

19-0724-PR21 Chief Procurement Officer Report for May 2019 on the Delegated Authority
Exercised under Board Rule 7-13 99 - 110

RS - RESOLUTIONS
19-0724-RS1 Resolution Authorizing the Issue of One or More Series of Unlimited Tax
General Obligation Refunding Bonds of the Board of Education of the City
of Chicago in an Aggregate Principal Amount Not to Exceed $432,000,000
for the Purpose of Paying the Cost of Refunding Outstanding Bonds of Said
Board of Education 4 - 17

19-0724-RSZ Resolution Authorize the Public Building Commission of Chicago to Grant
Access and Utility Easements to Public Utility Companies for the Installation
of Facilities on School Properties 17, 18

19-0724-RS3 Resolution Authorize Appointment of Members to Local School Councils
to Fill Vacancies 18, 19

REPORTS FROM THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
19-0724-RS4 Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer?s Recommendation to Dismiss
Educational Support Personnel 124

19-0724-RS5 Resolution Approving Chief Executive Officer?s Recommendation to Dismiss
Probationary Appointed Teachers 124, 125

RU BOARD RULES

19-0724-RU1 Amend Chapter II, Rule 2-6 Regarding Adoption, Amendment, Repeal or
Suspension of Rules and Policies 19, 20

