Employee Retirement Review Committee
Meeting Minutes
August 26, 2019
Members Present
Tom McKone
Mike Bowen
Andrew Fuller
April Morgan

Non-Members Present
Rachel Yarch
Janice Irving

Call to Order
The August 26, 2019 meeting was called to order at 1:37 p.m.
Minutes
Upon a motion by Mr. Fuller and seconded by Ms. Bowen minutes of the July 22, 2019 meeting were
approved.
Old Business
None
New Business
IRS Communication – Ms. Yarch stated letters were sent to plan participants back in early July to
advise that FICA was going to be withheld from their checks going forward, that there would be a
catch up amount taken out of their July check, and that normal amounts would resume in August.
Subsequent to that Ms. Weiler was advised by Northern Trust that the W-2C forms from 2016, 2017
and 2018 needed to be corrected and sent to the participants advising that this is what is happening,
but no action is needed by the employee. Ms. Yarch presented a draft letter to participants to notify
them that they would be receiving updated tax forms but that they do not need to do anything because
the contributions to be made from the prior years were going to come from the CTA and not the
participant.
General Administration
Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. Fuller an invoice for Marquette Associates was
approved for July, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Ms. Morgan an invoice for
Burke, Warren, MacKay & Serritella was approved for July, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. McKone and
seconded by Mr. Bowen an invoice for Burke, Warren, MacKay & Serritella for the Snow Case was
approved for July, 2019.
Executive Session – Litigation Matters
Upon a motion by Mr. McKone and seconded by Ms. Morgan, the committee voted to move into
executive session for discussion of matters covered by 5 ILCS 120/20(c)(11) (litigation exception to
the Open Meetings Act).
After a short time, the committee returned from executive session and resumed the regular meeting.
During the executive session, the committee discussed pending litigation.
Adjournment
Upon a motion by Mr. McKone and seconded by Mr. Bowen, the meeting adjourned at 2:06 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,
Janice Irving
Plan Administrator

 