COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
September 27, 2019

 

Employee Recognition

Cook County Health?s John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital is one of three Illinois health organizations to receive funding from the
National Cancer Institute Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP). The renewed $5 million funding will support
cancer clinical trials and cancer care delivery studies for Stroger Hospital's Minority/Underserved NCORP over six years.
Stroger is the only Minority/Underserved Illinois and has placed more than 2,000 patients in cancer clinical
trials. Thank you to?our team members, including Dr. Thomas Lad, Chair of Hematology and Oncology; Dr.Urjeet Patel,

Chair of Otolaryngology; and Erika Radeke.

The Stroger Hospital Echo Lab recently received its-accreditation from the Intersocietal Accreditation Council (IAC) who
specifically accredits hospitals and imaging centers for echocardiography nationwide. Being accredited by the IAC means
that Stroger Hospital?s Echo Lab meets strict? national standards of ensuring high-quality patient care; Congratulations to
our Cardiology staff lead by Dr. Rami Doukky, Chair of Cardiology; Bettie Bonner; Swapanil Dean; Dr. Yasmeen Golzar;
Mahala Johnson; Dr. Nataliya Pyslar; Evelyn Smith-Atangana; and Sarah Voll.?

The National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) has recognized CountyCare as one of Illinois? top-rated Medicaid
plans for 2019-2020. NCQA publishes annual Health Insurance .Plan Ratings on a Scale of 0 to 5, measuring quality of
care and patient satisfaction. Overall, CountyCare tied for the top rating in Illinois, with a score of 3.5. CountyCare also
scored the highest in the state for preventive care and treatment and tied for second for consumer experience.
Congratulations to our CountyCare staff here today: Laurel Chadde, Dr. Yvonne Collins, Andrea Justine

Morton?, Kathy Shanahan and James Kiamos, CEO of CountyCare.

lliana Mora, Chief Operating Officer ofAmbulatory-Services, has been named as one of the 2019 National Football
League Hispanic Heritage Leadership Award winners. The award recognizes the contributions of Hispanic leaders across.
the country who are making an impact on their communities during Hispanic Heritage Month. Ms. Mora will be
presented with the award at thisSunday?s Chicago Bears game.

Activities and Announcements

- Mare than 450 people attended the Cook County Health Foundation?s Annual Gala and Awards Event on
Wednesday, September 25, at the Hilton Chicago. The gala raised money for individuals living with heart disease
and diabetes. FUnds will be invested in expanding lifestyle centers to help patients manage their health.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 3.2, 6.3

On Friday, September 27, CCH will host a graduation ceremony for the latest cohort of Navy corpsmen who
participated in Hospital Corpsman Trauma Training, a partnership between Navy Medicine, the Capt. James A.
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, and Stroger Hospital. The corpsmen assist surgeons as they treat patients
with life-threatening injuries, allowing them to experience traUMa care before treating injuries sustained on the

battle?eld. US Senator Dick Durbin will attend the event.

nn Erirltnu- ?rnm Cami-armhole '37 1E flan ran-II; Faun-uh.- Llneni?al DANA-A ?(snarl-manl- in

Response Training for all CCH staff on the Central Campus (Stroger Hospital, the Administration Building, the
Core Center and the Professional Building). Training objectives include gaining a better understanding of the

term ?active shooter,? learning how to prepare for and react to an active shooter and understanding the role
and responsibility of law enforcement. Trainingsare being planned for all CCH locations.

CCH is participating in an effort led by the Cook County Complete Count Census Commission to encourage
people to respond to the 2020 Census. It is critical to have an accurate count, as approximately $34 billion will
be distributed to programs throughout Illinois basedon the results of the Census. For each 1% of the population
undercounted, Illinois could lose $1.2 billion in federal funding over 10 years. Undercounting could also put 2
congressional seats at stake. It is particularly important to make sure that historically undercounted
communities are involved everyone counts. CCH now has a Census Coordinator, who will lead community
outreach efforts, such as distributing informational materials in our clinics and at outreach events. We will use
our communications and marketing channels to reach our patients, visitors and staff to encourage participation
in the Census.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 7.0

Through September 18, Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has
resulted in 209 visits to 13 CCH health centers Arlington Heights, Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage
Grove, Englewood, Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Provident/Sengstacke, Prieto, Robbins, and
Woodlawn.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 27,722
individuals, representing 91,901 household members, totaling more than 560,000 pounds of fresh produce.
Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health
center visit.

The Fresh Market schedule is listed below, note updated dates and times:
0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, Qam-me
0 Robbins Health Center on'Thursdays, 11am-3pm
0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm

Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonpro?t that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food
system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with
Experimental Station?s Link Up Illinois Link Match program to offer SNAP users a match on all purchases at CCH
Fresh Markets, up to $20/market/week.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

Upcoming Events

The fourth annual Food Summit sponsored by Cook County Health and Loyola University Chicago, Health
Science?s Division will be held on October 4th and This year?s theme is the Power of Plant-Based Eating.
Participants will hear about the benefits of plant-based eating and how to incorporate more plant-based foods
into their diet; find out about policy initiatives and programs that support making this lifestyle more of a cultural
norm; and hear an update on the progress of Good Food Purchasing Program implementation. The Pre-Summit
Urban Fa rm Tours are also back this year, where two local urban farms in Maywood will share their story and

2 Pag..e

how they support social and business enterprises that make a difference for local communities and residents.
More information can be found here.

A community meeting to discuss the new Provident Hospital will take place on October 8, 2019 at The
forum will be hosted by Toni Preckwinkle, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners, Commissioner Bill
Lowry, Alderman Pat Dowell, and Dr. Jay Shannon, CEO, Cook County Health. The location for the forum is being

determined. 

Cook County Health is hosting two Community Forums on Trauma to showcase the work done by the unit.
Trauma?s clinical staff will also be conducting a Stop the Bleed training to teach individuals how they can stop a
person from bleeding before emergency services arrive. This basic bleeding control course provides participants
with the necessary tools, which can make the difference betWeen life and death. Other topics include: 2019
summer gun violence numbers, the impact of social workers in trauma; and various research initiatives.

The forums will take place at the following locations.

October 16, 2019

start of program until 

Douglas Park Fieldhouse - 1401 S. Sacramento Dr., Chicago, IL 60623

October 24, 2019
start of program until 
Kennedy King College?s Black Box Theater - 740 W. 63rd St., Chicago, IL 60621

Dr. Jay Shannon, CEO of CCH, will speak at the City Club of Chicago on Monday, October 28.

Legislative Update

Local

State

On September 25 the Cook County Board Health and Hospitals Committee approved a Lead Poisoning
Prevention Ordinance proposed by the Cook County Department of Public Health. The Ordinance was approved
by the full Cook County Board on September 26 and has an immediate effective date.

On September 26 the Cook County Board approved FY2020 Proposed Preliminary Budget for inclusion in
the President?s Executive Budget Recommendation. The President is expected to introduce her budget to the

Cook County Board in October; approval is anticipated in November.

On September 26 the Cook County Board Health and Hospitals Committee held a meeting to discuss the CCH
response and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP (Deloitte FAS) assessment of the Office of the Independent
inspector General (OllG) June report on CountyCare finances. CCH Leadership and representatives from both
Deloitte FAS and RSM, auditor, were present to respond to questions from Cook County Commissioners.

The Illinois General Assembly is scheduled to return to Springfield October 28?30 and November 12-14 for the
Fall Veto Session. The schedule for the 2020 Spring Session has yet to be announced, but will likely start in mid-

January 2020 and run through May 31.

Earlier this month, Cook County Health hosted our annual legislator breakfast, which included members of the
Illinois General Assembly, Cook County Commissioners, and their staff. A total of 17 elected officials and 11 staff,
representing 23 different offices, were in attendance. President Preckwinkle provided welcoming remarks and

3 Page

Federal

nr \arii-ln I'd-hor- r'r?u loath-napkin ?rill-In {-Inn aid-narlnne ?Inn-lil- slnAn+nA 

7-, f.7h 

71.717177, 77777, irrev,?

Congress returned to Washington the week of September 9 with only three weeks to pass appropriations
legislation to fund the federal government before the start of the new fiscal year on October 1.

Budget and Appropriations

While the House had passed most of its bills before the August recess, the Senate had waited until a budget deal
had been reached to lift the statutory discretionary spending caps and set top-line levels for defense and non-
defense spending. Senate appropriators planned to begin by moving their version of the massive Labor-Health
and Human Services-Education (Labor?HHS) spending bill but later cancelled the markup when Democrats
objected to the overall allocation to the bill under the new budget caps, voicing concerns that important health
programs would not be adequately funded in order to increase funding to build the President?s border Wall.

Continuing Resolution
While the Senate struggles to ?nd a way past the deadlock, House leaders announced plans to advance a
continuing resolution (CR) to keep the government funded at FY 2019 levels until just before Thanksgiving.

On September 20 the House passed a Continuing Resolution the contained a number of heath provisions,
including:
0 Delay Medicaid DSH Cuts: The bill would delay the $4 billion in scheduled statutory cuts to the Medicaid
disproportional share hospital (DSH) payments until November 22.
Territory Funding: The bill would increase the federal Medicaid match rate for Puerto Rico and other
US territories to 100 percent until November 22.
0 Public Health Programs: The bill would extend funding for the Community Health Center Program until
November 22, at the same rate as FY 2019.
The CR would also extend funding for a number of other expiring health programs, including the following, at
their FY 2019 funding rates until November 22:
0 National Health Service Corps
0 Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education Program, and
0 Special Diabetes Program

The Senate is expected to take up the CR the week of September 23.

Senate Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations Bill
After cancelling the subcommittee markup, the Senate Appropriations Committee rolled out their version of the
Labor-HHS-Education bill on September 18. It is not clear when and if the bill in its current form will ever go to
the Senate floor, but it does indicate what the Senate?s opening position will be in negotiations with the House.
The bill would provide $93.4 billion in discretionary funding for HHS, an increase of $2.9 billion over the FY 2019
level. By contrast, the House bill would provide $99.4 billion for HHS, an increase of $8.9 billion above the 2019
enacted level and $21.3 billion above the President's budget request.

0 National Institutes of Health $42.1 billion, an increase of $3 billion.

0 Ending the HIV Epidemic? $266 million, an increase of $210 million, to support the President?s HIV

initiative to reduce the number of new HIV infections by 90 percent in 10 years.

I $140 million for CDC activities to expand the use of pre-exposure prophylaxis and develop
approaches to better detect and respond to clusters of HIV cases and core HIV prevention
programs at state and local health departments. Notably, the House bill would provide the same
amount.

4 Page

I $120 million for HRSA, including $50 million for Community Health Centers to support oUtreach,
testing, care coordination, and HIV prevention services, including Also included in HRSA
funding, $70'million in NEW Ryan White funding.

0 Mental Health - $3.7 billion for' mental health programs, an increase of $305 million. The House bill
would provide including:

I Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics: $200 million, an increase of $50 million, for
Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics that provide a comprehensive approach to
mental health care treatment; 7

I Mental Health Awareness Training: $22 million, an increase of $1 million, for Mental Health
Awareness Training.

I Suicide Programs: 588 million, an increase of $14 million. 

I Mental and Substance Use Disorder Workforce Training Demonstration Program: New 55 million
for grants to medical institutions and community health centers to train professionals to provide
SUD and mental health treatment in underserved communities.

I Pediatric Mental Health AcCess Grants: 510 million for Pediatric Mental Health Access-Grants to
expand access to behavioral health services in pediatric primary care settings.

Given the wide gulf between the spending level and priorities between the House and Senate, the path fonrvard
for Labor?HHS is murky. The parties will need to come to an agreement on the overall allocations for each of the
bills and then work out the funding levels for each program. This will be a challenge despite the bipartisan
agreement that another government shutdown must be avoided.

0 Public Charge
CCH continues to work with local, state, and national partners on efforts to fight back against the public charge

?nal rule, which is scheduled to go into effect October 15, 2019. Additional lawsuits have been filed'throughout
the nation, and some cases may be heard in early October.

CCH hosted a public charge training delivered by attorneys from the Shriver Center on Poverty Law and Legal
Council for Health Justice. A total of 81 CCH staff participated in the in?person training, which primarily included
staff'from Integrated Care and Financial Counseling. A second web-based training will take place in the 'next few
weeks. A one-page flyer for patients, available in English and Spanish, was shared with staff and is posted on the
CCH website; a one-pager info sheet for staff was also shared and is posted on the CCH intranet.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for CCH at both the State and Federal level.

Community Outreach

October 1 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Rolling Meadows Police Department's East Park
Health and Wellness Fair which takes place at the East Park Police Neighborhood Of?ce located at 2260
Algonquin Parkway in Rolling Meadows. Staff from the Arlington Heights Health Center will be present
.to talk about the clinical services offered at the clinic.

October 2 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Malcolm College FREE Service Days,.which is
hosted by the Wellness Center of Malcolm College at the school located at 1900 W. Jackson
Boulevard in Chicago. This event for the students and community will provides services such as health
insurance enrollment, counseling, mental health support services and nutrition education, to name a
few. The CORE Center does HIV testing at this event.

5 Page

 A

October 5

October 5

October 8

October 9

October 11

October 11

October 17

October 18

October 19

October 19

October 19

(?nnk and (mini-VF: rn at Rnhin Kpllu': 7nd nicfrirf anlnumnnt

Lansing.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Alpha Strong Health Fair which is hosted by the
Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. and takes place at their center located at 8236 S. Western Avenue in
Chicago. The CORE center will doHlV testing at the event.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Our Lady of Angels and Kelly Hall YMCA's
Community Health/Resource Fair which will take place at the YMCA located at 824 N. Hamlin Avenue in

Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the State Senator Elgie Sims, Cook County
Commissioner Stanley Moore and State Representative Nick Smith's Senior Health Fair which will take
place at the Tuley Park Fieldhouse'located at 501 E. 915t. Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 5th Annual MHTC Job and Resource Fair which is
hosted by the Cook County Sherriff?s Office at the Mental Health Transition Center located at 2801
South Rockwell Avenue in Chicago. This annual event is designed to assist current and former detainees

?as they transition back to their communities by exploring mental health, educational, independent

living, and employment/vocational resources that will assist in their reentry.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Congressman Mike Quigley?s 11th Annual Senior
Fair, which will take place at the Salvation Army Metropolitan Division located at 5040 Pulaski Road in
Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 315t Annual DCFS Latino Family Institute Day
which will take place at Northeastern Illinois University located at 3701 West Mawr Avenue in

Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Oak Forest Senior Health Fair hosted by Oak
Forest Senior Commission at the Oak Forest Park District located at 15601 S. Central Avenue in Oak
Forest.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion .at the Village of?Franklin Park's 4th Annual Senior
Health and Resource Fair 2019 which will take place at the Centre at North Park located at 10040
Addison Avenue in Franklin Park.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Robbins Health 8: Wellness Fair, which is hosted
by the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority at the Robbins Community Center located at 13800 S. Trumbull
Avenue in Robbins.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Providence M.B. Church Men's Health Day which
takes place at the church located at 8401 S. Ashland Avenue in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the National Kidney Foundation of Illinois's Viviendo

con Enfermedad Renal Transplante, which will take place at the Instituto del Progreso Latino located
at 2520 S. Western Avenue in Chicago.

6 Page

October 19 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Cook County Recorder of DeedsEdward M.
Moody's Military and Veterans Family Fun Festival which will take place at Malcolm College located

at 1900 West Jackson Boulevard in Chicago.

October 21 Cook?County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Lyons Township High School District 204's
Options Fair 2019, which is hosted by the School District and takes place at Lyons Township High School

South Campus in Western Springs.

October 21 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Marillac St. Vincent Family Services 4 Marillac
Social Center Pantry and Resource Fair that is sponsored by the Marillac Social Center and takes place
at the Center located at 212 S. Francisco in Chicago.

October 24 CountyCare promotion at Friend Family Health Center Think Pink Event which takes place at their
health center located at 800 E. 55th Street in Chicago.

October 26 Cook County Health and Cou ntyCa re promotion at Access to Care's Healthy Trick or Treating Halloween
Health and Resource Fair which will take place at the Hawthorne Race located at 3501 S. Laramie

Avenue in Cicero.

October 26 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Chicago Housing Authority's Operation Warm
Event which takes place at the Isadore and Sadie Dorin Forum located at 725 W. Roosevelt Road in

Chicago.

The Greater Chicago Food Depository Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of October include the following ACHN
Health Centers. 
0 October 1 Cicero Health Center 5912 West Cermak Road, Cicero,? IL 60804
October 3 Austin Health Center 4800 West Chicago Avenue, Chicago, -IL 60651
October 8 Cottage Grove Health Center 1645 Cottage Grove Avenue, Ford Heights, IL 60411
October 15 Robbins Health Center 13450 South Kedzie Avenue, Robbins, IL 60472
October 17 Englewood Health Center 1135 West 69th Street, Chicago, IL 60621
October 17 Near South Health Ce'nter 3525 South Michigan, Chicago, IL 60653

7 Pag'e

