BUDGET,
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

September 25, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

3037473 100% City Funding To Provide Printing Services for Property Tax Exemption
Flyers. Contractor: Accuform Printing Graphics, Inc. Location: 7231
Southfield Road, Detroit, MI 48228 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through October 31, 2019 Total Contract Amount: $69,432.00.

ASSESSOR

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER AYERS

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3037473 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated September 25, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

     

- 

Ist?ermck

David Whitaker, Esq. at?? at Btr? it Dc

Director Marcel Hurt, Esq.
22:31:53: CITY COUNCIL Kimani Jeffrey
Marcell R. Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION Marie ?mg?
Senior City Planner 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center if?: Mgr??
Jane? Ciapma" Detroit, Michigan 48226 ?i?m y? 
Deputy Director Ph . a K'm ewby

one. (313) 224 4946 Fax. (313) 224 4336 Analine Powers, 
John Alexander Jennifer Reinhardt
LaKisha Barclift, Esq. Sabrina Shockley
M. Rory Bolger, AICP Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter
Tasha Cowen Theresa Thomas
Richard Drumb Underwood
George Etheridge Ashley A. Wilson
Deborah Goldstein Pf

TO: Detroit City Council 
FROM: David Whitaker, Direct 

Legislative Policy Division
DATE: September 23, 2019

RE: Report on Casino Gaming Bills, HB 4311, HB 4312 and HB 4323

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has been requested to provide a report on the proposed
House Bills 4311, 4312 and 4323 relative to authorizing internet gaming and setting a tax rate for
the internet gaming industry in Michigan. We have learned from both the House Fiscal Agency
as well as the City?s lobbyist Ken Cole that these bills are currently under new negotiations in
Lansing, primarily by the State administration who would like to see a more favorable return on
the proposed internet gaming for the State?s treasury. It is not believed that this legislation or
possibly any renegotiated legislation will be passed during this session. This legislation
currently only deals with internet gaming, not sports betting and it is anticipated that additional
legislation will cover that at a later date.1

Brief Summary

In general the three proposed bills set forth the following: HB 4311 authorizes the establishment
of internet gaming and sets forth the requirements for eligibility, licensing, taxing of internet
gaming, creates an internet gaming fund and provides for civil sanctions and criminal penalties
for violations of the act; HB 4312 would amend the Michigan Code of Criminal Procedure MCL
777.14d by placing the maximum term of imprisonment for a felony violation of the Internet
Gaming Act within the sentencing guidelines; and HB 4323 would amend the Michigan Penal
Code MCL 750.1 et, al by adding ?310d exempting gambling conducted under the Lawful
Internet Gaming Act from the provisions of the penal code. All three bills are tie barred, one bill
cannot take effect unless the bill to which it is tie barred is also enacted.

 

Nevertheless, PLD has elected to fully respond to City Council?s request

1

 

While proponents of the bills believe that intemet gaming will generate new revenues to the
State and cities where the intemet gaming license is located, the House Fiscal Agency?s review
of the bill indicated a potential loss of revenue may occur with regard to the current brick and
mortar casinos (Casinos) if intemet gaming is allowed as detailed in the proposed legislation.
The revenue reduction is possible if the number of Casino gamers begin using internet gaming
instead of patronizing Casinos and the fact that intemet gaming is taxed at 8% where Casino
gaming is taxed at 19%. The bill does attempt to provide a remedy for potential loss of revenue
to cities that currently have Casino gaming by making up the difference between the combined
revenue (casino tax revenue and intemet gaming tax revenue) a city generated in a prior ?scal
year and $179,000,000.00 to be paid for from the intemet gaming revenue fund. (See further
?scal analysis in the report).

Proposed HB 4311
Lawful Internet Gaming Act

The proposed HB 4311 Lawful Internet Gaming Act, provides in detail the method in which
intemet gaming will be lawfully conducted. The pertinent provisions of the bill are set forth
below.

The proposed HB 4311 (Bill) set forth the requirements for persons to engage in internet gaming.
Internet gaming under the bill is de?ned as a game of skill or chance that is offered for play
through the intemet in which an individual wagers money or something of monetary value for
the opportunity to win money or something of monetary value. The person who chooses to
engage in lawful intemet gaming must do so with an ?intemet gaming operator? who is issued an
intemet gaming license from the intemet gaming ?division? as set forth under Section 5.2 The
Division is authorized to issue intemet gaming license to an applicant that is either of the
following:

a) A person that holds a casino license under the Michigan gaming control and
revenue act, MCL 432.201 to 432.226.

b) An Indian tribe that lawfully conducts Class gaming in a casino located in
this state under a facility license issued in accordance with a tribal gaming
ordinance approved by the chair of the National Indian Gaming Commission.

Under the proposed Bill an intemet gaming operator license can only be issued to applicants who
currently hold a casino license or an Indian tribe that lawfully conducts Class gaming in the
State of Michigan. The license for an intemet gaming operator is valid for a period of ?ve (5)

 

2 The Internet Gaming Division is to be established under the Michigan Gaming Control Board and is authorized to
administer, regulate and enforce the system of internet gaming established by the act. The Division may enter into
agreements with other jurisdictions to facilitate, administer and regulate multijurisdictional intemet gaming
consistent with state and federal laws and gaming in the United States. The Division has jurisdiction over and shall
supervise all intemet gaming operations as set forth under Section 9

3 Class gaming is de?ned as determined in 25 USC 2703 which includes any games that are not classi?ed as
Class I (social games solely for prizes of minimal value or traditional forms ol? Indian gaming engaged in by
individuals as a part of, or in connection with, tribal ceremonies or celebrations) or Class II the game of chance
commonly known as bingo (ii) card games that (I) are explicitly authorized by the laws of the State, or

(II) are not explicitly prohibited by the laws of the State and are played at any location in the State.

2

 

years after the date of issuance and is renewable for additional ?ve (5) year periods. An initial
application for an internet gaming operator license must be accompanied by a $100,000.00
application fee which shall be applied as set forth under the rules promulgated pursuant to
Section 10. An internet gaming operator shall pay a license fee of $200,000.00 to the division at
the time of the initial internet gaming license is issued and $100,000.00 each year after the initial
license is issued. The application fee and license fees paid shall go into the Internet Gaming
Fund established under Section 16.

A licensed internet gaming operator must conduct internet gaming operations and offer internet
gaming from an ?Internet gaming platform?. The internet gaming platform to be used by an
internet gaming operator for internet gaming can only be supplied by a licensed ?internet gaming
vendor?5. The Division may issue an internet gaming vendor license to a person who provides
goods, software, or services to internet gaming operators. Only a licensed internet gaming vendor
can be the provider to an internet gaming operator. The vendor license is valid for a period of
?ve (5) years and is renewable for additional ?ve year periods. The application for an internet
gaming vendor?s license must be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee not to exceed
$5,000.00. A license fee of $5,000.00 shall be paid for the initial year of the license and
$2,500.00 for each year after. However, if the internet gaming vendor provides all or
substantially all of the internet gaming platform the vendor must pay a fee of $100,000 at the
time the initial license fee is issued and $50,000 each year thereafter. Similar to the application
and license fee of the internet gaming operator, the application fee and license fees of the internet
gaming vendor shall be deposited into the Internet Gaming Fund.6

Pursuant to Section 10, the Division shall within one (1) year of the effective date of the act,
promulgate rules governing the licensing administration, and conduct of internet gaming. In
addition, the Division shall promulgate rules in accordance with the Administrative Procedures
Act MCL 24.201 to 24.328, which may include only things expressly authorized by under the
act, including but not limited to, the types of games to be offered (which must include but not be
limited to, poker, blackjack, cards, slots, and other games typically offered at a casino);
quali?cations, standards, and procedures for approval and licensure; requirements to ensure
responsible gaming; technical and ?nancial standards for internet wagering, internet wagering
accounts, internet gaming platforms, systems and software; and requirements for
multijurisdictional agreements.

The Bill under Section 11, includes provisions that indicate the internet gaming operator must
require the internet gaming vendor who provides the gaming platform mechanisms designed to
verify a participant is 21 years of age or older. It requires mechanisms designed to detect and
prevent fraud, money laundering and collusion. The internet gaming operator must require the
internet gaming vendor to provide on the gaming platform clear and conspicuous evidence of the
internet gaming license issued under the act. The internet gaming operator cannot conduct
internet gaming until one year after the effective date of the act.

 

4 Internet gaming platform is de?ned as an integrated system of hardware, software, and servers through which an
internet gaming operator operates, conducts or offers internet gaming

5 An internet gaming vendor is de?ned as a person that provides to an internet gaming operator goods, software, or
services that directly affect wagering, play and results of internet games offered under the act.

6 The proposed bill provides that an institutional investor (as de?ned under the bill and includes but is not limited to
a retirement fund administered by a public agency for the bene?t of public employees) are not subject to the
licensure requirements.

The Bill under Section 13(1)(a) indicates a person shall not offer internet gaming for play in the
state if the person is not an internet gaming operator unless exempted from the act under Section
4(4)7. A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a felony punishable by imprisonment for
not more than ten (10) years or a ?ne of not more than a $100,000 or both. The attorney general
or a county prosecutor may bring an action to prosecute a violation of subsection 

Internet Gaming Tax

The Bill under Section 14 provides the manner in which internet gaming is subject to taxation.
Unlike the wagering tax structure for Casino gaming operations which are taxed at 19% of the
adjusted gross receipts (AGR). Of this 19% the City receives 10.8%.8 Under the Bill, the internet
gaming gross revenue received by the internet gaming operator is subject to a tax of Of this
8% the City would receive 30%, or 2.4% of the gross revenues. The City would also be
authorized to charge a 1.25% fee on the gross revenues of an internet gaming operator that holds
a casino license in that city. Therefore, in addition to a city?s receipt of 2.4% internet gaming
revenue tax, additional revenue can be obtained by a 1.25% municipal fee and any existing
development agreement that includes internet gaming revenues as part of the AGR.

Section 15 indicates that the thirty percent to the city in which internet gaming licensee?s casino
is located, for use in connection with the following:

The hiring, training, and development of street patrol of?cers in that
city.

(ii) Neighborhood development programs designed to create jobs in that city
with a focus on blighted neighborhoods.

Public safety programs such as emergency medical services, ?re
department programs, and street lighting in that city.

(iv) Anti-gang and youth development programs in that city.

Other programs that are designed to contribute to the improvement of
the quality of life in that city.

(vi) Relief to the taxpayers of the city from 1 or more taxes or fees imposed
by the city.

(vii) The costs of capital improvements in that city road repairs and
improvements by the city.

Subsection 15(2) indicates that by December 31, 2020 and each December 31 thereafter, if the
tax revenue received in the preceding ?scal year by a city from an internet gaming operator?s

licensee?s casino combined with the money received from the 2.4% of internet gaming revenue
tax is less than $179,000,000.00, the board shall distribute from the fund to the city in which the

 

7 Section 4(4) provides that the act does not apply to lottery games offered by the State under MCL 432.1 to 432.47;
Class II and Class gaming conducted on Indian lands by an Indian tribe as approved by the tribal gaming
ordinance and the chair of the National Indian Gaming Commission; and a fantasy contest conducted under the
fantasy contests consumer protection act.

3 In addition to the 19% wagering tax on AGR the Detroit Casinos pay a municipal service fee and development
agreement payment based on AGR which is not a part of the wagering tax calculations. The City is authorized under
MCL 432.213 to impose a municipal service fee of 1.25% of AGR or $4 million (whichever is greater) in addition to
any development agreement payment as set forth in the agreement.

4

intemet gaming operator?s licensees casino is located an amount equal to the difference. This
provision is designed to make up for any potential shortfall that may possibly be created by the
casino operator implementing intemet gaming. However, the amount a city can receive from the
intemet gaming fund cannot exceed the 55% of the total tax imposed under section 14 in the
?scal year deposited into the fund. The House Fiscal Agency provided a legislative analysis on
the possible short fall that could occur in casino wagering if the internet gaming bill was passed
as currently constructed.

The State House Fiscal Agency, the report is attached, is currently reporting that the above
referenced bills will have a negative impact on both the State?s and the City?s gaming revenue
due to the belief that intemet gaming will turn gamers away from the bricks and mortar casinos.
What the State is additionally concerned with and possibly more so is the loss of online lottery
gaming to this new internet gaming options. This is thought to negatively impact the School Aid
Fund.

While many proponents of these bills have likened the potential revenue upsides to the
experience that New Jersey has had since introducing online gaming, the State is concemed that
it may be too optimistic since they do not believe Michigan is as similar. The state considers a
proximity to other major population centers in neighboring states, and other concerns dissimilar
to the Michigan gaming climate.

The City?s Lansing lobbyist was able to negotiate with the bill sponsors and include a ?oor that
the City would be able to collect of $179 million which had been the calendar year collections in
2017 when the bill was written. So in fact if between what the City would collect through both
the bricks and mortar casinos and the intemet gaming revenue was less than $179 million the
State would make up the difference out of the portion of the revenue (55% of the to go into
the Internet Gaming Fund. However the most the City could receive would be 55% of the total
tax imposed in the ?scal year. We would suggest that the City advocate for the ?oor to be a
?uid number that represents the collections from the last calendar year prior to internet gaming
coming online, with a 1% growth factor for each subsequent year to better re?ect the revenues
that the City has seen from the casinos.

However, just reviewing the data from New Jersey since 2015, we have attached two charts that
show slow but positive growth since 2015 in the ?bricks and mortar? casino revenue as the
internet gaming has also continued to grow. Additionally, we have attached a power point
presentation from the Spectrum Gaming Group done in concert with the UMass Donahue
Institute, Economic Policy and Research Team. Their perspective is that online gaming brings a
different group of people who most likely would not be a part of the ?bricks and mortar? gaming
experience.

Our of?ce is available to assist with any questions, or we suggest that a call to the City?s lobbyist
with speci?c issues would also be bene?cial.

Chart 1 Casino Gaming Since Online Gaming By Year - New Jersey
$300,000,000.00

+4.03%

$250,000,000.00

$200,000,000.00

 

$150,000,000.00

$100,000,000.00
+2019

2018
$50,000,000.00 2017
+2016

+2015

Chart 2 ?Trend of Gaming since Online Gaming - New Jersey

530000000000 



 

 

520000000000 mun.?



$100,000,000.00 ..

SEQDDQUDUDU '1

@gogybco 

0
9r .. 5r 
$04 30:. @145 (92(25$33- $0 {6 

 

gaming ?Linear gaming) - - - .. 12 per. Mov. Avg. gaming)



e; w; SPECTRUM

KW WMME {segue

Independent Research and Professional Services

 

REMI \X/ebinar:
Understanding future of

online, land-based gaming

 

September 20, 2017

SIGHT: Spectrum Internet Gaming
Heuristic Theorem

- Developed 15 years ago

- Based on principle that online gaming in US
should evolve to benefit of land-based
operators

- Key assumption: Casino operators in US would
move from rejection of online to acceptance to
embrace

- Most operators have reached acceptance,
presently approaching embrace

a; SPECTRUM
mums GROUP

 

Past is Prologue

- Radio vs. baseball
- TV vs. Hollywood

e; SPECTRUM

GAMING GROUP 3

 

Radio vs. Baseball

?When radio came along and began to broadcast
some baseball games, some of the entrenched
conservative owners said, ?Wait a minute. Why give
away something that you?re trying to sell for your
living, to try and keep your enterprise afloat? And
especially on days of threatening weather when
people would say, ?Well, it looks like it may rain. I?ll
just listen to the radio. I won?t go.? They did not
realize at the time the beneficial effect of radio,
that it would be making families of fans.?

- From the documentary Baseball,
Geoffrey C. Ward and Ken Burns quoting broadcaster Red Barber

at. SPECTRUM
?i WINE (snoop

 

TV vs. Hollywood

- Major studios were threatened by TV, as
viewers could be entertained at home

- TV evolved, studios adapted:
Hollywood became major TV producers

TV presented marketing opportunities for
films

became important secondary market for
films

SPECTRUM
GAMING GROUP

 

 

Common Thread

- Technology did not alter social aspects of
spectator sports or movie theaters

- Technology will not alter social aspects of
visiting brick-and-mortar casinos

 

a. SPECTRUM

GAMING GROUP 6

Online Gaming in United States

- Demands new business model
resting on foundation of long-
established and large, brick-and-
mortar gaming industry

Online gaming policy needs to
consider more than 1,000 casinos
generating more than $70 billion in
annualrevenue

a. SPECTRUM

GAMING GROUP 7

 

Immutable Laws of Human Nature

- People are hard-wired to enjoy
games of chance and to take
reasonable risk, regardless of
decade in which they were born

- People are hard-wired to enjoy
social settings, and to seek
entertainment experiences with
other adults

a- SPECTRUM

GAMING GROUP 8

 

Online Gaming in US Should be
Developed in Concert with Land-Based

- Not simply as new revenue stream

- Important marketing tool to reach
new demographics in new way that
would increase both online and
land-based revenue

i. "e SPECTRUM
GAMING GROUP

 

9

Vindication in New Jersey

$250.0

 

- Online gaming is growing

$200 0 $196.7

 

- New demographics, new
players

$150.0 -

$100.0 -

 

- Increased visits, spending
at land-based casinos

suogmw u! anuana; Bugwes 1auJaxu 

$50.0

 

 

- Strengthening brand s? 
recognition and loyalty
while customer is off-
prope rty 111111.111 gaming began in 

SPECTRUM
eg? GAMING oaoup

 

Caesars Experience: Online as
Marketing Channel

- At a March hearing in Caesars
Entertainment noted:

?(The) poker market in land-based casinos has grown
since the onset of online poker.?

?Offline poker revenues have grown since the
inception of online poker.?

Though its Total Rewards marketing program,
Caesars notes that:

- 80% of its online players are new customers

- Of players in Total Rewards database, 42% of those who
played online were inactive prior to offering of online play
and then reactivated after online signup

a; 3' SPECTRUM
?a GAMING smup

 

Tropicana Experience

- 60% of players who signed up for online
were not previously enrolled in database

- Of remaining 40%, half were inactive or
lapsed: had not generated any tracked
play at Tropicana in previou 12 months

at 3? SPECTRUM
GAMING GROUP

 

Golden Nugget Experience

- Only 11% of online signups have come
from Golden Nugget Atlantic City rated
patrons

- Of those, only 8% were active at Golden
Nugget Atlantic City in 12 mon hs prior to
onli ne signups

 

ac. SPECTRUM
?ag GAMING GROUP

 

SugarHouse Experience

- ?Our online players in NJ are, on average,
8 to 10 years younger than those players
visiting SugarHouse?s physical facility.?

- Richard Schwartz, President of Rush Street Interactive,
iGaming Business North America, Issue 30

 

e: SPECTRUM
eg GAMING GROUP

Does Online Play Cannibalize Land-
Based Play?

- Tropicana customers who played both
online and land-based increased their
total land-based spend, as well as their
frequency of visitation

- The 8% of active Golden Nugget players
who sign up online have increased their
spend at Golden Nugget 15% after signup

a. ?a SPECTRUM
GAMING GROUP

 

Land-Based Operators have Advantage

Well-known brands associated with
entertainment experience, as well as with
gaming integrity, players know intuitively
that their games are honest

Established player loyalty programs easily
redeemed for entertainment options, including
free rooms, show tickets and dining experiences

Existing compliance process tailored to US
regulatory environment

at- he SPECTRUM
mums GROUP

 

Option for Legislators across US

- Adapt online for benefit of their
land-based operators

- View online as marketing tool, as
well as revenue stream

- Measure fiscal impact in wider
perspective

SPECTRUM

6.
rs GROUP '7

 

Option II for Legislators across US

- Allow an open-market in which

online and land-based operators can
compete

- This will address needs of lotteries,
others that need to develop online
platforms

- Land-based operators would still
possess clear advantages

 

SPECTRUM
GAMING GROUP '8

Universal consideration for lawmakers

- Online policies will inevitably vary from
state to state, and must be customized

- Type, size and location of existing land-
based industry will be one key factor

- Tax rate is key policy consideration,
regardless of which online policy is
selected

13 SPECTRUM
ammo GROUP

 

Issues that must be considered

- Taxation
- Lotteries
- Exclusivity

- SPECTRUM
Sig WING GROUP

 

Tax rate considerations

- New Jersey has online tax rate of 15%,
roughly double land-based rate

- This creates clear incentive for land-based
operators to encourage online players to
visit properties
Other states have significantly higher land-
based rates, thus precluding that option

Many states will likely be forced to tax
online at lower rate than land-based
operations

 

aggspecmum
GAMING GROUP

Fiscal viewpoint: Multiple revenue
streams

- Regardless of model, tax rate, online
must be viewed as part of multi-channel
gaming, taking into account:

Online gaming revenue
Increased land-based revenue

Increased non-gaming spending
- Sales tax
- Entertainment tax

Potential for additional capital investment
Increased employment, payroll tax

SPECTRUM
GAMING GROUP

 

Lotteries

- Potential competitors
- Potential allies

as: 3 SPECTRUM

?1 GAMING GROUP 23

 

Land-based operators: natural
beneficiaries, 

- Proven marketing skills, databases
- Desirable assets

- Proven to advance public policy on
numerous fronts:
Employment
Capital investment
Tourism promotion
Purchases of goods and services

a: SPECTRUM

r? GAMING GRQUP 24

 

 

The unknown future

Gaming?s various elements will converge in
unexpected, unprecedented ways:

Commercial and Indian gaming

Lotteries and land-based

Pari-mutuel

Suppliers, operators

New players

New, unanticipated forms of gaming will
emerge

Similar issues, concerns will arise with
sports wagering

SPECTRUM2
ii; WING EROUPZ

Introduction

. The UMass Donahue Institute is the civic engagement arm of the
UMass system. The Economic and Public Policy Research group is
an economic, public policy, and demographics consulting team
within UMDI.

- I?m Rod Motamedi, research manager at EPPR. My background is
economic and policy impact modeling.

- What are the factors that determine effective economic modeling?

UMASS DONAHUE INSTITUTE

 

Net Monetary Flows of I-Gaming: Whose
Point of View?

Existing New Existing New
Money Money Money Money

a-


75?? 
Additional Other economic 


i Spending from
current

patrons . .
few Nonmsmo SavmgS

New atr Out?of-state
Ons i visitors
5

Land-based casinos The state economy

activity

   

 

 
  
 

UMASS DONAHUE 

 

Monetary Flows in the Economy

 

New online i

gaming 

 

 

Existing non-
gaming economic
activity

Existing land?
base gaming

 

 

 

UMASS DONAHUE INSTITUTE

Sources of Economic Impacts

and spending - Vendors/suppliers
by the business Taxes

 

 



Spending by . Employees? household spending
- - - Hiring and spending by

_reC p'entS 9f vendors/suppliers

dll'eCt Government spending



 

 

UMASS DONAHUE INSTITUTE

 

Factors that Influence Net Effects of Shifts
in Spending

Staf?ng levels and
wages

        

         

Productivity

Tax rates and
destination of
taxes

  

Types of

Trade vendors/suppliers

UMASS DONAHUE INSTITUTE

 

An Effective Economic Impact Analysis

 

 

 

 



An effective modeler [k

 

 

 

i?n effective model

Modeler will need to I
handle all project- An effective explanation
Specific factors The model need to 1 
handle all economy- 
Specific factors The modeler and mOdel 
will need to provide,
interpret, and present
the findings in a useful
way

 

 

 

 

UMASS DONAHUE INSTITUTE

 

UMass Donahue Institute
Economic Public Policy Research
100 Venture Way, Suite 9
Hadley, MA 01035
(413) 545?0001

rmotamedi@donahue.umasspedu



UMASS DONAHUE INSTITUTE

 

Contact Us

Michael Pollock
Managing Director
Spectrum Gaming Group

1201 New Road, Suite 308
Linwood, NJ 08221 USA

+1 609 926 5100
pollock@spectrumgaming.com

 

SPECTRUM 33
. GAMING GROUP

 

House

Fl CAL

Legislative Analysis AGENCY

Phone: (517) 373-8080


LAWFUL INTERNET GAMING ACT

House Bill 4311 as referred to second committee Analysis available at
Sponsor: Rep. Brandt Iden 

House Bill 4312 as referred to second committee
Sponsor: Rep. Wendell 

House Bill 4323 as referred to second committee
Sponsor: Rep. LaTanya Garrett

1st Committee: Regulatory Reform
2nd Committee: Ways and Means
Complete to 5-1-19

BRIEF SUMMARY: House Bill 431 1 would create the Lawful Internet Gaming Act; allow internet
gaming to be conducted in accordance with the new act; license various activities; create the
Division of Internet Gaming in the Michigan Gaming Control Board impose a tax
on the conduct of licensed internet gaming; create the Internet Gaming Fund; prohibit certain
conduct; establish civil sanctions and criminal penalties for violations of the act; and authorize
the promulgation of rules.

House Bill 4312 would place the maximum term of imprisonment for a felony violation of the
Lawful Internet Gaming Act within the sentencing guidelines.

House Bill 4323 would exempt gambling conducted under the Lawful Internet Gaming Act
from the provisions of the Michigan Penal Code.

Tie-bars: House Bill 431 is tie-barred to HB 4308, House Bill 4312 is tie-barred to HBs 4311
and 4173, and House Bill 4323 is tie?barred to H8 4311. A bill cannot take effect unless the
bill to which it is tie-barred is also enacted.

Effective date: Each bill would take effect 90 days after it is enacted.

FISCAL IMPACT: In general, the bills likely would result in a net reduction in revenues for state
and local governments, including the City of Detroit, mainly due to the incentives produced by
the lower tax rate on internet gaming adjusted gross receipts (AGR) and the revenue

distribution differences between the internet gaming tax revenue and brick-and-mortar gaming
tax revenue. See Fiscal Information, below, for a detailed ?scal analysis.

THE CONTENT OF THE BILLS:

House Bill 431 1 would create the Lawful Internet Gaming Act, a description of which follows.

House Fiscal Agency Page 1 of 13

De?nitions
The act provides de?nitions for numerous terms used throughout it. These include:

Authorized participant: An individual who is at least 21 years of age with a valid
internet wagering account with an internet gaming operator.

Casino: A building or buildings in which gaming is lawfully conducted under the
Michigan Gaming Control and Revenue Act (the initiated law voted on by Michigan
electors which authorized the three Detroit casinos) or in which Class gaming is
conducted by an Indian tribe under a facility license issued in accordance with a tribal
gaming ordinance approved by the chair of the National Indian Gaming Commission.

Internet gaming: Operating, conducting, or offering for play an internet game.

Internet game: A game of skill or chance offered for play through the internet in which
a person wagers money or something of monetary value for the Opportunity to win
money or something of monetary value. Free plays or extended playing time won on a
game of skill or chance would not be ?something of monetary value.? The term would
include gaming tournaments conducted via the internet in which persons compete in
games authorized by the Division of Internet Gaming.

Internet gaming operator: A person issued an internet gaming license from the
Division of Internet Gaming to conduct internet gaming or otherwise authorized to
operate, conduct, or offer internet gaming.

Internet wagering: Risking money or something of monetary value on an internet
game.

Internet wagering account: An electronic ledger in which deposits, withdrawals,
internet wagers, monetary value of prizes, certain charges authorized by the authorized
participant, and adjustments to the account are recorded.

Aunlicabililv of Act, Location of Oneratiggfliuuinment

The Lawful Internet Gaming Act would allow internet gaming only to the extent that it is
conducted in accordance with the act. A law inconsistent with the act would not apply to
internet gaming, and the act would not apply to lottery games offered by the Bureau of Lottery,
Class II and Class gaming conducted exclusively on Indian lands by a properly licensed
Indian tribe, or a fantasy contest conducted under the Fantasy Contests Consumer Protection
Act.

Under the act, an internet wager would be considered placed when received by the internet
gaming operator, regardless of the location of the participant at the time the wager was placed.
An internet wager received by an internet gaming licensee would be considered to be gambling
or gaming conducted in the licensee?s casino, regardless of the authorized participant?s location
at the time the wager was placed. The intermediate routing of electronic data in connection
with internet wagering, including routing across state lines, would not determine the location
or locations in which the wager is initiated, received, or otherwise made.

Aggregating computers or other internet access devices in order to enable multiple players to
simultaneously play an internet game would be restricted to licensed internet gaming operators.

House Fiscal Agency H85 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 2 of 13

Division of Internet Gaming, Multiiurisdictional Gaming. Sports Betting

The Division of Internet Gaming (?the Division?) would be established in the MGCB to
administer, regulate, and enforce the system of internet gaming established by the act. The
Division would have jurisdiction over licensees and could take enforcement action as provided
in the act against an unlicensed person offering internet gaming in the state.

Under the act, the Division could enter into agreements with other jurisdictions, including
Indian tribes, for multijurisdictional internet gaming by gaming licensees if consistent with
state and federal law and for gaming conducted only in the United States. The Division could
permit internet gaming operators to conduct internet wagering on amateur or professional
sporting events or contests.

Internet Gaming License, Application and [signse Fees

An applicant for an internet gaming license would have to hold a casino license or be an Indian
tribe that lawfully conducts Class gaming under the required license. After receiving an
application and application fee, the Division would have to issue a license if the internet gaming
proposed by the applicant complied with the act and the applicant was otherwise eligible and
suitable (with the burden on the applicant to establish suitability).

In determining whether an applicant is eligible and suitable, the Board could request and
consider the ?nancial situation of the applicant, historical compliance with casino-related
licensing requirements, criminal history, or history of bankruptcy.

An application fee of $100,000 would have to accompany the application. Departmental rules
could allow for a refund of the fee, or a partial refund if not wholly expended in processing the
application, and provide the circumstances under which a fee would be refunded.

An internet gaming license would be valid for ?ve years and could be renewed for ?ve-year
periods. The initial license fee would be $200,000 payable at the time the license is issued. The
yearly fee would be $100,000. Application and license fees would be deposited into the Internet
Gaming Fund created by the act. An institutional investor (such as a ?nancial institution or
pension fund) holding less than 30% of the equity of an applicant would be exempt from
licensure under the act.

Tribal Internet Camilla.

A federally recognized tribe in Michigan could apply to the Division to conduct internet
gaming and would have to include relevant information on its application, such as the name
and location of its casinos, relevant tribal law and governing documents, and ?nancial
information.

Issuance, maintenance, and renewal of internet gaming licenses to tribal casinos would be

based on all of the following:

- Compliance with the act and related rules.

. Adoption and maintenance of technical standards consistent with those adopted by the
Division.

0 Maintenance of a mechanism to determine that participants are at least 21 years old and in
allowed jurisdictions.

Adoption and maintenance of responsible gaming measures.

0 Maintenance and operation of a casino Operating Class gaming and containing at least
50% of the gaming positions in place as of the act?s effective date.

House Fiscal Agency H83 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 3 of 13

0 Timely payment of 8% of the gross gaming revenue received from internet gaming.

Provision of internet gaming records for veri?cation of the 8% amount upon request by the
Division.

0 Provision of a waiver of sovereign immunity to consent to the Division?s jurisdiction for
speci?ed purposes, as well as to the exclusive jurisdiction of Michigan?s court system
(expressly waiving the exhaustion of tribal revenues).

Under the bill, the state (acting through the governor) would have to negotiate any amendments
to a tribe?s compact necessary to ensure compliance with the act and any applicable federal
law upon request by any Indian tribe. If the governor failed to enter into negotiations or failed
to negotiate in good faith, the tribe could initiate a cause of action against the governor in state
or federal court.

The Division would have to exercise its limited direct regulatory and enforcement authority in
a manner that is not arbitrary, capricious, or contradictory to the act. The act would o_nly
regulate internet gaming and would not extend to any further aspect of tribal gaming operations
beyond those granted to the state under a compact with the tribe.

Internet Gaming Vendor and Gaming Platform Vendor Provider Licenses

An internet gaming vendor would be a person providing to an internet gaming operator goods,
software, or services that directly affect the wagering, play, and results of authorized internet
games. Only a person licensed under the act could provide goods, software, or services as an
internet gaming vendor to an internet gaming operator.

A provisional license would be available to enable the applicant for a vendor license to conduct
business with an internet gaming operator or applicant before receiving a vendor?s license. The
provisional license would expire on the date listed.

A vendor license would be valid for ?ve years and would be renewable for additional ?ve-year
periods if eligibility and suitability standards continued to be met. Applications would be made
on forms provided by the Division and would have to include certain information speci?ed in
the act, such as ?nancial information regarding the applicant.

A nonrefundable fee to be determined by the Division (but not to exceed $5,000) would have
to accompany the application with a fee of $5,000 payable upon issuance of a license. The
annual fee would be $2,500.

An internet gaming platform provider would pay a license fee of $100,000 at the time of
issuance of the license and $50,000 each year after that. Internet gaming platform
provider is not de?ned in the act, nor are any requirements speci?ed. The act de?nes internet
gaming platform to mean an integrated system of hardware, software, and servers through
which an internet gaming operator operates, conducts, or offers internet gaming]

Application and license fees, taxes, and payments would be deposited into the Internet Gaming
Fund created under the act. Information included with the application and records pertaining
to the application process would be con?dential and not subject to the Freedom of Information
Act (F OIA). An institutional investor holding less than 30% of the equity of an applicant would
be exempt from licensure under the act.

House Fiscal Agency HBs 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 4 of 13

Jurisdiction of 11;; Division, Civil Fines, Civil Remedies

The Division would have jurisdiction over and responsibility to supervise all internet gaming

operations governed by the act. The Division could do the following to effectuate the act:

1' Develop quali?cations, standards, and procedures for approval and licensure of internet
gaming operators and gaming vendors. [Notez internet gaming platform provider licensee
is not mentioned here]

4- Conduct hearings pertaining to violations of the act or rules.

0 Develop and enforce testing and auditing requirements for internet gaming platforms,
internet wagering, and internet wagering accounts.

Develop and administer civil ?nes (not to exceed $5,000 per violation) for internet gaming
operators and internet gaming vendor licensees that violate the act or departmental rules.

The Division could investigate, issue cease and desist orders, and obtain injunctive relief

against a person that is not licensed and that is offering internet gaming in the state.

Information, records, interviews, reports, and other data supplied to or used by the Division in

the course of an investigation of a licensee would be con?dential and not be subject to FOIA.

 

Rule Promula, ation

Within one year after the act took effect, the Division would be required to promulgate rules

governing the licensing, administration, and conduct of internet gaming necessary to carry out

the act. The rules could only include things expressly authorized by the act, including the
following:

0 Types of internet games to be offered; poker, blackjack, cards, slots, and other games
typically offered at a casino must be offered.

0 Quali?cations, standards, and procedures for approval and licensure of internet gaming
licensees and internet gaming vendor operators.

Requirements to ensure responsible gaming.

0 Technical and ?nancial standards for internet wagering, wagering accounts, and internet
gaming platforms, systems, and software or other electronic components for internet
gaming.

0 Procedures for conducting contested case hearings.

. Requirements for multijurisdictional agreements entered into with other jurisdictions.
These would include quali?cations, standards, and procedures for approval of internet
gaming vendors providing internet gaming platforms in connection with the agreement.

0 Procedures and requirements for the acceptance, by an internet gaming operator, of internet
wagers initiated or otherwise made by persons in other jurisdictions, if the Division
authorized multijurisdictional gaming.

Age Veri?cation Requirements. Requirements ul?lnternet Gaming Operators

An internet gaming Operator have to provide one or more mechanisms on the gaming platform

it uses that are designed to:

Reasonably verify that an authorized participant is at least 21 years of age. An individual
would have to satisfy the veri?cation requirements in order to establish an internet gaming
account or to make an internet wager on an internet game.

0 Limit internet wagering to transactions that are initiated and received or otherwise made
by an authorized participant located in Michigan or a jurisdiction in the United States in
which internet gaming is legal.

- Detect and prevent the unauthorized use of internet wagering accounts, and detect and
prevent fraud, money laundering, and collusion.

House Fiscal Agency H35 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 5 of 13

An internet gaming operator could not knowingly authorize an individual less than 21 years
old or an individual whose name appears in the responsible gaming database created under the
act to establish an internet gaming account or knowingly allow them to wager on internet games
offered by the licensee?unless required and authorized by the Division for testing purposes
or to otherwise ful?ll the purposes of the act.

Res onsihle Gamin Database Postin of Com ulsire Gamblin Hotline

The Division could develop responsible gaming measures, including a statewide responsible

gaming database that would identify individuals who are prohibited from establishing an

internet wagering account or participating in internet gaming offered by an internet gaming
operator. An individual?s name could be placed in the database if any of the following apply
to the individual:

0 He or she has been convicted in any jurisdiction of a felony, a crime of moral turpitude, or
a crime involving gaming.

0 He or she has violated the act or another gaming-related act.

0 He or she has performed an act, or has a notorious or unsavory reputation, such that his or
her participation in internet gaming under the act would adversely affect public con?dence
and trust in internet gaming.

0 His or her name is on a valid and current exclusion list maintained by Michigan or another
U.S. jurisdiction.

 

Names of individuals to be included on the list could be provided by an internet gaming
operator in a format speci?ed by the Division.

The number of the toll-free compulsive gambling hotline maintained by the state would have
to be displayed in a clear, conspicuous, and accessible manner on the internet gaming platform
used by an internet gaming operator. Also, responsible services and technical controls would
have to be offered to authorized participants. This would consist of both temporary and
permanent self-exclusion for all internet games offered and the ability for authorized
participants to establish their own periodic deposit and internet wagering limits and maximum
playing times.

A participant could voluntarily prohibit himself or herself from establishing an internet
wagering account with an operator. The voluntary self-exclusion list could be incorporated into
the responsible gaming database and both be maintained by the Division in a con?dential
manner. Both lists would be exempt from disclosure under FOIA.

Prohibited Criminal Penalties

The act would prohibit a person from doing any of the following:

I Offering internet gaming for play if not an internet gaming operator (except if exempt as a
lottery game, tribal casino, or fantasy contest). This would be a felony punishable by
imprisonment for up to 10 years or a ?ne of up to $100,000, or both.

- Knowingly making a false statement on an application for a license issued under the act.

0 Knowingly providing false testimony to MGCB or its authorized representative while
under oath.

A license could not be issued to a person that committed a listed violation. An action to
prosecute a violation could be brought by the attorney general or a county prosecuting attorney

House Fiscal Agency H85 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 6 of 13

in the county in which the violation occurred or in Ingham County, at either of the of?cials?
discretion.

Gross Gaming Revenue Tax, Alln_cgtion ofIa_x

An internet gaming licensee would be subject to an 8% tax on the gross gaming revenue from
internet gaming conducted under the act, payable No other tax, payment, or fee could
be imposed on an internet gaming operator for internet gaming.

The tax would have to be allocated as follows:
0 30% to the city in which the internet gaming licensee?s casino is located, for use in that
city in connection with the following:
Hiring, training, and deployment of street patrol of?cers.
0 Neighborhood and downtown economic development programs designed to create
jobs, with a focus on blighted neighborhoods.
0 Public safety programs such as emergency medical services, ?re department
programs, and street lighting.
0 Anti-gang and youth development programs.
0 Other programs designed to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life.
0 Relief to the taxpayers of the city from one or more taxes or fees imposed by the
city.
0 Costs of capital improvements.
0 Road repairs and improvements.
- 55% to the state to be deposited into the Internet Gaming Fund.
0 5% to be deposited in the state School Aid Fund.
0 5% to be deposited in the Michigan Transportation Fund.
0 5% to the Michigan Agricultural Equine Industry Development Fund. (However, if that
amount exceeded $3 million in a ?scal year, the excess would have to be deposited in the
Internet Gaming Fund.)

If the combined total of the 30% allocated to the city and the wagering tax under the Michigan
Gaming Control and Revenue Act were less than $179 million, the Board would have to
distribute to the city from the fund an amount equal to the difference between $179 million
and the amount received by the city in the previous year. This would have to take place by
December 31, 2020, and each December 31 thereafter. However, the total amount under the
30% allocation and this dispersal could not be more than 55% of the total tax imposed under
this section in the ?scal year.

Internet Gaming Fund
The Internet Gaming Fund would be created in the treasury. Money or assets required to be

paid into the fund or received from any other sources would be received by the state treasurer.
Interest and earnings from fund investments would be credited to the fund. MGCB would be
the administrator for auditing purposes. MGCB would be required to expend money from the
Fund, on appropriation, for its costs of regulating and enforcing internet gaming under the act,
as well as $1.0 million to the Compulsive Gaming Prevention Fund.

Of the 8% gross gaming revenue (under section of the bill), 75% of the payments would
have to be deposited into the Internet Gaming Fund, with the remaining 25% deposited into
the Michigan Strategic Fund.

House Fiscal Agency H35 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 7 of 13

House Bill 4312 would amend the Code of Criminal Procedure to specify that internet gaming
offenses under Section 13 of the proposed new Lawful Internet Gaming Act would be a Class
felony against the public order punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of 10 years.
Additionally, Bingo?false statements would be a Class felony against the public trust
punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of 2 years.

MCL 777.14d

House Bill 4323 would add a new section to the Michigan Penal Code to specify that Chapter
44 (Gambling) would not apply to gambling conducted under the proposed Lawful Internet
Gaming Act.

Proposed MCL 750.310d
BACKGROUND INF 0lelA ION:

House Bills 4311, 4312, and 4323 are part of a series of reintroduced bills regarding gaming
regulation in Michigan. The bills? counterparts in the 2017?18 legislative session?House Bills
4926, 4928, and 4927, respectively?were passed by the House and Senate but vetoed by the
governor. In his veto message,l Governor Snyder cited unknown budgetary concerns and a
desire for more careful study of the issue.

FISCAL INF ORMA I 0N:

In general, the bills likely would result in a net reduction in revenues for state and local
governments, including the City of Detroit, mainly due to the incentives produced by the lower
tax rate on internet gaming adjusted gross receipts (AGR) and the revenue distribution
differences between the internet gaming tax revenue and brick-and-mortar gaming tax revenue.

Determining a ?scal impact is dif?cult in both scope and magnitude due to the ?nancial, legal,
and tax structure of the Michigan gaming industry; the dynamic interplay between the different
types of gaming offered in Michigan (commercial casinos, tribal casinos, and a state-run
lottery); and the relatively small sample size of states that have legalized internet casino gaming
(Delaware [2012], Nevada [2013], and New Jersey [2013]). Additionally, casino revenues are
affected by economic conditions, societal trends, expansion of gaming in other states, and the
offering of alternative gaming opportunities, all of which make differentiating between
correlation and causation when reviewing other states dif?cult.

New ersey?s online gaming market is structured most similarly to the proposed online gaming
market under this bill. However, there are notable differences that limit its usefulness as a direct
comparable for Michigan?s gaming market. While Michigan?s population is almost one million
greater than New Jersey?s, New Jersey has a per capita personal income that is 40% greater
than Michigan?s. In addition, population demographics and the dependence on tourism as a
source of business for casino gaming diminish the value of direct comparisons.

For purposes of this analysis, the most notable difference is that New Jersey licensees pay a
higher tax rate on internet gaming AGR than brick-and-mortar AGR while under

 

run-"CHI 311.2315: 

10;" pill: EMILE 

House Fiscal Agency HBs 4311,4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 8 of 13

the provisions of this bill Michigan licensees would pay a lower tax rate of 8% on internet
gaming AGR (minus the monetary value of free play) than brick-and-mortar casino AGR,
where the effective rate exceeds 19911.3 In Michigan, the commercial casinos in Detroit would
have a strong incentive to promote internet gaming at the expense of brick-and-mortar casino
gaming because AGR received from internet wagering would be levied a tax rate signi?cantly
lower than AGR from the brick-and-mortar facility.

The scope and magnitude of the ?scal impact would depend on whether online gaming had a
substitution, neutral, or stimulative effect on other forms of gaming. All of these factors are
discussed in more detail below.

As background, in 2018 AGR from New Jersey internet gaming totaled approximately $300.0
million, which represented 10% of the overall casino gaming market (based on AGR).
Assuming that internet gaming AGR comprises approximately 12% of the total amount
wagered, roughly $2.5 billion was wagered online in New Jersey in 2018.

The narrative below assumes a mature market and does not represent short term changes
immediately following the adoption of the bill?s provisions.

State School Aid Fund

The State School Aid Fund (SAF) likely would realize reduced revenues under House Bill
4311. Currently, a wagering tax of 19% is levied on casino AGR. Of that amount, 42.6%
($0.081) is distributed to the SAF. Under the bill, internet gaming AGR would be taxed at a
rate of with 5% ($0.004) of the tax revenues deposited in the SAF. Therefore, every dollar
of AGR lost at brick-and-mortar casinos due to internet gaming would result in a $0.077 loss
to the SAF.

The reduction in revenues would be directly related to the substitutive effect internet gaming
would have on brick?and-mortar casinos. Any net new wagering from online gaming would
offset a portion of the losses due to the substitution effect of online gaming.

Table 1 provides this information another way. The table shows how much internet wagering
would need to occur to hold the SAF harmless at various brick-and-mortar wagering loss
scenarios.

Table 1
Internet Wagering Needed to Hold School Aid Fund Harmless at Various Brick-and-
Mortar Casino Wagering Loss Scenarios

 

Wagering Loss at Internet Wagering Required for
Detroit Casinos SAF Loss SAF Hold Harmless
1% $1,169,721 $2,436,918,384
5% 5,848,604 12,184,591,919
10% 11,697,208 24,369,183,838
15% 17,545,812 36,553,775,757

Note: Based on 2018 MGCB AGR data for Detroit Commercial Casinos; assumes AGR comprises 12% of
total wagering.

 

2 In addition to the 19% wagering tax on adjusted gross receipts, the Detroit casinos pay a municipal services fee and
development agreement payment based on adjusted gross receipts.

House Fiscal Agency HBs 4311,4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 9 of 13

Internet gaming also could reduce lottery sales, mainly by diverting participants from the
iLottery platform or instant ticket sales, because many of the games offered could be
considered substantially similar from a user perspective. Payouts for individuals playing
casino-operated games would be higher. Higher payout rates likely would lead to increased
internet gaming play at the expense of iLottery and instant ticket play. Lottery AGR (net
revenue) is deposited in the SAF. Therefore, any diminishment in lottery sales from the
introduction of online gaming would result in lower SAF transfers from the Bureau of State
Lottery. In 2017 net revenues from iLottery totaled $80.0 million. Based on net revenues
totaling 12% of total sales for iLottery games and 27% of total sales for instant ticket games,
every dollar of wagering iLottery lost to internet gaming would require $250 of internet
wagering to hold the SAF harmless. Every dollar of instant ticket sales lost to internet gaming
would require approximately $550 of internet wagering to hold the SAF harmless.

Even if no substitution effect were assumed and online gaming had a neutral or stimulative
effect on brick-and-mortar casino revenues, the SAF could still realize a decrease in dedicated
revenues due to a loss in iLottery revenues. However, the lower tax rate for online gaming
likely would result in the Detroit casinos promoting online gaming at the expense of brick-and-
mortar gaming. The strength of this incentive would be affected by any expected non-gaming
revenue a casino expected from brick-and-mortar casino patrons.

City of Detroit Revenues

The City of Detroit (?City?) likely would realize reduced revenues under House Bill 4311.
Currently, a wagering tax of 19% is levied on casino AGR. Of that amount, 57.4% ($0.109) is
distributed to the City. In 201 8, the City received approximately $157.4 million from the casino
wagering tax. Under the bill, internet gaming AGR would be taxed at a rate of with 30%
($0.024) of the tax revenues allocated to the City. Therefore, every dollar of AGR lost at brick-
and-mortar casinos due to internet gaming would result in a $0.085 loss to the City.

Table 2 provides this information another way. The table shows how much internet wagering
would need to occur to hold the City wagering tax revenues harmless at various AGR loss
scenarios.

Table 2
Internet Wagering Needed to Hold the City of Detroit Harmless at Various Brick-and-
Mortar Casino Wagering Loss Scenarios

 

Wagering Loss at City of Detroit Internet Wagering Needed for

Detroit Casinos Revenue Loss City of Detroit Hold Harmless

1% $1,574,069 $546,551,654

5% 7,870,344 2,732,758,270

10% 15,740,688 5,465,516,540

15% 23,611,031 8,198,274,810
Note: Based on 2018 MGCB AGR data for Detroit Commercial Casinos; assumes AGR comprises 12% of
total wagering.

It should be noted that if the impact on brick-and-mortar casino revenue were relatively neutral
or stimulative, the City would realize increased revenues. The magnitude of the increase would
depend on AGR from online gaming and a combination of the effective tax rate and any new
revenues directly attributable to enhanced brick?and-mortar play due to online gaming.

House Fiscal Agency H33 4311, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 10 of 13

However, the commercial casinos in Detroit would have an incentive to promote online gaming
at the expense of brick-and-mortar play due to the lower tax rate of online gaming. As noted
above, the strength of this incentive would be affected by any non-gaming revenue a casino
expected from brick-and-mortar casino patrons.

The bill includes a speci?ed tax revenue minimum of $179.0 million for the City. If the City
failed to generate $179.0 million from its wagering tax distribution and internet gaming
distribution, MGCB would be required to distribute the difference from the Internet Gaming
Fund. The amount of revenue the City received from its internet gaming tax and additional
Internet Gaming Fund distribution could not exceed 55% of the total internet gaming tax
imposed in the ?scal year. Whether or not the ?oor could be satis?ed in any given year would
be a function of combined revenues from the wagering taxes and available revenues in the
Internet Gaming Fund.

As written, the calculation for the $179.0 million fails to include the development agreement
revenues and the additional 1% wagering tax dedicated to Detroit under section 12(7) of the
Michigan Gaming Control and Revenue Act, 1997 PA 69, MCL 432.212. Therefore, it is
possible that the Internet Gaming Fund would have to allocate funds to the City to make up the
calculated shortfall even in a scenario where there was no substitution effect and the internet
gaming taxes were considered entirely new revenue.

Tribal Gaming Pavments to the State of Michig?

Tribal casino payments to the State of Michigan under the Tribal-State Compacts are made
directly to the Michigan Strategic Fund and Michigan Economic Development Corporation
Any ?scal impact would depend on the negotiated terms related to online
gaming revenue sharing payments and the decisions made regarding revenue sharing payments
to the state. Of the 12 tribes, 6 tribes do not currently make revenue sharing payments to the
state. The other 6 tribes pay between 4% and 12% of net win. Payments to totaled
$57.3 million in 2017.

 

If the tribes that currently do not make revenue sharing payments to the state negotiate a
revenue sharing agreement for online gaming, the state would realize increased revenues.
However, the magnitude and purpose of those revenues for the state would depend on the terms
of the negotiated compact.

Any ?scal impact related to tribes that currently make revenue sharing payments to the state
would depend on the percentage of the online gaming payment agreed upon and the substitution
effect of online gaming versus brick-and?mortar casino gaming.

Alternatively, tribal casinos that currently make revenue sharing payments to 
could choose to withhold payments if they deemed online gaming to be an expansion of
gaming. Each tribe would have to determine whether revenues generated from online gaming
would exceed revenues saved from withholding state payments.

It is not known how much of the internet gaming market tribal casinos could acquire. Increased
internet gaming market share could further reduce SAF and City revenues.

Tribal Gaming Payments tu Luca] Units of Government
The provisions of the bill likely would result in reduced tribal casino payments to local units
of government by an unknown amount. Any ?scal impact would depend on the substitution

House Fiscal Agency HBs 4311,4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 11 of 13

effect. All tribal casinos make payments equal to 2% of net win to local units of government
in their de?ned regional area. These payments totaled $29.7 million in 2017. These payments
cannot be withheld for an expansion of gaming violation of the Tribal-State Compacts. From
the 8% tax rate levied on internet gaming offered by the tribal casinos, 75% must be allocated
in the Internet Gaming Fund and 25% must be allocated to the Michigan Strategic Fund.

Michigan Transportation Fund
The bill would increase revenues to the Michigan Transportation Fund (MTF) by an unknown

amount. The bill directs that 5% of the tax revenues received be deposited in the MTF
established in section 10 of 1951 PA 51 (?Act 51?) to be distributed in accordance with the
provisions of section 10(1)(the primary collection and distribution
fund for state restricted transportation revenue. The Act 51 distribution provisions referenced
in the bill provide for the distribution of net MTF revenue as follows: 39.1% to the State
Trunkline Fund 39.1% to county road commissions; 21.8% to cities and villages.

As provided by section used for construction and preservation of the
state trunkline highway system as well as administration of the Michigan Department of
Transportation. The MTF distributions to county road commissions and to cities and villages
are used primarily for the preservation of local road systems as provided by sections 12 and 13
of Act 51.

The amount of internet gaming tax revenue that would be credited to the MTF would depend
on the total internet gaming tax revenue generated, which in turn would depend on adjusted
gross receipts identi?ed and taxed from online gaming.

Atlminisigtion and Enforcement

The bill would create a new division within the Michigan Gaming Control Board. This would
increase costs associated with staf?ng, of?ce space, information technology, and other
administrative, enforcement, audit, and regulatory costs. The extent of these costs is unknown.
However, the bill would authorize the licensing and application fees levied on internet gaming
licensees and vendors to be used to cover administrative expenses. In addition, 55% of the
funds collected under the internet gaming tax is deposited in the Internet Gaming Fund in part
for regulation and enforcement. Presumably, the funds collected and allocated for
administration under the bill would be suf?cient to cover necessary expenses related to
administration and enforcement of the provisions of the bill.

Com pulsive Gaming Prevention Fund
The bill would increase revenues for the Compulsive Gaming Prevention Fund by $1.0 million
annually due to the required deposit from the Internet Gaming Fund created under the bill.

Impact on the Judiciary andfor State and Local Corrections
The bill would have an indeterminate ?scal impact on the state?s correctional system and on

local court systems. Information is not available on the number of persons who might be
convicted under provisions of the bill. New felony convictions would result in increased costs
related to state prisons and state probation supervision. In ?scal year 2018, the average cost of
prison incarceration in a state facility was roughly $38,000 per prisoner, a ?gure that includes
various ?xed administrative and operational costs. State costs for parole and felony probation
supervision averaged about $3,700 per supervised offender in the same year.

House Fiscal Agency HBs 4311,4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 12 of 13

Civil ?nes would increase revenues going to the state Justice System Fund, which supports the
Legislative Retirement System, the Departments of State Police, Corrections, Health and
Human Services, and Treasury, and various justice-related endeavors in the judicial branch.

The ?scal impact on local court systems would depend on how provisions of the bill affected
caseloads and related administrative costs. Any increase in penal ?ne revenues would increase
funding for local libraries, which are the constitutionally designated recipients of those
revenues.

POSITIONS:
A representative of Greektown Casino testi?ed in support of the bills. (3-12-19)

Representatives of the following organizations testi?ed in support of House Bill 4311
(3-12-19):

Fan Duel and Draft Kings

MGM Grand Detroit

GEOComply

The Stars Group

The following organizations indicated support for the bills (3-12-19):
Michigan Gaming Control Board
Michigan Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association
Michigan Chamber of Commerce
City of Detroit

The following organizations indicated support for House Bills 4311 and 4312 
Gun Lake Tribe
Pokagon Band of Potawatomi

Growth (iDevelopment and Economic Association) indicated support for House Bill
4311. (3-12-19)

MGM Grand Detroit indicated support for House Bill 4312. (3-12-19)

The Coalition to Stop Internet Gaming indicated opposition to House Bill 4311. (3-12-19)

Legislative Jenny McInerney
Susan Stutzky
Fiscal Ben 
William E. Hamilton
Robin Risko

 

I This analysis was prepared by nonpartisan House Fiscal Agency staff for use by House members in their
deliberations, and does not constitute an of?cial statement of legislative intent.

House Fiscal Agency HBs 431 1, 4312, and 4323 as referred from Regulatory Reform Page 13 of 13

