IHIPC Epidemiology/Needs Assessment Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday September 5th 2019, 10am – 11am

Attending: M. Andrews – Conrad, J. Charles, J. Filicette, C. Hicks, C. Hoffman, C. Jackson, F. Ma,
Co-Chair M. Maginn, J. Maras, A. Meirick, C. Rodriguez, C. Ward, R. Wheeler
Absent: Co-Chair N. Holmes, J. Nuss, C. Rodriguez
Welcome and Introductions - Name, Agency/Region, Preferred Pronouns (optional). See above.
1) Nominations and Vote on Epi/NA Committee Co-Chair – M. Maginn began by opening
nominations for Epi/NA Committee co-chair to replace N. Holmes, who is becoming the
Community co-chair for the IHIPC in 2020. J. Charles nominated himself, there were no other
nominations. M. Maginn asked for a roll call vote and it was unanimous among the attendees
in the affirmative, and M. Maginn welcomed him to the position. J. Charles thanked the
committee for their confidence in him.
2) Review Root Cause Analysis from August Meeting – M. Maginn started with a review of root
cause analysis strategies identified by the EPI/NA committee and presented at the IHIPC
webinar on 8/15/19. M. Andrews-Conrad gave an example of an IHIPC response to one of the
strategies: implementing a Positive Lived Experience feature in the IHIPC newsletter in order to
bring the experiences of HIV positive individuals forward. M. Maginn continued by asking if the
committee had suggestions for activities that would help implement some of these strategies,
and explained one resource related to the linkage to care among youth and engagement with
social media: IPHA is scheduling social media trainings focused on engagement of youth into
care throughout the state. The training is open to everyone, so he suggested forwarding the
schedule to Marleigh for possible distribution to the IHIPC. A. Meirick added information
concerning successful work being done through an advisory group in communities of color with
HIV positive and negative individuals by including their thoughts and experiences in a
marketing campaign. She mentioned that this inclusion has had a positive effect on how the
campaign is viewed in the community. A. Meirick also mentioned that youth had asked for blog
content at focus groups. Further discussion led to suggesting that IHIPC members operating
similar programs focused on engagement be asked for schedules and content information that
may be shared with all IHIPC members. The implementation process of these strategies and
the need for effective tracking of progress was discussed in depth and it was agreed that more
dialog was necessary. M. Andrews-Conrad reminded the committee about the IHIPC activities
chart and that it or a template similar to it could be used for this purpose.

 3)

2020 Objectives - M. Maginn explained that when reviewing the 2019 objectives he did not
identify any that might be eliminated. Dates would need to be changed to match next year’s
schedule. It was noted that the Priority Populations and Risk Group Definitions presentations
and vote are now set to occur every three years to follow the grant cycle, and that the current
recommendations (voted on at the June 2019 meeting) would be in effect until the current
grant cycle ends in 2021. M Andrews-Conrad mentioned that objectives 8, 9, and 10 need
review along with how the information was presented to the IHIPC. Following much discussion
that helped to explain the information and how it was generated, M. Maginn recommended
that the committee continue discussions on these objectives at future meetings.

Note: M. Andrews-Conrad mentioned that S. Frank the liaison from Substance Use Prevention and
Recovery has transitioned her position on this committee to one of her staff named James
Kalowsky. The committee thanks S. Frank and looks forward to working with J. Kowalsky if he
chooses to join this committee.

Next meeting: October 3rd, 2019, 10am – 11am.

 