MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
AUGUST 21, 2019
JAMES R. THOMPSON CENTER
100 WEST RANDOLPH ST. ROOM 9-040
1:00 PM
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
The regular meeting of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission was held at the James R.
Thompson Center, Chicago, Illinois 60601 Room 9-040 pursuant to notice.
Call the Roll:
Donald O’Connell, Acting Chairman
Thomas Gibbons, Commissioner
Patricia Pulido Sanchez, Commissioner
Melody Spann Cooper, Commissioner
Also Present:
Chimaobi Enyia, Executive Director
Thomas Schlenhardt, Associate Director
Dusanka Marijan, Licensing Administrator
Les Peterson, Enforcement Director
Pamela Paziotopoulos, Deputy General Counsel
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

I.

Approval of Minutes
a. A motion was made by Commissioner Gibbons to approve the release of the
minutes of the July 17, 2019 Board Meeting. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Pulido Sanchez. The motion was unanimously approved.

II.

Director’s Report
a. Director Enyia informed the Commissioners the IL Liquor Control Commission is
on track for new hires in FY20. The ILCC will add two attorneys and four agents.
b. Director Enyia announced the ILCC has two Enforcement Managers attending the
Academy.
c. Director Enyia announced the publication of the Newsletter and New
Commissioner Handbook will be available soon.

d. Director Enyia announced the pre JCAR processes for Quantity Discounting and
Couponing is in the draft phase and will be presented at the September meeting.

 e. Federated Alliance of Illinois Independent Retailers (FAIIR) presented to the IL
Liquor Control Commission.

III.

Enforcement Division
a. The ILCC completed 167 SAM compliance checks, 37 failed. Nineteen
compliance checks were repeat violators, 3 violated again. This gives a repeat
violator compliance rate of 84%.

IV.

Licensing Division
a. The percentage of online renewals is 76%, a 8.5% increase from July 2018.
b. Mrs. Marijan also provided a report of all new licenses issued for July 2019.
c. In July 2019 the ILCC issued 295 new licenses across all categories.

V.

Industry Education
a. The total number of BASSET applicants trained in July 2019 was 8,415.
b. The total number of BASSET applicants in the look up is 278,693.

VI.

Legal Division

a. A motion was made by Commissioner Pulido Sanchez to approve the
Administrative Law Judge tax cases recommendations. The motion was seconded
by Commissioner Gibbons. The motion was unanimously approved.
b. A motion was made by Commissioner Gibbons to approve the Administrative
Law Judge default recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Pulido Sanchez. The motion was unanimously approved.
c. A motion was made by Commissioner Pulido Sanchez to enter Executive Session.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Gibbons. The motion was
unanimously approved.
d. A motion was made by Commissioner Gibbons to adjourn the Executive Session.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Pulido Sanchez. The motion was
unanimously approved.

 e. A motion was made by Commissioner Gibbons to reverse the local decision of
19CA05 Bukana Sports Bar v. Round Lake. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Pulido Sanchez.
f. A motion was made by Commissioner Pulido Sanchez to dismiss appeal 18SA05
The Keys on Lake Caryle v. Keyesport. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Gibbons.

VII.

Public Comment
a. Rob Anderson commented he would like the opportunity for the industry to
review the Couponing draft before it is sent to JCAR.

VIII.

Closing Remarks and Adjournment to Hearing
a. Commissioner Spann Cooper made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Motion was
seconded by Commissioner Gibbons. Motion unanimously approved.

ATTEST:

_______________________________
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

 