Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
August 21st, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Juan M. Calderon
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Joseph B. Starshak
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Allison Arwady, M.D., Acting Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
August 21st, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:03 am by Board President, Dr. Carolyn Lopez.
Approval of Minutes: Quorum was present, and July Minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Acting Commissioner, Dr. Allision Arwady, provided the following updates:
Salmonella Outbreak: CDPH is investigating an outbreak of salmonella at a grocery store on the City’s
Southwest side where pork tamales tested positive. Four cases have been linked to the outbreak. The
making of hot food has been suspended at the store, which also voluntarily closed while food protection
staff worked with store employees to review their food handling practices. CDPH is monitoring closely for
any additional reports of illness.
West Nile virus: CDPH recently confirmed Chicago’s, and Illinois’, first 2019 human case of West Nile
virus. IDPH took the lead on notifications to media. Although fewer mosquitoes are testing positive this
year than in 2018, the numbers may increase as the season continues. Most people with WNV do not feel
sick, but about 1 in 5 develop flu-like symptoms and about 1 in 150 can become seriously ill. To prevent
WNV, the CDPH Vector Control program treats 80,000 catch basins with larvicide (which kills immature
mosquitoes), traps and tests mosquitoes for WNV, conducts spraying to kill adult mosquitoes, and
educates the public about ways to reduce risk.
New HIV Funding. Earlier this year, the federal government launched Ending the HIV Epidemic: A Plan
for America, an initiative to reduce new HIV infections by 90% in the next decade, with a focus on 48
counties including Cook. As the designated entity to administer HIV prevention and care funding in the
Chicagoland area, CDPH is eligible for new grant opportunities. CDPH recently submitted the first
application to support local planning efforts around HIV needs.
Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) Task Force: CDPH will soon announce our new multi-year plan on
sexually transmitted infections, including the formation of a task force on syphilis, to be followed by task
forces on chlamydia and gonorrhea.
Family Connects: CDPH will soon be prepared to launch a pilot of Family Connects, our new universal
home visiting program for families with newborns, at three Chicago hospitals. We are finalizing our
advisory council members and are working on scheduling a launch event. Also, the content for CDPH’s
maternal morbidity and mortality data report is complete and the report is in the final stages of design.
You will learn more about Family Connects in today’s presentation.
Emergency Preparedness Exercises: CDPH recently participated in an Administrative Preparedness
tabletop to review emergency procurement, finance, and administration policies and processes that
would be activated during, and after, an emergency. We invited other key departments to identify ways
the City can ensure a rapid and efficient procurement of equipment, supplies, and support staff during an
emergency. CDPH also recently lead the City’s local planning for a four-day national pandemic influenza
exercise.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
August 21st, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Trauma-Informed Training: CDPH is engaging city leaders, departments and partners, including
community-based organizations, to recognize exposure to trauma and how to shift practices and systems
to prevent and/or lessen its negative effects. As a first step, CDPH developed and recently launched an
orientation video for City department and sister agency staff and delegate/community partners who
worked with youth this summer.
Cannabis: CDPH is working internally on how to regulate cannabis as it becomes legal in Illinois, and on
how to best evaluate the health effects. Our regulatory options are limited due to state preemption, but
we have important avenues for addressing public health concerns. We will, for instance, be assessing
issues such as on-site consumption, minimum distances from schools, and whether regulation should be
similar to tobacco, alcohol, other substance use, or a different framework. Complementing this regulatory
and legislative action, we are also preparing for health data surveillance and monitoring, public education
and outreach, provider messaging, waste disposal issues, and inspection and enforcement activities.
Opiods: NPR recently reported that naloxone, an overdose reversal drug, is scarce in the communities
with the most opioid deaths. CDPH recently received a three-year, $10 million grant from the CDC to
strengthen opioid overdose prevention and response in Chicago, and suburban Cook County, which we
hope will help with our work on opiods.
School-Based Health Center Opening: Chicago Family recently opened its new health center at Chicago
Vocational Career Academy, located in the City’s South Chicago neighborhood. This SBHC is one of four
funded by the City with a mix of e-cigarette tax revenue and TIF dollars.
Legionella Conference: CDPH recently hosted a one-day legionella conference at Malcolm X College for
hospitals, long-term care facilities, and area health departments on ways to prevent and control
waterborne pathogens.
E-scooters: In coordination with BACP, CDPH is committed to monitoring the impact of e-scooters on the
health and safety of Chicago residents. CDPH has asked hospitals in Chicago to report injuries associated
with e-scooters so this data can be reviewed as part of an overall evaluation of the pilot program. To date,
rates of injury in Chicago are on par with what other jurisdictions have observed; however, because of the
limitations of our data source, it is not possible to provide a definitive count of e-scooter injuries related
to the pilot.
ICE Raids: CDPH recently educated our supervisory staff so everyone knows what to do if ICE enters a
clinic and attempts a search at one of our health centers. CDPH is also a member of The Illinois Alliance
for Welcoming Health Care, a group that was established to help healthcare organizations be more
welcoming to all clients, especially immigrants. The group recently published a resource guide that
contains information about designating safe spaces, interaction with immigration enforcement, along
with talking points for frontline staff. This document also integrates a trauma-informed approach.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez introduces honored guests; Alderman Sawyer, Chairman of the City
Council Health Committee (6th ward), Alderman Cappleman, Vice Chair of the City Council Health Committee (46th
ward) and James Mendez, a representative of Alderman Dowell, Chair of the City Council Budget Committee (3rd
ward). All board members introduced themselves and Dr. Lopez explained the board’s duties to the audience.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
August 21st, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Presentation: “Family Connects Chicago” was presented by Jennifer Vidis, Chief Program Officer. Juan Calderon,
member, addressed the needs for a program that supported a mother’s education, as it improves health. However,
he raised concerns of the program’s administrative oversight, medical model and lack of community partners
outside of the hospital networks. He suggested to include community agencies to be a part of the community
alignment boards and training for the nurses to include cultural competency.
Comments from the Board: Adele Joy Cobbs, member, questioned Dr. Arwady on how Naloxone was distributed in
communities and was told that select pharmacies allowed Naloxone to be give without a prescription and that
community organization, like Chicago Recovery Alliance, assisted in local distribution. Dr. Melanie Dreher,
member, raised concerns about certification for providers prescribing patient doses. Dr. Arwady informed the
board that CDPH had a new Substance Use Medical Director, Dr. Wilnise Jasmin, that would be working on these
issues.
Dr. Carl C. Bell Memorial: Dr. Lopez spoke on Dr. Bell’s legacy and impact on the Board of Health. Members shared
experiences and held a moment of silence for him. Audience members shared their memories of Dr. Bell and
announced his memorial service at Apostolic Church of God.
New Business:
•
•
•

A motion was made by the board to draft a Memorial Resolution in honor of Dr. Bell.
Dr. Melenie Dreher, member, distributed a published article to the board for their review.
Board reviewed their current contact information for the board member roster.

Old Business:
•

Policy Resolutions: There was a motion made to allow for changes on previously drafted resolutions, and
leave open for additional revisions, was approved by the board.

Public Comments: The audience in attendance raised various questions. Tonya Triche, Illinois Retail Merchants
Association, had a question about Chicago’s cannabis regulation. A representative from City Bureau highlighted the
need for community input and its importance. Alderman Cappleman spoke commended CDPH on the great work it
is doing focused on data driven results. However, a discussion was held on the proper balance between being data
driven results and having a community led program, by Juan Calderon, member.
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:36AM.

 