 Law 9W1
20/6,)

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

5-) I 91:} . [5 
a?

-- 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL If?;





[<54


In Memoriam

Mother Queenie Hunter

WHEREAS, We, the members of the Detroit City Council, recognize and bestow homage upon the late, MOTHER
QUEENIE HUNTER, who made her heavenly transition on September 16, 2019; and

WHEREAS, QUEENIE was born on January 28, 1926, in Eclectic, Alabama, a small town located in Elmore County.
She was the seventh child born to the union of Viola Matilda (Robinson) Thompson and Johnnie Henry
Thompson. QUEENIE had eleven siblings: Samuel Jones, John Wesley, Cora Bell, Mary Etta, Sessie Lee,
Johnnie Mae, Clara Dora, Clarence Caleb, Hollywood, Carrie Marie and Naomi Annie. She graduated from
Elmore County Training School and received a basketball scholarship to attend college; and

WHEREAS, QUEENIE met and married Bennie Wright. To this union one child was born, Johnnie Daniel, who preceded
her in death. She later moved to Detroit, Michigan, to be with her best sister, Clara Dora. On her ?rst day in
Detroit, QUEENIE met the true love of her life, Percy. This union brought forth a beautiful daughter,
Queenie. The couple created their legacy and enjoyed life to the fullest together for forty-three years, until
Percy made his transition to join the Ancestors in 1993; and

WHEREAS, For over sixty years, QUEENIE was a dedicated, active member of her beloved church, Undenominational
Church of God, under the leadership of Bishop Earl Baptiste. The church was later renamed United Prayer
Temple Baptist Church (UPTBC), under the pastoral leadership of Reverend Ananias Holland. She served
in various capacities: Missionary, Church Secretary, Executive Board Member, Sunday School
Superintendent for over thirty years, and also was the Harvest Queen many times. On May 6, 2018, she
moved her membership to New Mt. Olive Primitive Baptist Church, under the leadership of Pastor Carl J.
Curry. Above all things QUEENIE totally loved to serve the Lord. The Word of God was embedded in her.
She could quote scripture instantly and she prayed relentlessly; and

WHEREAS, The ?Queen? truly lived a life full of love and grace. She enjoyed traveling around the world and attended
the Robinson/Westbrooks Family Reunions every year until she was no longer able to. QUEENIE leaves a
legacy of memories, three sisters, Clara Dora, Carrie Marie and Naomi; her loving and devoted daughter
Queenie; grandchildren, William Donnell, Valerie (preceded her in death), Latiste, Katija, Tsighie and
Angela; great-grandchildren and great-great grandchildren; adopted son, Jessie (Louise); god-daughters,
Clarice, Beverly, Bernice, Evelyn and Lizzie; many favorite nieces, nephews and cousins; her best friend of
more than ninety-years, Elsie; and a host of awesome, loving friends. MOTHER QUEENIE HUNTER
has been a good servant and ensured that her impact would be forever embedded in the hearts of those she
cherished for years to come. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones extend our deepest sympathy and join
with family and friends to celebrate the life of MOTHER QUEENIE HUNTER.

common. ppesmem 

I NCILPRESI COUN .
I

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

September 21, 2019

DATE

 

(9

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 

 

 

 

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

7730mm Fontaine Stallw0rth, Jr.

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS

RESOLVED,

will: paesaozur PRO I I
.



Jr", off. 7/ I- COU 51.4331: 3:1
.4 .zL_ . - $4192 
.- CCU EMBER 

In. .- I . QNLW it;
uucu strata ion

((Pops 

We, the members of the Detroit City Council, join the family and friends of Mr. Thomas Fointaine Stallw0rth, Jr. in
honoring his life and legacy. Mr. Stallw0rth made his heavenly transition on September 18, 2019, after a life well-lived.
We pause to offer sincere condolences to his loving and devoted wife of 68 years, former State Representative Alma
Stallworth; his eldest son, Thomas second son, daughters-in-law, Nic Wells-Stallw0rth and Nicole Stallw0rth;
grandchildren Thomas IV (Aja), Joseph, Misha, Tonie, KB Wellington, Madison, Lance and Harrison; Godson Clifford;
brother William; two great-grandchildren and many, many other relatives and Heads; and

Mr. Stallw0rth?s mother, Lucy Stallw0rth, was an entrepreneur and instilled a good work ethic and business mind in young
Thomas. As a young boy, he developed an ingenious business plan to have a paper route that covered Southwest Detroit,
Dearbom, River Rouge, Ecorse and Instead of carrying all of the papers across the large area, he strategically hid
wagons with papers along the route to make for easier and quicker delivery! Like many smart men of today, Thomas
offered prolit sharing to friends who made paper deliveries for him and he had multiple bank accounts to save his earnings.
Mr. Stallwonh?s business savvy and ?nancial acumen continued throughout life. He graduated from Southwestern High
School and initially attended University. He to Wayne State University (then Wayne University]
and completed studies in Accounting. He also was a veteran having served in the Marines. Mr. Stallw0rth was a
dedicated husband to the lovely Alma, and a strong role model for Thomas [11 and KB. Mr. Stallw0rth worked two jobs
to provide for his family His hard work allowed the Stallworms to become one of the ?rst of three Alrican~Arnerican
families to integrate into a largely Jewish Northwest Detroit neighborhood in 1962; and

Mr. Stallworth passed the civil service exams with the City of Detroit and the State of Michigan and had a long career in
accounting. While working for the State of Michigan, r. Stallw0rth held the positions of comptroller at the State Mental
Health Hospital; Lead Auditor with the Michigan Department of Social Services; and ultimately. the State of Michigan,
Director of Internal Audit for Wayne County Social Services. For many years he worked twojohs he was an accountant
by day and a salesman by night. He was a humble man who did not boast of his own professional accomplishments. Mr.
Stallw0rth was the ?rst African-American employed at Hudson's in Nonhland Mall. He was affectionately known as ?The
Tax Man" because he helped people with their taxes right up until the 2019 season. Mr. Stallw0rth also was called ?Mr.
Hudson's? due to his 41 years of service as a salesman at the store. Despite working many hours for many years. Mr.
Stallw0rth enjoyed his leisure activities of discussing politics. listening to and collectingjazi: and blues albums, gardening,
playing cards, and tellingjokes; and

Mr. Stallworth also was a man ahead ol?his time because he was content to work as a civil servant and let his wife, Alma,
follow her dreams and run for public office. He even became her campaign treasurer. He supported Representative
Stallw0rth for over two decades in public service. He ensured the Stallworlh Famiiy was good at home so she could ensure
the well-being of her constituents. Then, when Mrs. Staltworth became ill, he continued to care for and support her even
learning home medical treatments and how to cook; and

Mr. Thomas Fontaine Stallw0rth, Jr., leaves a legacy of strength, dignity, and service. reminders of this are his
sons, Thomas and KB, their children, and others whose lives were touched and made better by Mr. Stallw0rth. The
hard work. sacri?ce. and of Mr. Stallworth not only bene?tted his family, but also so many in the City oi
Detroit and the State ofMichigan. He will be greatly missed. and his Contributions and lessons taught will live on Forever.
As the Bihie says in Matthew 35:2l. done good servant! As you have heerrfammrl' with afew things
here on earth.- I in charge ofmauy things in the kingdom ofhceven.? NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and office of Council President Brenda Jones, join with family and friends in honoring
the life and legacy of Mr. Thomas Fontaine Stallw0rth, Jr. affectionately known as ?Pops.?

 

COUNCIL 

 
 



 

 

 

at
September 24, 2019
DATE 

MEMBER 

 

 

ll
ull


 

