COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
5 2 WOODWARD AVENUE. SUITE 1026
Dmorr, MICHIGAN 48226

or Dmorr PHONE: 3 l3 - 628-2I58
OFFICE or THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FM: 3 ,3 224 . 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

July 23, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the State Historic Preservation Of?ce (SHPO) FY
2019 Certi?ed Local Government (CLG) Program Grant

The Michigan State Housing Development Authority through the State Historic Preservation
Of?ce (SHPO) has awarded the City of Detroit Historic Designation Advisory Board with the FY
2019 Certi?ed Local Government (CLG) Program Grant for a total of $71,663.50. The State
share is $71,663.50 of the approved amount, and there is a required match of $6,336.50. The
total project cost is $80,000.00. The grant period will commence on or after the execution of the
grant agreement through September 30, 2020.

The objective of the grant is to conduct an intensive architectural and historical survey of the
Cass Corridor in Detroit. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to hire a certi?ed
historical architect to conduct the survey. and produce the report intended to serve as a basis
for National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) nominations. This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number is 20673.
with an administrative in-kind match in the amount $8,336.50 coming from appropriation number
00269.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,



Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Office of Budget



Office of Development and Grants cmzo. Fomorr

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Historic Designation Advisory Board is requesting authorization to accept a grant
of reimbursement from The Michigan State Housing Development Authority through the State
Historic Preservation Of?ce (SHPO) in the amount of $71,663.50. to conduct an intensive
architectural and historical survey of the Cass Corridor in Detroit; and

WHEREAS. this request has been approved by the Law Department; and
WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20673. in the amount of $80,000.00, which includes an in-kind administrative match in the
amount of $8,336.50. coming from Appropriation 00269, for the 2019 Certi?ed Local Government
(CLG) Program Grant.

Page1 oft

STATE OF MICHIGAN
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
A 
FOR CASS CORRIDOR INTENSIVE LEVEL SURVEY
TO BE PERFORMED BY
CITY OF DETROIT

This Grant Agreement CFDA No. 15.904. Contract No. CGIQ-440. made on
. 2019 between the MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
(?Grantee' or ?Authority') and CITY OF DETROIT. MICHIGAN take notice that:

The STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICE of the MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ls authorized by the UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (?Grantof?L pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966; Pub.
L. No. 89665. as amended by Pub. L. No. 96-515: 54 USC 5100101 ei seq.. as amended. to undertake an
Intensive level survey of Cass Corridor to Identify and document historically and architecturally signi?cant
resources: and

The MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY desires to aid the CITY OF
DETROIT ("Subgrantee') in its survey and protection efforts of historically and architecturally significant
buildings. structures. sites. and objects located in and around the existing Cass Corridor (?Survey Area") to
establish the Survey Area's period of signi?cance; and

THE CITY OF DETROIT desires alde In the Intensive level survey of historically and architecturally
signi?cant buildings. structures. sites. and objects located in the proposed Survey Area. as provided In this
Agreement as Exhibit F.

THEREFORE. IT IS AGREED BETWEEN THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT AS FOLLOWS:

FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

Project No. Agency Object Code

 

Project Amt. Index Code

 

SECTION I
PROJECT WORK SPECIFICATIONS

Project Objective.

The objective of this project is for the Subgrantee to hire a 36 CFR Part 61 quali?ed consultant to
conduct an Intensive level architectural and historical survey of the Cass Corridor in Detroit. The
?nal report is intended to serve as a basis for National Register of Historic Places (NRHP)
nominations. Section 106. Historic Preservation Tax Credits. and preservation planning.

Work Objectives. The project work is set forth in Exhibit A Scope of Work attached and
incorporated into this Agreement and will be conducted In the City of Detroit. Michigan.

Permits and Licenses. The Subgrantee shall be responsible for obtaining any and all permits.
licenses or other proper authorization or permission-related documents required for the
perionnance of this Agreement.

Ownership. All documents and reports delivered to the Grantee under this Agreement shall
become and be the property of the Grantee.

SECTION II

PERFORMANCE OF PROJECT WORK
Period of Performance. Because federal budgetary constraints require the completion of project
work by a date certain. TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE to this Agreement. The performance of project
work shall begin on or after the execution of this Agreement by the Grantee and shall be completed
no later than September 30. 2020. Failure of the Subgrantee to satisfactorily complete all project
work and activities by the date designated for completion shall render this Agreement voidabie at
the option of the Grantee. In the event this Agreement is voided. the Subgrantee shall not be
entitled to any reimbursement under the terms of this Agreement. The designated date tor
completion shall not be extended. Nothing in this provision shall be construed to limit or restrict the
Grantee's right to terminate this Agreement for cause where the Subgrantee would be entitled to
reimbursement in accordance with Section XI of this Agreement.

Project Representatives. The Subgrantee designates the following individual as project
representative for all matters concerning this Agreement:

Page 2 of 39

Jennifer Reinhardt. Historic Preservation Planner

Legislative Policy Division. Historic Designation Advisory Board
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

Detroit. MI 48226

Telephone: (313) 2244711

Fax: (313) 224-4336

Email: [einnardtii?detroimigov

The Grantee designates the following individual as project representative to be the initial point of

contact for all matters concerning this Agreement:

Joelle Letts. Grants ManagerfBudget Analyst
State Historic Preservation Of?ce

735 East Michigan Avenue

P.O. Box 30040

Lansing. Mi 48912-1474

(T): (517) 335-9849

(Fax): (517) 335-0348

Email: 

Except for changes to the performance schedule (not including the project's completion date), the

designated project representatives shall have no authority to make promises or binding obligations

either for the Grantee or the Subgrantee. as such authority rests with the duly authorized persons

executing this Agreement on behalf of the respective parties.

c. Employees of SubgranteelContractor or Key Persons.

1.

De?nition of Key Person. 'Key Persons? shall be de?ned in this Agreement as individuals
who perform services pursuant to this Agreement and sign this Agreement on behalf of
the Subgrantee/Contractor and/or are listed in the form included in this Agreement as
Exhibit D.

Performance of Services. The SubgrantaeiContractor acknowledges that only Key Persons
shall perform the services under this Agreement. Key Persons include the names of all
employees. agents and independent contractors of the SubgranteelContractor who perform
or render services pursuant to this Agreement.

Exhibit - Certificate Verifying Key Persons. Prior to executing this Agreement. the
SubgranteelContractor shall provide to the Grantee the names of all Key Persons by
completing Exhibit D. which is the Certi?cate Verifying Key Persons of the
Subgrantee/Contractor (?Certi?cate?). in the event the SubgranteelContractor fails to provide
to the Grantee the names of any Key Persons. the parties shall consider the signatory for the
SubgranteelContractor to be the sole Key Person for the SubgranteelConlractor. if the
Subgrantee/Contractor wishes to add an agent. employee. or independent contractor as a
Key Person during the term of this Agreement. the Subgrantee/Contractor shall complete
and submit to the Grantee a Certi?cate for that employee. agent. or independent contractor.

Page 3 of 39

STATE OF MICHIGAN
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
A 

cow-440
FOR CASS CORRIDOR INTENSIVE LEVEL SURVEY
TO BE PERFORMED BY
CITY OF DETROIT
EXHIBIT A SCOPE OF WORK
July 1, 2019

Section I
Work Overview

The Objective Of this project is for the Subgrantee to hire a 36 CFR Part 61 qualified consultant to undertake
historic context development, conduct Intensive-level above-ground historic resource survey. and complete
an intensive-Level Survey Report for the Cass Corridor. Detroit. Michigan. The project will include a
of previous survey work done in 2002. 1995. and 1975. respectively. as well as conducting new
survey to determine current conditions and eligibility. The new survey will provide clarification on potential
historic districts and individual eligibility Of the resources within the survey area.

TO successfully perform the services described above. the Subgrantee. in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement and in a manner deemed satisfactory to the Grantee. shall perform the following services and
activities:

A.

B.

Hire. compensate and supervise 36 CFR Part 61 qualified personnel to complete the project.
Consultant(s) shall be licensed and insured in the State Of Michigan.

Provide all necessary project-management services. Including accounting. bookkeeping. payroll
reporting. and day-tO-day management Of project activities.

Obtain approval from the Grantee for all project personnel prior to beginning work under this
Agreement. To receive approval from the Grantee. the project personnel shall include:

1.

2.

A Project Manager. who shall have charge Of the day-to?day supervision Of project work.
and

At least one (1) member who substantially meets. or two (2) together who substantially
meet. the professional quali?cations for ?historian" and ?architectural historian." as set forth
in 36 CFR Part 61 Appendix A. This member. whO may serve as Project Manager. shall
be reaponsible for ensuring that all project work meats professional standards. The
Subgrantee shall immediately notify the Grantee of any change in the Project Manager or
the professional person meeting the 36 CFR Part 61 quali?cation requirements of this
agreement. The Subgrantee must Obtain the Grantee?s approval of all staf?ng changes
affecting this Agreement. Hire. compensate and supervise personnel to complete the
project.

Section II
Credit Requirements

A. Federal Funding Credit. Include in the ?introduction" section Of the final report and in each
written. audio. visual. or other material. including public announcements and news releases
produced through this Agreement. a credit that reads verbatim as follows:

The activity that is the subject of this project has been financed in part
with Federal funds from the National Park Service. U.S. Department
Page 23 of 39

of the Interior. through the Michigan State Housing Development
Authority. However. the contents and Opinions herein do not
necessarily re?ect the views or policies of the Department of the
Interior or the Michigan State Housing Development Authority. nor
does the mention of trade names or commercial products herein
constitute endorsement or recommendation by the Department of the
interior or the Michigan State Housing Development Authority.

B. Financial Assistance Disclaimer. The Subgrantee and its subcontractors shall also print in each
written. audio. visual. or other material (including any public service announcement or news
release) produced through this Agreement. a notice as follows:

This program receives Federal ?nancial assistance for identi?cation
and protection of historic properties. Under Title VI of the Civil Rights
Acts of 1964. Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. and the
Age Discrimination Act of 1975. as amended. the US. Department of
the Interior prohibits discrimination on the basis of race. color. national
origin. disability. or age in its federally assisted programs. Michigan
law prohibits discrimination on the basis of religion, race, color.
national origin. age. sex. marital status. or disability. If you believe you
have been discriminated against in any program. activity. or facility as
described above. or it you desire further information. please write to:

Chief. Of?ce of Equal Opportunity Programs
United States Department of the Interior
National Park Service

1849 Street. NW. MS-2740

Washington. DC 20240

Section 
Objectives. Requirements, Deliverabies. Project Completion Report and Reimbursement
Request

A. General Objectives.
1. Complete an intensive-level Historic Resource Survey of the Cass Corridor in Detroit.
Michigan. as provided in this Agreement as Exhibit F.

Intensive-level survey seeks to identity and thoroughly document signi?cant properties and
districts through research and evaluation of the National Register of Historic Places criteria
within the broader historic context. intensive-level survey begins with a reconnaissance
survey or an update of an older survey. The survey then continues with research on
potentially signi?cant properties using primary sources. researching the community history.
evaluating the properties for National Register signi?cance. identifying historic districts.
Finally. intensive-level surveys should provide recommendations for future preservation
activities.

2. Complete a Historic Resource Survey Report for the Case Corridor in Detroit. Michigan. as
provided in this Agreement as Exhibit F..

B. Requirements.

1. Provide Quarterly Progress Reports. Provide to the SHPO quarterly progress reports
using the form provided by the SHPO. Quarterly progress reports shall be due by

Page 24 of 39

January 15. April 15. July 15 and September 15 during of each year during the project
reporting period and will include:

b.

Title sheet identifying the project. contract number. and name and address of the
Contractor.

Names and titlesiresponsibllittes of the project manager and persons working on
the project. including any subcontractors.

A ?nancial report of expenditures to date including any changes to approved
budget or approved work schedule.

A written summary of progress outlining the work accomplished during the
reporting period. Problems. real and anticipated. or any signi?cant deviation from
the agreed-upon work plan should be brought to the attention of the Contract
Administrator.

2. Conduct Meetings.

Project Initiation Meeting. Meet with the City of Detroit Historic Designation
Advisory Board staff. SHPO's Survey Coordinator. Grants
ManageriEiudgei Analyst. and any other local representatives (if applicable) to
discuss research methodology and project framework. This meeting shall be held
in Detroit. Michigan. at the HDAB of?ces as a kickoff beiore work begins.

Community Engagement Meetingls).

l. Hold a meeting in the community at the beginning of the project to acquaint
public of?cials and the general public with the project goals. The purpose
will be to answer questions about the survey process and to solicit
information. The format of this meeting shall be discussed with and
approved by HDAB and SHPO staff prior to meeting coordination and
scheduling.

it. Hold a meeting in the community at the and of the project to present the
survey results and answer questions on project.

til. Coordinate and consult with the local representatives. primary contacts.
and local historians as necessary to complete the activities described in the
general objectives. Note. however. that the subgrantee alone shall be
responsible for the successful completion of all products.

Review As needed after submission of Dellverablas #1 and meet
with the Parties to discuss comments and make needed adjustments such as
writing style. additional research needed. and development of historic context(s).

Contract Closeout Meeting. Meet with HDAB staff. Survey Coordinator
and Grants Manager/Budget Analyst to review Project Completion Report and
discuss lessons teamed during project.

3. Survey Report. All drafts and ?nal Survey Report are to be comprised of the following
elements as described below. The Survey Report will also follow the guidelines In the
Michigan Above Ground Survey Manual (2018 version).

a.

Research Methods. Undertake primary and secondary research and write
historic contexts and identify areas and periods of signi?cance in compliance with
National Register Bulletin 15A. How to Comptete the National Register
Registration Form. the Secretary of the interior Standards tor identification and
the Secretary or? the interiors Standards for Evaluation. Research must include a
variety of source materials as listed in the Historical Research section of the
SHPO's Michigan Above Ground Survey Manuat (2018 version dated EiZlitB].
available on website. Research will include. at a minimum. use of early

Page 25 of 39

maps. directories. tax assessor records. and collections available at local
repositories.

b. Survey Report Format. The survey report will follow the guidelines established
in the Michigan Above Ground Survey Manual (2018) and include the
components provided below. including Draft Locational Maps. Draft Survey
inventory Forms. and Draft Survey Photographs. (The report format should
include at a minimum the sections outlined in the survey manual but can be
developed in consultation with SHPO and HDAB staff).

i. Draft Locational Maps. Provide two (2) locational maps that conform to
the requirements stated in National Register Bulletin 16A. pages 61-62.
respective of the updated guidance found in the National Register Draft
Electronic Map Policy Factsheet [June 2012). NOTE: SHPO does not
accept paper USGS maps. All maps must be submitted in digital form.

it. Draft Survey Photographs. Provide a selection of photographs that fully
illustrate the surveyed area. Images submitted should be high-resolution
digital images in JPEG format named according to and meeting the ?best"
requirements set forth in. the National Register Photo Policy Factsheet
(May 15. 2013).

Survey Inventory Form. The SHPD will provide this form at the Protect
initiation Meeting (see Section above). Each Survey Inventory Form
must Include at a minimum a description of the buildings. a
recommendation of eligibility. history for the resource. locational
information. photographs. The Narrative Description should conform to
guidelines established in National Register Bulletin 16A, pages 24-34. The
Statement of Signi?cance should conform to guidelines established in
National Register Bulletin 16A. pages 25-51. Special attention should be
given to the development of applicable historic contexts. The report should
conform to the Michigan State Historic Preservation Office Style Guide

found at 

A. Bibliography. The bibliography shall be ionnatted using an accepted standard: however.

the Chicago Manual of Style is preferred. The bibliography shall be submitted with the
Survey Report at each review stage.

. Survey Materials. All survey materials must be submitted in Microsoft Word .doc or .docx.

Microsoft Excel .xls or .xisx. Microsoft PowerPoint ?le in .ppt or .ppbt format. and ESRI
as applicable. Bound hard copies and electronic copies of the survey report
will be required for the final report submission. The ?nal electronic report will be required
to be submitted in a complete PDF document with all components and Individual word
docUments. Bindings for the hard copy of the report must be either comb or spiral bound.
the report should have a cardstocir. front and back cover and look professional in
appearance.

C. Deliverables. Vendor Progress will be measured in accordance with the following deiiverabies
submitted as provided in Exhibit - Schedule attached and incorporated into this Agreement.

1.

Deliverable #1 - Outline of Historic Resources Survey Report - Prepare and submit
a survey report table of contents and an outline of the information intended for inclusion
in the historic context of the survey report. The outline should be detailed. though it does
not need to be written In narrative form ie.g.. standard Word outline template). The
outline should establish themes and topics while providing enough Information for SHPD
and HDAB staff to understand the basic methodology and plan for laying out the survey
report.

Page 26 of 39

2. Deliverable #2 -First Draft Survey Report. Prepare and submit to the SHPO and HDAB
a ?rst draft of the Survey Report. All elements described in Section llI.B.3 and 4 above of
the Survey Report must be included with this submission. This draft should include primary
source research. a complete set of inventory forms for all properties including
recommendations of eligibility. and a complete draft of the historic context for all areas of
signi?cance lor the district.

3. Deliverable #3 - Second Draft Survey Report. Prepare and submit to the SHPO and
HDAB a revised draft of the Survey Report. This draft should be substantially complete and
must include all additional research and comments received from SHPO and HDAB. All
components of the Survey Report must be included with this submission. as well as
address all comments received.

4. Deliverable #4 - Final Survey Report. The ?nal submission should occur electronically
?rst for SHPO and final review and comments. The ?nal submission package
including hard copies for the Survey Report will be provided immediately following approval
by the SHPO and HDAB. All parts of the Survey Report. in both electronic. and bound
paper fennel. must be submitted. along with all additional products. including ?nal
locational maps. photographs. etc. Deliverable #4 must also include Research Notes.

a. Research Notes. Provide to the SHPO and HDAB copies of all source materials
used in preparation of the Survey Report. including but not limited to. books.
newspapers. historical maps. historical photographs. journals. letters. interviews.
etc. It is preferred that research notes are submitted as digital ?les. Research notes
must be grouped by source type photographs. newspapers. maps.
photographs. etc.). For each source type. a naming convention should be
developed in consultation with the SHPO at the project initiation meeting (see
Section above).

D. Project Completion Report and Reimbursement Request. Provide a bdef, professional quality
report that includes the following:

a. A title sheet identifying the project. the contract number. and the name and
address of the Contractor;

b. The names and titleslresponstbilltles of the project manager and persons working
on the project. including any subcontractors:

c. The budget for the project;

A written narrative summary of the project and its outcomes including an outline
of the methodology used [as compared with that initially proposed}. evaluation of
the project results. and a summary of what worked and what the Contractor
would do differently the next time the Contractor undertakes a project of this
nature. Submit one electronic copy to the and

e. Submit an electronic ?nal reimbursement request with ?nancial documentation to
SHPO.

Page 27 of 39

STATE OF MICHIGAN
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
A 

CG19-440
FOR CASS CORRIDOR INTENSIVE LEVEL SURVEY

TO BE PERFORMED BY
CITY OF DETROIT

EXHIBIT BUDGET

 

 

 

 

 

 

July 1, 2019
PROJECT
WORK ITEMS CLG FUNDS TOTAL

City of Detroit Staff Salaries
Jennifer Reinhardt. Historic Preservation Planner 5,576.00 5,576.00
200 Hours $27.88 Hourly Rate
City of Detroit Staff Salaries
Janese Chapman. HDAB Deputy Director 2,760.50 2,760.50
50 Hours $55.21 Hourly Rate
36 CFR 61 Quali?ed Consultant
Intensive Level Survey 71'663'50 71'663'50

TOTAL 80,000.00 00,000.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FUNDING SOURCE
Donor: CITY OF DETROIT
Source: Public
Kind: In Kind
Amount: $8,336.50
Source: Public
Kind: Cash

 

Amount: $71,663.50

 

 

 

 

 

Total $80,000

 

Page 28 of 39

 

STATE OF MICHIGAN
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
A 

(2619-440
FOR CASS CORRIDOR INTENSIVE LEVEL SURVEY
TO BE PERFORMED BY
CITY OF DETROIT

EXHIBIT - SURVEY AREA
July 1, 2019

The boundaries for the Cass Corridor Intensive-level survey are clearly delineated on the accompanying
map and Includes the following:

On the m: the lot line of properties Immediately north of West Grand Boulevard;

On the Eas_t: the centerllne of Woodward Avenue;

On the ml): the centertine of the Fisher Freeway Service Drive; and

On the mm the cenledine of the John C. Lodge Service Drlve123.




Page 37 of 39

Detailed map showing approximately the northern half of the survey area (Grand Boulevard to Forest AvenuePage 38 of 39

Detailed map showing approximately the southern hall of the survey area (Forest Avenue to Fisher Freeway)

K. 



Is




1:52:25
0? 3 1 0.2mi

Page 39 of 39

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. SUITE 1026
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

CrrY or DETROIT PHONE: 313 - 628-2158
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FAX: 313 . 224 0542

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

 

July 22, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the State of Historic Preservation Of?ce (SHPO)
FY 2019 Certified Local Government (CLG) Program grant

The State Historic Preservation Of?ce (SHPO) has awarded the City of Detroit Historic
Designation Advisory Board in partnership with the General Services Department with the FY
2019 Certified Local Government (CLG) Program grant for a total of $54,386.00. The State
share is $54,386.00 of the approved amount. and there is a required match of $5614.00. The
grant period will commence on or after the execution of the grant agreement through September
30. 2020.

The objective of the grant is to develop a stabilization and mothballing plan for 26 buildings at
Historic Fort Wayne. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to hire a certified
historical architect to produce the plan that will identify areas of imminent structural failure.
provide speci?cations and cost estimates for stabilization and mothballing per building. and
develop a 10 year maintenance plan.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number is 20672.
with an in?kind administrative match of $2,826.00 coming from appropriation number 20507.
with an additional in-kind administrative match in the amount $2,788.00, coming from
appropriation 00269.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with the
attached resolution.

Sincerely.

Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget



anger 

Office of Development and_Grants

 

 

3

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Historic Designation Advisory Board in partnership with the General Services
Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of reimbursement from The State Historic
Preservation Of?ce in the amount of $54,386.00 to develop a Stabilization and
Mothballing Plan for 26 buildings at Historic Fort Wayne; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law department; and
WHEREAS. this request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20672. in the amount of $60,000.00 which includes an in?kind administrative match of
$2,826.00 coming from appropriation number 20507, with an additional in-kind administrative
match in the amount $2,738.00, coming from appropriation 00269. for the FY 2019 Certi?ed Local
Government (CLG) Program grant.

Page 1 of1

STATE OF MICHIGAN
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
A 
FOR FORT WAYNE STABILIZATION AND MOTHBALLING PLAN
TO BE PERFORMED BY
CITY OF DETROIT

This Grant Agreement CFDA No. 15.904. Contract No. CG19-443. made on
. 2019 between the MICHIGAN STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICE
(?Grantee' or and CITY OF DETROIT. MICHIGAN ('Subgrantee'). take notice that:

The SHPO is authorized by the UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR. NATIONAL
PARK SERVICE pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act oi1966: Pub. L. No. 89-665.
as amended by Pub. L. No. 96-515; 54 USC 5100101 et seq.. as amended. to undertake the protection.
rehabilitation. restoration. and construction of districts. sites. buildings. structures. and objects signi?cant in
American history. architecture. archaeology. culture. and engineering; and

The SHPO desires to aid the Subgrantee in the protection and rehabilitation of Fort Wayne. a

historically and architecturally signi?cant group of buildings and structures listed in the National Register of
Historic Places located in Detroit. Michigan; and

The Subgrantee desires to be aided with these activities as provided In this Agreement.

THEREFORE. IT IS AGREED BETWEEN THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT AS FOLLOWS:

FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY

Project No. Agency Object Code

 

Project Amt. Index Code

 

SECTION I
PROJECT WORK SPECIFICATIONS

A. Project Objective.

The objective of this project is for the Subgrantee to hlre a 36 CFR Part 61 quali?ed historical
architect to develop a specialized stabilization and mothballing plan (the Plan) for twenty-six (26)
unoccupied buildings in the Historic Fort Wayne complex. consisting of buildings 2A.102. 103. 104.
105. 106. 107. 108. 111. 117.207. 211.212.213.214. 215. 216. 217. 218. 219. 222. 302. 303.
311. 314. and 313 as illustrated in Exhibit A.2 - BUILDINGS TO BE ASSESSED (the Buildings).
The stabilization plan will identify areas of imminent structural failure. if any. and provide
speci?cations and cost estimates for stabilization. The plan will recommend a strategy
for secunng the building against trespass and vandalism along with cost estimates for appropriate
mothballing. The mothballing plan will also provide speci?cations for ensuring adequate interior
ventilation and develop a ten (10) year maintenance and monitoring plan.

B. Work Objectives. The project work is set forth In Exhibit A Scope of Work attached and
Incorporated into this Agreement and will be conducted in the City of Detroit. Michigan.

c. Permits and Licenses. The Subgrantee shall be responsible for obtaining any and all permits.
licenses or other proper authorization or permission-related documents required for the
performance of this Agreement.

D. Ownership. All documents and reports delivered to the Grantee under this Agreement shall
become and be the property of the Grantee.

SECTION ll

PERFORMANCE OF PROJECT WORK
A. Period of Performance. Because federal budgetary constraints require the completion of project
work by a date certain. TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE to this Agreement. The performance of project
work shall begin on or after the execution of this Agreement by the Grantee and shall be completed
no later than September 30. 2020. Failure of the Subgrentee to satisfactorily complete all project
work and activities by the date designated for completion shall render this Agreement voldable at
the option of the Grantee. In the event this Agreement is voided. the Subgrantee shall not be
entitled to any reimbursement under the terms of this Agreement. The designated date for
completiOn shall not be extended. Nothing In this provision shall be construed to limit or restrict the
Grantee's right to terminate this Agreement for cause where the Subgrantee would be entitled to

reimbursement In accordance with Section Xi of this Agreement.

Page 2 of 37

3. Project Representatives. The Subgrantee designates the following individual as project

representative for all matters concerning this Agreement:

Jennifer Reinhardt. Historic Preservation Planner

Legislative Policy Division. Historic Designation Advisory Board
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

Detroit. MI 48226

Telephone: (313) 224-9711

Fax: (313) 2244336

Email: reinhardtj@detroimi.gov

The Grantee designates the following individual as project representative to be the initial point of

contact for all matters concerning this Agreement:

Joelle Letts. Grants Manager/Budget Analyst
State Historic Preservation Office

735 East Michigan Avenue

PO. Box 30040

Lansing. MI 48912-1474

(T): (517) 335-9849

(Fax): (517) 335-0348

Email: lettsj1@michigan.gov

Except for changes to the performance schedule (not including the project's completion date). the

designated project representatives shall have no authority to make promises or binding obligations

either for the Grantee or the Subgrantee. as such authority rests with the duly authorized persons

executing this Agreement on behalf of the respective parties.

C. Employees of SubgranteeiContractor or Key Persons.

1.

De?nition of Key Person. ?Key Persons" shall be de?ned in this Agreement as individuals
who perform services pursuant to this Agreement and sign this Agreement on behalf of
the SubgranteelContractor andlor are listed in the form included in this Agreement as
Exhibit D.

Performance of Services. The SubgranteefContractor acknowledges that only Key Persons
shall perform the services under this Agreement. Key Persons include the names of all
employees. agents and independent contractors of the SubgranteelContractor who perform
or render services pursuant to this Agreement.

Exhibit - Certi?cate Verifying Key Persons. Prior to executing this Agreement. the
shall provide to the Grantee the names of all Key Persons by
completing Exhibit D. which is the Certi?cate Verifying Key Persons of the
SubgranteeIContractor In the event the SubgranleelContractor falls to provide
to the Grantee the names of any Key Persons. the parties shall consider the signatory for the
SubgranteelContractor to be the sole Key Person for the SubgranteelContractor. If the
SubgranteelContractor wishes to add an agent. employee. or Independent contractor as a

Page 3 of 37

Key Person during the term of this Agreement. the Subgrantee/Contractor shall complete
and submit to the Grantee a Certi?cate for that employee. agent. or Independent contractor.
2007 PA 95. MCL 38.630. The SubgranteeIContractor and Its employees, agents. and
Independent contractors acknowledge 2007 PA 95. MCL 38.68c requires retirees of the State
Employees Retirement System (?Pensioned Retirees") who become employed by the State
either directly or indirectly through a contractual arrangement with another party on or after
October 2007 to forfeit their state pension for the duration of their reemployment.
PENSIONED RETIREES WHO PROVIDE OR RENDER SERVICES PURSUANT TO THIS
CONTRACT AND ARE DETERMINED TO BE EMPLOYEES OF THE STATE MAY
FOREFEIT THEIR PENSIONS. THE SUBGRANTEEICONTRACTOR ACKNOWLEDGES
THAT ALL PENSIONED EMPLOYEES HAVE BEEN ADVISED TO SEEK LEGAL COUNSEL
TO DETERMINE IF THEY MAY BE DEEMED EMPLOYEES OF THE STATE. THE
SUBGRANTEEICONTRACTOR AND THE PENSIONED RETIREES IT EMPLOYS
ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT NEITHER THE STATE. NOR THE GRANTEE. NOR
ITS EMPLOYEES. DIRECTORS. AGENTS NOR BOARD SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE
SUBGRANTEEICONTRACTOROR PENSIONED RETIREE tF IT IS DETERMINED AT ANY
TIME THAT THE PENSIONED RETIREE IS DEEMED TO BE AN EMPLOYEE OF THE
STATE AND MUST THEREFORE FORFEIT HIS OR HER PENSION.

D. Subcontracts. In accordance with the bidding procedures in the Grantee's Historic Preservation

Grant Manual, the Subgrantee. with the approval of the Grantee. may subcontract for the

performance of the activities prescribed In this Agreement. The Subgrantee shall provide written

notice to the Grantee of its bidding process and shall obtain approval from the Grantee before the

bid process begins. Written notice shall be provided on three separate occasions:

1.

Before the bidding process begins. Notice shall consist of the Subgrantee's bid speci?cations
and a description of the bidding process the Subgrantee intends to follow:

Before a winning bid proposal Is selected. Notice shall consist of copies of the bid proposals
received by the Subgrantee and rationale for selection of the subcontractor: and

After the Subgrantee has awarded a contract to a subcontractor approved by the Grantee.
Notice shall contain a copy of the subcontract entered between the Subgrantee and its
subcontractor.

The subcontract shall incorporate all the provisions of this Agreement by reference andlor

attachment. Neither the decision to subcontract nor the consent of the Grantee to subcontracting

shall modify the obligations of the Subgrantee under this Agreement. The Subgrantee shall be fully

responsible for the noncompliance with this Agreement by its subcontractors and by persons

directly or indirectly acting for such subcontractors the same as it is for the noncompliance

attributable to the Subgrantee and persons acting for the Subgrantee.

Page 4 of 37

STATE OF MICHIGAN
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
A 

CG19-443
FOR FORT WAYNE STABILIZATION AND MOTHBALLING PLAN

TO BE PERFORMED BY
CITY OF DETROIT

EXHIBIT A - SCOPE OF WORK
July 17, 2019

Section 
Work Overview

The objective of this project is for the Subgrantee to hire a 36 CFR Part 61 qualified consultant historical
architect to develop a specialized stabilization and molhballing plan (the Plan) for twenty-six (26)
unoccupied buildings In Historic Fort Wayne complex. consisting of buildings 2A.102, 103. 104. 105. 105,
107. 108. 111, 117. 207. 211. 212. 213. 214. 215. 216. 217. 218. 219, 222. 302. 303. 311. 314. and 313 as
Illustrated in Exhibit A.2 - BUILDINGS TO BE ASSESSED attached and incorporated into this Agreement
(the Buildings).

Overall the preparation of the Plan shall be guided by Preservation Brief 31- Moihbaliing Historic Buildings.
Sharon C. Parks. AIA, US. Department of the Interior. National Park Service. Cultural Resources.
Preservation Assistance. September 1993. The stabilization portion of the plan will identify areas of
imminent structural failure. if any. and provide specifications for stabilization and cost estimates. The
portion of the plan will provide cost estimates and recommend a strategy for securing the
building against trespass and vandalism. The mothballing plan will also provide speci?cations [or ensuring
adequate interior ventilation and develop a ten?year maintenance and monitoring plan.

The Grantee agrees that the project work aided by this Agreement shall comply with both the US.
Secretary of the Interior?s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties and the US. Secretary of the
Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings (Revised 1990).
36 CFR 67-68. Speci?cally. the Grantee agrees to:

A. Hire. compensate. and supervise personnel to be employed in the project. providing all necessary
project management services. including accounting. bookkeeping. payroll reporting. and
day-to-day management of project activities- Accordingly. the Grantee agrees to:

1. Hire an architectural consultant to prepare the Plan that will facilitate the immediate
stabilization and long-term protection of the Buildings

Page 23 of 37

The architect shall meet or exceed the professional requirements for "Historic Architecture"

as stated in the Secretary of Interior's Standards and Guidelines (Archeology and Historic

Preservation) Professional Quali?cations Standards. previously published in the Code of

Federal Regulations. 36 CFR Part 61. The minimum professional quali?cations for a Historic

Architect are a professional degree in architecture or a State license to practice architecture.

plus one of the following: (1) at least one year of graduate study in architectural preservation.

American architectural history. preservation planning. or a closely related ?eld: or (2) at last

one year of full-time professional experience on preservation projects. Graduate study or

experience shall include detailed investigation of historic structures. preparation of historic

structures research reports. and preparation of plans and speci?cations for preservation

projects.

B. Complete the Plan in accordance with the following:

1. Follow the outline and details points as described in Preservation Brief 31. The Plan will

evaluate the structural stability of the individual buildings and weather tightness of their exterior

envelope and help direct the Grantees efforts to secure and maintain the Buildings while new

uses and comprehensive rehabilitation efforts are planned and executed. The Plan shall

include the following:

Executive Summary: Provide a general description of the resource. an overview
of ?ndings. conditions. and recommendations. acknowledgment of funding
sources and project partners. and locational data of the ?nal report and
background materials.
Context: Provide a brief history of Fort Wayne and Buildings. This section should
be a summary of previous report finding (available from the owner) and need not
be based on new primary research.
Existing Document Inventory: Identify existing photos. plans. drawings
speci?cation. In the Grantees possession that relate to the Buildings. Existing
documents may be used to replace or supplement new documentation if they
accurately re?ect or provided additional relevant inforrnalion relating to the current
conditions of the Buildings.
For each of the Buildings provide a building speci?c subsection of the Plan
including:
i. Condition Assessment. focusing on the overall structural stability of the
resource and its weather tightness.
ii. Stabilization Recommendations. including speci?cation and cost
estimates. focusing on those interventions necessary to stabilize the

Page 24 of 37

building structure and envelop In the least damaging. most cost effective
and durable {10-year minimum life expectancy) manner.

Mothballing Recommendations. Including speci?cation and cost estimates
focusing on securing the building from additional deterioration due to
weather. pests and human intrusion while accommodating routine
inspection and monitoring of the Buildings in the least damaging. most cost
effective and durable (10-year minimum life expectancy) manner.

3. Develop a Maintenance and Monitoring Plan: Routine maintenance issues for the
Buildings should be identified and an implementation schedule and description of
how those maintenance items will be accomplished shall be included. Scheduled
inspections should be a part of this plan. The inspections should be carried out on
a regular basis. and the report should provide a list of items to be included in an
inspection. Also. a description of types of deterioration or speci?c conditions to
look for should be provided for each item for evaluation during inspections.

2. The Subgrantee shall submit a 75% complete draft and a 95% complete draft of the Plan
to the Grantee for review and comment. The 75% and 95% complete drafts shall be
submitted in accordance with the dates set forth in Exhibit - Performance Schedule
attached and incorporated into this Agreement.

3. The Plan and Speci?cations draft materials shall be provided in electronic PDF format.
Comments will be returned in PDF format.

4. Final Documents: The consultant shall provide the number of ?nal documents as
stipulated by the Subgrantee in addition to providing two (2) sets of ?nal documents in
paper form and one (1) as electronic PDF format on a CDIDVD or USB ?ash drive.

Section ii
Credit Requirements

Federal Funding Credit. Include in the ?introduction" section of the ?nal report and In each written. audio.
visual. or other material. Including public announcements and news releases produced through this
Agreement. a credit that reads verbatim as follows:

The activity that is the subject of this project has been ?nanced in part
with Federal funds from the National Park Service. U.S. Department
of the Interior. through the Michigan State Housing Development
Authority. However. the contents and opinions herein do not
necessarily re?ect the views or policies of the Department of the
interior or the Michigan State Housing Development Authority, nor
does the mention of trade names or commercial products herein
constitute endorsement or recommendation by the Department of the
interior or the Michigan State Housing Development Authority.

Page 25 of 37

Financial Assistance Disclaimer. The Subgrantee and its subcontractors shall also print in each written.
audio. visual. or other material (including any public service announcement or news release) produced
through this Agreement. a notice as follows:

This program receives Federal ?nancial assistance for identification
and protection of historic properties. Under Title VI of the Civil Rights
Acts of 1954. Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. and the
Age Discrimination Act of 1975. as amended. the U.S. Department of
the Interior prohibits discrimination on the basis of race. color. national
origin. disability. or age in its federally assisted programs. Michigan
law prohibits discrimination on the basis of religion. race. color.
national origin. age. sex. marital status. or disability. If you believe you
have been discriminated against in any program. activity. or facility as
described above. or if you desire further information. please write to:

Chief. Office of Equal Opportunity Programs
United States Department of the interior
National Park Service

1849 Street. NW. N's-2740

Washington. DC 20240

Section ill
Completion Report

A. Prepare and submit to the Grantee two (2) copies of a project completion report of

professional quality that, at a minimum. includes the following:

9??pr

10.

National Register Title and address of any National Register eligible or listed properties.
Project number.

Name and address of the Subgrantee.

Names and titles of project supervisors and consultants.

Final budget for the project comparing the approved budget to the ?nal documented
expenditures. Discrepancies shalt be explained.

Donor. source. kind. and amount of other federal or non-federal funds applied during
the project period.

Reports from consultants (if any): Please provide two (2) copies as noted in Section ll
item B.

Applicable publications (if any).

Test results (if any).

Evaluation of project work including a description of how completed work may have
differed from the originally planned work. the reasons for such changes. description of
techniques and materials used in the project. and a statement of any problems that still
need to be addressed. The evaluation should also contain a description of how the area
will be used following the grant period.

Page 26 of 37

 FROM 75 TO 75

 

List of Unoccupled Buildings Included in Scope ofWork 1

Warehouse (3111 2A)

Duplexes (Bld102.103_ 10-1. 105. 106.107.1118. 11])
D?icm' Quancrs (Bld It?)

Post (Bid 20?)

Duplexes (Bid 211. 211213. 214. 215. 216. 217. 218. 219)
Stable (Bid 22)

Guard House (Bld 302)

Post Theater (Bid 303)

Enlisted Banach (Bid 311, 314)

Past BakeryiPaint Shop (Bid 313}

 

     

 

 

 

 

ExhibitA.-2 Buildings to .be Assessed -

 

Vacant in need of mhballing shaded In dark gray. with building numbers

 

 

 

I 

Page 28 of 37

STATE OF MICHIGAN

MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

AGREEMENT
6619-443

FOR FORT WAYNE STABILIZATION AND MOTHBALLING PLAN

TO BE PERFORMED BY

CITY OF DETROIT
EXHIBIT - BUDGET
July 17, 2019

 

WORK ITEMS

CLG FUNDS


TOTAL

 

City of Detroit Staff Salaries
Jennifer Reinhardt. Historic Preservation Planner
100 Hours $27.88 Hourly Rate

in

 

City of Detroit Staff Salaries

Timothy Boscarino. Fort Wayne Strategic Planning
Project Director

50 Hours $56.52 Hourly Rate

$2.788



$2.826

$2.788

$2.826

 

36 CFR 61 Quali?ed Consultant
Stabilization and Mothballing Plan

$54,386

$54,386

 

 

TOTAL

 

 

60,000.00 

soiiREE '9

 

Donor: CITY OF DETROIT

 

Source:
Kind:
Amount: 

Public
In Kind
$5,614

 

 

"Sam? Pub?Ho

 

Km:

Cash 
Amount:

$54,381? 7

 

 

 

 

_Total 1' ?60,_009

Page 29 0f 37

60,000.00

 

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - TTYz'ill

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

September 27, 2019

   

 

To Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Termination of the Steel Group Project Plan and Funding
Agreement and Request for Property Transfers to the City of Detroit
Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority in Connection with the Land
Assembly Project.

Dear Honorable City Council:

On June 18, 1997, the City Detroit City Council approved the Economic Development
Corporation of the City of Detroit project plan for the Steel Group Project (the
?Project Plan?), which Project Plan contemplated the conversion of Atkinson Play?eld to
industrial uses and the balance of the Project Plan project area (depicted on Exhibit A) to be
used for recreational purposes. However, in 2005, the City of Detroit?s Recreation Department
(?Recreation Department?) and Planning and Development Department determined
that the remaining property within the Project Plan area the was no longer appropriate as a
replacement for Atkinson Play?eld. Consequently, on September 13, 2005, the Board of
Directors of EDC approved the termination of the Steel Group Project Plan, and
requested that the Detroit City Council approve each of the following:

i. Termination of the Project Plan;
ii. Negotiation of the termination of that certain Funding Agreement (the ?Funding
Agreement?) by and between the City and the 
Authorization of the transfer of any property acquired by the EDC to the City;
iv. Release of the property acquired by the City and/or the EDC pursuant to project from the
requirements of the Project Plan; and
v. Termination of the Citizens District Council created pursuant to the Project Plan as
provided in Section 20(d) of Act 338 of 1974 (MCL 125.1620).

As City Council is aware, at the request of the City of Detroit, the City of Detroit Brown?eld
Redevelopment Authority has been engaged in land assembly activities aimed at
establishing market-ready industrial sites within City limits in order to attract manufacturing and
logistics companies (the ?Land Assembly Project?). DBRA has identi?ed the Project Plan
project area, as well as adjacent areas, both as depicted in Exhibit hereto, as a potential Land
Assembly Project site (the ?Junction MeGraw Proiect Area?).

 

In addition to the foregoing requests, in order to facilitate the use of the Junction McGraW
Project Area for the Land Assembly Project, the DBRA has requested that the City, through its

Recreation Department and sell all parcels now or hereinafter owned by the City or the
EDC within the Junction McGraw Project Area, including but not limited to the parcels
described on Exhibit hereto (the ?City Parcels?) to the DBRA for purposes of the Land
Assembly Project, for a purchase price equal to the City assessor?s land value for each City
Parcel, payable upon the sale of such City Parcels to a third party developer and/or end user. In
support of the foregoing request, the Recreation Department has determined that the parcel
located at 5555 McGraw (the ?Kronk Parcel?) is ?surplus? to its operational needs and, in
support of this determination, the Finance Director requests City Council?s approval of the
transfer of jurisdictional control of the Kronk Parcel to The DBRA also requests that the
City may first deed any or all such properties to the Detroit Land Bank Authority (the 
to expeditiously resolve any de?ciencies in title, whereupon the DLBA will convey such
properties to the DBRA. Accordingly, seeks City Council?s approval to enter into a Land
Transfer Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D.

In addition, the DBRA has requested approval of City Council of the conveyance by the
DLBA of all parcels now or hereinafter owned by the DLBA within the Junction McGraw
Project Area, including but not limited to the parcels described on Exhibit hereto (the 
Parcels?) to the DBRA for purposes of the Land Assembly Project, subject to the approval of the
DLBA Board of Directors.

Based on the foregoing, we respectfully request that this honorable body process the
attached Resolution in furtherance of the transactions described in this letter.

Respectfully submitted,

W531. 345%

Katharine Trudeau,
Deputy Director,
Flaming Development Department



. 7"
Brad Dick, 
Director,

Recre ?o 1511 Department

     

21g ic 
Finance Director

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, on June 18, 1997, this Honorable body approved The Economic Development
Corporation of the City of Detroit project plan for the Steel Group Project (the
?Project Plan?), which Project Plan contemplated the conversion of Atkinson Play?eld to
industrial uses and the balance of the Project Plan project area (depicted on Exhibit A) to be
used for recreational purposes; and

WHEREAS, on September 13, 2005, following a determination by the City of Detroit?s
Recreation Department (?Recreation Department?) and Planning and Development Department
that the remaining property within the Project Plan area the was no longer appropriate
as a replacement for Atkinson Play?eld, the Board of Directors of EDC approved the termination
of the Steel Group Project Plan, subject to certain approvals by the Detroit City Council;
and

WHEREAS, at the request of the City of Detroit (the ?Qitv??, the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority has been engaged in land assembly activities aimed at
establishing market-ready industrial sites within City limits in order to attract manufacturing and
logistics companies (the ?Land Proiect?) and, in connection therewith, DBRA has
identi?ed the Project Plan project area, as well as adjacent areas, both as depicted in Exhibit 3
hereto, as a potential Land Assembly Project site (the ?Junction McGraw Prniect Area?); and

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit is authorized pursuant to the Brown?eld Redevelopment
Financing Act, being Act 381 of 1996, to transfer property to the and

WHEREAS, in support of the Land Assembly Project, the Finance Director, and the
Recreation Department have requested City Council?s approval of the transfer of jurisdiction of
the parcel located at 5555 McGraw (the ?Kronk Parcel?) andcertain land transfers; and now
therefore be it

RESOLVED, that the Project Plan is hereby terminated and of no further effect; and be it further
RESOLVED, that the properties located within the boundaries of the Project Plan project area
hereby released from any encumbrance of obligation arising under the Project Plan and be it

further

RESOLVED, that the Citizens District Council created pursuant to the Project Plan as provided
in Section 20(d) of Act 338 of 1974 (MCL 125.1620) is hereby dissolved; and be it further

RESOLVED, that that certain Funding Agreement by and between the EDC relating to the
Project Plan is hereby terminated; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the transfer of jurisdictional control of the Kronk Parcel from the Recreation
Department to is hereby approved; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Kronk Parcel is hereby declared to be surplus real property; and be it
?lrther

RESOLVED, that the conveyance by the City, through or the EDC, as applicable, of all
parcels now or hereinafter owned by the City or the EDC within the Junction McGraw Project
Area, including but not limited to the parcels described on Exhibit hereto (the ?City Parcels?)
to the DBRA for purposes of the Land Assembly Project, for a purchase price equal to the City
assessor?s land value for each City Parcel, payable upon the sale of such City Parcels, to a third
party developer and/or end user, is hereby approved; and be it ?irther

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the Land Transfer Agreement in the
form attached hereto as Exhibit (the ?Land Transfer Agreement?); and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute the
Land Transfer Agreement and issue quit claim deeds for the sale of the City Parcels, as well as
execute such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of the City
Parcels to the DBRA consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments to the Land Transfer
Agreement or the quit claim deeds (including but not limited to corrections to or confirmations
of legal descriptions, or timing of closing and/or tender of possession of particular parcels) in the
event that changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen
circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the City Parcels,
provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale;
and be it further

RESOLVED, that any City Parcels authorized to be conveyed to the DBRA under this
resolution may, at election and subject to the consent of the Detroit Land Bank
Authority (the be conveyed by the City or EDC, as applicable, to the DLBA for
purposes of quieting title, with the DLBA thereafter deeding a property so transferred either back
to the City, to the DBRA, or to designee; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City Council hereby approves the conveyance by the DLBA of all parcels
now or hereinafter owned by the DLBA within the Junction McGraw Project Area, including but
not limited to the parcels described on Exhibit hereto (the Parcels?) to the DBRA for
purposes of the Land Assembly Project, subject to the approval of the DLBA Board of Directors.

EXHIBIT A

Proiect Plan Area

 

See attached.

 




 



 

        







.-









WARREN





I'f

         

     

 

'l Ii

oR?bjec} Bou


 

 

 

. 
1 {\ndary Map

New Project Area 
I I I
New Project District Area I .:
I In

Economic Development Corporation

STEEL PROJECT

 

 

EXHIBIT 

Junction McGraw Proiect Area

See attached.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

El??wt?
. 
maul-DUI" Human 
.5 mum-IT! ymuncno? 

IHW 
i. 51-111..? 
Hun-Dbl. .
lam-MM ?an"raw 5253;??
'Him?Wt"ha. 2 .
"111:?~53 3% .f I H.
nun-Inn . 4, - . lghways. I94
un?uni-land :enalRoads?Junctionsl
- -: v' -
?-1.115: nuns?tr?f . .5 ?1 RBII"um? I guru-011: Quirk-1'puma un- we :1 ?fl-1131unmas- urlmou air-Ham gamut ?7 a
a 
. 7? nun-:11 ?5a" val-I'll? Imrill'l' I 5101an "n?J 14o
?twig? nun-05* nun-Int ?1 
. . 230 Feet
15": ?uh-.531 ?Pm2-5351 5.
I ?um? ?awn human . :Hff? 95111151 - 
Buzz? mun-Inu- Bill?s?fl" saunmsr 
-- 
. nun-=51 . ?Eu" Burma twill 
. . - *ri-r-'i sem -
mutt!" IMWJ nn'mnnT #11151? mini?: _a?of? bly Sues
- g: . I Pa 
. man-6:! :uumn nan-rs? Ina-1?" Ital Bound?:
- .
~lawn-ms" - qu-r? 5 [In nus! l??t?lkluse? n- th!) It I l- 1-114? 
I ., .. . . 
9-3 mil-1 mung-4" Illf?ll 11 .1 -

{Jara? 


_uzl ?up? "unit.? Human u-an'r ?rn'nTi'I .
I I .mu- Lem-u" -- 
I Lumen :wan nun-Ill I
I 1% Int-mu ma ?Iag- - Him. Hill?}- a. 1-H3-IIU1 mu. 1 1 .

I mun-or gnu-i]? gnu-Inn 
21 . 1.5mm? gunman-I ulna?mu . . .
aim: I?l 
I 3" . I warm-In mum Inn-m0?I-msr mam-nu. 1-3an I ?"1193? . 5T 
- nun-n? - 
["12?th Iulmcm? . - . 
. . Iilnms
mun-m . "np"arms. mmn-Isr
. ?-ch 
_Iumu ?it" I- 511111111151 unzrm?
U- urns?mu hum-all 
3 .- . .- sun-mun ST 515731751
I 1mm?! nun-Imbn?u? runnin
'l?uim? I v.9; 
- .- . .. 5156115IST 5151111451 unanms'r i 
.
a ?saw" . I 5?15 .- -- 
I . mom: 1.: sun!
I . 
-. was mm 3'22?? 
. 
- sum? __Eljl ?Sig 5? 
I I - - arm I?m? 
?4 s?unms1 unlr?r 3? . 
. .
.. non-In Ir;- unnms?r
. ?and?! . __Sjpi?sjs: 
- {I?jlml?' mummy susmns'r
EXHIBI tummy summon 1m :Ill?l'l iulncu'r?l 11?? . -4. 

- - nuns-:51 mum-5T
To RESOLUTIO nun 5114110? I Min-mt ?Hm? - 
_f 
. swam? rail-ll? :E?l?la - 
- smm?usv
51mm? i puma-u 1-199? ?1 -
- "Ina?i757}?? r?"i - gun-ms"

mum-11

 

 

 

 

 

EXHIBIT 

itv Parcels

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Parcel Number Address Owner Legal Description

16011967. 5314 32ND ST City of Detroit 32ND 21 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

14001153. 4509 WARREN City of Detroit 5 WARREN 104 CROSMAN CUSHINGS SUB L14 P19 PLATS, 
14/74 30 IRREG

14011162.004L 5425 28TH ST City of Detroit 28TH 106 THRU 108 EXC 5 87.52 FT ON LINE BG 22.81 FT ON 
LINE CROSMAN CUSHINGS SUB L14 P19 PLATS, 14/74 6,401
SQ FT

14001156. 4541 WARREN City of Detroit 5 WARREN 14 FT 81 16 FT 80 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 
14/78 30 100

16012008. 5305 32ND ST City of Detroit 32ND 25 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012008. 5305 32ND ST City of Detroit 32ND 25 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

14001154. 4515 WARREN City of Detroit WARREN 103-102 CROSMAN CUSHINGS SUB L14 P19 PLATS, 
14/74 60 

14001158. 4557 WARREN City of Detroit WARREN 77-76 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 14/78 84.66
IRREG

16011084. 5338 315T ST City of Detroit 315T 40 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011092. 5386 315T ST City of Detroit 315T 32 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 IRREG

14001152. 5345 28TH ST City of Detroit 5 WARREN 105 CROSMAN CUSHINGS SUB L14 P19 PLATS, 
14/74 32.5 IRREG

16011992. 5403 32ND ST City of Detroit 32ND 41 BLK BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 

 

 

16/99 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16013115. 5301 JUNCTION City of Detroit JUNCTION 46 THRU 1ALSO VAC 35TH ST 50 FT WD ADJ AND VAC
ALLEY ADJ BLK 6 FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 183,966 SQ FT

16013104. 5555 MCGRAW City of Detroit JUNCTION 46 THRU 1 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ BLK 7-FYFE BARBOUR 8:
WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 16/99 690.61 IRREG

16013728. 5216 35TH ST EDC 35TH ST 3 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012455. 5229 33RD ST EDC 33RD ST 44 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 33.22 100

16012455. 5229 33RD ST EDC 33RD ST 44 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 33.22 100

16013727. 5208 35TH ST EDC 35TH ST 4 BLK BARBOUR 81 WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012431. 5320 33RD ST EDC 33RD ST 20 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16013083-95 5180 JUNCTION EDC JUNCTION PART OF 11 THRU 9 BG 72.20 FT ON LINE 8: 36 
33.93 FT ON LINE BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 72.20 IRREG

16012426. 5222 33RD ST EDC 33RD 2 BLK11 FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30X100

16012421. 5192 33RD ST EDC 33RD 7 BLK 11 FYFE BARBOUR 8L WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30X100

16013730. 5228 35TH ST EDC 35TH ST 31.72 FT 1 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 31.72 100

16012014. 5205 32ND ST EDC 32ND 40 BLK 11-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16013729. 5222 35TH ST EDC 35TH ST 2 1.50 FT 1 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 31.50 100

16013096. 5186 JUNCTION EDC JUNCTION 8 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,

 

16/99 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

001 57 66/91 a 3 ?51v1d 217d
911 ans 13 anoaava EHM-8 >11a 176 SE 10 11 91 0N26 

303

J.S 0NZE EQES



 

001 66/91 a 3
'SlV?ld 217d 911 ans 13 anoaava 39111-11 >11a 1717 GNZE 

303

.LS 0NZE GZZS



 

001 08 66/91 a 3 
217.1 911 ans *3 anoaava 31111-21 >11a as case 

303

1.5 0388 $6135



 

001 OE 3
'SlV'ld Z17d 9? 805 N3HHVM ?8 HHOQHVEI 33A3-II E17 0NZE 

303

0NZE EZZS



 

001 06 66/91 a
3 'SlV'ld 217d 911 ans 73 anoaava 31111-8 >11a as GNZS 

303

is 0NZE LSES



 

OOI 0?5 3 
Z17d 9U EDS SN3HHVM 78 >08 22 .LS 0825 3

303

.LS GHEE BOSS



 

93HHI
OE 3 'SlV'ld 217d 911 803 SN3HHVM ?8 HHOSHVS 
9?5 NO id 6162 98 3 NO 13 000 121$ 0888 

303

.LS GHEE ?8139



 

001 0% 66/91 a 3 
217d 911 ans 73 anoaava 31111?51 >11a ?17 

303





 

001 0?5 66/91 a
3 'SlV?ld 217d 911 ans 12 anoaava 33A3-8 >11a 172 GNZE 

303

.LS 0NZE EOES



 

001 06 66/91 a
3 217d 911 ans 13 anoaava 33111-8 >11a 017 0st 

303

is 0NZE 

?566110913

 

HVM 8 0 OJ. i3 001: 3Nl'l KIN 91V M3 H.L
GE .L01 30 803 MN 30 5959 BM 8?5 3Nl'l NO 31d 01
id 7051: HJ. :13 51796 SVI WSI $9172 3J_d Viv 939 SV 3830 LE (NHL 65 301d 0NZE 

303

.LS 0NZE IOZS



 

001 06 66/91 a :1 
'SiV?ld Z17d 911 ans ?8 anoaava 31211-21 >11a 3

303





 

 

001 OE 66/91 a 3 
'SiV?ld Z17d 911 ans '8 anoaava 31111-21 >11a N0113Nnr 3

 

303



66021091:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16012434. 5338 33RD ST EDC 33RD ST 17 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012434. 5338 33RD ST EDC 33RD ST 17 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16013123. 5185 JUNCTION EDC JUNCTION 37 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

16013726. 5204 35TH ST EDC 35TH ST 5 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,

 

 

 

16/99 30 100

 

 

EXHIBIT 

Form of Land Transfer Agreement

LAND TRANSFER AGREEMENT 
Industrial Land Assembly Project: Junction McGraw Site

This Transfer of Land Agreement ("Transfer Agreement?) made this day of

. 2019, by and between the CITY OF DETROIT, a Michigan municipal

corporation, acting by and through its Planning and Development Department (hereinafter referred

to as the ?City"), and THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT

AUTHORITY, a Michigan public authority and body corporate organized and existing under the

Authority of Act 381 of the Public Acts of Michigan 1996, as amended (hereinafter referred to as
the 

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, at the request of the City, the DBRA has been engaged in land assembly
activities aimed at establishing market-ready industrial sites within City limits in order to attract
manufacturing and logistics companies (the ?Land Assembly Project?); and

WHEREAS, the DBRA has identi?ed a Land Assembly Project site which includes the
location for the former Steel Group Project Plan as well as adjacent areas, as depicted on
Exhibit A hereto (the ?Junction McGraw Project Area?).

WHEREAS, in order to facilitate the use of the Junction McGraw Project Area for the Land
Assembly Project, DBRA has requested that the City convey all parcels now or hereinafter owned
by the City within the Junction McGraw Project Area, including but not limited to the parcels
described on Exhibit hereto (collectively, the ?Property?), to the and

WHEREAS, the City has agreed to transfer the Property to the DBRA in accordance
herewith, pursuant to resolution of the City of Detroit City Council dated
2019 and attached hereto as Exhibit and

 

WHEREAS, the City and the DBRA have determined that the transfer of the Property by
the City to the DBRA is in the best interests of the City and will promote economic growth in the
City.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the covenants and
agreements hereinafter contained, it is mutually agreed as follows:

Page 1

ARTICLE I

1.01 Sale. Subject to the terms, covenants and conditions of this Transfer Agreement,
the DBRA agrees to purchase and the City agrees to convey the Property for the Purchase Price
(as de?ned below).

1.02 Purchase Price. The ?Purchase Price? shall be an amount equal to the City
assessor?s land value for each parcel, as re?ected in the most recent City property tax records. The
Purchase Price shall be paid to the City pursuant to the terms of a promissory note, executed by
the DBRA for the bene?t of the City (the ?Promissory Note?), which Promissory Note shall be
in form and substance satisfactory to the City. The Promissory Note shall be payable upon the
sale of the Property to a third-party developer and/or end user (the ?Developer?) and shall be
payable solely from the net sale proceeds received by the DBRA following the sale of the Property
to Developer. The City acknowledges and agrees that in the event that the net sale proceeds
following the sale of the Property to Developer are insufficient to pay the Purchase Price
in full, the Promissory Note shall be non-recourse to the DBRA and the payment of a
portion of the Purchase Price shall ful?ll all obligations contained under the Promissory Note. The
City further agrees that any net sale proceeds received by the DBRA which are in excess of the
amount of the Promissory Note will be retained by the DBRA for the Land Assembly Project or
for other permissible purposes to which the Director of the City?s Planning and Development
Department consents in writing, which such consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.

1.03 Title Commitments and Insur?cg. The DBRA may obtain and review
commitments for title insurance insuring marketable title to a fee simple interest in the Property,
at sole cost and expense. If the DBRA objects to the condition of title to any portion of
the Property, the DBRA may decline to accept the transfer of such portion of the Property until the
title is resolved to the satisfaction.

1.04 Quitclaim Deed. Within ten (10) days after the later of the Effective Date or the
date upon which the DBRA has accepted the condition of title, in accordance with Section 1.02
hereof, the City shall convey the Property to the DBRA by one or more quitclaim deeds.

1.05 Pavinent of Miscellaneous Expenses. The DBRA shall be responsible for recording
and paying any fees for recording the quitclaim deed(s) and any other documents that the City
determines must be recorded in connection with the transfer and development of the Property.

1.06 Condition of the Pronertv. The DBRA shall accept the Property without
any representation by or warranty from the City as to the condition of the Property.

ARTICLE II
2.01 Developer. The DBRA may enter into one or more development agreements (each
such agreement singularly referred to as a "Development Agreement" and all such agreements

collectively referred to as the "Development Agreements?) with one or more Developers. Any

Page 2

such Development Agreements shall provide for the sale of all or any portion of the Property to
one or more private developers who shall develop the Property in accordance with the
Development Agreement and such other conditions and/or limitations as the DBRA may require.
obligations with respect to the net proceeds received by the DBRA from the disposition
of the Property shall be governed by Section 1.02 of this Transfer Agreement. The DBRA shall,
prior to executing or amending any Development Agreement, submit such Development
Agreement or amendment to the City for review and approval by the Director of 

2.02. Certi?cate Completion. With respect to any portion of the Property conveyed to
a developer pursuant to a Development Agreement (the ?Developed Parcels?), upon the
satisfaction of the terms and conditions of such Development Agreement by the Developer, the
DBRA may record a certi?cate of completion acknowledging that the development of the
Developed Parcels has been completed in accordance with the Development Agreement (the
?Certificate of Completion?). Upon the recording of said Certi?cate of Completion, the 
obligations pursuant to this Transfer Agreement with respect to the Developed Parcels shall been
deemed satis?ed, and the terms and conditions of this Transfer Agreement, including but not
limited to the provisions of Article shall no longer apply to any Developed Parcels which are
described in the Certi?cate of Completion.

ARTICLE 

3.01 Default. If the DBRA fails to comply with any material terms of this Transfer
Agreement, the DBRA shall within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice from the City,
convey the Property back to the City by quitclaim deed and assign to the City the interest
in the Property, including any mortgage, security interest, promissory note or other instrument
pertaining to the Property that was executed pursuant hereto. In the event that the DBRA fails to
convey the Property and assign its interest in the Property in accordance with this Section 3.01,
the DBRA hereby appoints the City its attomey-in?fact, with full power and authority to execute
any and all documents necessary or convenient to convey the Property by quitclaim deed from the
DBRA to the City and otherwise assign the interest in the Property to the City.

3.02 Non-exclusive Remedy. The remedy provided for in Section 3.01 hereof shall be
cumulative of all other remedies at law or in equity and shall not be the exclusive remedy of the
City against the DBRA for default by the DBRA under the terms of this Transfer Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

4.01 Independent Contractors. The relationship of the City and the DBRA is, and shall
continue to be, an independent contractor relationship and no liability or bene?ts such as workers'
compensation, pension rights or liabilities, insurance rights or liabilities or other provisions of
liabilities arising out of or relating to a contractor for hire or employer/employee relationship shall
arise or accrue to either party or either party's agents or employees with respect to the City as a
result of this Transfer Agreement.

Page 3

ARTICLE 

5.01 Mutual Casperat?ion. The parties acknowledge that mutual cooperation will be
required to accomplish the intent and objectives of this Transfer Agreement, and therefore agree
to cooperate mutually in the development of the Property in order to best serve the respective
interests of the public, the City and the DBRA.



6.01 Conflict of Interest. No of?cer or employee of the City or the DBRA shall have
any personal interest, direct or indirect, in this Transfer Agreement or the Property, nor shall any
such of?cial or employee participate in any decision relating to this Transfer Agreement which
affects his or her personal interest or the interest of any corporation, partnership, association or
other legal entity in which he or she is directly or indirectly interested.

6.02 No Individual Liability. No of?cial or employee of the City shall be personally
liable to the DBRA or its successor in interest in the event of any default or breach by the City of
any of the terms of this Transfer Agreement. No of?cial or employee of the DBRA shall be
personally liable to the City or its successor in interest in the event of any default or breach by the
DBRA of any of the terms of this Transfer Agreement other than Section 6.01 hereof.

ARTICLE VII

7.01 Fair Employment Practices. In accordance with the United States Constitution and
all federal legislation and regulations governing fair employment practices and equal employment
opportunity, including but not limited to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (PL. 88-352, 78
STAT. 252) and United States Department of Justice Regulations (28 CPR. Part 42) issued
pursuant to the title, and in accordance with the Michigan Constitution and all state laws and
regulations governing fair employment practices and equal employment opportunity, including but
not limited to the Michigan Civil Rights Act (1976 PA 220), the DBRA agrees that it will not
discriminate against any person, employee, consultant or applicant for employment, training,
education, or apprenticeship connected directly or indirectly with the performance of this Land
Transfer Agreement with respect to his or her hire, promotion, job assignment, tenure, terms,
conditions or privileges of employment or hire because of his (her) religion, race, color, creed,
national origin, age, sex, height, weight, marital status, public bene?t status, sexual orientation or
handicap that is unrelated to the individual's ability to perform the duties of a particular job or
position. The DBRA recognizes the right of the United States and the State of Michigan to seek
judicial enforcement of the foregoing covenants against discrimination against itself or its
subcontractors.

Breach of the terms and conditions of this section may be regarded as a material breach of
this Land Transfer Agreement.

Page 4

ARTICLE 

8.01 Notices. When either party desires to give notice to the other in connection with
and in accordance with the terms of this Transfer Agreement, such notice shall be given by certi?ed
mail and shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, retum
receipt requested, and such notice shall be addressed as follows:

For the City:

City of Detroit Planning and Development Department
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808

Detroit, Michigan 48226

ATTENTION: Director

For the DBRA:

The City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

ATTENTION: Authorized Agent

With a copy to:

Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
ATTENTION: General Counsel

or such other address with respect to either such party as that party may, from time to time,
designate in writing and forward to the other as provided herein.

8.02 Force Maieure. In the event that the City or DBRA shall be delayed, hindered in,
or prevented from the performance of any act required hereunder by reason of strike, lock-outs,
labor troubles, inability to procure materials, failure of power, riots, insurrections, acts of terror,
acts of war, the failure or default of the other party, or for other reasons beyond their control, then
performance of such acts shall be excused for the period of the delay and the period for the
performance of any such act shall be extended for a period equivalent to the period of such delay.

8.03 Amendments. The City or the DBRA may consider it in its best interest to modify
or to extend a term or condition of this Transfer Agreement. Any such extension or modi?cation,
which is mutually agreed upon by the City and the DBRA, shall be incorporated in written
amendments to this Transfer Agreement. Unless otherwise stated in the amendment, such

Page 5

amendments shall not invalidate this Transfer Agreement, nor relieve or release the City or the
DBRA from any of its obligations hereunder.

8.04 Merger Clause. This Transfer Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement and
shall supersede all prior agreements and understandings both written and oral between the parties
with respect to the subject matter and the Property.

8.05 Provisions Not Merged With Deed. No provision of this Transfer Agreement is
intended to or shall be merged by reason of any deed transferring title to the Property from the
City to the DBRA or from the DBRA to the City.

8.06 Counterparts. This Land Transfer Agreement may be executed in counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed an original, and such counterparts shall constitute one and the same
agreement.

8.07 Compliance with Applicable Law. The parties agree to comply with all applicable
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, rules, ordinances, other laws and requirements now in
effect or hereinafter enacted, including but not limited to City of Detroit Executive Orders Nos.
2016-1 and 2014?5, if applicable, and if necessary, shall execute and deliver such supplementary
documents and agreements as are necessary to meet said requirements.

8.08 Michigan Law. This Transfer Agreement is being entered into and executed in the
State of Michigan, and all questions with respect to the construction of this Transfer Agreement
and the rights and liabilities of the parties hereunder shall be construed in accordance with the
provisions of the laws of the State of Michigan and, where applicable, Federal law.

8.09 Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence with respect to all provisions of this
Transfer Agreement.

8.10 Non-Waiver. No waiver at any time of any provision or condition of this Transfer
Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any of the other provisions or conditions hereof, nor
shall any waiver of any provision or condition be construed as a right to subsequent waiver of the
same provisions or conditions.

8.11 Effective Date. The ?Effective Date? of this Transfer Agreement shall be the date
of execution hereof.

(signatures on next page)

Page 6

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the DBRA by and through their duly authorized
of?cers and representatives, have executed this Transfer Agreement on the date ?rst above written.

THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, a Michigan
public authority and body corporate

 

 

 

 

 

 

By:
Name:
Its:
By:
Name:
Its:
STATE OF MICHIGAN 
)ss.
COUNTY OF WAYNE 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of
2019, by and

 

 

each an Authorized Agent of the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, a Michigan public body authority and body corporate, on
its behalf.

 

 

Notary Public, County, Michigan
Acting in Wayne County Michigan
My Commission expires:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
DBRA Counsel

By:

 

Rebecca A. Navin, Esq.

Page 7

CITY OF DETROIT,
a Michigan municipal corporation acting by
and through its Planning and Development

 

 

Department
By:
STATE OF MICHIGAN 
)ss.
COUNTY OF WAYNE 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on 2019,
by the of the Flaming and Development

 

 

Department on behalf of the City of Detroit, a municipal corporation.

 

Notary Public, Wayne County, Michigan
My commission expires:

Approved as to form:

 

Name:
Title:

 

 

Authorized by City Council resolution adopted 2019.

This Instrument Drafted by and when recorded return to:
Rebecca Navin, Esq.

500 Gn'swold, Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48226

Page 8

EXHIBIT A TO LTA

Junction McGraw Project Area

(See attached)

Page 9

 


5515an 

Mung-1,



 

lo?

MNDIN 

nuns 13503 on?
1: ms: nu;

 

 

EXHIBIT A To 

swimHuman
sandman I . 
?august-1 
__ift-l 
mums: salmon .


L-ll uh 
i . 5,1,5an
5
LE ammsr 1 
?3 1 swung 1
i aligns! .
. ?Jum? st ?Val-nun
'dllilurcrf
PF HIDE 
rain-h. unman-
511933051
nun-551 I 
9.1129011
usual?
,1?ng 
Eu??um Shiv-Ill!
Ina-nor nun-marl
mm? . Sud-purl

_Deuereaux Avenue
1.1?an mill-cm mar-=51 min-Inn
- 
ugw ulnv?u u. amp-arr ??159"
. . - 
HKW nun-us- a yawn .
.. 
new nun-on "In "Eli '_?Inallrf

Lug-c113" mun-mar min-cu pus-man
I 1-: 5-211 9
I . Em)"
UNI-W 12:15th I ?1:11.011 .
. 
?In-inn- . II-wnl
5-1 - 
. .1
Jud" ?ll-555'"
.- 1
guy-?F95

mun-an Emu-arr Human

ru . nun-us! mun-z"

minim? l'?m?n

 

 



u: 3:.an Jury

nun-Ill!
mos-man 
- 

I 

NH 5I3115T5T



535! 321)" mlt?'?

HK?yr
512! nvos?r 

r" 
uni-ha?
5H stun
gnu-nit



r5.?



SIOSIISTST
mi 115151
5w $157 51
an 115151
5175 1151 sf 
eul- 115*?
ml rm 51
lb" mu! 
945115151
5m n51 sr
5m 115751 



LE

53": 1551;: 
EIIETST 


- 
half-Er. 
_li- I
L12 5; 
525?11?5151
35.37515? 

ST

Mm??

M1 
1-1
519: 3151 51

1m m1 
fl" 

5?52'4151 ST
51?. ?5151'
1'12!?

51

?a 511.1 It
rum)! 



Mvaoowsm .

'Wnaw,l



:13va Junc?mme
ra
5555 

Dishict 6
Highways: I 94

Al'hirial Roads.
.Juncti
Rail: CSX on St

280 Fee,

 

lndustrialAssemny Si?les

Parcel 5?11"de

 

 

l'?l 

 

 

 

 

 

EXHIBIT TO LTA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Property

Parcel Number Address Legal Description

16011967. 5314 32ND ST 32ND 21 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

14001153. 4509 WARREN WARREN 104 CROSMAN CUSHINGS SUB L14 P19 PLATS, 
14/74 30 IRREG

14011162.004L 5425 28TH ST 28TH 106 THRU 108 EXC 87.52 FT ON LINE BG 22.81 FT 0N 
LINE CROSMAN CUSHINGS SUB L14 P19 PLATS, 14/74 6,401 50.
FT

14001156. 4541 WARREN WARREN 14 FT 81 16 FT 80 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 
14/78 30 100

16012008. 5305 32ND ST 32ND 25 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012008. 5305 32ND ST 32ND 25 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

14001154. 4515 WARREN WARREN 103-102 CROSMAN CUSHINGS SUB L14 P19 PLATS, 
14/74 60 IRREG

14001158. 4557 WARREN WARREN 77-76 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 14/78 84.66
IRREG

16011084. 5338 315T ST 315T 40 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011092. 5386 315T ST 315T 32 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 IRREG

14001152. 5345 28TH ST WARREN 105 CROSMAN CUSHINGS SUB L14 P19 PLATS, 
14/74 32.5 IRREG

16011992. 5403 32ND ST 32ND 41 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16013115. 5301 JUNCTION JUNCTION 46 THRU 1ALSO VAC 35TH ST 50 FT WD ADJ AND VAC
ALLEY ADJ BLK 6 FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 183,966 SQ FT

16013104. 5555 MCGRAW JUNCTION 46 THRU 1 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ BLK BARBOUR 
WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 16/99 690.61IRREG

16013728. 5216 35TH ST 35TH ST 3 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012455. 5229 33RD ST 33RD ST 44 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 33.22 100

16012455. 5229 33RD ST 33RD ST 44 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 33.22 100

16013727. 5208 35TH ST 35TH ST 4 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 

16/99 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16012431. 5320 33RD ST 33RD ST 20 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16013083-95 5180 JUNCTION JUNCTION PART OF 11 THRU 9 36 72.20 FT ON LINE BG 
38.93 FT ON LINE BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 72.20 IRREG

16012426. 5222 33RD ST 33RD 2 BLK11 FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30X100

16012421. 5192 33RD ST 33RD 7 BLK 11 FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30X100

16013730. 5228 35TH ST 35TH ST 31.72 FT 1 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 31.72 100

I 16012014. 5205 32ND ST 32ND 40 BLK 11-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 

16/99 30 100

16013729. 5222 35TH ST 35TH ST 2 1.50 FT 1 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 31.50 100

16013096. 5186 JUNCTION JUNCTION 8 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16013099. 5204 JUNCTION JUNCTION 5 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16013099. 5204 JUNCTION JUNCTION 5 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012015-26 5201 32ND ST 32ND PT OF 39 THRU 37 DESC 28D 24.63 TH 42D 15M 145 96.45 TH 13.04 FT
TO A PTE ON LINE OF LOT 38 LYG 55.ELY ALG NLY LINE 100 FT TO BLK 11-FYFE BARBOUR WAR

16011993. 5399 32ND ST 32ND 40 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012009. 5303 32ND ST 32ND 24 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16013117. 5221 JUNCTION JUNCTION 43 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42

PLATS, 16/99 30 100

 

16012462-71

5187 33RD ST

33RD ST 37 0.00 FT ON LINE BG 29.73 FT ON LINE 36 BLK
12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 16/99 30
IRREG

 

 

 

 

16012429. 5308 33RD ST 33RD ST 22 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012000. 5357 32ND ST 32ND 33 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 8L WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012011. 5223 32ND ST 32ND 43 BLK 11-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 

 

 

16/99 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16012461. 5193 33RD ST 33RD ST 38 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100
16012010? 5229 32ND ST 32ND 44 BLK 11-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 33.22 100
16011998-9 5363 32ND ST 32ND 15 FT OF 35 34 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 45 100
16012434. 5338 33RD ST 33RD ST 17 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100
16012434. 5338 33RD ST 33 RD ST 17 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100
l$013123. 5185 JUNCTION WJUNCTION 37 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100
16013726. 5204 35TH ST 35TH ST 5 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR 8r. WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 

16/99 30 100

 

 

EXHIBIT TO LTA

City Council Resolution Authorizing Execution of Transfer Agreement

(See attached)

EXHIBIT 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DLBA Parcels

Parcel Number Address Owner Legal Description

16012443. 5392 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 8 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16010799. 5333 30TH ST DLBA 30TH ST 52 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 
143.61

16013724. 5192 35TH ST DLBA 35TH ST 7 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011094. 5405 315T ST DLBA 315T 18 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011107. 5325 315T ST DLBA 315T5 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011987. 5434 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 1 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30.61 100

16011987. 5434 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 1 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30.61 100

15012444. 5398 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 7 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011096. 5393 315T ST DLBA 315T 16 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011091. 5380 315T ST DLBA 315T 33 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16012440. 5372 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 11 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011979. 5384 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 9 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16013125. 5173 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 35 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42

 

 

PLATS, 16/99 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16010803.002L 5303 30TH ST DLBA 30TH 128.50 FT ON LINE BG 48.12 FT ON LINE 47
THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 85.80 IRREG

16012004-5 5327 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 15 FT OF 29 8 FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARREN SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 45 100

14011799-801 5344 30TH ST DLBA THIRTIETH 86 THRU 83 THOMPSON SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 14/78
120 IRREG

16011997. 5375 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 36 15 FT OF 35 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 81 WARREN SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 45 100

16011997. 5375 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 36 15 FT OF 35 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 45 100

16013720. 5168 35TH ST DLBA 35TH ST 11 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012424. 5210 33RD ST DLBA 33RD 4 BLK 11 FYFE BARBOUR 81 WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30X100

16011994. 5393 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 39 BLK BARBOUR 81 WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011975. 5362 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 13 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR 8L WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012459. 5205 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 40 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012459. 5205 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 40 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012428. 5300 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 23 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 81 WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012457. 5215 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 42 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16013719. 5162 35TH ST DLBA 35TH ST 12 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011078-9 5300 315T ST DLBA 315T 46 45 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 60 

143.61

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16011103. 5349 315T ST DLBA 315T 9 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16012442. 5386 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 9 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16013723. 5186 35TH ST DLBA 35TH ST8 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012437. 5354 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 14 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 8L WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16013725. 5198 35TH ST DLBA 35TH ST 6 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR 8L WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011963. 5222 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 2 BLK 10-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011111. 5301 315T ST DLBA 313T 1 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011971. 5338 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 17 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012446-7 5414 33RD ST DLBA THIRTY-THIRD 5 THRU 1 BLK 8 FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 150.61 100

16012432. 5326 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 19 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011966. 5308 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 22 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012002. 5345 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 31 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012002. 5345 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 31 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011974. 5356 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 14 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011995. 5387 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 38 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011980. 5390 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 8 BLK BARBOUR 8: WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 

 

 

 

16/99 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16012433. 5332 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 18 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011088. 5362 315T ST DLBA 315T 36 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16012458. 5211 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 41 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011978. 5380 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 10 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012456. 5221 33RD ST DLBA 33 RD ST 43 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16013120. 5203 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 40 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

16011106. 5333 315T ST DLBA 315T 6 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16012001.001 5351 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 15 FT 32 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 15 100

16011108. 5321 315T ST DLBA 315T4 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011965. 5300 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 23 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011104. 5345 315T ST DLBA 315T 3 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16012441. 5378 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 10 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16010797. 5345 30TH ST DLBA 30TH ST 54 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 
143.61

16011086. 5350 315T ST DLBA 315T 38 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011964. 5228 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 1 BLK 10-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 33.22 100

16011984?5 5416 32ND ST DLBA THIRTY SECOND 4 SBLK 9- FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 60 100

16011984-5 5416 32ND ST DLBA THIRTY SECOND 4 3BLK 9- FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARREN SUB L16 P42

 

 

 

PLATS, 16/99 60 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

16013102. 5222 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 2 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012436. 5350 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 15 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011087. 5354 315T ST DLBA 315T 37 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011969. 5326 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 19 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011988-90 5421 32ND ST DLBA THIRTY SECOND 46 THRU 44 15 FT OF 43BLK 8 FYFE BARBOUR 8;
WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 16/99 105.61 100

16010803001 5309 30TH ST DLBA 30TH 48 EXC FORD EXPWAY AS OP THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS,
16/98 26 IRREG

16011973. 5350 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 15 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011099. 5375 315T ST DLBA 31ST 13 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16013126. 5167 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 34 BLK BARBOUR 81 WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

16011991. 5411 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 15 FT 43 42 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42
PLATS, WCR 16/99 45 100

16012420.002L 5186 33RD ST DLBA 33RD 8 BLK 11 FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30X100

16012438. 5362 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 13 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012439. 5368 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 12 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011081. 5320 315T ST DLBA 315T 43 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16012425. 5216 33RD ST DLBA 33RD 3 BLK11 FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30X100

16012430. 5314 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 21 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,

16/99 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1501370918 5155 35TH ST DLBA 35TH PT 0F 13814 LYG OF A LINE BEG ATA PTE 280 17.02 
FROM COR TH 400 23M 315 75.02 FT TH 43D 15M 445 
32.12 FT BLK 13 FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARRENS SUB L15 P42 PLATS, 
15/99 55.35 IRREG

15001934-5 4829 MCGRAW DLBA MC GRAW 10 FT 20 19 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P59 PLATS, 
15/98 30 130.51

15013101. 5215 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 3 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARRENS SUB L15 P42 PLATS,
15/99 30 100

15011109. 5315 315T ST DLBA 31ST 3 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P59 PLATS, 15/98 30 143.51

15011975. 5358 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 12 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARREN SUB L15 P42 PLATS, 
15/99 30 100

1501312787 5151 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION TRIANG PT 33832 36 40.48 FT ON LINE 8 100 FT
ON LINE BLK 13 FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARRENS SUB L15 P42 PLATS, 
15/99 0 IRREG

15011958. 5320 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 20 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
15/99 30 100

15012422. 5198 3380 ST DLBA 33 RD 5 BLK 11 FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARRENS SUB L15 P42 PLATS, 
15/99 30x100

15012422. 5198 33RD ST DLBA 33RD 5 BLK 11 FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
15/99 30x100

15010793. 5359 30TH ST DLBA 30TH ST 58 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P59 PLATs, 16/98 30 IRREG

15013098. 5198 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 5 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
15/99 30 100

15013098. 5198 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 5 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARRENS SUB L15 P42 PLATS,
15/99 30 100

15012427. 5230 33RO ST DLBA 33 RD ST 1 BLK 11-FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
15/99 33.22 100

15012427. 5230 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 1 BLK 11-FYFE BARBOUR 8 WARRENS SUB L15 P42 PLATS,

 

16/99 33.22 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16011986. 5428 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 2 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011986. 5428 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 2 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 
16/99 30 100

16011961.002L 5210 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 4 EXC TRIANG PT 36 23.32 FT ON LINE 10 FT ON LINE
BLK 10 FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 19/99 30
IRREG

16012013. 5211 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 41 BLK 11-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16013097. 5192 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 7 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16013119. 5209 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 41 BLK BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

16010802. 5315 30TH ST DLBA 30TH 49 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16013124. 5179 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 36 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

16012445. 5404 33RD ST DLBA THIRTY-THIRD 6 BLK 8 FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

16011085. 5344 315T ST DLBA 315T 39 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011082. 5326 315T ST DLBA 315T 42 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011070?7 5230 315T ST DLBA TRIANG PT 43 BG 7.23 FT ON LINE AND 20.64 Fl"
ON LINE AND 20.64 FT ON LINE 44 36 91.72 FT ON LINE
HUBBARD DINGWALLS SUB L18 P19 PLATS, 16/134 40.57
IRREG

16013116. 5227 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 44 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 33.22 100

16011977. 5374 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 11 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 

 

 

 

16/99 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16012006. 5321 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 27 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012435. 5344 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 16 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16012001.002L 5349 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 15 FT 32 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 8: WARREN SUB L16 P42 
PLATS, 16/99 15 100

16012003. 5339 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 15 FT 29 30 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 8L WARREN SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 45 100

16011090. 5374 315T ST DLBA 315T 34 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011110. 5309 315T ST DLBA 315T 2 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011970. 5332 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 18 BLK BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16013100. 5208 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 4 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16013122. 5191 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 38 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

16013118. 5215 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 42 BLK BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

16013721. 5172 35TH ST DLBA 35TH ST 10 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16010795. 5357 30TH ST DLBA 30TH ST 56 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 
143.61

16012420001 5180 33RD ST DLBA 33RD 51 FT ON LINE 36 13.8 FT ON LINE OF LOTS 10 QBLK
11; FYFE BARBER WARRENS SUBL16 P42 PLATS, 16/99 51
IRREG

16012423. 5204 33RD ST DLBA 33 RD 5 BLK 11 FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30X100

16011080. 5314 31ST ST DLBA 315T 44 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011105. 5339 315T ST DLBA 315T 7 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16013722. 5180 35TH ST DLBA 35TH ST 9 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16011089. 5368 315T ST DLBA 315T 35 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16012012. 5217 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 42 BLK 11-FYFE BARBOUR 81 WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011972. 5344 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 16 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16012460. 5199 33RD ST DLBA 33RD ST 39 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR 81 WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS,
16/99 30 100

16010794. 5363 30TH ST DLBA 30TH ST 57 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 
143.61

16010798. 5337 30TH ST DLBA 30TH ST 53 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 
143.61

16011996. 5381 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 37 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011996. 5381 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 37 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR 81 WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16011093. 5390 315T ST DLBA 31ST 31 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 74.40A

16010796. 5351 30TH ST DLBA 30TH ST 55 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 
143.61

16011095. 5399 315T ST DLBA 315T 17 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 143.61

16011113-24 5223 315T ST DLBA 315T 2 THRU 4 EXC EXPWAY AS OP HUBBARD DINGWALLS SUB
L18 P19 PLATS, 16/134 30 IRREG

16012007. 5315 32ND ST DLBA 32ND 26 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 
16/99 30 100

16013121. 5197 JUNCTION DLBA JUNCTION 39 BLK 13-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16 P42

 

 

 

PLATS, 16/99 30 100

 

 

 

OS 86/91: I) 'SlV?ld 69d $1 805 21' 15125 V910 .LS 1815 69?59 

 

 

OOI 66/91 3 
'SlV'ld 217:! gm ans SNEIHHVM ?8 unoaava me I 3 van 8225 

 

 

 

 

 

(titty of Eetrnit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

RAQUEL CASTAN EDA-LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Ron Brundidge, Director, Department of Public Works
THRU: Council President Brenda Jones

FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez E?ini
DATE: September 25, 2019

RE: Street/Alley Closures on Ruskin and Toledo

 

While door knocking recently I observed several streets closed at the following intersections. have attached

pictures
0



of each intersection:
Ruskin and 23rd
Ruskin and 24th
Toledo 24th
Toledo &25th

Please provide the following information for each closure:
1) Were the street closures/vacations approved by the administration and Council? If so please provide the
reports and the supporting documents.

2) 

a)
b)

0)

Thanks

Cc:

street closures/vacations we not approved:

what is the process for re-opening the streets?

what fines or penalties will the entity responsible for illegally closing the streets be charged, if any?
if not fines or penalties are charged, what other recourse does the City have to hold the owner
responsible for illegally closing/vacating public roads?

in advance for your attention. Please feel free to contact my office with questions.

Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison
Louise Jones, City Clerk?s Office

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226

7w" 3 Phone:313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189



9/26/2019 Mail - Nicole Vargas - Outlook

 

 

1/2

 Em: - Z_oo_m <m6mm - OCEOOX

. . . .
.. 1? .. i .
incl. I. a.
. 

H.953. ..

'ln

.r .

z?




.Pruavhr?drll
1?omwOri :w

 

9/26/2019 Mail Nicole Vargas - Outlook

1f2

 

9/26/2019 Mail Nicole Vargas Outlook

 

.. 1/2

9l26/2019 Mail - Nicole Vargas - Outlook

2/2

926/2019 Mail Nicole Vargas Outlook

 

1/2

9/26/2019 Mail - Nicole Vargas - Outlook

ji/f

 

 

 

?v'r'vui p. 
'5?qu 'anEll *?r-?mL-Ilb?r- 
Aar? h'w?l

. ., - 
.. 

 

1/1

