 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Transportation Committee

Wednesday. September 25, 2019 9:30 AM Cook County Building. Board Room
118 North Clark Street. Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE

Present: Sims. Arroyo. Anaya. Britton. Daley. Deer. Degnen. Gainer. Johnson. Loyyry. Miller.
Moore. K. Morrison. S. Morrison. Sily estri. Sut?t?redin and 'l?obolski l7]

PUBLIC TESTINION 

Chairman Sims asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
No public speakers

l9-5708

COMMITTEE MINLITES
Approyal ot?the minutes from the meeting of 5522.00 1 9

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to approve
19-5708. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Sims. Arroyo. Anaya. Brilton. Daley. Deer. Degncn. ('iainer. Johnson. Lowry. Miller.
Moore. K. Morrison. S. Morrison. Silvestri. Sufli?edin and 'I'obolski (17}

l9-4276

Presented by: .101 lN YONAX. P.li.. Superintendent. Department ofTransportation and Highways

PROPOSED CHANGE IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)

Department: ?l'ransportation and lighu'ay 5

Other Part(ies): Western Remae lne.. \k-"oodridge. Illinois

Transportation Committee Committee Minutes September 25 201 9

 

Action: Refer to Transportation Committee

Section: and 

Contract Number(s): NM

Federal Project Number(s): 

Federal Job Number(s): NEA

Location: 

Board District: Countywide

Good(s) or Service(s): Fabrication. Installation. Removal. Relocation and Maintenance

Fiscal Impact: $441.484?? decrease

Accounts: Motor Fuel ?l?ax: 

Summary: The Department of Transportation and l-lighways respectfully submits the Proposed Change
in Plans due to a sayings regarding this contract. This contract is for the fabrication. installation. removal.
relocation and maintenance of existing as well as new sign panel assemblies and their appurtenances
located along Various roads on the Cook County Highway System. The decreases are attributed to the
difference between the estimated quantities and actual tield quantities of work performed with decrease in

quantities required to maintain roadway signing on the roadway network.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley. seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to
recommend for approval 19-4276. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Sims. Arroyo. Anaya. Britton. Daley. Deer. Degncn. Gainer. Johnson. [.owry. Miller.
Moore. K. Morrison. S. Morrison. Silvestri. and 'l?obolski (17)

19?4858
Presented by: JOHN YONAX. P.1-rl.. Superintendent. Department ofTransportation and I--lighways

PROPOSED CHANGE IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK (TRANSPORTATION AND


Department: Transportation and Highways

Page 2 of5

Transportation Committee Committee 

September 25 2019

 

Other Part(ies): (?apitol (?ement Company. lnc.. Chicago. 

Action: Refer to Transportation Committee

Section: Oil-W433 

Contract Number(s): 1388-1305]

Contract Number(s): WA

Federal Project Number(s): \r?A

Federal Job Number(s): 

Location: Crawford Avenue-Dcyon to Oakton Street.

Illinois

Board District: l3

Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Seryiecs

Fiscal Impact: Decrease

Accounts: Motor l-?ucl Tax: l1300.150029150560019

Concurrences:
NIA

Summary:

Villages

of

Skokie and Lincolnwood.

The Department of Transportation and l-lighways respectfully submits a change in plans and extra work of the

above captioned project in the Villages of Skokie and Lincolnwood.

2r19x2014 your honorable Body awarded a contract to Capitol Cement Company. Inc. Chicago. Illinois for the

aforesaid improyemcnt to be completed in accordance with the plans and speci?cations.

The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This change

represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work performed with

Page 3 of5

Transportation Committee Committee Minutes September 25 . 201 9

 

additional quantities required for pavcr driveway removal and placement. aggregate related items. storm sewer
related items. ?re hydrant with auxiliary valve and valve box and geotechnica] fabric for subgrade stabilization per
?eld conditions.

New items were added for ?lling potholes at various locations. modi?cation to existing irrigation at R.O.W. due to
grade differential. furnish and deliver new frames and lids. pavcrs related items. seeding class IA. repair snow plow
damage to curb and gutter. repair of sewer line and sanitary sewer. relocating cable for pump station. temporary
signage for school area. winter traf?c control and protection. repair sprinklers at school. remove and replace existing
6 inch valve. additional street signage. explore and repair broken clay pipe cleanout. explore and repair unmarked

water service. water proo?ng existing sanitary manholes and ?owmeter cabinet work.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley. seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to
recommend for approval 19-4858. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Sims. Arroyo. Anaya. Britton. Daley. Deer. Degnen. Gainer. Johnson. Lowry. Miller.
Moore. K. Morrison. S. Morrison. Silvestri. Suflredin and Tobolski (17)

19-52] I
Presented by: JOHN YONAX. Superintendent. Department of 'l?ransportation and Highways

REPORT

Department: Department of Transportation and Highways

Report Title: Fair Transit for South Cook County Pilot

Action: Refer to 'l?ransportation Committee

Report Period: KIA

Summary: The Department of ?l?ransportation and Highways respectfully requests that the Fair Transit
for South Cook County Pilot be referred to Committee for further discussion. The South Cook Mobility
Study was undertaken by the Department and was to determine how to put the region's existing transit
assist to more effective use. The study's objective was to implement changes to fare policy. modest
service improvements. and improve coordination between Mctra. CTA. and Pace. The study builds upon
the Department's previous efforts to bring increased connectivity and mobility to residents of South Cook

County while reducing disparities in access to employment.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley. seconded by Commissioner Silvestri. to recommend for receiving
and ?ling l9-5211. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 4 of5

Transpormtimz rmmzirree C?onmi?ee Minutes September 25 . 2019

 

Ayes: Sims- Arroyo. Anaya. Brilton. Deer. Degnen. Gainer. Johnson. Lowry. Miller.
Moore. K. Morrison. S. Silx-cstri. Sull'redin and Tobolski 

A RN .Vl 

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri. seconded by Commissioner Daley, to
adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Sims. Arroyo. Anaya. Britlon. Dale} . Door. l)cgnen. Gainer. Johnson. Lowry. Miller.
Moore. K. Morrison. S. :\-1orrison. Silvestri. Sul?t?redin and Tobolski (17}

Respectfully submitted.

2 4% 6.2L

Chairman Secretary

 

A complete record ol?this meeting is available at .lcgistar.com.

Page 5 of5

