Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Homeland Security and Emergency Management Committee
Wednesday, September 25, 2019

11:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Tobolski, Lowry, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Miller,
Moore, K. Morrison, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (17)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Tobolski asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code.
1. George Blakemoe - Concerned Ciitizen

19-5711
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 4/24/2019
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Vice Chairman Lowry, to approve
19-5711. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Tobolski, Lowry, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Miller,
Moore, K. Morrison, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (17)

 Homeland Security and Emergency

Committee Minutes

September 25, 2019

Management Committee
19-5348
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ADOPTION
OF
MITIGATION PLAN

THE

2019 COOK

COUNTY

MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL

HAZARD

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners (“Board”) recognizes the threat that
hazards pose to people and property within our community; and
WHEREAS, The Board recognizes the importance of reducing or eliminating vulnerability
caused by natural hazards for the overall good and welfare of the community; and

to

natural

disasters

WHEREAS, on October 10, 2000, the U.S. Congress passed the Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000 (“Act”)
which provides the legal framework for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) mitigation,
planning requirements for state, local, and tribal governments as a condition of mitigation grant assistance
emphasizing the need for pre-disaster mitigation of potential hazards; and
WHEREAS, as a condition of future funding for mitigation projects, the Act requires jurisdictions to
prepare and adopt hazard mitigation plan to identify and address certain vulnerabilities that exist prior to
and during a disaster; and
WHEREAS, FEMA supports post-disaster grant funding through the Hazards Mitigation Grant Program,
which has as a condition of funding eligibility, a requirement for jurisdictions to prepare and adopt a hazard
mitigation plan; and
WHEREAS, on September 10, 2014, the Board adopted the Cook County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard
Mitigation Plan (“2014 Plan”), which represented 115 Cook County jurisdictions; and
WHEREAS, to maintain continued eligibility for FEMA mitigation grant assistance programs the Act
requires a hazard mitigation plan be updated every five years; and
WHEREAS, Cook County, through its Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management
(“DHSEM”) has evaluated the hazards, risks, and mitigation measures identified in the 2014 Plan, and
incorporated the results of these evaluations into a two-volume updated plan (“2019 Plan”) composed of
Volume 1 - Planning-Area-Wide-Elements and Volume 2 - Planning Partner Annexes; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Act’s requirements, 121 Cook County jurisdictions engaged in the
FEMA-prescribed mitigation planning process to prepare the 2019 Plan and its associated local hazard
mitigation plan annexes;

Page 2 of 3

 Homeland Security and Emergency

Committee Minutes

September 25, 2019

Management Committee
WHEREAS, the 2019 Plan has been submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Region
V, and the Illinois Emergency Management Agency for approval pending adoption by Cook County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED,
1.
2.

The Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby accepts, approves and adopts in their entirety
Volumes 1 and 2 of the 2019 Cook County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan; and
Cook County will continue to participate in the updating and revision of the 2019 Plan with another
plan review and revision to occur within a five-year cycle, and designated staff will provide annual
progress reports on the status of implementation of the 2019 Plan to the Board; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President and the Members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners approve the 2019 Plan as presented.
A motion was made by Commissioner
Daley, seconded by
recommend for approval 19-5348. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Commissioner

Silvestri,

to

Tobolski, Lowry, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Miller,
Moore, K. Morrison, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (17)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded
adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

by

Commissioner

Silvestri,

Tobolski, Lowry, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Miller,
Moore, K. Morrison, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (17)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A complete record of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 3 of 3

to

 