COUNTY BUILDING
118 NORTH CLARK, ROOM 567
c/o 7th District
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(T) 312-603-5443
(F) 312-603-3759

CHAIR
Alma E. Anaya

COOK COUNTY COMMISSION
ON SOCIAL INNOVATION

CONTACT
Nadia Ismail
Nadia.ismail@cookcountyil.gov
(T) 312-603-5443

August 15, 2019
4:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Cook County Administrative Building
69 W. Washington, Lower Level Conference Room B
Chicago, IL 60602
MINUTES

1.

Welcome
The August 15th meeting of The Cook County Commission on Social Innovation was convened via an
in-person meeting from 4:03pm-6:00pm. The meeting was chaired by Cook County Commissioner Alma
Anaya, Chair of the Commission on Social Innovation. This meeting was open to the public, no public
comment was given.
Commission Members Present:
• Commissioner Alma Anaya
• Marc Loveless
• John Yonan
• Xochitl Espinosa
• Christyn Freemon
• Wendy Raymer
• Carrie Thomas
• Victor Dickson
• Xochitl Flores
• Morgan Malone
• Mike Hobbs

Commission Staff Present:
• Nadia Ismail
• Victoria Moreno

Cook County Commissioner Donna Miller and staff from her office attended this meeting.
2.

Approval of the Minutes
a. The June 20th and July 18th meeting minutes were approved with amendments. Edits were
recommended to correct the spelling of a name.
b. Commissioner Loveless motioned to approve the minutes, the motioned received a second from
Commissioner Dickson and both sets of minutes were passed by a unanimous voice-vote.

3.

Commissioners’ Guide
a. The Commissioners’ Guide was voted on for approval.
b. Commissioners agreed to edit the guide to include a previously agreed upon update that would not
allow proxies to vote.

 i. A motion to approve as amended was made by Comm. Dickson and seconded by Comm.
Raymer.
4.

Vote on Accepting as an Official Document “Equity in Cook County: A Strategic Roadmap for
Integrating Data-Driven Equity Initiatives into Cook County Policy”
a. A motion to accept “Equity in Cook County” as an official document was made by Comm. Dickson and
seconded by Comm. Freemon. The report will be submitted to be received and filed at the Cook County
Board meeting.

5.

Committees
a. Commissioners were asked to breakout into the Commission’s four committees (Social & Human
Capital, Financial Capital, Intellectual Capital, and Public Capital). Commissioners met with other
members of their selected committees.
b. While in their committees, commissioners were asked to do strategic planning, they were given a
planning chart to fill out and a list of questions to answer about their committee accomplishments
thus far, the membership of their committee, their preferred meeting dates, and their goals for the
year.
c. Committees reported back after 40 minutes of small group discussions.
i. Financial Capital Committee is interested in leveraging Opportunity Zone funding. They
specifically would like to focus on Lincoln Highway. Their first committee meeting will take
place on September 10.
ii. Social and Human Capital Committee would like to build off of the Inclusive Employment
Rubric they created in 2018 to turn it into a County action. Their research goals for the year
are to study how to recession-proof Cook County communities by looking at the destruction
from the last recession in the most hard-hit areas and reviewing recession proofing case
studies.
iii. The Public Capital Committee has an over-arching goal of intersecting community and
economic development and socializing new transportation projects (e.g. Metra Electric and
freight train projects).
iv. Intellectual Capital Committee would like to support other committees in effective data
collection and processes. They would like to put together a rubric for investment. They would
also like to partner with universities to understand what research is being done on social
innovation and social impact in Cook County academic institutions.
d. Committees were asked to decide on when their first stand-alone committee meeting would be and to
notify, and coordinate with, the Office of the Chair.

6.

Announcements
a. Commissioner Espinosa announced a Summer Co-Op Party event on August 29th
b. Commissioner Freemon announced a job fair at King College on August 22nd
c. Commissioners are asked to send details of events to the Office of the Chair.

7.

Adjourn
a. Comm. Thomas motioned to adjourn, seconded by Comm. Yonan

 