Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Botanic Garden Committee
Wednesday, October 16, 2019

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0139
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

LARRY

SUFFREDIN,

Forest

Preserve

District

of

Cook

County

Board

of

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REQUESTING A HEARING OF THE BOTANIC GARDEN COMMITTEE FOR A REPORT
FROM THE SENIOR STAFF OF THE GARDEN CONCERNING THE OPERATIONS AND
PROGRAMS OF THE CHICAGO BOTANIC GARDEN
WHEREAS, in 1962, the Chicago Horticultural Society agreed to help create and manage a new public
garden. With the groundbreaking for the Chicago Botanic Garden in 1965 and its opening in 1972, the
Society created a permanent site on which to carry out its mission; and
WHEREAS, the Garden has matured into one of the world’s great living museums and conservation

Page 1 of 2

 Botanic Garden Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 16, 2019

science centers. Within the nine laboratories of the Garden's Daniel F. and Ada L. Rice Plant
Conservation Science Center, scientists and graduate students conduct a wide array of plant research.
The Garden is one of only 17 public gardens accredited by the American Association of Museums. Its
Lenhardt Library contains 150,000 volumes-including one of the nation's best collections of rare botanical
books; and
WHEREAS, the Garden has 50,000 members - one of the largest memberships of any U.S. botanic
garden. People of all ages, interests, and abilities participate in programs, take classes, and stroll the
grounds year-round. Annually, one million people visit its 27 gardens and four natural areas that are
uniquely situated on 385 acres on and around nine islands and six miles of lake shoreline; and
WHEREAS, the Garden today is an example of a successful public-private partnership. It is owned by
the Forest Preserve District of Cook County and operated by the Chicago Horticultural Society. The
Garden is an important and valuable asset of the Cook County Forest Preserve District; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Forest Preserve District annually provides $9 million for the Garden in
support of its world-class operations and programs; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby request that a meeting of the Botanic Garden Committee be convened to discuss the operations
and programming of the Chicago Botanic Garden; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a member of the senior staff of the
Chicago Botanic Garden appear before the Committee and be prepared to update
the Committee on the Garden’s operations and programming.
Legislative History :

1/22/19 - FPD Board of Commissioners - refer to the Botanic Garden Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Britton
Members:
Anaya, Daley, Deer, Johnson, K. Morrison, S. Morrison, Sims

Page 2 of 2

 