 3253I0M
IQ r? $3 let.

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,




a: Nl?m
)7



rid-l"

COUNCIL 



-NCIL 


DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 2
{ii-k2Tin-.3. '1 . 
i Wf?a-J 2:31.! 1 Mi F: it'll {ti-N?

Anthony Whi 
Detroit Youth Choir Director

Anthony White is the talented and dedicated Artistic Director of the Detroit Youth Concert Choir and
Performing Arts Company. Raised in Detroit, Michigan, and a proud graduate of St. Martin de Porres
High School, Anthony found his love for music through performance opportunities in the city. He began
his grind in the arts community as a member of the Boys Choir of Detroit, when it was a branch of the
Boys Choir of Harlem. Anthony?s passion for working with young people extends beyond the Detroit
Youth Choir as he currently is employed as the Elementary District Choir Director of Oak Park, where he
offers performing arts education to anyone who wishes to use it as a vehicle for success; and

Anthony is a graduate of Marygrove College where he earned a Bachelor of Arts in Music. While
attending Marygrove College, Anthony performed in various productions such as Ragtime, Godspell and
Ain ?t Misbehavz?n He also performed in the ?Soulful Expression Ensemble? where he was able to use his
God-given talents of vocal music, music production, songwriting, music composition and theater; and

Anthony became the director of the Detroit Youth Choir succeeding Fleming lvory, who was the founder
of the organization in 2001. Anthony and the Detroit Youth Choir have performed at various places in the
US. and Canada. The organization was awarded the Mary McLeod Bethune Award and the DMC
Community Service Award, and was nominated for the Gospel Showcase 2015 Youth Choir of the Year
Award. The Detroit Youth Choir also won the Texas Gospel Music Excellence Award in 2018. Anthony?s
ability to lead young people to musical success has allowed the choir to receive the 313 Best in Black
Detroit Award for ?Best Community Choir of the Year? in 2018; and

Under his leadership, the Detroit Youth Choir has performed on local television stations such as WDIV
Local 4 News, WJBK Fox 2 News and the PBS program ?Detroit Performs.? The Detroit Youth Choir was
given the opportunity to be a guest on the Ron Todd Radio Talk show, as well as the Be-Moor Radio Talk
Show. Throughout his journey, doors continued to open. The Detroit Youth Choir was recently shown in
the ?lm documentary ?America?s Musical Journey? and performed at Aretha Franklin?s memorial. In
2019, Anthony and his staff led the Detroit Youth Choir to the ?nals of America?s Got Talent. NOW,
THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and the Of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones hereby join with the
Citizens of Detroit in honoring Anthony White for his dedication to enhancing the performing arts for
young people in Detroit. Thank you for representing the City of Detroit with pride and enthusiasm on
America?s Got Talent and for always being a positive role model for our youth. May God continue to bless
you and all that you do! You and the Detroit Youth Choir are 

COUNCIL 

     
   
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

Tessie Hill
Legendary Gospel Singer

We. the members of the Detroit City Council, join the family and friends of Mrs. Tessie Hill in honoring her
life and musical legacy. Detroit and the gospel music industry lost a legend when Tessie Hill made her heavenly
transition. We pauae to offer sincere condolences to her surviving five children, Brenda Hill. twins Dr. Fairest
Hill and Ferrell Hill-Richardson. Jacqueline Moore and Elder Reginald L. Hill: three grandchildren who she raised
as her own. Nicole Hill. Tiffany Tomlin and Jermaine Hill; and 10 other grandchildren Three children and live
siblings preceded her in death; and

WHEREAS, Tessie Hill was born on October 9. 1934. in Monroe, GA. Al the age of eight. her family moved to Detroit. where

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

she began singing in the choir at Polk Street Church of God in Christ. At an early age she married the late Elder
Lonnie El. Hill. who founded The Original Church of God in Christ in 1969. The church short. with
Tessie Hill singing lead. was signed to Savoy Records in 1964. In 1975. Tessie Hill signed with Hobbs Record
Label and recorded her first solo album, "Beams of Heaven." The following year she moved to Peacock
Records, now known as ABC Records. There Tessie Hill was a trailblazer because she recorded several
gospel albums that were considered contemporary for gospel music. Several hits came from her recordings
produced by Eddie Robinson and Sylvia Moy -- songs like. "i Must Tali Jesus." ?Don't Forget to Rememhen'
?Leave it in the Hands of the Lord. and others. But the song "Great Things. from the self-titled album. "Tessie
Hill. "that was added just to fill space, would become the biggest and most noteworthy song of her career: and

The song, "Great Things." earned Tessie Hill national recognition. as the song helped open the door for
Contemporary Gospel music. And. she was one of the ?rst gospel artists to be played on secular radio. "Great
Things, ?crossed over into areas of popular music, propelling Tessie Hill's music sales and earning hera Gold
Album and "Artist of the Year Award" by Record World magazine. in 1918. Record Wodd magazine named
Tessie Hill its ?Top Female Gospel Artist"; and

She shifted her life's focus in 1981 due to her husband's cancer diagnosis and subsequent death in 1983. But.
a few years later. Tessie Hill pursued recording again only to ?nd that the music industry?s taste in gospel music
had changed and now catered to songs that did not include God?s name. However. her ministry. built on the
foundation and principle of God's promises, would not be compromised. in 1991 and 199?. Tessie Hill faced
her own mayor health challenges. But her faith remained strong, God showed up. and she was healed. In 1995.
Tessie Hill's producer. Eddie Robinson. called her to Work on a new project and they picked up right where
they left off many years before. In 2006. she recorded the appropriately?named CD. "it's Me Again. in 2010
she released "Stepping Out. And. in 2017. Tessie Hill recorded a song with her son. Dr. Fairest Hill. and

Throughout her career. Tessie Hill was known for fashion that wasjust as bold as her voice. When asked about
her style. she once said. want to look like sound." She also said. won't retire. When God calls me and
says. 'Well done.? that?s when it will be over. and then I'll probably be up there singing With the angels." And. on
July 28. 2019. God said. "Well done. Tessie Hill. come sing with the angels." NDW. THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and office of Council President Brenda Jones. join with family and friends in

 

honoring the life and musical legacy of Mrs. Tessie Hill. Her songs will live on forever!

 

   

counc EAEMBER 

(Toun 
October 1. 2019

DATE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

  
  

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

MR. EMMITT LEWIS

We, the members of the Detroit City Council, join the family and friends of MR. EMMITT LEWIS, in
honoring his life and legacy. MR. LEWIS made his heavenly transition on September 18, 2019, after a life
well-lived; and

EMMITT LEWIS was born on April 20, 1931 in Springs, Mississippi, to the late Leola and Jessie
Lewis. He was the third of four children, which included his loving sister, Florence Young (Albert) and
two brothers, A.J. Lewis and Jodie Lewis (both preceded him in death). EMMITT was baptized at an early
age at Mount Way Baptist Church and later as an adult re-affirmed his faith at Salt Mine Church, under the
leadership of Pastor Alahundro Reese; and

EMMITT graduated from Lanier High School in 1949. Shortly thereafter, be relocated to Detroit to seek
employment. After working at Corporation for about one-year, EMMITT was drafted into the
US. Army. He was deployed to Korea and fought in the Korean War until it ended. Following his military
service, he returned to Detroit and resumed working for He started in production, but found his
calling in the United Auto Workers (UAW) union. EMMITT was elected as chief steward, committeeman
and shop chairman. He often bragged to his closest friends and family that he had never lost an election in
30 years. EMMITT retired from after 54 years; and

In 1959, EMMITT was united in marriage to Veanita Battle (preceded him in death). To this union four
children were born: Sandra Lewis, Belinda Lewis Burkes, Brenda Watson (Carey) and Emmitt Lewis Jr.
Their blended family included his stepchildren: Samantha, Emmanuel, Manulita and Monique (preceded
him in death). Then, EMMITT joined with Kay Rice and they had two children: Desmond Rice
(Jacquelynn) and Dana Rice, and his stepchildren: Kenneth Rice and Kristie Rice; and

EMMITT lived life to the fullest, He was known as a friendly, affectionate person who never met a stranger
and always had a kind word or smile. EMMITT enjoyed his leisure activities of reading the newspapers
while drinking coffee, watching or listening to sports, and discussing the latest politics and union issues.
MR. EMMITT LEWIS leaves to mourn and cherish his memory, six children; five stepchildren; sixteen
grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; two great-great grandchildren; his beloved sister; his close friend
Chandra and her daughter Chanice, and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins, other relatives and friends. MR.
EMMITT LEWIS will be greatly missed, and his contributions and lessons taught will live on forever.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones, join with family and friends in
honoring the life of MR. EMMITT LEWIS.

 

 

COUNCIL

comma gabZE'J?g
COUNCIL MEMBER


September 27, 2019

DATE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

