STAFF REPORT 10-09-2019 REGULAR MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6451
ADDRESS: 1511 VAN DYKE STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT: WEST VILLAGE
APPLICANT: METRO DETROIT SIGNS
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 09-03-2019
STAFF SITE VISIT: 09-25-2019

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

SCOPE: NEW ELECTRONIC SIGN
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The building located at 1511 Van Dyke Street is a 2-story church constructed in the 1940s. The simple massing is
clad in red brick and features cast stone detailing. The massing of the building bumps out toward Van Dyke Street at
the main entrance. The entrance is centered on the front/east façade and is topped with its own gabled roof. It is
accessed via a large, uncovered front porch which is raised seven steps (approximately 4’) above street-level. A
painted wood ramp is located directly south of the porch. The building includes a simple gabled roof which is covered
in green asphalt shingles. The side yards around the building are used as lawns, parking lots, and gardening areas and
a chain link fence exists around the perimeter of the property.

PROPOSAL
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to erect a new 9’ tall ground sign
with an electronic message board per the attached drawings and application. Included in the proposal are the
following scope items:
• Double-sided sign to be situated perpendicular to Van Dyke Street with identical content on both sides
• Sign cabinet to be constructed of white aluminum with acrylic panels. Acrylic panels will covered with a
black vinyl background and include a sign which reads “Metro Central Church of Christ” in white vinyl. The
panels will be internally illuminated.
• A 13” H x 63” W electronic message board will be located at the lower portion of the sign. The background
of the electronic message board will be black. The lettering displayed on the black background can be any
color, however, the rendering is showing red and white electronic lettering.
• Sign to be elevated 5’ above grade on two (2) steel poles with a white finish
• Steel poles to be mounted in concrete footing
STAFF OBSERVATIONS & RESEARCH
• West Village Historic District designated in 1983

 •

Multiple work items have been completed without COA – staff noticed the following:
o Chain link fence around perimeter of property
o ADA ramp at front entrance
o Signage on the front façade
o Glass block at the lower level windows
o Landscaping

ISSUES
• Sign proposal does not meet the Historic District Commission’s Signs and Awning Guidelines –
specifically as it relates to the illumination method (internal), material, height, sign base, landscaping and
general complementation of the historic integrity of the building and community.
• It is staff’s opinion that the design of the sign, as proposed, does not retain nor preserve the historic
character of the building, its site, and setting—causing it to not meet the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Rehabilitation #2. The location of the sign, however, does not detract from the historic
character of the property. Therefore, it is staff’s opinion that if the design of the sign were to align with
the Historic District Commission’s Signs and Awning Guidelines, it would meet the Secretary of the
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation #2. The following design elements should be modified in order to
meet Standard #2:
o Height: Proposed height is too tall. Finished height should not exceed 6’ in height including the
base.
o Material: Plastic (acrylic and vinyl) are inappropriate materials within historic districts. Use
signage materials that are architecturally appropriate to the historic character of the
neighborhood.
o Sign Content: Digital signage should not move or scroll.
o Illumination: Internally illuminated box signs are not considered appropriate within historic
districts. Use external or halo lighting to illuminate signage.
o Base: Sign base should be of masonry, granite, or concrete with an architectural finish. A metal
base on grade is prohibited unless it is 12” above grade.
o Landscaping: Include landscaping around the base of the sign.
RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion that the work as proposed does not preserve nor retain the historic character of the building, its
site, ad setting. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission deny a Certificate of Appropriateness for the work as
proposed as it does not meet the following Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation:
2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or
alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.

  a; 12%! ?$511255:-
I. 9.11. 

4


Ej-
IiiEnteiprise
.. 



Parkstiznhe 3:
1, rkhurat Apartments
,6

 

i" . 
Image-ry- $21119 Bungle Imagery @2619 First 3339 Solution-a, ?Ema Te?nabgie?. Samba-n. LL 5. Geologlcal Burma-1.: USDA Farm Sen-i? Agency Map data @201? Uniled Stat-EH Terrna Send feec?nack 1011 it 

 r; 

J-
Ste-erg?
C?l?nn?mnaw Garden-

Gaugla 

Imagery @2111 El Bangle. llTlagE-?' @2519 First Base Solution. Mara; Tad'IruIJI-ngl'ea. LL 5. Survey. USDA Fam'I Eta-wine Agency. Map data @2019 Unite-d States Terrna Send fie-re?nack 50 {t 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STAFF SITE VISIT 09/25/2019

 

 

 

1511

b?rTl

 

 

 

- 3?4? 
A 

STAFF SITE VISIT 09/25/2019

 

 

 

 

 

STAFF SITE VISIT 0/25/2019

I

leiEw?mao mEm ":25 . . 

. . ?5.liq-ti.-

 

     
  

Erru 
:uunzu



APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 APPLICANT PHOTO

 REPORT

 REPORT

 REPORT

 REPORT

 Sec. 21-2-132. - West Village Historic District.
(a)

An historic district to be known as the West Village Historic District is hereby established in
accordance with the provisions of this article.

(b)

The historic district designation is hereby certified as being consistent with the Detroit Master
Plan of Policies.

(c)

The boundaries of the West Village Historic District, as shown on the map on file in the Office
of the City Clerk, are as follows:

Beginning at the intersection of the center line of East Jefferson Avenue with the western boundary
of the Park Subdivision of the Cook Farm (L19/P59), and proceeding northerly along the western
boundary of the Park Subdivision to the point where it meets the western boundary of the assessor's
plat of the addition to Park Subdivision of the Cook Farm (L66/P55) and proceeding northerly along the
western boundary of the assessor's plat to its intersection with the center line of Kercheval; thence
westerly along the center line of Kercheval to its intersection with the center line of the north-south
alley lying between Seyburn and Baldwin; thence southerly along the center line of said alley to its
intersection with the center line of Van Dyke Place extended westward; thence east along said center
line to its intersection with the western boundary of the north-south alley between Seyburn and Van
Dyke; thence southerly along said western boundary to its intersection with the center line of the alley
between Van Dyke Place and East Jefferson Avenue; thence easterly along said center line to its
intersection with the center line of Van Dyke Avenue; thence southerly along said boundary to its
intersection with the center line of East Jefferson Avenue; thence easterly to the point of beginning.
(These boundaries include: Parker's Re-Sub of Lots 77, 78, 79, 80, and 81 of the Van Dyke Farm
(L21/P99), Lots 1-68; Hart's Re-Sub of Lot 66 of the subdivision of the Van Dyke Farm, Private Claims 100
and 679 (L22/P86), Lots 1-27; Nowosad Subdivision (L99/P49), Lots 1-5; Hogg's Subdivision of Lot 69 of
the subdivision of the Van Dyke Farm, Private Claims 100 and 679, Lots 1-24 (L23/P64); Coe, Denham
and Shipherd's Subdivision of Lot 70, 73, and 74 of the Van Dyke Farm, Private Claim 679 (L4/P61), Lots
1-75; that part of the plat of the subdivision of the Van Dyke Farm being Private Claim 100 and 679 from
Mack to Jefferson Out Lot 65 (L1/P156), being the same as the private plat of Out Lot 65 of the
subdivision of the Van Dyke Farm, Lots 33-53; subdivision of Lots 19 to 24 (incl.) and Lots 172-180, also
the vacated alley in rear of said lots of Wesson's Sub. of that part of Private Claim 38 lying between East
Jefferson Avenue and Waterloo Street, Lots 5-12 (L18/P100); Charles Bewick's Subdivision of the
subdivision of Lots 82, 83, and 84 of the Van Dyke Farm, Lots 1-45 and AA (L21/P39); Shipherd's
Subdivision of Lots 64, 67, 68, 71, 72, 75 and 76 of the subdivision of the Van Dyke Farm being Private
Claims 100 and 679 lying between East Jefferson Avenue and Mack Road, (L14/P61), Lots 7-64 and the
south 32.30 feet of Lots 5 and 6; Wesson's Sub of that part of Private Claim 38 lying between East
Jefferson Avenue and Waterloo Streets (L16/P91), Lot 10-18, 25-75, 121-171 and 181-186.)
(d)

The elements of design, as defined in Section 21-2-2 of this Code, shall be as follows:
(1)

Height. Buildings in West Village range in height from one story to 11 stories. The

 majority of the residential buildings are 2½ stories tall, meaning they have two full
stories plus an attic or finished third floor within the roof. One and one-half-story
residential buildings exist and are primarily concentrated on Van Dyke between East
Lafayette Boulevard and Kercheval, the east side of Shipherd, and on St. Paul between
Shepherd and Van Dyke. Apartment buildings range from two stories to 11 stories tall
although buildings of more than four stories are rare. Commercial buildings range from
one to three stories tall; the older commercial buildings are two stories tall.
(2)

Proportion of buildings' front façades. Proportion varies in the district, depending on
age, style, use and location in a specific subdivision. On narrow, 30-foot to 35-foot
parcels, proportion of front façades is narrow compared to depth, and buildings are
taller than wide. Apartment buildings are taller than wide, terraces and attached row
houses are wider than tall when taken as a whole.

(3)

Proportion of openings within the façades. Areas of voids generally constitute between
15 percent and 30 percent of the front façades, excluding the roofs. Most major
openings are taller than wide, although when grouped together some may achieve a
horizontal affect. Transoms over windows are usually wider than tall or square. Window
openings in residences are always subdivided, the most common window type being
double-hung sash, whose area may be further subdivided by muntins. Dormer and
gable windows exist in a variety of shapes and sizes. The district contains a great variety
of sizes, shapes, and arrangements of openings.

(4)

Rhythm of solids to voids in front façades. Voids are usually spaced evenly within the
façades, resulting in balanced compositions. Voids in buildings derived from classical
precedents are usually arranged in a symmetrical manner. Buildings influenced by the
Arts and Crafts movement and the Victorian Era display voids arranged with more
freedom.

(5)

Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. Spacing of buildings on streets is generally
determined by the setback from the side lot line, which tends to vary according to the
width of the lot. The regularity of spacing on narrow lots or parcels (30-foot to 40-foot
range) is interrupted by vacant lots resulting from demolition as well as the occasional
combination of several lots for larger, newer structures. On Parker from East Jefferson
Avenue to Agnes where lots are 40 feet to 50 feet wide, houses are most often centered
on the lot or sometimes placed closer to one side lot line to form a small side yard or
permit space for a driveway.

(6)

Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Most residences have porch projections
and/or entrance recessions. Porches and entrances on classically inspired buildings are
either centrally placed or, as in the case of some duplexes, placed on both sides of the
façade in a symmetrical arrangement. Victorian and Arts-and-Crafts-inspired buildings
display more freedom in placement. Side and sun porches are rare in the district due to

 the lack of side yards; a few exist on larger lots. Rowhouses or terraces generally exhibit
freedom in placement of porches and entrances within each complex; centrally located
recessed entrances in Shipherd Court create a rhythm amongst themselves.
Commercial buildings on Kercheval display a progression of recessed entrances, usually
two per building. No rhythm is established along the East Jefferson Avenue frontage.
(7)

Relationship of materials. The majority of the buildings in West Village have either
common or pressed brick or clapboard sheathing as their principal exterior material.
Stucco wall surfaces also exist as a principal material; some later replacement siding
exists in the district, but much of such siding changes the visual relationship of the
siding to the building. Masonry is used on the first story only on some houses, and
wood shingles exist on some second stories. Most buildings have wood trim; a few
more substantial houses and apartment buildings have stone trim. There are some tile
roofs; some slate roofs still exist; asphalt replacement roofs are common. Porches are
built of brick or wood.

(8)

Relationship of textures. The most common relationships of textures are the low-relief
pattern of mortar joints in brick contrasted to smooth wood trim and/or wood
clapboard contrasted with smoother trim. Random ashlar used at the first-story level is
contrasted with a wood-sheathed or shingled upper story in a few houses, as is a brick
first story and a stuccoed second story. The smoother surface of glazed brick or painted
brick is sometimes contrasted with stone or wood trim. Carved wooden detail and halftimbering provide textural interest. Slate and tile roofs provide textural interest
whereas asphalt shingles usually do not.

(9)

Relationship of colors. Orange natural brick, pressed brick, and replacement siding in
natural earth colors are plentiful in the district; the paint colors of frame houses often
relate to style. The classically inspired buildings generally have woodwork painted in the
white and cream range. Doors and shutters feature an array of colors, usually
harmonizing with the main body of the house. Colors known to have been in use on
buildings of this type in the 18th Century or 19th Century on similar buildings may be
considered for suitability. Buildings of Medieval or Arts and Crafts inspiration generally
have painted woodwork and window frames of dark brown, cream, or other natural
tones. Stucco is either left in its natural state or painted in a shade of cream or yellow.
Dark brown half-timbering is common. Victorian buildings display freedom in use of
color. Original color schemes for any given building may be determined by professional
paint analysis and, when so determined are always appropriate for that building. Roofs
are in natural colors (tile and slate and wood colors), and asphalt shingles are
predominantly within this same color range.

(10)

Relationship of architectural details. Architectural details generally relate to style.
Victorian architectural details appear on 1½- and 2½-story Victorian cottages;

 spindlework, fishscale shingles and patterned shingles are indicative of the Queen Anne
style. Areas treated include porches, gables, window and door surrounds, and cornices.
The buildings influenced by the Arts and Crafts or Medieval sometimes have details
carved in wood on window frames, door frames and eaves and sometimes have halftimbering. The four-square buildings, mostly on the northern end of the district, have
little architectural embellishments; the detail on the eaves, bays, dormers and porch are
architectonic. Neo-Georgian or Colonial buildings have classical details in wood on
porches, shutters, window frames and dormers. In general, various styles are rich in
architectural detail.
(11)

Relationship of roof shapes. The district is characterized by a diversity of roof shapes.
Hipped or pitched roofs on most residential buildings are punctuated with gables and
dormers, with the exception of the Victorian cottages, with their steeply pitched roofs,
and apartment buildings, whose roofs are not visible from the street. Roofs of
commercial buildings generally appear flat. Porch roofs vary greatly according to style.

(12)

Walls of continuity. The major wall of continuity is created by the buildings, with their
generally uniform setbacks within block faces. New buildings should conform to these
setbacks where they exist. Fences along building lines extend the major wall of
continuity. Hedges extending along the front lot lines create a minor wall of continuity
where they exist, and a major wall of continuity where they exist in sufficient quantities
such as on Shepherd between St. Paul and Agnes. Gaslights on Parker between East
Lafayette Boulevard and the Parkstone parking lot and on Agnes from Parker to Van
Dyke create minor walls of continuity, as do trees on tree lawns. Fences in the district
exist along side lot lines as well as front lot lines. On Shipherd, garages on the west side
of the street create the major wall of continuity.

(13)

Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The typical
treatment of individual properties is a flat or slightly graded front lawn area in grass
turf, subdivided by a walk leading to the front entrance from the curb and frequently a
sidewalk beginning at the sidewalk leading to the rear. Materials for such walks are
primarily concrete, although a few brick walks exist. Some front yards have rectangular
raised earthwork terraces upon which the house stands, sometimes with a brick or
stone retaining wall at the change of grade. Foundation plantings, often of a deciduous
character, are present. Hedges between properties and along front lot lines are not
uncommon. Several types of fences exist in the district, including cyclone fences, fences
with wooden posts and rails with wire mesh, wrought iron fences, and brick and
concrete walls. Some large American elm trees remain on the tree lawns in the district,
although they are virtually extinct. Replacement trees should be characteristic of the
area and period, though only a disease-resistant elm would be a practical choice. Very
few straight side drives from the street to the rear are present; alley-facing garages are

 the norm, although many parking bays are present with alley entrances. The lack of
front driveways leads to a unity of front yards. Street pavements are now asphalt; cut
stone curbs exist with frequency although in some areas they have been replaced with
concrete curbs. Alleys are concrete except for the alley between Shipherd and Van Dyke
and the alley between East Jefferson Avenue and Van Dyke Place, which are brick. Steel
lighting poles on Van Dyke are fluted; elsewhere in the district on north-south streets
O.P. poles are the predominant type. On east-west streets and Shipherd there are
telephone poles with cranes carrying lanterns. A boulevard with a landscaped median
44 feet by 370 feet exists on Parker Avenue between East Jefferson Avenue and East
Lafayette Boulevard.
(14)

Relationship of open space to structures. In those areas of the district where demolition
of houses has occurred, the character of the open space is haphazard as it relates to the
buildings. On Shipherd, the original relationship between the houses on the east side
and the garages on the west side of the street has been severely altered due to
demolition of houses. On both sides of the alley between Seyburn and Van Dyke Place,
clearance for redevelopment has occurred. The arrangements of Shepherd Court
provides a central communal courtyard space. The boulevard on the south end of
Parker provides a more spacious setting for the houses facing it.

(15)

Scale of façades and façade elements. There is a variety in scale from block to block
depending on lot width and style. Houses south of East Lafayette Boulevard are of a
more substantial character than those north of East Lafayette Boulevard, and houses
south of Agnes on Parker are the most substantial. Size and complexity of façade
elements and details either accentuate or subdue the scale of the façades. Façade
elements have been determined by what is appropriate for the style. Window sashes
are usually subdivided by muntins, which affects the apparent scale of the windows
within the façades.

(16)

Directional expression of front elevations. The expression of direction on residential
blocks is neutral, although individual houses may emphasize their verticality or
horizontality according to style. Rowhouses and terraces are horizontal in directional
expression; apartment buildings are vertical. Commercial buildings on Kercheval form a
horizontal row.

(17)

Rhythm of building setbacks. Setbacks on the north-south streets in the district vary
slightly from area to area within the district, although they are generally consistent
within each street face and/or subdivision because of the existence of various deed
restrictions. Buildings on the main east-west streets, which are East Jefferson Avenue,
East Lafayette Boulevard, and Agnes, are less consistent in setback due to more recent

 development. The varying designs of the buildings, frequently with slight setbacks or
projections in their façades, cause the buildings to relate to the front setback line in
different ways; this creates a slight variation in the setback line.
(18)

Relationship of lot coverages. Lot coverages range from 15 percent to 80 percent.
Apartment buildings and rowhouses generally occupy a percentage at the high end of
this range. Most homes are in the 20 percent to 35 percent range of lot coverage. Lot
coverage is greater north of East Lafayette Boulevard where lots are narrower in width.

(19)

Degree of complexity within the façade. The degree of complexity has been determined
by what is typical and appropriate for a given style. The classically inspired buildings
usually have simple, rectangular façades with varying amounts of ornamentation. Four
square buildings are usually less complex with ornament restricted to the porch and
entrance and sometimes eaves. Other more decorative styles frequently have façades
complicated by gables, bays, slight setbacks, porches, an occasional turret, window and
door hoods, and carved detail. Apartment buildings have historical details derived from
the styles in which the buildings are designed.

(20)

Orientation, vistas, overviews. Most of the buildings are oriented toward the street.
Garages are usually oriented toward an alley; almost all garages are detached and at
the rear of the lot. They are not generally visible from the street. Houses on the east
side of Shipherd are oriented toward the street and face the garages of buildings
oriented towards Seyburn. All houses in Wesson's Subdivision face the north-south
streets, except those on the north side of East Lafayette Boulevard. In other
subdivisions, the corner house often faces the east-west streets. Rowhouses and
terraces are usually oriented toward the east-west streets. Buildings on East Jefferson
Avenue are most often slanted slightly towards the west.

(21)

Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Neo-Colonial or Classically-inspired buildings are
usually symmetrical. Other styles are asymmetrical but most often result in balanced
compositions.

(22)

General environmental character. The West Village District is characterized by
residential and minor commercial development dating from 1880 through 1930. Long,
straight streets, a significant array of housing types, and a cohesiveness achieved
through uniform setbacks and heights result in an urban, medium density
neighborhood. Newer commercial and institutional uses exist primarily on the northern
and southern fringes of the district. West Village is of an urban character, rare in the
City, because of the diversity of building types in the area.

(Code 1964, § 28A-1-39; Code 1984, § 25-2-92; Ord. No. 547-H, § 1(28A-1-39), eff. 2-25-1983)

 REPORT

Signs & Awning Guidelines
“Signs often become so important to a community that they
are valued long after their role as commercial markers has
ceased. They become landmarks, loved because they have
been visible at certain street corners--or from many vantage
points across the city--for a long time. Such signs are valued
for their familiarity, their beauty, their humor, their size, or
even their grotesqueness. In these cases, signs transcend their
conventional role as vehicles of information, as identifiers of
something else. When signs reach this stage, they accumulate
rich layers of meaning. They no longer merely advertise, but
are valued in and of themselves. They become icons.”
Signs as Icons, “The Preservation of Historic Signs,” by Michael J. Auer. Preservation Brief, #25 (Technical
Preservation Services), National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior

The cultural significance of signs combined with their often transitory nature makes the preservation of
historic signs fraught with questions, problems, and paradoxes. If the common practice in every period
has been to change signs with regularity, when and how should historic signs be kept? If the business is
changing hands, how can historic signs be reused? The subject is an important one, and offers
opportunities to save elements that convey the texture of daily life from the past.
The Preservation of Historic Signs,” by Michael J. Auer. Preservation Brief, #25 (Technical Preservation
Services), National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior

SIGNS
Objective
 To enhance the integrity of the buildings and
community by preserving and appropriately restoring
historic signs
Purpose of signage:
 To indicate the original occupants and the area’s past.
Even with a change in business, retaining historic
signage as part of the community memory is desirable
 To identify current businesses and stores
Guidelines
1. Preserve historic signage when possible
2. Restore signs only when the original has lost its visibility through age, damage, or
excessive/inappropriate cleaning
3. Create attractive commercial signs that promote business, both pedestrian and vehicular, but are
free of visual clutter
[1]

 

 4. Require that new signage compliment the historic integrity of the building and community.
Signs must relate to the building(s) they serve
5. Signs shall be restricted to those which identify the name of the establishment and/or the primary
business or service provided within.
6. Advertising related to businesses or services not provided on the premises shall be prohibited
unless, with the approval of the Commission, such advertising is deemed historically appropriate.
7. Signage should make an attempt to recognize the stylistic features and characteristics of the
historical districts in their materials and graphics
8. Signage should recognize the scale, massing, style, materials
and colors of the building and the district
Common elements of historic signage include:
 Painted facades and fascia signs
 Material inlaid into the buildings façade
 Hanging signs and older neon signs
 Gold leaf or gilded lettering in storefront windows
 

Signs Mounted on Buildings
Size
Signage must fit within the building design and its storefront and be historically compatible with the site
and context; must be compatible with building; and must not obscure architectural elements.
Shape
Shape of sign must be consistent with the character of the historic district in which the signage is
located.
Materials
 Material inlaid or carved into the buildings façade should be retained
 Sign materials should be compatible with the design theme and use of materials on the building
where the sign is to be placed.
 Painted wood and metal are preferred materials for the signs.
 Metal signs, wood signs, glass signs, and signs painted on masonry are permitted.
Position
 Locate signage above the storefront opening so that it does not conceal architectural details and
features
 Signs should be located where architectural features or details suggest a location, size, or shape
for the sign
 Signs should be placed on buildings consistent with sign location on adjacent buildings
 Limit the number of projecting signs
 In pedestrian areas, orient signs to sidewalk instead of motorists.
[2]

 

 



The bottom of hanging signs should maintain at least a 10 foot pedestrian clearance from the
sidewalk.
Signs on canopies should be twelve (12) inches away from the end edges of such canopies.
Maintain a physical separation between individual store signs so that it is clear that the sign
relates to a particular store below

Illumination
 Consider if the sign needs to be lighted
 Use external or halo lighting to illuminate building and/or storefront signage
 Lighting should fit within the building design and its storefront and be architecturally compatible
with the site and context
 With internally illuminated channel letters, limit raceways depth behind letter to five (5) inches
(2 inches when using LED light source)
Typeface/Legibility
 Use cast or fabricated metal dimensional graphics
– letters and logos – in lieu of plastic or vinyl
dimensional graphics
 Use a minimum of ½ deep metal dimensional
graphics – letters and logos.
 Selected materials should contribute to the
legibility of the sign
 Avoid faddish or bizarre typefaces
 Avoid hard to read typefaces and symbols
 Limit the number of lettering styles
Color
 Sign colors should complement the colors used on the structures and the project as a whole
 Sign colors should reflect the color system appropriate to the period of the building
 Limit the total number of colors used in any one sign
Signs not mounted on buildings (commercial development or multi-tenants identification) should
reference the following guidelines:
1. Use a ground or monumental sign not to exceed six-feet in height including the base
2. Provide a sign base of masonry, granite, or concrete with an architectural finish. A metal base on
grade is prohibited unless it is 12 inches above grade
3. Include landscaping around the base of ground and monument signs
4. Limit commercial development identification signage to a maximum of two signs (double face)
when development is on two major streets, not to exceed 150 square foot of signage
5. For pylon sings, limit height to a maximum of (12) twelve foot in height above grade including
its base and post. Limit post width to 12 inch face.
[3]

 

 6. Provide professionally made signage, including design, material, painting and construction.
7. Use signage materials that are architecturally appropriate to the historic character of the
neighborhood

AWNINGS\CANOPIES
Objective
 To enhance the integrity of the buildings and community by preserving and appropriately
restoring historic awnings and canopies
Purpose of awning
 Awnings and canopies provide protection form the elements, expand floor space, provide unity
of appearance, and create a decorative backdrop for identification.
Guidelines
1. Design awnings and canopies so as not to conceal building features such as pilasters or windows.
2. Use color schemes to coordinate with building façade colors
3. Use simple and triangular shape awnings with valance face not to exceed ten (10) inches
4. Install into mortar joints – no fastening into brick, stone or arch details.
Standards
1. Locate awnings, canopies and marquees and their supporting structure at a minimum of eight (8)
feet, six (6) inches above public sidewalk
2. Project awnings and canopies not more than one half the width of the sidewalk and not more
than 10 feet, six inches.
3. Project awnings and canopy material such as
metal, glass, or woven fabric.
4. Limit signage on awning to the valance area
(e.g., front fascia of the awning, not the sloped
area.) Include business name, address, logo, or
business “slogan,” but not to exceed 40% of
the awning valance surface area. Product
advertising is unacceptable.
5. Limit the signage area of awnings and
canopies to tat allowed per Section 61140292(5) of the City of Detroit Zoning
Ordinance.
6. Use external lighting to illuminate awnings. Internally illuminated awnings are unacceptable.

[4]

 

 7. Use awnings to define individual storefront openings. Continuous awnings along blank walls or
awnings located at upper floor windows are unacceptable.
8. Use exposed awning design with open ends and no ceiling.
Other
The awning may be attached either just below the storefront cornice or between the transom and display
windows (allowing light into the store while shading merchandise and pedestrians from the sun.)
The awning should fit within the storefront opening; i.e., should not cover the piers or space above the
cornice. Aluminum awnings or canopies generally detract from the historic character and should not be
erected.
New coverings for existing – previously approved – awnings may be administratively approved by the
coordinator if the colors, content, placement of printing and materials are appropriate.
".. . . signs (and awnings) convey the texture of daily life from the past."
Variance to the above guidelines may be granted by the Historic District Commission.
The Historic District Commission reserves all rights to amend and/or update this policy statement. Any
questions pertaining to this policy shall be directed to the Historic District Commission, 65 Cadillac
Square, Suite 1300, Detroit, Michigan 48226, telephone (313) 224-06536
Use these guidelines in conjunction with the City of Detroit Zoning Ordinance: Signs – Article VI and
Awnings-Article XIV General Development Standards
Adopted:
Effective:
Revised:

August 13, 2008
August 13, 2008
May 12, 2010 and November 13, 2013

DETROIT HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION

[5]

 

 