STAFF REPORT 10-09-2019 REGULAR MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6455
ADDRESS: 1762 IROQUOIS AVENUE
HISTORIC DISTRICT: INDIAN VILLAGE
APPLICANT: SOULE GIBSON, GIBSON DESIGN GROUP
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 09-06-2019
STAFF SITE VISIT: 09-25-2019

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

SCOPE: REPLACE FENCE
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The building located at 1762 Iroquois Avenue is a 2 ½-story single-family residence constructed in 1915. The house
is clad in stucco and features wood detailing. The multi-gable roof appears to be covered in clay tile and includes
multiple small dormers throughout the roof surface. The property includes a side lot directly north of the house where
a tennis court and surrounding fence was constructed prior to 1970 when Indian Village was designated as a local
historic district. The fence enclosing the side lot at the west end of the lot has been mostly removed and a tree cut
down. Temporary construction fencing is currently placed across the opening in the fence.

PROPOSAL
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to replace portions of fencing per
the attached drawings and application. Included in the proposal are the following scope items:
• Remove the remaining small portion of fence directly adjacent to the gate and replace with new 6’ high black
metal fence in the exposed staggered picket style.
• Remove existing gate and replace with new 4’ single swing gate
• Install new 6’ high black metal fence in the exposed staggered picket style across the front (west) end of the
lot
STAFF OBSERVATIONS & RESEARCH
• Indian Village Historic District designated in 1970

 •
•

The tennis court and its associated tall fence is present in the designation slide and is specifically mentioned
in the Elements of Design for Indian Village (#13).
A Certificate of Appropriateness was issued in 1998 deeming the extension of the fencing beyond the front
face of the house appropriate due to the use of the tennis court.

ISSUES
• Staff requested from the applicant a site plan showing the exact locations of the proposed fence removal
and replacement but was not provided the documentation requested.
• The tennis court, its associated 8’ tall chain link fence at the west end of the lot, and a tree which was
located at the center of the fence line were removed without a Certificate of Appropriateness. This
application does not address the removal of the elements listed above. The unapproved work remains in
violation.
• Although a Certificate of Appropriateness was issued for fencing beyond the front of the house in 1998,
it was due to the presence of the tennis court. If the tennis court is no longer present, the appropriateness
of the replacement fencing extending beyond the front face of the house is in question as it does not meet
the Historic District Commission’s Fence and Hedge Guidelines nor the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Rehabilitation.
• The Elements of Design for Indian Village (#13) state, “Side lots are not uncommon in the district, and a
number of these form a part of the original site plan for the residence. Such side lots are usually
landscaped, often fenced at or near the setback line, and very occasionally contain paved areas such as a
tennis court.” The location of a fence beyond the front face of the house does not meet this Element of
Design. Additionally, a tennis court is called out within the Elements of Design.
RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion that the work, as proposed, alters the historic character of the property and its surrounding setting.
Staff therefore recommends that the Commission deny a Certificate of Appropriateness as it does not meet the
following Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation:
2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or
alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
5) Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a
property shall be preserved.

 m:
g?i?ti .I'I??zl 1'52; 5" 3%

LI 

3.. 
Inns Reality Group .


I . Ag: - 1%

Imagery} @2019 Bangle. Imagery:I @2019 Firm Base slim Mam Ted'nnulngiea. Embum. LLS. Gaulugical Survey. USDA Farm-5min Agena. Map data @2019 Urine-d Sta-tea Terms

 






.. . 5" . 1- 
9R 

. F-gEll lunar-nun! Firm Runn- Sr?llrinml ?Fl!

 

   

DESIGNATION SLIDE 1970

.1. .



?1 .

.

 

i l'
I Ti:
If .-
1I-- 
{a
winii:
.1. inn-jg 

I "r I.-
. rr'hill-

a:



:i I
Ha. "hmr' II II lli i 
i mirin HF

.

 
   

1..

STAFF SITE VISIT 09/25/2019

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-4-- . .. . I 1-
'Jk?wum?mi?w?Sagav-TAFF i?uI-g-oe-Hu? .1 

 -. 

. . 

 
 
 

. . 
. . 11-4-3 . . fl?iyyr ?Hwy:- - ?may . . ., . .. f, 1,3? 3 is?
'r?wr-J . .- 5. wwaax-{nj ?t

         

 

 

 

 

. 'f STAFF SITE VISIT 09/25/2019

ch?; -
. 

I. 

 

 

 

STAFF SITE VISIT 09/25/2019

 
. . A . . . . 1p
?rt.Ialr

 

 

 

 

 

 

4%me

I. ill-I 

. all I .

 

In{435, u??mw.-

'...Iru . . .- . . I..I.i-?glrn? 


.I . . .31J??rl.53.I51..-. .. 1.51.1.5..- IYI .I.II..I Ilrl?.Ir . .. .. 





.l?ln'w 

.5.

Mb. 7



. 




.L law.

r.

.

-


.TL 

 

 

 

 

.IrIfl. I I IL. . FFIHIL .I. I..-I. ..H. I. J. I. I ..I..?Irr . ..IWL .I?my.I.IrrI\.. .
.. . .II..Ifir. - .IWILTHLI .I wn?.?lnl I. . .I) Ill-Ir. LILV .. ..I.I.I.I.. . I .
E.??Vil II NFIIPIID I ?hl?n II II. . fyr-?I.I.I.I1shift.I.-.. . . 1.3
til-Ifin-?ALI: I .. I..r .Ir I .
. I II.-. . . .. - I
.. - .I.. . .
LIILII I I1 .rIrI. I . I I.. 1 '41? .II . I-I-IJ. .r .- I..-HI..{uIr

.. I I
I1.I LII.
I . I ..I I.

     

\onno .
9:534! u! .
Er

'ml?nu?1  
I

I
-rl'3-l'

.
['31

I ll? 1

I :1

PPLI

I

 

 

 

. 

-..I I h.

 

 

:i En"
Wt

 

 

 



 

111l?.? . I..1 .

.l sill I. 

..I.
. 

3E5: I I
EEHELHHEI 

.. ..I.:

gag Iranian. Haws!

Eu

. .agwmixm?ihq 
.E- I . .. .

..I. ?ing
. . . I. . . 

..I I. 5.1. I.

.. D. 1..



 




APPLICANT PHOTO

REPORT

September 4, 2019
Historic District Commission
City of Detroit
Planning and Development Department
2 Woodward Ave, Room 808
Detroit, MI 48226
RE: Project Review Request for 1762 Iroquois St, Detroit, MI 48214
To Whom it May Concern,
Following is the detailed information regarding our request to replace a damaged
fence at 1762 Iroquois St, Detroit, MI 48214. The original fence was damaged and
removed therefore there are no pictures of the fencing that needs to be replaced.
Includes:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

57’ – New 6’ high industrial grade black ornamental fence by Elite
9 – 2 ½ “ line posts
2 – Tie on at existing posts with bracket as needed
1 – New 4’ single swing gate
16’ – Remove existing fence and gate
2 – Utilize 4” gate posts
Exposed staggered picket style

*New front fence at gate by Elite Rail and picket varies slighting from existing

Jennifer Stevenson
Gibson Design Group
jcsgibsondesigngroup@gmail.com
248-390-8565

Commercial/Residential Building Contractor – Licensed Insured

515 Lincoln Road, Grosse Pointe Michigan 48230 313.363.2114 313.882.1331 Fax

 REPORT

 

 

 



 

 

5 



 

 

43 

 

51/2? 12'2? POST I ELITE
6? w! 3? POST - . 

jr 3 3/4" PICKET SBACING .



i; -

. I . IHXIEPICKETS
i 1. .063 

 

1 5135511 5/3" HORIZONTAL RAE mus-13

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- i 2. UTE 1/2" POST .109 W311: 
1 POST .125 WALL man? suns-13


. 1 41m" POST .125 WALL swarm-1':
I 
A. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CDNC. 

J.
NGTE: DRAWS --I A 



REPORT

Ii:- . .333: ?Ar? .55 .. .-. 
erg? Iii-air: . I. . I 

  
 

 

RESIDENTIAL GRADE ALUMINUM FENCE

32-52 ?ii Clur residential grade aluminum fence is an excellent cheice fer security and crelectien

- - -- - . 3* 5 . while still being ihe eerfeci neighher friendly fence. the residential grade aluminum
I i ii I fencing is ceneireeted ef 1-iid?e 1? reile, did"; did" pickets, and uses er E-1i2"ir 2452"
pest. Der herisenial rails have been engineered fer a unique style and maximum strengih.

The residential grade fence is ayeiiehie in set standard styles end is available in ail-i
standard eelere: Black, White  [leaner Brenda. Walnut Brawn. Beige end Harderd Greene
?ier residential grade fence is available in heights cf 3* are. and 

We effer matching gates in single entry end deehle drive [e match thesis: standard siylee ei?
fence. We else effer Estate and ?awed Tug gates in residential grade fence te yeur
needs. nil gates lnciude standard latch and hinges, eeli?ciesing and self-latching gate
hardware are available ripen request. if it is centiieyer gate yeti are after then leeii ne
further than ens ef cur exclusive Zip-Traci: aluminum cantilever gates .

 

 

available in cemplirnent year fence include euadi linieie triv?nials butterfly
eerelie and circles. These can he gender created in match the ?nish ef year
fence er may he erdered ?in a geld iiniehl

 

 


_n 


 

 

.g'r .

    

 

Slick Here Te View The Pheie Gallery

 


deeded

        
 

Irr-


 

-- "immeWi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_Iu 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

svemn 

i Reside ntiai Enece


MU.

 

 



.

2? 2? it?. ?at} Wail

 

r?I:

ill


2" ill; 2" ii Wail 

2 1r: 2 i125 Wail 

 

2?1i2? it 2-1! "ii .199 Well

I'l'l' 


i Heriecntai Rails i 1-1r?li? 
middlemen:





?ettern Hie

 

 

 

i
Slide Walie 3332
Tea Walls 

i
i
i
i



F'icitete . are? are? a see Wall
did" i: did? a. Wail
die? a i" a see Wall
Pieket 3paeing 3?1Iir'l?? er 1-5! 
Hie-e - e,e1r2.4,41r2.e. Feet

Penei Length 6*





 

i

- -

 

News 3: EVENTS FeinneLr

     

. sewn-n 

REPORT

2, 2013 Micarcnn 
Eminence

Eig things have been happening at Elite Fence Preductsi Elite
Fence Preducts NEW facility is up and running. With their state
at the art pewder'eeat t?aeililpr and ever 

[Read Mere}

 

jet-4E 3d, zen ELITE Paejsc'r Lane
Paecaara

Elite Fence F'rcducts is werlting very hard te research fence
preiscts acress the eeuntry te help ehtain business and prcuide
a service is cur custenterst which must at eur'cempetiticn

[Heart Mere?;

Cerium Us 

 

Gerperats ??ice

Elite Fence Preducts. Inc. Phene {53534584448
513325 Richard Eiud Tali-Free incessant-1331
?hestertietd Twp, MI 43?51 Fair (536)463?4334

?eniact Lia

 

Rsnucnrc DUE Canaan


Threagh each stage ef preductien we
:13; censistentiy maintain a high percentage
ef recycled materials in an eft?ert te

reduce Elite Fences carpen ieetprint.?

Learn irrtere

TEE 
ring.r prcject that uses Elite Fence

Precincts Inc. is eligihie fer 2 peints credit-tiL {Recycled Centent

 

Ficrida ?ieisien 
Etite Fence Precincts. Inc.

sen industrial ?wenue
Fert Richey, FL 34653

categenr}. Based en the LEED u?

standard fer New Censtructien a iir'lajer
Reneuatiens.

Learn iuiere

Fhene 
TelluFree Err-id
Hansen-Essa

{?ctitact tie

Gepirright a 2?1ti Elite Fence Precincts, Inc. F'ress Reieases Site Map Terms'and Cenrtitiens

Feltew us en: {54 Faceheek Linkecin Twitter

 

 

Feursduare

 

 

 

.rl'

Ati Eiite Fence Fence Preducts are.
?Til; made in the United States, within cur
ewn manufacturing facilities. utilising
precesses deuelcped internalhr, cuer
many years ef experience in the ?eld

 

Learn Mere

  

Dewnlead uersicn ct Adehe Acreeat Header tc

 

uiew decutnents

 

Tennessee Diuisien
Eiite Fence Preducts. inc.
535 Ecett Street
Murfreesherc, TN 23

Phene {sis} 
Tell-Free 
Fair (615}349-1315

?eniaci Lia

amnesia? --

annexes-wees 

 

.. .
. 
I

?Eill? Wt?i?l'liJEtl'li antericsn't Er ?Eip'i'recid-are alt li??t?l?l?ii?i?lt? Elf Ff?du?l?. li?i?

Site Design tar Studic Wei: Deueicpment. inc,

Sec. 21-2-103. - Indian Village Historic District.
(a)

An historic district, known as the Indian Village Historic District, was established in accordance with the
Resolution of the City Council adopted on June 15, 1971, remained in effect on the date of the enactment of
this article, which was November 5, 1976, and shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of this
article.

(b)

The boundaries of the Indian Village Historic District are:

The area including Burns, Seminole, and Iroquois (both sides) from the center line of Mack Avenue to the center line
of East Jefferson Avenue. (More particularly described the Park Subdivision Lots 1-195, the addition to the Park
Subdivision Lots 196-221, the Assessors Plat of PCs 27 and 180 Lots 1-142, A.M. Henry's Subdivision Lots 1-18, Meredith's
Iroquois Park Subdivision Lots 1-28, Curry Cook Farm Subdivision Lots 9-29, and Assessor Plat of PCs 27 Lots 3-112.)
(c)

The elements of design, as defined in Section 21-2-2 of this Code, shall be as follows:
(1)

Height. Virtually all of the houses in the district have two full stories plus attic or finished third floor
within the roof. These are generally called 2½-story houses. Additions to existing buildings shall be
related to the existing structure. New buildings shall meet the following standards:
a.

The eight adjoining houses on the same face, excluding any houses built since 1930, churches,
schools and commercial structures, shall be used to determine an average height. If eight houses
are not available on the same block face, then one or more houses as close as possible to being
directly across the street from the proposed structure may be used. On East Jefferson Avenue, the
five existing houses shall be used. The height of the two adjoining houses shall be added into the
total twice, with a divisor of ten (seven on East Jefferson Avenue) used to determine the average.
Any new building must have a height of the main roof of at least 80 percent of the resulting
average. In no case shall a new building be taller than the tallest roof height included in the
computation. In determining the height of existing structures and proposed structures, the highest
point of the main roof shall be used, even where towers, cupolas, or other minor elements may be
higher.

b.

The level of the eaves of a proposed new structure having as much or more significance for
compatibility as the room height, an average eave or cornice height shall be determined by the
same process provided for in Subsection (c)(1)a of this section. The proposed new structure shall
have a height at the eaves or cornice, of not less than 90 percent of the average determined from
existing structures, and in no case shall the eaves or cornice of the proposed structure be lower
than the lowest eave or cornice height used in the computation, or higher than the highest.

(2)

Proportion of buildings' front façades. Proportion varies in the district, depending on age, style, and
location in a specific subdivision. Height being established by the standards in Subsection (c)(1) of this
section; proportion will be established by permitting no proposed building or addition to create a front
façade wider or narrower than those existing on the same block.

(3)

Proportion of openings within the façade. Window openings are virtually always taller than wide; several
windows are sometimes grouped into a combination wider than tall. Window openings are always
subdivided, the most common window type being guillotine sash, whose area are generally further
subdivided by muntins. Façades have approximately 15 percent to 35 percent of their area glazed.
Sunporches with a very high proportion of glass subdivided by mullions and muntins are common.

(4)

Rhythm of solids to voids in front façades. In buildings derived from classical precedents, voids are
usually arranged in a symmetrical and evenly spaced manner within the façade. In examples of other

 styles, especially those of Neo-Tudor and Victorian substyles, voids are arranged with more freedom, but
usually is a balanced composition.
(5)

Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally determined by the
setback from the side lot lines; these tend to be consistent, even though lot width may vary. Because of
the existence of several subdivisions and their related subdivision and deed restrictions, the placement
of buildings on lots varies from area to area in the district. In the case of very wide properties, two
conditions exist. A very wide site may have a house placed centrally upon it, with extensive side yard
space; this occurs only with extremely large houses by district standards. A more typical placement of
houses of average size for the district is at the side of the wide site, placed normally in relation to one of
the adjoining houses. The rest of the property is a side yard on the other side of the house, and the
entrance is often oriented toward that side yard.

(6)

Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. In those examples of classical inspiration, entrances and
porches, if any, tend to be centered on the front façade. Other examples display more freedom with
entrance and porch placement, with some having the main entrance at the side. Porches, often
permanently enclosed sun porches, are often placed at the side of the building.

(7)

Relationship of materials. The majority of the buildings are faced with brick, while many are partially or
totally stucco. There are some stone buildings; clapboard is rare, and almost never the sole material.
Wood shingle is occasionally used as a wall covering, usually at the second floor level, and never as the
sole material. Roofing includes slate, tile, and wooden and asphalt shingles. Stone trim is common. Wood
is almost universally used for window frames and other functional trim, and is used in many examples
for all trim. Because of the existence of several subdivisions and their related deed restrictions, the
exterior textures and materials may vary from block to block in the district.

(8)

Relationship of textures. The most common relationship of textures in the district is that of the low-relief
pattern of mortar joints in brick contrasted to the smooth surface of wood or stone trim. The use of
stucco or concrete, with or without half-timbering, as a contrast to brick surfaces is not unusual. Tile,
slate, or wood shingle roofs have particular textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles, generally,
have little textural interest, even in those types which purport to imitate some other variety.

(9)

Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors (red, yellow, brown, buff) predominate in wall surfaces.
Natural stone colors also exist. Where stucco or concrete exists, it is usually left in its natural state, or
painted in a shade of cream. Roofs are in natural colors (tile and slate colors, wood colors) and asphalt
shingles are predominantly within this same dark color range. Paint colors often relate to style. The
classically inspired buildings, particularly Neo-Georgian, generally have woodwork painted white, cream
or in the range of those colors, including putty. Doors and shutters are frequently dark green or black.
Colors known to have been in use on buildings of this type in the 18th Century or early 19th Century on
similar buildings may be considered for suitability. Buildings of Medieval inspiration (notably Neo-Tudor)
generally have painted woodwork and window frames of dark brown or cream color. Half-timbering is
almost always stained dark brown. Queen Anne or Late Victorian examples may have several paint colors
on a single façade. These tend to be dark in tone and frequently of the earth tone family. The original
colors of any house, as determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for that house, and
may provide suggestions for similar houses.

(10)

Relationship of architectural details. These generally relate to style. Neo-Georgian buildings display
classic details, mostly in wood, and sometimes in stone. Areas commonly, but not always, treated are
porches, shutters, window frames, cornices, and dormer windows. Details on Mediterranean style or
vernacular buildings are often done in stone, brick, tile, and sometimes in stucco. They include arched

 windows, door openings, and porches. Buildings of Medieval inspiration tend to have details in the form
of carved wood or carved stone ornament on window frames, door frames, and eaves. Queen Anne or
Late Victorian style buildings tend to have details in wood, stone, or molded brick commonly
embellishing cornices, window frames and door frames. In general, the various styles are rich in
architectural details.
(11)

Relationship of roof shapes. Roofs with triangular gables and hip roofs predominate. A few examples of
the gambrel-type roof exist. Complex arrangements of the gabled and/or hip types, with subsidiary roofs,
are not unusual. Dormers are common. Flat roofs exist primarily on porches and sunrooms, and other
minor elements; large hip roofs sometimes have relatively small flat sections in the center.

(12)

Walls of continuity. The major wall of continuity is created by the buildings with their uniform setbacks
within the blocks. New buildings should contribute to this wall of continuity. Where gaslights are
sufficiently numerous, and where trees in rows have survived in sufficient numbers, minor walls of
continuity are created. Fences across side lots contribute to the major wall of continuity where placed at
the front yard setback line.

(13)

Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatment. The typical treatment of individual
properties is a flat front lawn area in grass turf, often subdivided by a walk leading to the front entrance,
and sometimes with a walk at the side leading to the rear. Materials for such walks are concrete, brick, or
stone, or combinations of those materials. Some front yards have rectangular raised earthwork terraces
upon which the house stands. These unpaved terraces have sloping embankments or brick and/or stone
retaining walls at the change of grade. Foundation plantings, often of a deciduous character,
characteristic of the period 1895 to 1930, are present virtually without exception. Hedges between
properties, and ornamental front yard fences or hedges are not uncommon. The American elm is
virtually extinct in the district, though once the dominant tree. Replacement trees should be
characteristic of the area and period, though only a disease-resistant American elm would be a practical
choice. Plantings of new trees should be directed toward the restoration of the former straight-line rows
of large trees on the front yards and tree lawns. Straight side driveways leading from the street to rear
garages exist, but alley-facing garages are common, particularly in the southern portion of the district.
Where alley-facing garages are common, the lack of driveways lends a unity to the succession of front
lawns. Driveway materials include concrete, brick and gravel. Side lots are not uncommon in the district,
and a number of these form a part of the original site plan for the residence. Such side lots are usually
landscaped, often fenced at or near the setback line, and very occasionally contain paved areas such as a
tennis court. The street right-of-way of 80 feet combined with a pavement width of between 24 and 29
feet creates wide tree lawns or berm areas, which adds to the generous ambience of the urban
landscape of the district. Street pavements are now asphalt; cut stone curbs still exist in portions of the
district. Alleys are frequently paved with brick, particularly where alley-facing garages are common.
Fencing ranges widely in type; fencing in public view was generally designed to compliment the style,
design material, and date of the residence.

(14)

Relationship of open space to structures. Open space in the district occurs in the form of vacant land, a
City park, school yards for the Waldorf and Nichols Schools, and side lots. Where an original or early
arrangement of a house and grounds included and still includes landscaped lots which form part of the
landscaping plan for the residence, such landscaped lots are significant landscape features.

(15)

Scale of façades and façade elements. There is a variety in scale from block to block and style to style;
most houses have a large and substantial appearance. The size and complexity of façade elements and
details either accentuate or subdue the scale of the façades. Façade elements have been determined by

 what is appropriate for the style. Large wings at the front are atypical, while small wings at the side,
usually in the form of sunrooms and sunporches, are common. Window sashes are usually subdivided by
muntins, which affect the apparent scale of the windows within the façades.
(16)

Directional expression of front elevations. In general, the expression of direction is neutral.

(17)

Rhythm of building setbacks. Because of the existence of various subdivisions and their related
subdivision and deed restrictions, setbacks vary from area to area within the district, though they are
consistent within each block or area. The varying designs of the houses, occasionally with slight setbacks
in the façades, cause the houses to relate to the front setback line in different ways; this creates a slight
variation in the setback line. Nevertheless, within each block or area, a wall of continuity is created.

(18)

Relationship of lot coverage. Lot coverage ranges from 50 percent to 12 percent or less in the case of
homes with large yards. Most homes are in the 20 percent to 30 percent range of lot coverage.

(19)

Degree of complexity within the façade. The degree of complexity has been determined by what is typical
and appropriate for a given style. The classically inspired buildings usually have simple, rectangular
façades with varying amounts of ornamentation. Other styles, such as Queen Anne and those of
Medieval inspiration, frequently have façades complicated by gables, bays, slight setbacks, porches, and
occasionally, turrets.

(20)

Orientation, vistas, overviews. While most of the buildings are oriented toward the street, it is not
unusual for an entrance to face the side, especially in the case of a landscaped side lot or corner house.
The street façade in these cases is well coordinated with the rest of the street façades. Garages are
frequently oriented either toward an alley or a side street; almost all garages are detached and at the
rear of the lot. In those few cases where pre-1930 houses have attached garages, they are at the rear and
are entered from the side or rear. The doors of such attached garages are generally not visible from the
street.

(21)

Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Neo-Georgian and other classically inspired buildings are
generally symmetrical. Other styles, including the Neo-Tudor, are generally asymmetrical, but balanced
compositions.

(22)

General environmental character. The Indian Village Historic District, with its long, straight streets, its
hierarchy of walls of continuity (lamps, trees, buildings) and its large, dignified homes, has an urban,
substantial, low density residential character.

(Code 1964, § 28A-1-14(c); Code 1984, § 25-2-81; Res. of 6-15-1971, J.C.C. Pages 1374-1375; Ord. No. 424-H, § 1(28A-1-14(c)),
eff. 2-6-1981)

 REPORT

Fence and Hedge Guidelines
The uniform pattern and relationships of front lawns, building setbacks
and open spaces, street trees, fencing and sidewalks contribute to a
collective impression of a historic district. When historic landscape
features are removed or relocated, or elements that are not compatible
with the site are introduced, site vistas are destroyed and the historic
character of a district is diminished. One need only recall the great
American elm trees that formed natural green canopies over the
streets of so many Detroit neighborhoods up until the 1950s and how
the disappearance of those trees had impacted the character of those
neighborhoods to understand this concept.

Archival photographs depict the historic character of many Detroit
neighborhoods as they once were. Victorian workmen’s clapboard
cottages and tiny front yards enclosed by wooden picket fences
typified in neighborhoods like Corktown. Solid board fence walls
spanned the narrow spaces between these closely packed houses.
On streets such as Vinewood and Lafayette, deep open yards
surrounded elegant turn of-the-century brick mansions and were
embraced by decorative cast iron fencing, erected close to the
facade around flower gardens, or in great expanse, and at great
expense, around the perimeter of the property, characteristically on
brick foundation
walls running between brick piers. There was never, however, a strong fencing precedent in Detroit
neighborhoods and after the turn of the century, much of the iron went the way of the war effort. What
fencing remained went out of fashion as the Industrial Age introduced newer and more affordable
materials. Attitudes changed and fencing became virtually non-existent after the 1920s, replaced by a
move toward broad green, fenceless expanses. Yet, what little historic fencing remains or the lack of
fencing that exists in our historic districts makes the same contribution as the elm trees did and has the
same impact when removed, relocated or erected without historic precedence.

Today's homeowners in historic districts face challenges that require remedies that often differ from
the historic dictates, i.e. what fencing may or may not have existed. The Design Guidelines for
Fences and Hedges are proposed to offer the homeowner guidance in the introduction of new
construction or replacement with new materials while protecting those elements of a historic district
that have been identified as significant in defining the overall historic character of the neighborhood.
For the purpose of these guidelines, fencing shall mean any living natural planting or man-made
structure, not integral to any building, used as a barrier to define boundaries, screen off, or enclose a
portion of the land surrounding a building.
The recommendations of The Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines
for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings must be followed prior to the removal or the replacement or
construction of any fencing element in the landscape of the historic district. Information about The
Secretary of the Interior’s Guidelines can be obtained from the Historic District Commission office,
however the key points follow.

 Where Historic Fencing Exists
•

Do not remove historic fencing, walls, or other fence elements.

•

Retain historic fencing materials including metal, brick, stone and
wood and the masonry of walls. Maintain and preserve all historic
features, including rails, posts and newels, finials, railings, columns
and piers, coping and walls. Care for and appropriately maintaining
historic hedging and living fencing. Each of these elements conveys
architectural and historical character through texture, ornamentation
and design

•

Repair is preferred over replacement. Repair deteriorated sections
of historic fencing and walls with materials of a matching design,
texture, and color whenever possible. Replant areas of historic
hedging with a matching species.

.

•

Replace only portions of fencing exhibiting significant deterioration, leaving all sound portions
intact. Substitute materials, such as aluminum for wrought iron, should be visually and
physically compatible with the remaining historic fencing or wall material and should be
installed only when in-kind replacement is unaffordable.

•

Use materials that match existing sections of historic fencing or walls in material, detail, color,
texture and height when carrying out limited replacement or repair projects. If an exact color or
texture match cannot be made, a simplified design is appropriate.
•

•

For masonry walls, do not replace sections of
historic brick with brick that is substantially stronger.
Repoint with an appropriate mortar mixture that is
no harder than the original historic mixture. Repoint
only those joints that are no longer sound; largescale removal of mortar joints often result in
damage to historic masonry. Match historic joints in
color, texture, joint size and tooling when repointing.

Use historic, pictorial or physical evidence to reconstruct severely deteriorated or missing
fencing, walls, or fencing elements.
• Fencing, walks or other landscape features that use new or salvaged material to create a
conjectural or falsely historical appearance are inappropriate and should not be undertaken.

•

The removal of existing historical fencing should only be undertaken as a last resort. Natural or
architectural fence elements that are slated for reconstruction or replacement should be
photographically documented prior to removal of any historic fabric.

 Historic Hedges or “Living Fences”
Hedges shall abide by the same rules governing other fencing types in historic district for heights and locations.
Furthermore, the selected hedging plants shall be capable of growing at least one foot per year for the first three years,
and shall be cared for so as to maintain a dense screen year-round. The following list of plant types shall be taken as
only a guide for selecting appropriate hedging.
SCIENTIFIC NAME

COMMON NAME

Evergreen
-Taxus (varieties & species)

Yews*

-Thuja occidentalis

American Arborvital

-Tsuga canadensis

Canada Hemlock

Deciduous
- Berberis thunbergu (vars. & sp.)

Japanese Barberry*

- Euonymus aleta compacta

Dwarf winged euonymus

- Euonymus radicans (semi- evergreen)

Winterscreeper

- Ligustrum milrense

Amur Privet*

- Ligustrum iboluim

Lbolium Privet

- Ligustrum obtusifoluim

RegalPrivet* Regelianum

Viburnum lantana

Wayfaring Tree

*Species deemed most appropriate to historic districts.

New Fencing - Approval by the Historic Commission
Permits for fence construction must be obtained from the Building and Safety Engineering Department and are subject
to review by the Historic District Commission. The Elements of Design for the historic district of the application
(available from the Historic District Commission Office) will be considered and each application will continue to be
reviewed on a case by case basis.
The Historic District Commission may allow exceptions to the stated guidelines if the Commission views such
exceptions to be beneficial to the overall appropriateness of a fence application proposal.
Consideration will be given to recommendations adopted by certain districts that are not in conflict with established
guidelines and municipal code.
•

Fencing must be properly installed according to City of Detroit codes and regulations.
•

New construction of fences or walls should be designed to minimize impact to
the historic fabric and should be compatible with the site in setback, size and
scale to protect the historic integrity of the property and its environment.

•

New fences or walls should be differentiated from the old and should be
designed to compliment the style, design, color and material of the
historic building(s) and its features.

•

New fencing or walls should be removable without impairing the essential
form and integrity of the historic property.

 Fencing other than lot line fences (e.g. dog runs, etc ... ) shall be located in such a way as to be
concealed from public view from streets and alleys.

•
•

No slats or other material may be inserted or attached to chain link or other open fencing.

Any proposal for the installation of new or replacement fencing shall meet the following application
considerations:

Allowable Types:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Wood –flat board, picket post & rail, etc…. see page 7 for types. Stockade fencing is not allowed. Unpainted/
unfinished wood is not historically appropriate and must be painted or stained a color that complements the
house
Cyclone or chain-link fencing
Twisted wire with wood posts (wire mesh)
Wrought iron, cast iron and aluminum replicating wrought iron
Brick and stone –masonry foundations, piers and fence walls. The material of any masonry wall should be
compatible with that of the building it abuts.
Hedges – size, location, and height must conform to fence size, location, and height. See section entitled
“historic hedges or living fences” on page 3

* A single lot shall contain no more than two types of fencing material.

Allowable Locations:
Side yard and across side lots, at the front face of
the house (set back line)
The side yard alone at the front face of the
house, the back face or at a point between
Rear yard, from the back face of the house to the
rear property line (can be considered with the side
yard as well)
Rear property line or alley line
Front yard fencing is not allowed except on a corner lot and then only from the front face of
the house on the side of the public right of way to the front walk.
Established property line patterns and street and alley widths must be retained.
Front yard and full perimeter fencing will be allowed only in districts where such fencing has been shown to be
contextual in that district’s Element of Design. Front yard fencing is allowed on corner lots along the walk adjacent to
the side lot line from the front face of the house to the front corner (see below)

 Allowable Heights:
6' side lot lines, at the front face of the house
8' rear property line
3’ front yard -- applies only to corner lots on the side of the public right of way, otherwise front yard
fencing is not allowed

Allowable Colors:
The most common colors for historic fencing are: black, white, green, brown
Optionally, the color of the fence could be a color complimenting the colors of the house and comparable to the
colors found in the Detroit Historic Districts Style and Color Guide systems A through F (as available from the
Historic District Commission Staff).

Variances
The Detroit Historic District Commission may allow variance to the previously stated guidelines if the Commission
views such variance as beneficial to the overall appropriateness of a fencing proposal.
The Historic District Commission reserves all rights to amend or update this guideline or to deny the use of
certain fencing if they are deemed inappropriate in any specific location.
Any questions pertaining to this guideline can be directed to the Historic District Commission Staff.

 Sources for Guidance on Historic Materials and Landscape Features
Under the National Park Service Home page Website, http://www.nps.gov and related
service links:
The Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for
Rehabilitating Historic Buildings.
http://www2.cr.nps.gov/tps/tax/rehabstandards.htm
The Secretary of the Interior’s Guidelines for the Treatment of Historic
Properties, 1995
http://www2.cr.nps.gov/tps/secstan1.htm
Preservation Briefs 1-41
http://www2.cr.nps.gov/tps/briefs/presbhom.htm
Technical Preservation Services for Historic Buildings.
http://www2.cr.nps.gov/tps/index.htm
For publications available through the Michigan State Historic Preservation Office:
http://www.sos.state.mi.us/history/preserve/shpopubs.htm

Detroit Historic District Commission
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center,
2 Woodward, Suite 808
Detroit, Michigan, 48226
Telephone: (313) 224-1762
Email: hdc@detroitmi.gov

 