STAFF REPORT 10-9-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER 19-6491
ADDRESS: 3466 BURNS
HISTORIC DISTRICT: INDIAN VILLAGE
APPLICANT: BEN CARBURY
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 8/30/3019
DATE OF STAFF SITE VISIT: 10/1/2019

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS

SCOPE: REVISION TO APPROVED DESIGN
EXISTING CONDITIONS
Erected ca. 1914, the building located at 3466 Burns is a 1 1/2–story, bungalow-plan building. The
resource features brick exterior cladding, a side-gabled roof and 6/1 wood, double-hung windows. Wood,
8-light casement windows are also located at the rear elevation. A deteriorated 20’x22’ concrete slab and
adjacent concrete parking apron is located in the parcel’s rear yard. A concrete ribbon driveway leads from
the sidewalk to the rear yard’s concrete slab/parking apron.
3466 Burns, current appearance, showing driveway and approach proposed for removal

PROPOSAL
Please note that the Commission approved a proposal which included the erection of a new garage (on a
new 20’x22’ slab) with a new 25’x35’ concrete parking apron and the replacement of the existing concrete
ribbon driveway with a new concrete ribbon driveway of the same dimension and in the same location at
their 7/24/2019 special meeting. With the current application the applicant is seeking the Commission’s

 approval to revise the approved scope of work. The specific revision includes the following:






Remove the concrete ribbon driveway at the front yard
Remove the current concrete driveway approach which is located within the City right-ofway/”berm” area
Add lawn within the footprint of the former driveway and driveway approach
To the rear/east of the garage, install a concrete approach/apron which leads from the alleyway to
the new auto entry door (east elevation)
Omit the new 25’x35’ concrete parking apron which the Commission approved for installation at
the 7/24/2019

STAFF OBSERVATIONS AND RESEARCH
 The majority of the homes in the 3400 block of Burns Street have concrete driveways, most of
which appear to have been added or modified/widened relatively recently. Only one other ribbon
driveway remains on the block.
 The driveway ribbon is historic-age and likely dates back to the home’s original date of
construction
 The current driveway approach appears to be been added relatively recently/outside of the historic
period
 The ribbon driveway remains as representative of the birth of the automobile era/the emergence of
the automobile as the primary mode of personal transportation within the US/Detroit
 Although historic age, it is staff’s opinion that the driveway is not a feature that characterizes the
property and/or district
ISSUES
 None
RECOMMENDATION
As noted above, it is staff’s opinion that the driveway proposed for removal is not a feature that
characterizes the property and/or district. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission issue a
Certificate of Appropriateness for the proposal because the work meets the as proposed meets the
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, standards # 2.) The historic character of a property
shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and spaces that
characterize a property shall be avoided and # 9. New additions, exterior alterations, or related new
construction shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be
differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features
to protect the historic integrity of the property and its environment.

 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST

CITY OF DETROIT - .
PLANNINCR ?i
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. ROOM 808. DETROIT. MI 48220 DATE: .

PROPERTY INFORMATION

 

HISTORIC jJT/?/i -. ?jg 

PPLICANT IDENTIFICATION

ADDRESS: Til (Milt) .4 fa/w/ AKA: . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Property Tenant or Architect/
Owner/ Contractor Business Engineer/
Homeowner Occupant Consultant

NAME. (414?? COMPANY NAME: 

ADDRESS. 0 EM SI 7) CITY: ZN - WI ZIP: 
2-7 7 7?6 37? 52 EMAIL: r?JX?/Mgg

4 W4 
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST CHECKLIST

Plea attach the following documentation to your request:


 

 

 

Photographs of ALL of existing or SIIE:

 

 

Detailed photographs of location of proposed work (photographs to
\show eXIsting condition(s). design. color. and material)



. Description of existing conditions (including materials and design)

 

 

 

 

Description of project (including an explanation as to why replacement?rather than repair-Of

 

 

 

See for
. I
Brochure/cut sheets for proposed replacement Iscope-specific requirements

matenal(s) and/or product(s) I. a



 

. existing and/0r construction of new is reqwred) ..
I

NOTE: 

. Detailed scope of work (formatted as bulleted list) I Based on the scope of work. additional I

'documentation may be reqUIred 

I

I

 

 

 

Scanned by CamScanner

 

 

3466 Burns Garage and Driveway replacement

4 Exterior Photos of all sides of house:

 

 

 wc??Detailed Photos of Location of proposed Work:

 

Old Garage Slab

 '1
1 

I -

 

2 Lines of concrete up through the side of the house

 

 

 

 

 

 

Description of Existing Condition:
Between the sidewalk and 5 feet past the back of the house the driveway is 2 rows of concrete
with grass inbetween them a ribbon driveway After that there is a left turn sweep and then a 20x22
garage slab. There is no garage on the slab, it was demolished by the previous owner or owners

Description of the project:
We plan on removing the entire concrete driveway and garage slab and having a garage built to
have rear alleyway access. We will remove the existing driveway that allows access to burns and be
grassing that entire area. We will then build a 20x22 2 car garage on the garage slab. We believe that
this will make the home and street look much better and have much more curb appeal as the space
between the neightors house and our house is quite narrow.
Please see the below site plan which is both the current site plan and the proposed site plan.

Detailed Scope of Work:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Remove driveway and slab
Repour concrete apron and slab
Frame garage and build soffits and fascia and add gutters
Side garage
Add lighting fixtures

Brochure/Cut Sheet
1. Window will NOT BE vinyl, either wood or wood aluminum clad or aluminum
2. Garage Details:

 3466 Burns

25

2 Car Garage slab
20’

35

22’
Existing site map

150 ft

Each strip of concrete
is 24in

Sidewalk

8’6”
12’
13’

 Apron

4 ft.

2 Car Garage slab
20’
22’

Notes:
New Garage and Garage apron,
remove entire current driveway

Sidewalk

3466 Burns

 (1)

Height. Virtually all of the houses in the district have two (2) full stories plus attic or finished third floor
within the roof; these are generally called "two-and-a-half@ story houses. Additions to existing buildings shall
be related to the existing structure; new buildings shall meet the following standards:
(i)

The eight (8) adjoining houses on the same face, excluding any houses built since 1930, churches,
schools and commercial structures, shall be used to determine an average height. If eight (8) houses
are not available on the same block face, then one or more houses as close as possible to being
directly across the street from the proposed structure may be used. On Jefferson Avenue, the five (5)
existing houses shall be used. The height of the two (2) adjoining houses shall be added into the
total twice, with a divisor of ten (10) (seven (7) on Jefferson Avenue) used to determine the average.
Any new building must have a height of the main roof of at least eighty (80) per cent of the
resulting average; in no case shall a new building be taller than the tallest roof height included in the
computation. In determining the height of existing structures and proposed structures, the highest
point of the main roof shall be used, even where towers, cupolas, or other minor elements may be
higher.

(ii)

The level of the eaves of a proposed new structure having as much or more significance for
compatibility as the room height, an average eave or cornice height shall be determined by the same
process as that described above. The proposed new structure shall have a height at the eaves, or
cornice, of not less than ninety (90) per cent of the average determined from existing structures, and
in no case shall the eaves or cornice of the proposed structure be lower than the lowest eave or
cornice height used in the computation, nor higher than the highest.

(2)

Proportion of buildings= front facades. Proportion varies in the district, depending on age, style, and location
in a specific subdivision. Height being established by the standards above, proportion will be established by
permitting no proposed building or addition to create a front facade wider or narrower than those existing on
the same block.

(3)

Proportion of openings within the facade. Window openings are virtually always taller than wide; several

(4)

Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. In buildings derived from classical precedents, voids are usually

(5)

Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally determined by the

(6)

Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. In those examples of classical inspiration, entrances and

windows are sometimes grouped into a combination wider than tall. Window openings are always subdivided,
the most common window type being guillotine sash, whose area are generally further subdivided by muntins.
Facades have approximately fifteen (15) per cent to thirty-five (35) per cent of their area glazed: Sunporches
with a very high proportion of glass subdivided by mullions and muntins are common.
arranged in a symmetrical and evenly-spaced manner within the facade. In examples of other styles, especially
those of neo-Tudor and Victorian substyles, voids are arranged with more freedom, but usually in a balanced
composition.

setback from the side lot lines; these tend to be consistent, even though lot width may vary. Because of the
existence of several subdivisions and their related subdivision and deed restrictions, the placement of buildings
on lots varies from area to area in the district. In the case of very wide properties, two (2) conditions exist. A
very wide site may have a house placed centrally upon it, with extensive side yard space; this occurs only with
extremely large houses by district standards. A more typical placement of houses of average size for the
district is at the side of the wide site, placed normally in relation to one of the adjoining houses. The rest of
the property is a side yard on the other side of the house, and the entrance is often oriented toward that side
yard.
porches, if any, tend to be centered on the front facade. Other examples display more freedom with entrance

 and porch placement, with some having the main entrance at the side. Porches, often permanently enclosed
sun porches, are often placed at the side of the building.
(7)

Relationship of materials. The majority of the buildings are faced with brick, while many are partially or
totally stucco. There are some stone buildings; clapboard is rare, and almost never the sole material. Wood
shingle is occasionally used as a wall covering, usually at the second floor level, and never as the sole material.
Roofing includes slate, tile, and wooden and asphalt shingles. Stone trim is common. Wood is almost
universally used for window frames and other functional trim, and is used in many examples for all trim.
Because of the existence of several subdivisions and their related deed restrictions, the exterior textures and
materials may vary from block to block in the district.

(8)

Relationship of textures. The most common relationship of textures in the district is that of the low-relief

(9)

Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors (red, yellow, brown, buff) predominate in wall surfaces. Natural

(10)

Relationship of architectural details. These generally relate to style. Neo-Georgian buildings display classic

(11)

pattern of mortar joints in brick contrasted to the smooth surface of wood or stone trim. The use of stucco
or concrete, with or without half-timbering, as a contrast to brick surfaces is not unusual. Tile, slate, or wood
shingle roofs have particular textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles, generally, have little textural
interest, even in those types which purport to imitate some other variety.

stone colors also exist. Where stucco or concrete exists, it is usually left in its natural state, or painted in a
shade of cream. Roofs are in natural colors (tile and slate colors, wood colors) and asphalt shingles are
predominantly within this same dark color range. Paint colors often relate to style. The classically inspired
buildings, particularly neo-Georgian, generally have woodwork painted white, cream or in the range of those
colors, including "putty." Doors and shutters are frequently dark green or black. Colors known to have been
in use on buildings of this type in the eighteenth or early nineteenth centuries on similar buildings may be
considered for suitability. Buildings of Medieval inspiration (notably neo-Tudor) generally have painted
woodwork and window frames of dark brown or cream color. Half-timbering is almost always stained dark
brown. Queen Anne or late Victorian examples may have several paint colors on a single facade. These tend
to be dark in tone and frequently of the "earth tone" family. The original colors of any house, as determined
by professional analysis, are always acceptable for that house, and may provide suggestions for similar houses.

details, mostly in wood, and sometime in stone. Areas commonly, but not always, treated are porches,
shutters, window frames, cornices, and dormer windows. Details on Mediterranean style or vernacular
buildings are often done in stone, brick, tile, and sometimes in stucco. They include arched windows, door
openings, and porches. Buildings of medieval inspiration tend to have details in the form of carved wood or
carved stone ornament on window frames, door frames, and eaves. Queen Anne or late Victorian style
buildings tend to have details in wood, stone, or molded brick commonly embellishing cornices, window
frames and door frames. In general, the various styles are rich in architectural details.
Relationship of roof shapes. Roofs with triangular gables and hip roofs predominate. A few examples of the
gambrel-type roof exist. Complex arrangements of the gabled and/or hip types, with subsidiary roofs, are not
unusual. Dormers are common. Flat roofs exist primarily on porches and sunrooms, and other minor
elements; large hip roofs sometimes have relatively small flat sections in the center.

(12)

Walls of continuity. The major wall of continuity is created by the buildings, with their uniform setbacks

(13)

Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatment. The typical treatment of individual

within the blocks. New buildings should contribute to this wall of continuity. Where gaslights are
sufficiently numerous, and where trees in rows have survived in sufficient numbers, minor walls of
continuity are created. Fences across side lots contribute to the major wall of continuity where placed at
the front yard setback line.

properties is a flat front lawn area in grass turf, often subdivided by a walk leading to the front entrance,

 and sometimes with a walk at the side leading to the rear. Materials for such walks are concrete, brick, or
stone, or combinations of those materials. Some front yards have rectangular raised earthwork terraces
upon which the house stands. These unpaved terraces have sloping embankments or brick and/or stone
retaining walls at the change of grade. Foundation plantings, often of a deciduous character, characteristic
of the period 1895-1930, are present virtually without exception. Hedges between properties, and
ornamental front yard fences or hedges are not uncommon. The American elm is virtually extinct in the
district, though once the dominant tree. Replacement trees should be characteristic of the area and period,
though only a disease-resistant American elm would be a practical choice. Plantings of new trees should
be directed toward the restoration of the former straight-line rows of large trees on the front yards and
"tree lawns." Straight side driveways leading from the street to rear garages exist, but alley-facing garages
are common, particularly in the southern portion of the district. Where alley-facing garages are common,
the lack of driveways lends a unity to the succession of front lawns. Driveway materials include concrete,
brick and gravel. Side lots are not uncommon in the district, and a number of these form a part of the
original site plan for the residence. Such side lots are usually landscaped, often fenced at or near the
setback line, and very occasionally contain paved areas such as a tennis court. The street right-of-way of
eighty (80) feet combined with a pavement width of between twenty-four (24) and twenty-nine (29) feet
creates wide "tree lawns" or berm areas, which adds to the generous ambience of the urban landscape of
the district. Street pavements are now asphalt; cut stone curbs still exist in portions of the district. Alleys
are frequently paved with brick, particularly where alley facing garages are common. Fencing ranges
widely in type; fencing in public view was generally designed to compliment the style, design material, and
date of the residence.
(14)

Relationship of open space to structures. Open space in the district occurs in the form of vacant land, a

(15)

Scale of facades and facade elements. There is a variety in scale from block to block and style to style;

(16)

Directional expression of front elevations. In general, the expression of direction is neutral.

(17)

Rhythm of building setbacks. Because of the existence of various subdivisions and their related
subdivision and deed restrictions, setbacks vary from area to area within the district, though they are
consistent within each block or area. The varying designs of the houses, occasionally with slight setbacks
in the facades, cause the houses to relate to the front setback line in different ways; this creates a slight
variation in the setback line. Nevertheless, within each block or area a wall of continuity is created.

(18)

Relationship of lot coverage. Lot coverage ranges from fifty (50) per cent to twelve (12) per cent or less

(19)

Degree of complexity within the facade. The degree of complexity has been determined by what is typical

city park, school yards for the Waldorf and Nichols Schools, and side lots. Where an original or early
arrangement of a house and grounds included and still includes landscaped lots which form part of the
landscaping plan for the residence, such landscaped lots are significant landscape features.

most houses have a large and substantial appearance. The size and complexity of facade elements and
details either accentuate or subdue the scale of the facades. Facade elements have been determined by
what is appropriate for the style. Large wings at the front are atypical, while small wings at the side,
usually in the form of sunrooms and sunporches, are common. Window sash are usually subdivided by
muntins, which affects the apparent scale of the windows within the facades.

in the case of homes with large yards. Most homes are in the twenty (20) per cent to thirty (30) per cent
range of lot coverage.
and appropriate for a given style. The classically inspired buildings usually have simple, rectangular
facades with varying amounts of ornamentation. Other styles, such as "Queen Anne" and those of
Medieval inspiration, frequently have facades complicated by gables, bays, slight setbacks, porches, and
occasionally, turrets.

 (20)

Orientation, vistas, overviews. While most of the buildings are oriented toward the street, it is not
unusual for an entrance to face the side, especially in the case of a landscaped side lot or corner house.
The street facade in these cases is well coordinated with the rest of the street facades. Garages are
frequently oriented either toward an alley or a side street; almost all garages are detached and at the rear of
the lot. In those few cases where pre-1930 houses have attached garages, they are at the rear and are
entered from the side or rear. The doors of such attached garages are generally not visible from the street.

(21)

Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Neo-Georgian and other classically inspired buildings are generally

(22)

General environmental character. The Indian Village District, with its long, straight streets, its hierarchy

symmetrical. Other styles, including the neo-Tudor, are generally asymmetrical, but balanced
compositions.

of walls of continuity (lamps, trees, buildings) and its large, dignified homes, has an urban, substantial,
low density residential character.

 