ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
COMMITTEE ON ISRAEL BOYCOTT RESTRICTIONS
Wednesday, May 18, 2016
12:00pm
Thompson Center
100 W. Randolph, 16th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60601
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 12:01 pm. In attendance were William
Atwood, Mitchell Goldberg (committee chair), Andrew Lappin, Michael Mahoney
(telephonically), and Alicia Oberman.
2. Approval of Minutes: The minutes of 2/16 committee meeting were approved as written upon
motion and vote.
3. Administration Matters: Upon motion (by William Atwood; second by Alicia Oberman),
Michael Mahoney was approved to appear telephonically.
4. Public Comment: No comments were made.
5. Business: The committee was informed that all companies listed as potentially engaging in
Israel boycott had been contacted, informed of today’s hearing and given an opportunity to
appear. The committee reviewed the letters submitted to the IIPB by companies who have
been identified as potentially engaging in Israel boycott. These letters were responsive to
IIPB notification and request for response. The companies submitting responses included:
Dexia, Karsten Farms, Kammunal Landspenjonskasse (KLP), G4S and Nordea. Michael
Mahoney stated that he had received a request for clarification from Karsten Farms seeking
identification of a specific legal entity (or entities) from which a response is requested. No
one was present for any of Dexia, Karsten Farms, Kammunal Landspenjonskasse (KLP), and
Nordea. Counsel for G4S appeared before the committee (Jeremy Margolis, Andrew
Devooght and Emily Stone of the law firm of Loeb & Loeb) and made a presentation seeking
removal of G4S from the list. The chair thanked counsel for G4S for its presentation and
informed that further questions pertaining to the presentation may be submitted and offered
that counsel for G4S may submit to the committee any other submissions or evidence they
feel relevant to the factual inquiry before the committee.
6. Next Meeting Date: The committee did not set a definitive meeting date but stated it would
be posted with due and timely notice.
7. Adjournment: Upon motion (by Alicia Oberman; seconded by Andrew Lappin), the meeting
was adjourned at 1:05pm.
These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 