ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
COMMITTEE ON ISRAEL BOYCOTT RESTRICTIONS
September 28, 2016
12:30pm
Thompson Center
100 W. Randolph, 16th Floor Rm 503
Chicago, Illinois 60601
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 1:40 pm. In attendance were William
Atwood, Mitchell Goldberg (committee chair), Andrew Lappin, Michael Mahoney, and
Alicia Oberman.
2. Approval of Minutes: By vote, the minutes of 6/18 committee meeting were approved 5-0 as
written upon motion (by Atwood; seconded by Oberman).
3. Administration Matters: Atwood discussed the agreement reached with the 3 pensions
systems on a third party vendor, IW Financial, to vet and create a list of restricted companies.
4. Public Comment: There was no public comment.
5. Business: Address and approve updates to List of Boycotting Companies (as applicable):
Goldberg presented a list from IW Financial of prospective new companies that may be
engaged in the boycott of Israel and would qualify for divestment. Goldberg indicated he has
also sent to the vendor a list of companies that have been recently identified but not yet
vetted by IW Financial. IW Financial will send out correspondence to these companies and
will alert the committee of any responses. Atwood believes it is good policy for public
transparency that the board also sends out correspondence. Atwood moved that the
committee recommend to the full board that correspondence should be sent to the newly
identified companies and that action is held off until a future board meeting. Lappin
seconded, it was approved 5-0.
6. Other Business: Atwood offered to send out a more user-friendly spreadsheet of the
companies that are on the IW Financial restricted list and indicated that IW Financial may be
available for to discuss their methods with the full committee at a later committee meeting.
Mahoney thanked Atwood and his team for the effort in securing the services of a third party
vendor.
7. Next Meeting Date: The committee stands adjourned to the call of the chairman.
8. Adjournment: Upon motion (by Oberman; seconded by Mahoney), the meeting was
adjourned at 1:05pm.

 These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 