Illinois Investment Policy Board 
 
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board 
 
March 28, 2018 
 
Call to Order 
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on 
Wednesday, March 28, 2018 in the James R. Thompson Center located at 100. W Randolph St. , 16th 
floor.   
 
The following members of the Board were in attendance: 
Mitchell Goldberg (Board Chair)   
Michael Mahoney 
William Atwood  
Dick Ingram 
Martin Noven 
Alicia Oberman 
 
Andy Lappin’s absence was excused. Goldberg called the meeting to order at 1:00 pm.   
 
Approval of Minutes 
The  minutes  of  the  meeting  of  the  Board  held  February  15,  2018  were  presented  to  the  members  by 
Goldberg.    No  additions  or  corrections  were  noted.    By  vote  upon  motion  (by  Mahoney,  seconded  by 
Ingram), the Minutes were approved (6-0) as written.   
 
Public Comments 
None. 
 
Administrative Matters   
Goldberg  announced  the  addition  of  the  Expatriate  company  restrictions  list  to  the  purview  of  the 
Sudan/Iran Restrictions Committee. 
 
Goldberg  announced  his  prior  appointment  of  Mahoney  to  serve  on  the  Israel  Boycott  Restrictions 
Committee and the Iran/Sudan/Expatriate Restrictions Committee.   
 
Report from the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions 
Goldberg  reported  on  the  meeting  of  the  Committee.    Goldberg  reported  that  ISS-Ethix  had  not  yet 
provided  further  information  regarding  TOBAM  Core  Investment.    He  further  reported  that,  per 
communications  from  ISS-Ethix  indicating,  that  the  Committee  recommended  that  the  IIPB  add  three 
additional companies as engaging in Israel Boycott pursuant to the statute: Sampension Kp Livsforsikring 
A/S,  DNB  ASA,  and  PFA  Pension  Forsikrings  AS.  The  Committee  further  recommended  that  notice  be 
sent to same and that they be subsequently added to the Israel Boycott Restrictions list.   
 
Goldberg  also  reported  on  a  report  provided  by  the  Israel  American  Committee  on  an  additional 
company, Storebrand, which supported that it is a company engaging in Israel Boycott.  The Committee 
voted  to  recommend  to  the  IIPB  that  Storebrand  be  identified  as  a  company  boycotting  Israel,  that 
notice be sent to same, and that it be subsequently added to the Israel Boycott Restrictions list.   

  
Mahoney moved (seconded by Atwood) that IIPB accept the recommendations of the Committee.  The 
motion passed (6-0). 
 
Report from the Committee on Sudan and Iran Restrictions  
Atwood reported that the Committee met earlier.  Atwood reported that new lists for Sudan restrictions 
and  Iran  restrictions  had  been  produced  using  recommendations  from  ISS-Ethix.  The  Committee 
recommended  to  put  over  adoption  of  the  lists  until  the  6/13  meeting  of  the  Board  so  that  the 
retirement systems could evaluate the new lists.   
 
Atwood also reported on the status of creating the expatriate company list required to be established by 
IIPB  by  April  1,  2018.    The  following  companies  were  identified  by  Sustainalytics,  IIPB’s  vendor,  as 
expatriate  entities  pursuant  to  the  Illinois  statute:    Nabors  Industries  Ltd.,  James  River  Group  Ltd., 
Rowans Cos. Plc., Samsonite International SA, CardTronics, Theravance Biopharma Inc.  The Committee 
recommend that the IIPB accept the Sustainalytics list as submitted and to notify each company on that 
list  of  its  being  identified  as  an  Expatriated  Entity.    The  Committee  further  recommended  that  an 
asterisk be placed at each entity name indicating “Pursuant to 40 ILCS 5/1-110.16, the IIPB was required 
to  include  companies  identified  as  expatriated  entities  in  the  list  of  restricted  companies  by  April  1, 
2018. Notice has been sent to these companies pursuant to 40 ILCS 5/1-110.16(e)(1) prior to taking final 
action.” 
 
Noven  moved  (seconded  by  Ingram)  that  IIPB  accept  the  recommendations  of  the  Committee.  The 
motion passed (6-0).   
 
Other Business  
None 
 
Board Member Comments   
None 
 
Upcoming Meetings 
The next meeting will be on June 13, 2018 at 1:00 p.m., unless otherwise scheduled, which will be 
provided with due and timely notice posted.   
 
Adjournment  
Seeing no further business Oberman motioned to adjourn at 1:29 p.m. Seconded by Ingram. The motion 
was approved (6-0).   

 