Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
June 15, 2016
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board convened
on Tuesday, June 15th, 2016 at 1:30 p.m. in the James R. Thompson Center located
at 100. W Randolph St. in Room 16-503.
The following members of the board were in attendance:
Dick Ingram
Michael Mahoney
Andrew Lappin
Bill Atwood
Mitchell Goldberg
Michael Mahoney presided and called the meeting to order at 1:30pm with five
members of the board in attendance.
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the Board held March 18, 2016 were presented to the
members by Mahoney. Ingram moved to approve the minutes as submitted. Lappin
seconded the motion and all were in favor the minutes were approved 5-0-0.
Public Comments
Mahoney asked if there were any members of the public in attendance who wished
to comment. There were none.
Discussion and Approval of changes to the Investment Restrictions List
Mahoney indicated that several of the companies placed on the Israel Boycott
Restrictions list had reached out to the board. Goldberg then presented his findings
on each of those companies. Goldberg believes that Karsten Farms, Dexia, ASN
Bank and KLP all should remain on the list. G4S through its many submissions of
information to the board should be removed and Nordea Bank should still be under
review. Goldberg made the motion for those changes to the list, Lappin seconded
and the motion passed 5-0-0.
Update on Vendor
Atwood indicated that the pension systems were close to an agreement on securing
a vendor and that by the next scheduled meeting a third party vendor should be in
place to help identify restricted companies.
Administration Matters
No administration matters were brought forward
Board Member Comments
Goldberg thanked the representatives from G4S for all the information they
provided that helped the board make a decision.

 Representatives from G4S thanked the board for the process and the thoughtfulness
involved.
Upcoming Meetings
Mahoney reminded the board members that the next meeting will be on September
28th, 2016 at the regular time and location.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Atwood motioned to adjourned at 2:00pm seconded by
Lappin and approved 5-0-0.

 