ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
Wednesday, September 28, 2016
1:30pm
Thompson Center
100 W. Randolph, 16th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60601
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 1:30 pm. In attendance were William
Atwood, Mitchell Goldberg Andrew Lappin, Michael Mahoney, Doug Wesley, Richard
Ingram and Alicia Oberman.
2. Approval of Minutes: By vote, the minutes of 6/8/16 board meeting were approved as written
upon motion (by Atwood; seconded by Lappin).
3. Public Comment: None.
4. Administration Matters: No matters were addressed.
5. Discussion on updated restrictions list as provided by vendor: Atwood reported that the
pension systems have approved a vendor, IW Financial, and have signed an agreement for
creating unified lists for Iran, Sudan and Israel Boycott restrictions. He reported that the
vendor has sent updated lists for review by the members of the Illinois Investment Policy
Board.
6. Report and approval of recommendations from the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions:
Goldberg said the Committee reviewed the new Israel Boycott Restrictions List provided by
IW Financial and had just met earlier in the morning to discuss. Goldberg reported that it
includes several entities not previously on the Board’s published list. The committee and
vendor would be sending out notification to those new entities to hear response.
7. Discussion and approval of updates on Sudan and Iran restricted investments: Atwood
discussed that the committee had not met but would review the list provided by IW Financial.
Mahoney recommended that no changes to the list be made until the December meeting
giving time for notification and response before action.
8. Next Meeting Date: The board agreed to move the next meeting date to 12/6/16 at 10am
instead of the previously scheduled 12/7/16 at 1:30pm
9. Adjournment: Upon motion (by Alicia Oberman; seconded by Bill Atwood), the meeting
was adjourned at 1:50pm.
These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 