ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD COMMITTEE ON
SUDAN RESTRICTIONS, IRAN RESTRICTIONS, AND EXPATRIATED ENTITIES
Minutes of the committee
120 N. LaSalle Street, 7th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60601
December 12, 2018
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 11:30 a.m. by Ingram, as Board Chair.
2. Roll Call: The following members of the Committee were in attendance: Richard Ingram (Chairman),
Mitchell Goldberg, Dipesh Mehta, and Martin Noven. Also, in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble,
executive secretary and counsel of the IIPB.
3. Approval of Minutes: The minutes of the meeting of the committee held September 12, 2018 were
presented to the members by Ingram. No additions or corrections were noted. By vote upon
motion (by Ingram, seconded by Mehta), the Minutes were approved (3-0) as written.
4. Administrative Matters
None.
5. Public Comments
None.
6. Business: Address and approve updates to List of Sudan Restrictions, Iran Restrictions, and Expatriated
Entities (as applicable):
Ingram reported that the updated list from ISS-Ethix made the following recommendations as an
restricted company pursuant to the Illinois statute:
Iran:
Recommended Additions: Aker Solutions ASA, China International United Petroleum & Chemical So.,
Ltd. (Unipec), China National United Oil Corp., Enel Spa, Iranian Mines and Mining Industries
Development and Renovation Organization, Linde Plc, Philippines National Oil Company, Polski
Koncern Naftowy Orlen S.A., Tenaris S.A., Zhuhai Zhenrong Company, Abels Decker, China Railway
Group Ltd, John Wood Group plc, Kvaerner ASA,
Recommended Deletions: Daelim Industrial, Sinopec Oilfield Equipment Corp., Jindal SAW Ltd., Total
S.A., Cosmo Energy Holdings Company Limited, General Electric Co., OMV AG,
Sudan:
Recommended Additions: Acrow Misr, Adcorp Holdings Ltd, Al Maha Ceramics, Al-Tayyar Travel
Group, Aramex PJSC, Atlas Cycles(Haryana) Ltd.Baker Hughes a GE company, Bank of Khartoum,
Bilcare Ltd., Binani Industries Ltd., Borosil Glass Works Ltd., Caprihans India Ltd., China Energy

 Engineering Corporation Limited, China Yangtze Power Co, Daicel Corp, Datwyler Holding AG, Denyo
Co. Ltd, Dewan Cement, DSV AS, Eicher Motors Ltd., Guangxi Liugong Machinery Co. Ltd., Hyundai
Construction Equipment Co. Ltd., Nexen Tire Corp., Stabilus S.A., Talanx AG, Villeroy & Boch Acrow
Misr, Adcorp Holdings Ltd, Al Maha Ceramics, Al-Tayyar Travel Group, Aramex PJSC, Atlas
Cycles(Haryana) Ltd., Baker Hughes a GE company, Bank of Khartoum, Bilcare Ltd., Binani Industries
Ltd., Borosil Glass Works Ltd., Caprihans India Ltd., China Energy Engineering Corporation Limited,
China Yangtze Power Co, Daicel Corp, Datwyler Holding AG, Denyo Co. Ltd, Dewan Cement, DSV AS,
Eicher Motors Ltd., Guangxi Liugong Machinery Co. Ltd., Hyundai Construction Equipment Co. Ltd.,
Nexen Tire Corp., Stabilus S.A., Talanx AG, Villeroy & Boch, Aquafil SpA, BT Group, Capital Product
Partners LP, China National Chemical Engineering Co, China National Nuclear Power Co. Ltd., China
State Construction Engineering Corporation, Diebold Nixdorf, eDreams Odigeo S.A., Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd, Vardhman Industries Ltd., BEML Ltd., Egyptian Electrical Cables, Huaming Power
Equipment Co Ltd., Jiangsu Zhongchao Holding Co Ltd., Mafatlal Industries Ltd., Porsche Automobil
Holding SE, Sixt SE, Symphony Ltd.
Recommended Deletions: Doosan Corp, Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., Global Telecom Holding, Old
Mutual plc, Orascom Telecom Media and Technology, Stamper Oil & Gas Corp, VEON Ltd, Dong Feng
Automobile Co. Ltd., Fuji Electric Co.Ltd., NewLead Holdings Ltd, Shandong Fin Cnc Machine Co Ltd,
Yangzhou Yaxing Motor Coach Co. Ltd.
Ingram reported representatives for LG Electronics, Inc. (counsel Jack Shane of the firm of Wiley Rein
LLP and John I. Taylor, Senior Vice President Public Affairs & Communications for LG Electronics USA
Inc.) appeared and presented an oral argument supplementing written submissions seeking removal
from the Sudan restrictions list. Ingram reported that the Committee voted to recommend that,
based on evidence and legal arguments presented, the Board remove LG Electronics from the list of
Sudan Restricted Companies. The committee also voted to recommend that the Board seek
clarification from ISS-Ethix as to its understanding of the term and exceptions to the term “forbidden
entity” under the statute with respect to Sudan restrictions. The committee also voted to recommend
that the Board authorize Gamble to reach out to the Legislature for potential clarification as to the
statutory definition of “forbidden entity” with respect to Sudan restrictions.
Ingram also reported that affidavits had been provided by Mashreq and Vossloh stating that they had
no business dealings with or interests in Sudan. Ingram reported that the committee voted to
recommend to the Board that Mashreq and Vossloh be removed from the list of Sudan Restricted
Entities, and that the Board publish the affidavits submitted on the Board website.
Ingram further reported that AP Moll Maersk had submitted supplementary documents and
submissions with respect to their appeal seeking removal from the Sudan Restrictions list. Ingram
reported that the committee voted to recommend that the Board enter and continue the appeal of
AP Moll Maersk, that their submission be sent to ISS-Ethix for its opinion regarding compliance with
the Illinois statute.
Mahoney moved (seconded by Ingram) that IIPB accept the recommendations of the Committee. The
motion passed (4-0 with 2 abstentions).

 7. Other Business
None.
8. Board Member Comments
None.
9. Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be on March 13, 2019 at 11:30 a.m., unless otherwise scheduled, which will be
provided with due and timely notice posted.
10. Adjournment
Seeing no further business Martin motioned to adjourn at 12:20 p.m. Seconded by Goldberg. The
motion was approved (3-0).

These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 