Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
January 18, 2018
Call to Order
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on
Thursday, January 18, 2018 in the James R. Thompson Center located at 100. W Randolph St. in Room
16-503.
The following members of the Board were in attendance:
Michael Mahoney (Board Chair) (telephonic)
William Atwood
Dick Ingram
Alicia Oberman (telephonic)
Andrew Lappin (telephonic)
Mitchell Goldberg
Mahoney, Chair, asked Goldberg to chair from the room. Goldberg called the meeting to order at 1:31
pm. Upon motion (7-0), the Board permitted Lappin, Mahoney and Oberman to appear telephonically
(by Atwood, seconded by Ingram). As a point of order, Atwood noted that there was not a quorum
physically present; accordingly the Board cannot take action at this meeting.
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the Board held December 6, 2017 were presented to the members by
Goldberg. No additions or corrections were noted.
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
Goldberg introduced and welcomed the new IIPB Executive Secretary/Counsel, Monica-Kaye Gamble. A
discussion was had as to the actions taken so far in identifying criteria for the expatriate company list
required to be established by IIPB by April 1, 2018. Goldberg, Gamble and Atwood reported on efforts
to identify companies. A discussion was had regarding the search for a vendor to assist with compiling
the list. The matter was set over for a report on continued efforts for the next IIPB meeting.
Report from the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions
Goldberg reported that ISS-Ethix had sent a revised list adding Dutch Lion B.V. to the list. He also
reported on reports received by the IIPB of five companies: DNB ASA, Storebrand ASA, Sampension KP
Livsforsikring A/S, PFA Pension Forsikrings AS, and TOBAM Core INvestements, which indicate activity
constituting Israel Boycott under the Illinois Statute. Goldberg reported that he had sent these reports
to ISS-Ethix. In a call yesterday with ISS-Ethix, ISS-Ethix told Goldberg and Gamble that they had
reviewed the reports concerning only DNB ASA and Storebrand ASA. Preliminary findings indicated
corporate sentiment of boycott by DNB ASA. Though no corporate statements suggested boycott by
Storebrand ASA, they appear to have a blanket ban on Israeli banks (as opposed to the banks of other

 countries) that suggests boycott. ISS-Ethix told Goldberg and Gamble that it would provide its own
findings relative to the companies shortly.
Report from the Committee on Sudan and Iran Restrictions
Atwood reported that the Sudan and Iran committee met today. The committee had received an appeal
letter from the law firm of Cleary, Gottleib, Steen & Hamilton, requesting that Kawasaki, Kisa, Kaisha Ltd
(“K-Line”) be removed from the Sudan Restrictions list. The most recent list provided by ISS-Ethix did
not include the company on the Sudan Restrictions list. Accordingly, the committee voted to
recommend to the Board that the company be removed. The committee has deferred action on
updating the Sudan and Iran lists in accordance with the updated ISS-Ethix lists until its next meeting.
Other Business
None
Board Member Comments
None
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be on February 15, 2018 at 1:00 p.m., unless otherwise scheduled, which will be
provided with due and timely notice posted.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Atwood motioned to adjourn at 2:04 p.m. Seconded by Ingram. The motion
was approved (6-0).

 