Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
June 13, 2018
Call to Order
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on
Wednesday, March 28, 2018 in the James R. Thompson Center located at 100. W Randolph St. , 16th
floor.
The following members of the Board were in attendance:
Mitchell Goldberg (Board Chair)
Michael Mahoney
William Atwood
Andrew Lappin
Martin Noven (Telephonic)
Alicia Oberman (Telephonic)
Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel to the IIPB.
Goldberg called the meeting to order at 1:00 pm. A motion was made (by Mahoney, seconded by
Lappin) to allow Noven and Oberman to appear telephonically. The motion was approved (6-0).
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the Board held March 28, 2018 were presented to the members by
Goldberg. No additions or corrections were noted. By vote upon motion (by Lappin, seconded by
Mahoney), the Minutes were approved (6-0) as written.
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
None.
Report from the Committee on Sudan, Iran and Expatriate Restrictions
Atwood reported that the Committee met earlier. Atwood reported that new lists for Iran Restrictions
and Sudan Restrictions provided by ISS-Ethix for Sudan restrictions and Iran restrictions had been
provided to the Retirement Systems as directed by the IIPB at the 3/28 meeting. The Committee
recommended to notify those companies newly identified by letter that they are in violation of the
Illinois statute and to review any responses at the next meeting in September, whereby a decision will
be made to publish the names of these companies on the public lists.
Atwood reported that the Committee had received 4 appeal letters for companies placed on the Sudan
list. Two of those companies, Panalpina and Maersk, did not address the Illinois-specific issues for
inclusion on the list. The Committee recommended that Gamble send letters to those entities stating
this and letting them know that they are not being removed from the list at this time.

 Atwood also reported that no supplemental response had been provided from counsel for Mahindra.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended that the IIPB remove the asterisk for that company.
Atwood also reported that a substantial submission had been received from Mashreqbank, which
seemed to suggest that all Sudan connections violative of the Illinois statute had been ended. The
Committee recommended that Mashreqbank be contacted to obtain an affidavit confirming this, and
that, upon satisfaction of Gamble, that Mashreqbank could be removed from the list.
Atwood also reported on that all six entities identified on the expatriate company list were provided
notice. No responses had been received. Accordingly, the Committee recommended that the asterisk
be removed from the entities on that list. Atwood reported that no additional companies had been
identified by Sustainalytics.
Noven moved (seconded by Mahoney) that IIPB accept the recommendations of the Committee. The
motion passed (6-0).
Report from the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions
Goldberg reported on the meeting of the Committee. Goldberg reported that ISS-Ethix had not yet
provided further information regarding TOBAM Core Investment. He further reported that, notice had
been sent to Sampension Kp Livsforsikring A/S, DNB ASA, and PFA Pension Forsikrings AS and
Storebrand. He reported that Sampension has submitted a response, but that the Committee did not
find the response justified removal from the list. The Committee reported that they authorized Gamble
to respond to that company as to the bases given by ISS-Ethix for inclusion on the list. No responses had
been received from the other companies. The Committee recommended that Sampension Kp
Livsforsikring A/S, DNB ASA, and PFA Pension Forsikrings AS and Storebrand be published on the Israel
Boycott Restrictions List.
Goldberg also reported on reports provided by the Israel American Committee for Action on an
additional companies, Achmea Investment Management and De Volkbank. These reports were sent to
ISS-Ethix for comment. ISS-Ethix has not yet reported about Achmea. However, ISS-Ethix reported that
De Volkbank apparently purchased SNS Bank and ASN Bank, both of which are on the IIPB Israel Boycott
Restrictions list. The Committee recommended that the De Volkbank be identified as a company
boycotting Israel, that notice be sent to same, and that it be subsequently added to the Israel Boycott
Restrictions list.
The Committee further reported that no supplemental submission had yet been received from Danske
Bank. The Committee recommended to remove the asterisk from Danske Bank’s name on the Israel
Boycott Restrictions list.
Lappin moved (seconded by Oberman) that IIPB accept the recommendations of the Committee. The
motion passed (6-0).
Other Business
None
Board Member Comments
None

 Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be on September 12, 2018 at 1:00 p.m., unless otherwise scheduled, which will be
provided with due and timely notice posted.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Lappin motioned to adjourn at 1:24 p.m. Seconded by Oberman. The motion
was approved (6-0).

 