Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
February 23, 2017
Call to Order
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on
Thursday, February 23, 2017 in the James R. Thompson Center located at 100. W Randolph St. in Room
16-504.
The following members of the Board were in attendance:
Michael Mahoney (Board Chair) - telephonic
William Atwood - telephonic
Dick Ingram
Martin Noven
Alicia Oberman
Andrew Lappin
Mitchell Goldberg
At the request of Michael Mahoney, Chair, Mitchell Goldberg called the meeting to order at 1:35 pm.
Upon motion (7-0), the Board permitted Mahoney and Atwood to appear telephonically (by Lappin,
seconded by Ingram). Mahoney requested that Goldberg chair the meeting in as ranking member
present.
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the Board held December 6, 2016 were presented to the members by
Goldberg. Upon motion (7-0), the minutes were approved as submitted (by Lappin, seconded by
Ingram).
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
Per the recommendations of the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions and the Committee on Sudan
and Iran Restrictions, the Board will invite representatives from vendor IW Financial to the June 7, 2017
IIPB meeting to address the Board as to methodology of identifying companies for the lists.
Report from the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions
Goldberg reported that the committee had met last week. Prior to the meeting, the committee had
received correspondence from counsel for two companies seeking review of their inclusion on the
restricted company list: Danske Bank and PGGM. Both companies were informed of the meeting. PGGM
attended and presented extensively to the committee. Further, PGGM submitted supplemental
materials and an executed certification of compliance with the Illinois statute. Based on PGGM’s
presentation and submissions, the Committee recommends that the IIPB remove PGGM (and its related
entities, as applicable) from the List of Companies that Boycott Israel.

 Goldberg also reported on updates to the document titled “Restricted Entities List—Boycott Israel”,
prepared by IW Financial, dated February 1, 2017. Per the Restricted Entities List,” IW Financial
recommended removing FreedomCall Ltd. From the list. It further recommended adding Royal
Haskoning DHV, Triodos Bank, and Vitens NV to the list. Goldberg reported that no opinion had yet
been received from counsel as to Stichting Administratiekantoor Beheer Financiele Intellingen (“NFLI”)
regarding NFLI’s argument that it is not a “company” as defined by the state law. Goldberg reported
that the Committee recommended, with the exception of NFLI (until an opinion is received from
counsel) and PGGM (and related entities; which is recommended by the Committee for removal),
adoption of the revised list submitted by IW Financial by the IIPB as the List of Companies that Boycott
Israel.
Goldberg also reported that the committee recommends that a representative of IW Financial appear
before the Board to address methodology used in identifying companies for inclusion on the list.
Report from the Committee on Sudan and Iran Restrictions
Goldberg reported that the Committee on Sudan and Iran Restrictions had met earlier today. No
decision had yet been made on any additions to the Sudan and Iran Restrictions. However, per
recommendations made by IW Financial in restricted entities lists, the Committee on Sudan and Iran
Restrictions recommended that three companies be removed from the Sudan list: Alcatel Lucent, China
Shipping Container Lines Co., and Bank Audi.
Goldberg also reported that the committee recommends that a representative of IW Financial appear
before the Board to address methodology used in identifying companies for inclusion on the list.
Other Business
Upon a motion (7-0), the Board voted to adopt the recommendations of the Committee on Israel
Boycott Restrictions, including the removal of PGGM and FredomCall Ltd. (by Lappin, seconded by
Atwood). Those companies not previously notified or identified are to be notified. Upon a motion (7-0),
the Board voted to adopt the recommendations of the Committee on Sudan and Iran Restrictions (by
Lappin, seconded by Atwood).
Board Member Comments
None.
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be on June 7, 2017 at 1:30 p.m.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Lappin motioned to adjourned at 1:57 p.m. Seconded by Ingram. The motion
was approved (7-0).

 