ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
COMMITTEE ON ISRAEL BOYCOTT RESTRICTIONS
Wednesday, February 15, 2017
2:00 PM
Thompson Center
100 W. Randolph, 16th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60601
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 2:03 PM. In attendance were Mitchell
Goldberg (Committee chair), Andrew Lappin, William Atwood, and Alicia Oberman. Board
Chair Michael Mahoney sent his regrets.
2. Approval of Minutes: By 4-0-0 vote, the minutes of 12/6/2016 committee meeting were
approved as written upon motion (by Lappin; seconded by Atwood).
3. Administration Matters: No matters were addressed.
4. Public Comment: None.
5. Business: Chairman Goldberg stated that the committee had received correspondence from
counsel for two companies seeking review of their inclusion on the restricted company list:
Danske Bank and PGGM. Both companies were informed of the meeting. PGGM attended.
Chairman Goldberg recognized Representatives of PGGM. PGGM is a provider of financial
services to global pension funds and is based in the Netherlands. In attendance for PGGM
were company representatives, Mr. Eloy Lindeijer, Member Executive Committee, Chief
Investment Management and Ms. Michele M. Klaasen, General Counsel and Managing
Director of Tax, Legal & Regulatory Investment Management, and outside counsel, Ms.
Kaitlyn Ferguson, Esq. with the Clifford Chance law firm.
The purpose of PGGM’s attendance was to seek the removal of PGGM from the Illinois
Investment Policy Board’s (IIPB’s) List of Companies that Boycott Israel. A presentation
was given by Ms. Ferguson, supported by comments from the representatives of PGGM, on
behalf of PGGM. Though acknowledging (i) a 2014 divestment of $9,000,000 from five
Israeli banks and (ii) that the review was instigated by a 2004 non-binding Advisory Opinion
issued by the International Court of Justice relating to Israeli settlements in territories
controlled by Israel, PGGM regarded the Advisory Opinion merely as a catalyst to review
risk of positions in Israel, including those banks. Following lengthy engagement with the
banks, in 2014 PGGM liquidated some investments in those companies. However, PGGM
denied any company policy requiring divestment from Israeli companies generally,
irrespective of business of those companies. Further, PGGM denied any political motivation
in the decision to liquidate the positions with the five banks.
1

 In support of this, PGGM pointed to increased investment into the Israel market following
the divestiture in 2014, including identifying some specific investments. At the time of the
liquidation the value of PGGM’s exposure to the State of Israel was approximately
$100,000,000. As of the time of the presentation before the Committee the value of that
exposure was approximately $317,000,000.
Counsel for PGGM and PGGM’s company representatives addressed several questions of the
Committee. Counsel for PGGM volunteered to submit supplemental information detailing its
oral presentation relative to the above. Following the presentation and questions, the Chair
thanked PGGM’s counsel and representatives for their attendance and presentation.
Upon motion (4-0-0), subject to receipt of the supplemental submission of PGGM and
execution of a certification of compliance with the Illinois statute of the kind available on the
IIPB website, the Committee recommends that the IIPB remove PGGM from the List of
Companies that Boycott Israel (by Atwood, seconded by Oberman).
The Committee then discussed the document titled “Restricted Entities List—Boycott Israel”,
prepared by IW Financial, dated February 1, 2017. A discussion was had regarding the
recommendations of IW Financial to remove and add certain companies. Goldberg informed
the Committee that no opinion had yet been received from counsel as to Stichting
Administratiekantoor Beheer Financiele Intellingen (“NFLI”) regarding NFLI’s argument
that it is not a “company” as defined by the state law. By a unanimous vote (4-0-0) the
Committee recommended, with the exception of NFLI (until an opinion is received from
counsel), adoption of the list submitted by IW Financial by the IIPB as the List of Companies
that Boycott Israel (by Oberman, seconded by Lappin).
6. Other Business: None
7. Next Meeting Date: The committee did not set a definitive meeting date but stated it would
be posted with due and timely notice.
8. Adjournment: A motion to adjourn passed unanimously (4-0-0) (by Oberman, seconded by
Lappin). The meeting was adjourned at 3:25pm.
These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

2

 