Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
September 12, 2017
Call to Order
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on
Tuesday, September 12, 2017 in the James R. Thompson Center located at 100. W Randolph St. in Room
16-503.
The following members of the Board were in attendance:
Michael Mahoney (Board Chair)
William Atwood
Dick Ingram
Martin Noven (telephonic)
Alicia Oberman
Andrew Lappin
Mitchell Goldberg
Mahoney, Chair, called the meeting to order at 11:31 pm. Upon motion (7-0), the Board permitted
Noven to appear telephonically (by Atwood, seconded by Ingram).
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the Board held June 7, 2017 were presented to the members by
Mahoney. Upon motion (7-0), the minutes were approved as submitted (by Ingram, seconded by
Atwood).
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
Mahoney gave an update on the search for an Executive Secretary per the IIPB vote at the 6/7 meeting.
Mahoney is to seek to present candidates to the Board at its next meeting (whether regular or
specially convened).
Report from the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions
Goldberg reported that the committee was contacted by the Israel-American Coalition for Action, who
provided information relative to Danske Bank, previously on the Board’s list of restricted entities,
suggesting that the company is boycotting Israel within the meaning of the Illinois statute. The activities
identified by the Israel-American Coalition for Action included activities identified by the IIPB in February
of 2016, when it was initially placed on the Illinois list of restricted companies. A review of Danske
Bank’s public information confirmed the activity. Goldberg reported that the Committee recommends
that the IIPB identify Danske Bank as an entity boycotting Israel, and to send a letter to same requesting
a response. Goldberg also reported that ISS confirmed an error with identification of The Co-operative
Group on its list and, as a result, on the website. He reported that Committee recommend that the IIPB
correct the website. He also reported on a Committee discussion regarding vendor issues over the year,
including the acquisition of IW Financial by ISS (ISS-Ethix) in January 2017. Upon motion (7-0), the IIPB

 voted to accept the recommendations of the Committee as to Danske Bank and The Co-Operative
Group.
Report from the Committee on Sudan and Iran Restrictions
None.
Other Business
A discussion was had as to ISS-Ethix existing contracts with corporations as to investments. Atwood
suggested a letter be sent by the board to ISS regarding services to the IIPB and clarification regarding its
services to corporations.
Board Member Comments
None
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be its regularly stated meeting on December 6, 2017 at 1:30 p.m., unless
otherwise scheduled, which will be provided with due and timely notice posted.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Goldberg motioned to adjourn at 11:51 a.m. Seconded by Atwood. The
motion was approved (7-0).

 