Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
September 12, 2018
Call to Order
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on
Wednesday, September 12, 2018 in the James R. Thompson Center located at 100. W Randolph St. , 16th
floor.
The following members of the Board were in attendance:
Mitchell Goldberg (Board Chair)
Richard Ingram
Dipesh Mehta
Alicia Oberman
Andrew Lappin (Telephonic)
Martin Noven (Telephonic)
Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel to the IIPB.
Goldberg called the meeting to order at 1:04 pm. A motion was made (by Oberman, seconded by
Ingram) to allow Noven and Lapin to appear telephonically. The motion was approved (5-0).
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the Board held June 13, 2018 were presented to the members by
Goldberg. No additions or corrections were noted. By vote upon motion (by Ingram, seconded by
Mehta), the Minutes were approved (6-0) as written.
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
The chair welcomed Mehta as the Board’s newest members and congratulated Ingram on his election as
Chair of the Sudan/Iran/Expatriate Restrictions Committee.
Report from the Committee on Sudan, Iran and Expatriate Restrictions
Ingram reported that the Committee met earlier. Ingram reported representatives for AP Moll Maersk
had appealed the company’s inclusion on the Sudan Restrictions list and requested to appear
telephonically in furtherance of their appeal. Ingram reported that they would be submitting a
supplemental memo to the committee addressing the Committee’s questions. Ingram also reported
that new lists for Iran Restrictions and Sudan and Iran Restrictions were provided by ISS-Ethix for Sudan
restrictions and Iran restrictions. Separately, Ingram reported that the Committee had reviewed a new
expatriate list provided by Sustainalytics. The Committee recommended to adopt ISS-Ethix’s
recommendations with respect to Sudan Restrictions. The Committee voted to add Haldor Topsoe,
Iplom, Odfjell Drilling Ltd, and Speedy Ship FZC to the Iran Restructions list and to remove Saras
Raffinerie Sarde SPA from the Iran Restructions List pursuant to ISS-Ethix recommendations. With
respect to the Iran list, MK Gamble is to follow up with ISS-Ethix as to the other identified entities. The

 Committee recommended that companies newly named be notified that they have been identified for
inclusion on the Iran, Sudan and Expatriate Lists prior to being listed publicly.
Mehta moved (seconded by Oberman) that IIPB accept the recommendations of the Committee. The
motion passed (6-0).
Report from the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions
Goldberg reported on that the Committee did not meet. Ingram requested that the Board address
committee business as a committee of the whole. Goldberg reported that ISS-Ethix had not yet
provided further information regarding TOBAM Core Investment. The Board addressed information
provided regarding PenSam Holding A/S and Achmea Investment Management, which showed conduct
of boycotting Israel. Goldberg reported on ISS-Ethix responses regarding Achmea Investment
Management and PenSam Holding A/S. Goldberg reported that ISS-Ethix had informed the IIPB of its
recommendation to remove Dexia Israel Bank and Triodos Bank from the list of Israel Boycott
Restrictions. The Board requested that MK Gamble obtain further responses from ISS-Ethix to justify the
removal of Dexia and Triodos from the lists. MK Gamble is to also inquire of other state boards. MK
Gamble and other Board members want an opportunity to conduct further inquiry as to Archmea
Investment Management and PenSam Holding A/S.
Other Business
None
Board Member Comments
None
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be on December 12, 2018 at 1:00 p.m., unless otherwise scheduled, which will be
provided with due and timely notice posted.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Mehta motioned to adjourn at 1:46 p.m. Seconded by Oberman. The motion
was approved (6-0).

 