ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD COMMITTEE ON
SUDAN RESTRICTIONS, IRAN RESTRICTIONS, AND EXPATRIATED ENTITIES
Minutes of the committee
September 12, 2018
Call to Order
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on
Wednesday, September 12, 2018 in the James R. Thompson Center located at 100. W Randolph St., 16th
floor.
The following members of the Committee were in attendance:
Mitchell Goldberg
Richard Ingram
Dipesh Mehta
Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel to the IIPB.
Goldberg, as Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 11:35 am.
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the committee held June 13, 2018 were presented to the members by
Goldberg. No additions or corrections were noted. By vote upon motion (by Ingram, seconded by
Mehta), the Minutes were approved (3-0) as written.
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
Goldberg welcomed Mehta as the Committee’s newest member. A discussion was had regarding
electing a replacement committee chair. Ingram volunteered to serve in that role. Mehta moved
(seconded by Ingram) to appoint Ingram as Chair of the Sudan/Iran/Expatriate Restrictions Committee.
The motion passed (3-0).
Report from the Committee on Sudan, Iran and Expatriate Restrictions
Doug Montague (Senior Director Government Relations) and Dennis O’Brien (Counsel for AP Moll
Maersk) appealed the company’s inclusion on the Sudan Restrictions list and requested to appear
telephonically in furtherance of their appeal. Montague and O’Brien stated that they would submit a
supplemental memo to the committee addressing the Committee’s questions. The Committee reviewed
a new expatriate list provided by Sustainalytics. Goldberg moved (seconded by Mehta) that Committee
recommend to the IIPB that the changes to the Expatriated Entities list as recommended by
Sunstainalytics be adopted. The motion was approved (3-0). The Committee reviewed new lists for Iran
and Sudan Restrictions from ISS-Ethix. A discussion was had regarding whether to adopt ISS-Ethix’s
recommendations with respect to Sudan Restrictions. Goldberg moved (seconded by Mehta) that the
Committee recommend to the IIPB that the changes to the Sudan list as recommended by ISS-Ethix be
adopted. The motion was approved (3-0). A discussion was had regarding whether to adopt ISS-Ethix’s
recommendations with respect to Iran Restrictions. Goldberg moved (seconded by Mehta that (i) the

 Committee recommend to the IIPB that it adopt ISS-Ethix’s recommendations with respect to adding
Haldor Topsoe, Iplom, Odfjell Drilling Ltd, and Speedy Ship FZC to the Iran Restrictions list and to remove
Saras Raffinerie Sarde SPA from the Iran Restrictions list and (ii) to have MK Gamble follow up with ISSEthix as to the other identified entities. The motion was approved (3-0). The Committee recommended
that companies newly named be notified that they have been identified for inclusion on the Iran, Sudan
and Expatriate Lists prior to being listed publicly.
Other Business
None
Board Member Comments
None
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be on December 12, 2018 at 11:30 a.m., unless otherwise scheduled, which will be
provided with due and timely notice posted.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Goldberg motioned to adjourn at 12:25 p.m. Seconded by Mehta. The motion
was approved (3-0).

 