ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
COMMITTEE ON SUDAN, IRAN RESTRICTIONS, AND EXPATRIATED ENTITIES
Wednesday, June 13
11:30 AM
Thompson Center
100 W. Randolph, 16th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60601
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: In attendance were William Atwood (Committee chair), Mitchell Goldberg
(Board Chair), Martin Noven, Michael Mahoney, and Richard Ingram. The meeting was
called to order at 11:45 AM.
2. Administration Matters: No matters were addressed.
3. Public Comment: None.
4. Business:
Report from the Committee on Sudan and Iran Restrictions
Atwood reported that the Committee met earlier. Atwood reported that new lists for Iran Restrictions
and Sudan Restrictions provided by ISS-Ethix for Sudan restrictions and Iran restrictions had been
provided to the Retirement Systems as directed by the IIPB at the 3/28 meeting. The Committee
recommended to notify those companies newly identified by letter that they are in violation of the
Illinois statute and to review any responses at the next meeting in September, whereby a decision will
be made to publish the names of these companies on the public lists.
Atwood reported that the Committee had received 4 appeal letters for companies placed on the Sudan
list. Two of those companies, Panalpina and Maersk, did not address the Illinois-specific issues for
inclusion on the list. The Committee recommended that Gamble send letters to those entities stating
this and letting them know that they are not being removed from the list at this time.
Atwood also reported that no supplemental response had been provided from counsel for Mahindra.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended that the IIPB remove the asterisk for that company.
Atwood also reported that a substantial submission had been received from Mashreqbank, which
seemed to suggest that all Sudan connections violative of the Illinois statute had been ended. The
Committee recommended that Mashreqbank be contacted to obtain an affidavit confirming this, and
that, upon satisfaction of Gamble, that Mashreqbank could be removed from the list.
Atwood also reported on that all six entities identified on the expatriate company list were provided
notice. No responses had been received. Accordingly, the Committee recommended that the asterisk
be removed from the entities on that list. Atwood reported that no additional companies had been
identified by Sustainalytics.
1

 Noven moved (seconded by Mahoney) that IIPB accept the recommendations of the Committee. The
motion passed (6-0).

5. Other Business: None
6. Next Meeting Date: The committee did not set for September 12, 2018 at 11:30am., unless
otherwise scheduled, which will be provided with due and timely notice posted. .
7. Adjournment: A motion to adjourn passed unanimously (6-0) (by Noven, seconded by
Mahoney). The meeting was adjourned at 12:02 pm.
These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

2

 