Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
March 18, 2016
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board convened
on Tuesday, March 18th, 2016 at 1:30 p.m. in the James R. Thompson Center
located at 100. W Randolph St. in Room 16-503.
The following members of the board were in attendance:
Dick Ingram
Alicia Oberman
Michael Mahoney
Andrew Lappin
Bill Atwood
Mitchell Goldberg
Michael Mahoney presided and called the meeting to order at 1:35 p.m. with six
members of the board in attendance.
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the Board held February 23rd, 2016 were presented
to the members by Mahoney. Goldberg moved to approve the minutes as
submitted. Atwood seconded the motion and all were in favor.
Public Comments
Michael Mahoney asked if there were any members of the public in attendance who
wished to comment. Steve Zahn on behalf of SURS told the board that SURS was in
process of scanning names on the proposed prohibited investment list through their
vendor. He would report back at the next meeting on progress. Rich Goldberg on
behalf of the Governor’s Office told the board he and the Governor’s Office were
thankful for all the hard work being put in by the board to meet the deadlines set in
statute.
Approval of Bylaws
A set of board bylaws was previously presented to the board by Mahoney. Ingram
commented that TRS helped draft the bylaws and they were based on TRS’ bylaws.
Atwood moved that the bylaws be approved, Oberman seconded. On a vote of 6-0
the bylaws were approved.
Discussion and Approval of Invesmtnet Restrictions List
A list of companies to be considered for investment restrictions was given to the
board by Mahoney. He stated the list had been scrubbed to meet the statute
requirement regarding American domiciled companies. Also that the list can be
changed at any future board meeting. Ingram moved that the list be approved ,
Lappin seconded, on a vote of 6-0 the list was approved. Regarding the required
notification of the companies Mahoney volunteered to send letters to newly
identified companies. Ingram and Atwood thought that sending to Investor

 Relations and the President of each company was the most effective means of
conveying the message.
Administration Matters
No administration matters were brought forward
Board Member Comments
Oberman brought up process on how to handle future additions to the prohibited
investment list. It was decided that each committee should continue to met, any
additions to the list should be to the vendor for verification and could be taken up
by the board at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
Upcoming Meetings
Ingram reminded the board members that the next meeting will be on June 15th,
2016 at the regular time and location.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Atwood motioned to adjourned at 2:00p.m. seconded by
Goldberg and approved 6-0-0.

 