ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
COMMITTEE ON ISRAEL BOYCOTT RESTRICTIONS
December 12, 2018
12:30pm
120 N. LaSalle Street, 7th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60601
December 12, 2018
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 12:33 pm.
2. Roll Call: In attendance were Mitchell Goldberg (committee chair), Dipesh Mehta, Atwood,
Alicia Oberman, Richard Ingram, and Michael Mahoney. Andrew Lappin appeared by
phone. Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel of the
IIPB. On motion, Andrew Lappin was permitted to appear and attend the meeting by phone.
(4-0; by Mahoney, seconded by Ingram.)
3. Administration Matters: None.
4. Public Comment: There was no public comment.
5. Business: Address and approve updates to List of Boycotting Companies (as applicable):
Goldberg reported that the updated list from ISS-Ethix added Airbnb, Inc. as an restricted
company pursuant to the Illinois statute. Goldberg read a letter received by the Board with
respect to the issue of Airbnb being a company that boycotts Israel under the Act. Goldberg
recognized the presence of Alison Schraub of Airbnb. Goldberg afforded Alison Schraub the
opportunity to make a presentation if desired. Goldberg reported that Airbnb had submitted a
written statement to the Board, which had previously been disseminated to the Committee
members. Questions as to the Airbnb letter were presented to Alison Schraub, who preferred
to defer to the letter without response to questions. On motion (by Mahoney, seconded by
Ingram), the Committee voted (5-0) to recommend to the full Board that, pursuant to ISSEthix recommendation, that Airbnb be identified as a company boycotting Israel, that Airbnb
be informed of their identification and afforded an opportunity to respond prior to the next
meeting of the Board.
Gamble reported on a new combined appeal from ASN Bank NV (“ASN”), de Volksbank
N.V., and SNS Bank N.V. (“SNS”) to be removed from the list of restricted companies. The
submissions were copies of prior requests and/or contained no new arguments. The three
were related entities as ASN and SNS merged to form de Volksbank N.V. On motion (by
Oberman, seconded by Ingram, the Committee voted (5-0) to recommend that the Board
keep these entities on the list of restricted companies.
6. Other Business: None.
7. Next Meeting Date: The next committee meeting was scheduled for March 13, 2018 at the
conclusion of the meeting of the Committee on Iran and Sudan Restrictions and Expatriate

 Companies, at approximately 12:15 pm, unless otherwise convened with due and timely
notice of the next committee meeting to be posted.
8. Adjournment: Upon unanimous motion (5-0; by Ingram, seconded by Mahoney), the
meeting was adjourned at 12:51pm.
These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 