ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
COMMITTEE ON ISRAEL BOYCOTT RESTRICTIONS
March 28, 2018
12:30pm
Thompson Center
100 W. Randolph, 16th Floor Rm 503
Chicago, Illinois 60601
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 12:30 pm.
2. Roll Call: In attendance were William Atwood, Mitchell Goldberg (committee chair), and
Michael Mahoney.
3. Approval of Minutes: By vote, the minutes of 12/6/17 committee meeting were approved 3-0
as written upon motion (by Mahoney; seconded by Atwood).
4. Administration Matters: Goldberg reported that the Chair of the IIPB has appointed
Mahoney to serve on this Committee.
5. Public Comment: There was no public comment.
6. Business: Address and approve updates to List of Boycotting Companies (as applicable):
Goldberg reported that he had received correspondence from ISS-Ethix indicating that it
identified that three additional three companies as engaging in Israel Boycott pursuant to the
statute: Sampension Kp Livsforsikring A/S, DNB ASA, and PFA Pension Forsikrings AS.
By a vote (3-0) the committee passed a motion (by Mahoney, seconded by Atwood) to
recommend that the IIPB add those three companies be identified as companies boycotting
Israel, that notice be sent to same, and that they be subsequently added to the Israel Boycott
Restrictions list.
Goldberg provided a copy of a report provided by the Israel American Committee on an
additional company, Storebrand, which supported that it is a company engaging in Israel
Boycott. A discussion was had regarding same. Mahoney moved (seconded by Atwood) to
recommend to the IIPB that Storebrand be identified as a company boycotting Israel, that
notice be sent to same, and that it be subsequently added to the Israel Boycott Restrictions
list. The motion passed (3-0).
7. Other Business: Chairman Goldberg reported that since their December 2017 letter, counsel
for Danske Bank has not provided further information to the IIPB as to matters justifying
removal from the list. A motion was passed (3-0) (by Mahoney, seconded by Atwood) to
send a letter to counsel requesting supplemental information to be submitted by June 1 for
consideration at the June Committee and IIPB meetings.

 8. Next Meeting Date: The committee will stand adjourned to the call of the chairman; due and
timely notice of the next committee meeting will be posted.
9. Adjournment: Upon unanimous motion (by Mahoney, seconded by Atwood), the meeting
was adjourned at 12:47pm.
These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 