ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
COMMITTEE ON ISRAEL BOYCOTT RESTRICTIONS
Wednesday, June 13
12:30pm
Thompson Center
100 W. Randolph, 16th Floor Rm 503
Chicago, Illinois 60601
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 12:31 pm.
2. Roll Call: In attendance were Mitchell Goldberg (committee chair), William Atwood,
Andrew Lappin, and Michael Mahoney. Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble,
executive secretary and counsel of the IIPB.
3. Approval of Minutes: By vote, the minutes of 3/28/18 committee meeting were approved 4-0
as written upon motion (by Atwood; seconded by Mahoney).
4. Administration Matters: None.
5. Public Comment: There was no public comment.
6. Business: Address and approve updates to List of Boycotting Companies (as applicable):
Goldberg reported that the updated list from ISS-Ethix added DNB ASA and Sampension Kp
Livsforsikring A/S. He also reported that, per the Board decision at the 3/28 meeting, he had
sent out letters (dated March 29, 2018) notifying Sampension Kp Livsforsikring A/S, DNB
ASA, PFA Pension Forsikrings AS and Storebrand that they were identified as companies
boycotting Israel.
Gamble reported that Sampension Kp Livsforsikring A/S had submitted a response, but the
response did not address evidence of misidentification. The letter asked for more
information relating to their identification. On a vote (4-0; by Mahoney, seconded by
Atwood), the committee authorized Gamble to respond to the company to give the reasons
stated by ISS-Ethix for identifying them as a company that boycotts Israel. No other
correspondence having been received, the committee voted to recommend to the IIPB that all
the companies be publicly identified on the Israel Boycott Restrictions List. (4-0; by
Mahoney, seconded by Atwood.)
Gamble reported that no correspondence had been received from Danske Bank. On a motion
(4-0; by Atwood, seconded by Lappin), the Committee voted to recommend to the IIPB that
the asterisk for Danske Bank on the Israel Boycott Restrictions List be removed.
Goldberg reported that ISS-Ethix had still not given an opinion as to TOBAM Core
Investment, a company previously identified by Israel American Committee as a company
potentially boycotting Israel. Gamble is to follow up with ISS-Ethix regarding this.

 Goldberg also provided a copy of reports provided by the Israel American Committee on two
additional companies: Achmea Investment Management and De Volkbank. These reports
had been shared with ISS-Ethix. Gamble reported that ISS-Ethix continues to do research as
to Achmea. Gamble reported that ISS-Ethix informed her that De Volkbank purchased SNS
Bank NV and ASN Bank NV. After a discussion, the Committee voted (4-0; by Lappin,
seconded by Atwood) to recommend that the IIPB send notice to De Volkbank that it is
identified as a company boycotting Israel, having purchased two companies on the Israel
Boycott Restrictions List.
7. Other Business: None.
8. Next Meeting Date: The next committee meeting was scheduled for September 12, 2018 at
12:30 pm, unless otherwise convened with due and timely notice of the next committee
meeting to be posted.
9. Adjournment: Upon unanimous motion (4-0; by Atwood, seconded by Mahoney), the
meeting was adjourned at 12:54pm.
These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 