STATE OF ILLINOIS
COUNTY OF COOK

September 5, 2019

MINUTES FOR THE REGULAR MONTHLY BOARD MEETING
NORTH SHORE MOSQUITO ABATEMENT DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
At the convened monthly meeting for the North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Board of Trustees held at the District office, 117 Northfield Road, Northfield, Illinois,
Thursday, September 5, 2019. President Zbesko called the meeting to order at 7:01 pm.
ROLL CALL
Trustee Carol Blustein
Trustee Nelson Howard
Trustee Kathleen Kendrick
Trustee John Zbesko
Trustee William Zimmer

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE
Executive Director Mark Clifton
Communications Manager David Zazra
Attorney Ross Secler of Odelson & Sterk
Internal Operations Manager Jennifer Zimmer
I.

MINUTES

Approval of Minutes: Minutes of the August 1, 2019, meeting of the NSMAD were
approved as corrected and distributed to the members of the Board. Trustee Kendrick
moved to approve, Trustee Howard seconded. All ayes.
II.

REPORT FROM BOARD OFFICERS

President: No report.
Vice President: Vice President Howard attended an IMVCA Board Meeting in
Bourbonnais and informed the Trustees that the annual meetings in 2020 and 2021 will
be held in Northbrook, Illinois.
Secretary: No report.
Trustee: No report.
Treasurer: Trustee Zimmer read financials as well as August bills and payrolls. Total
receipts were $391,888, total disbursements were $101,514 and total assets were

1

 $2,444,144. All totals rounded to the nearest dollar. The finance report was accepted. The
report will be filed for the audit.
III.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND LAB REPORT:

The Executive Director informed the Trustees that amount the off-road acres treated by
staff this year is ten times the amount of acres that was treated last year. The District has
treated almost twice as many off-road sites as last season and the total number of catch
basins treated are slightly less than last year. No adult mosquito control has been
conducted this year because the threshold for treatment was not reached.
The Executive Director and Internal Operations Manager met with an architect from
Green Associates to discuss upcoming building maintenance projects to be completed
over the next two years that have been outlined in the District’s Five Year Plan. Plans
include removing asbestos in the break room countertops and adding a workspace for the
Lab Director, updating the men’s bathroom, replacing the office windows and repairing
the exterior of the building.
At the October meeting the Executive Director will request Board approval to move
forward with new exterior signage and asbestos remediation for the building. Also, the
Executive Director is investigating the cost of built in furniture for the office that the
Operations Manager and Field Supervisor/GIS Manager share in order to maximize
space.
Executive Director Clifton then moved on to present the District’s Lab Report. Mosquito
abundance has decreased throughout the District. Also, the vector index rate is decreasing
in the District following a small increase last week.
The Executive Director informed the Trustees that there have been no cases of Eastern
Equine Encephalitis (EEE) in Illinois in the past ten years. The primary mosquito vector
responsible for transmitting the disease is very rarely found in Illinois and has never been
documented within the District. Also, Illinois does not have the right habitat for the birds
and the type of mosquito that helps spread the virus. If this specific mosquito is found in
one of our District traps, our lab would be able to test for EEE.
The IDPH has begun to fund tick testing through the Natural History Survey and the
NSMAD will be sending some of the ticks we have collected in our tick drags for them to
test. In addition to IDPH project, the District is participating in four different
collaborations that require samples to be frozen and sent to other labs. The District’s
current freezer is not a minus 80 freezer which is required to keep our samples frozen at
the correct temperature. The Executive Director would like to ask for a vote on the
purchase of the freezer at the October meeting.
IV.

REPORT FROM LEGAL COUNSEL: No report.

V.

COMMUNICATION MANAGER REPORT:

2

 Executive Director, Mark Clifton, provided the Communications Manager’s report to the
Board on public relations and communications activities for the month of August,
including media releases regarding wide are larval control operations, public outreach to
residents, intergovernmental outreach, updates to the website and GovDelivery and
Twitter messaging metrics.
VI. INTERNAL OPERATION MANAGER REPORT:
Internal Operations Manager, Jennifer Zimmer, updated the Board on the financial
operations of the District and information on upcoming activities at the next Board
meeting.
VII.

OLD BUSINESS: None

IX.

NEW BUSINESS:

President Zbesko asked for a motion to go into closed session to discuss Personnel: For
the purpose of discussing Personnel. The appointment, employment, compensation,
discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employee(s), 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1) at 7:56
pm. Trustee Blustein made the motion to go into closed session. Trustee Howard
seconded. All ayes.
The board returned to the regular meeting at 8:35 pm. Attendance was taken and was the
same as the beginning of the meeting.
Announcements:
October 3, 2019, at 7:00 P.M. and NSMAD headquarters, 117 Northfield Road,
Northfield, IL, were fixed as the time and place of the next regular meeting. Trustee
Zbesko asked for a motion to adjourn. Trustee Howard seconded. All ayes.
Adjournment: The September 5th meeting was adjourned at 8:36 pm.
ATTESTED
President, John Zbesko

SUBMITTED
Secretary, Kitty Kendrick

3

 