Investment Committee Meeting
March 25, 2019
Page One

Investment Committee Meeting
Held at the O?ice of the Policemen ?s Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (the Fund)
Held on March 25, 2019

Presiding: Trustee and Investment Committee Chair: Mr. Thomas Beyna
Present: Trustees: Ms. Carol Hamburger and Mr. Michael Lappe
Not Present: 'i'rustees: Ms. Carole Brown, Ms. Samantha Fields, Mr. Kurt Summers Jr., Mr. Edward

Wodnicki and Mr. Brian Wright

Fund Of?ce: Mr. Kenneth Kaczmarz, Interim Executive Director, Ms. Caroline Vullmahn,
Comptroller
NEPC, LLC Mr. John Elliot, Partner and Ms. DeAnna Jones, Senior Analyst

President Beyna called the meeting to order at approximately 9:00 am.

1. Cash Flow Update

Ms. Caroline Vullmahn, Comptroller of the Policemen?s Annuity and Bene?t Fund of Chicago (PABF or the Fund),
began her presentation regarding the Fund?s cash ?ow. Ms. Vullmahn provided the Committee members a PABF
Cash Flow worksheet which was distributed and shows the Fund?s cash balances, expected bene?t payments, other
expenses for the month, and the projected cash on hand as of March 31, 2019. Ms. Vullmahn indicated that at the
end of the month, the cash balance is anticipated to be approximately $322.9 million. Ms. Vullmahn also indicated
that the Fund has pending Capital Calls totaling $110 million that might reduce the available cash over the next
several months.

Ms. Vullmahn explained the details pertaining to the Tax Receipts information provided on the Cash ?ow
worksheet. Ms. Vullmahn indicated the amounts attributable from the receipts for each individual Levy and
Payment year along with information on the amounts received through the Fund?s ability to ?Intercept? funds
directly from the State of Illinois Comptroller?s Of?ce for outstanding balances on each year?s Levy.

II. Performance Discussion
Ms. DeAnna Jones and Mr. John Elliot of NEPC brie?y reviewed the unaudited Performance Flash
provided by the Fund? 5 Master Custodian, The Northern Trust Bank at month end February 28, 2019. For the month
the Fund returned a positive 1.83% ahead of the Policy Benchmark return of 1.43% for the same period. Year to
date for the two months ended February 28, 2019 indicates a positive return of 6.42% ahead of the Policy benchmark
return of 5.97%. Ms. Jones indicated that NEPC will provide its formal 15? Quarter 2019 performance report at the
Fund?s scheduled Investment Committee meeting of April 22, 2019.

111. Fixed Income Portfolio Review
Ms. DeAnna Jones and Mr. John Elliot of NEPC reviewed materials, previously prepared and distributed, for a
review of the Fund?s Fixed Income Portfolio. The review is intended to provide Trustees the current structure of
the ?xed income portfolio, including any security, region or duration under or overweights relative to the Barclays
Aggregate index.

Investment Committee Meeting
March 25, 2019
Page Two

The prepared materials include several graphs and schedules that indicate the Security selection, Credit Quality,
Duration and Geographic exposures of each of the Fund?s separately managed Fixed Income portfolios and
Summary information on the total portfolio. Information developed by the analysis indicates that, by design, the
Fund is signi?cantly overweight in High Yield securities and underweight in US. Treasuries. The Fund made a
conscious decision to overweight these categories at earlier stages of the economic cycle.

It is recommendation that the Fund issue RFPs for a core and a core plus investment manager(s), with the
current core and edit; plus managers bearg invited to rebid. it is anticipated that the RF will be issued in the
beginning of April with ?nalists interviews being made before the Board in June. Following the completion of the
core and core plus searches, NEPC recommends reallocating assets from the absolute return portfolio to the
corefcore plus portfolio, as this will decrease the Fund?s allocation to low quality debt. This will help offset the risk
of higher defaults (which are higher within the lower quality space) as the market enters into a late cycle. Since
additional assets will be allocated to the core/core plus portfolio, NEPC wants to complete the search ?rst and
following the completion of the search determine how to trim the lower quality portfolio and allocate the additional
assets to make the portfolio more defensive.

Mr. Elliot ?'om NEPC relayed that further evidence of the late-cycle economic stage was seen last Friday March
22, 2019 when the overall yield curve became inverted.

Because of a lack of quorum, the Committee will be recommending the RFPs for core and core plus investment
managers to the ?ll] Board on Thursday for approval.

IV. Miscellaneous
Ms. Vullrnahn indicated that GAM would be distributing proceeds from a portion of the portfolio that was liquidated
within 7-10 days. The ?nal portion of the portfolio is still being liquidated. The liquidation might be delayed until
the proceeds from an IPO might be available to redeem the Fund?s securities. It is hoped that this portion of the
liquidation would be completed in approximately 3-4 weeks.

Mr. Kaczmarz indicated that he and Ms. Vullmahn met with representatives from Deutsche Bank, the Fund?s third
party Securities Lending agent. The Fund earned approximately $810,000 for calendar year 2018 which equates to
about an additional 7.2 basis points of return on about $1.4 billion in lendable securities. The fund has earned aprox.
$2.5 million since the inception of the program

Ms. Jones from NEPC stated that NEPC has been in contact with Deutsche Bank securities lending team and that
they remain comfortable with their program.

Being no further business the Investment Committee adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,

 

Re I ding Secretary of the Board of Trustees
Investment Committee Member

