 803 

Qz?avaL
\o 8? 

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

47

Alton James Gift? at Etta it Brenda Goss Andrews
Chalrperson

Damion Ellis
d, MCD .
?gie?lha?fsemtary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 

Marcel] R. Todd, Jr.
Director

ll



CITY CLERK

. . Gregory Pawlowski
208 Coleman A. Young MumCIpal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.

Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

October 4, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of the City of Detroit Flaming and Development Department to amend Article
XVII, District Map No. 45 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing an
M3 (General Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where an R2 (Two-family Residential
District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on 175 parcels, generally bounded by the
McGraw Avenue and W. Warren Avenue to the north, the I-94 Edsel Ford Expressway to the

south and east, and 35th Street and Parkdale Avenue extended to the west. (RECOMMEND
APPROVAL)

NATURE OF REQUEST AND PROJECT PROPOSAL

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has completed its review and deliberations on the request of
the City of Detroit Planning and Development Department to amend Article XVII, District
Map No. 45 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing an M3 (General
Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where an R2 (Two?family Residential District) zoning
classi?cation currently exists on 175 parcels, generally bounded by the McGraw Avenue and W.

Warren Avenue to the north, the Edsel Ford Expressway to the south and east, and 35th Street
and Parkdale Avenue extended to the west.

REVIEW

The R2 district is designed to protect and enhance those areas developed or likely to develop with
single- or two-family dwellings. The district regulations are designed to promote a suitable
environment for homes and for activities connected with family life. The only principal uses

permitted by right are single- and two-family dwellings, with limited additional uses being allowed
on a conditional basis.

The M3 district is composed of property so situated as to be suitable for industrial development, but
where the modes of operation of the industry may affect nearby residential uses. The purpose of this
district is to permit the normal operation of certain industrial uses, subject only to those regulations
needed to control congestion and to protect nearby residential districts. No new residential
construction is permitted in this district with the exception of loft conversions of existing buildings
and of residential uses combined in structures with permitted commercial uses. These requirements

are to protect residences from an undesirable environment and to ensure reservation of adequate
areas for industrial development.

The subject property is approximately 27.2 acres and is located in Council District 6. The subject
parcels are currently under the ownership of the City of Detroit Care of Detroit Building
Authority (DBA), Detroit Land Bank Authority, McGraw-94 Land, LLC, Detroit Economic

Page 1 of6

Development Corporation, Darnell Jackson, Detroit Parks Recreation, Alejandro S. Gonzales, 
Do It Yourself Construction, Nelson Megar Jocelyn Paredes, Lesily Bu?<in, Page, and
the Miles? Family Trust.

The subject property is located in Census Tract 5273. Based on the most recent census data, the total
population for the area is 984. The estimated residential vacancy rate is 64%.

Proposed Development

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow the industrial redevelopment of a largely
publicly-owned, predominantly vacant underutilized site. With the Mack Avenue and St. Jean
Avenue Jefferson North Assembly Plant (JN AP) and Mack Ave Fiat Automotive (FCA)
facility expansion, multiple auto suppliers are seeking large, contiguous, industrially-zoned sites on
which to construct facilities, which could lead to job creation, one of the top goals of the City
Administration. The Administration believes the subject site is appropriate for a supplier, given its
adjacency to existing industry, its location along truck routes, and, its adjacency to the I-94
expressway. Upon the successful completion of the rezoning of this site, the Administration intends
to market this location to host another automotive supplier.

BACKGROUND

The area generally bounded by I-94 to the south, Livemois Ave. on the west, Joy Rd. to the north
and Epworth Ave. (Wesson Ave, south of Warren Ave.) on the east has served predominately as
an industrial corridor since the early 20th century. Less than ?ve percent of that land mass has
been occupied by residential and commercial concerns, while the vast majority has hosted
corporations such as Kelsey Hayes, Lear, BASF, DTE, Coca-Cola and Steel. In 1991
the City was approached by offering to purchase the western 4.6 acres of the then 14.7
acre Atkinson Play?eld, the remainder of which is the western end of the subject property of this
rezoning request. That offer to purchase initiated the eastward industrial expansion into the
neighborhood that continues today.

Due to certain Federal funds being used to acquire or improve the park, Federal and State
approvals are needed to be disposed of Atkinson or any portion thereof. One of the requirements
of the approval process is identi?cation and acquisition of quali?ed replacement park land. As
this would take some time to accomplish, CPC recommended that a study of the area be
undertaken to determine the future growth and needs of the area. Over the course of the next six
years, acquired the originally requested portion of the park, private property south of the
park to I-94 (including the related public rights-of?way) and ?nally, another 4 plus acres of the
play?eld. These properties were rezoned from R2 (Two Family Residential) to TM (Transitional
Industrial) and some portions to PD (Planned Development) to provide protection to the
neighborhood. Today, Steel occupies the land bounded by I-94, the rail line east of
Livemois, McGraw and Parkdale extended.

In June of 1997, the City Council adopted an Economic Development Corporation (EDC) Project
for the area. The vision at that time acknowledged three key factors: industrial expansion,
recreational need, and residential decline and vacancy east of Junction. The EDC Project Plan
called for the conversion of the entire play?eld for industrial use and the development of a large
park and play?eld east of Junction served by a renovated Kronk Recreation Center.
Unfortunately, the Kronk Center suffered major damage ?om frozen pipes, and in 2018 a
catastrophic ?re, leading to the center?s closure and subsequent demolition. The City?s ?nancial
challenges and a failing national economy would not allow the EDC Project to be pursued.

Page 2 of 6

On Thursday, October 3, 2019, the Detroit City Council?s Flaming and Economic Development
Standing Committee submitted a recommendation of approval to effectuate the following:

1) Termination of the Project Plan;
2) Negotiation of the termination of the ?Funding Agreement? by and between the
City and the 

3) Authorization of the transfer of any property acquired by the EDC to the City;

4) Release of the property acquired by the City and/or EDC pursuant to the project
from the requirements of the Project Plan; and

5) Termination of the Citizens District Council created pursuant to the Project Plan
as provided in Section 20(d) of Act 338 of 1974 (MCL 125.1520).

Each of these actions is intended to aid the City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority with
land assembly activity aimed at establishing market-ready industrial sites within City limits in order
to attract manufacturing and logistics companies.

USE AND ZONING
The zoning classi?cations and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: R2 Single-family residential and Commercial.

East: Commercial and the expressway.

South: 1?94 expressway with Single-family and Two-family residential beyond.
West: Deve10ped with industrial Steel).

COMMUNITY MEETINGS AND THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC
HEARING

Four-hundred and thirty-one notices were sent out to residents and property owners within 300 radial
feet of the subject site. None have been returned as undeliverable. To date, no communications via
mail or telephone, either in opposition or support of the requested rezoning has been received.

On Tuesday, September 10, 2019, a community meeting was held at Onasis Coney Island, located at
8001 Livernois Avenue, regarding this proposed rezoning and development. A 120-person mailing
list was used to inform the community about the meeting and convey details included on the public
hearing notice signs. Fifteen members of the public were in attendance. In anticipation of the
meeting, the Department of Neighborhoods District 6 Manager, Ms. Eva Torres, canvassed the
occupied homes and businesses within the proposed footprint, knocking on ten doors and speaking
with three people.

At the community meeting, business owners had questions about whether or not their businesses
would be allowed under the proposed zoning. Residents? questions included potential park
replacement; whether or not current residents will have to move, or, if private property will be
bought by the developer or the City of Detroit; who the developer is; what review there will be of
future development, and what input the community will have in its design; what uses would be
allowed under new zoning; and the proposed truck routes. Overall, the meeting was perceived as
being productive with the majority of the residents? questions being answered. Answers to some
questions, of course, will have to wait until a speci?c development is known and a site plan is
presented. There is a desire on the community?s behalf to be engaged in the process.

On September 19, 2019, the City Flaming Commission held a public hearing on this request. There

were six members of the public in attendance, of which four rendered testimony. The participants
raised questions regarding setbacks and buffers, truck traf?c routes, and the continuation of

Page 3 of6

commercial uses along W. Warren Avenue. There were no comments received either in support or
opposition to the proposed rezoning.

The Commission did not raise any particular concerns regarding the proposed rezoning; their
questions generally focused on land ownership and elimination of blight.

MASTER PLAN CONFORMANCE

The subject site is located within the Tireman area of Neighborhood Cluster 6 of the Detroit
Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows a mixture of ?Medium
Density Residential? and ?Light Industrial? for the subject properties. An amendment will be
forthcoming to show ?Light Industrial? as the future intended land use for the entire site.

ANALYSIS

The proposed zoning classi?cation of M3 would permit the requested use of a ?high/medium-impact
manufacturing facility? speci?cally an ?automobile accessory manufacture (not including tires, heat
treating, or foundry work) on a by?right basis.

The proposed M3 zoning classi?cation would permit 1 l3 by?right public, civic, institutional, retail,
service, commercial and other uses. The most intensive uses in the M3 zoning classi?cation include
?Trucking terminals, transfer buildings, truck garages, recreational vehicle storage lots, and open
areas for the parking of semi-trailers, buses, and other operable commercial vehicles, not including
limousines and taxicabs? and ?Storage or killing of poultry or small game for direct, retail sale on the
premises of for wholesale trade.?

The following analysis details how the proposed rezoning either meets or fails to meet the eight
approval criteria of Section 61-3-80 of the Zoning Ordinance, which must be considered in making
recommendations and decisions on standard rezoning requests.

1) Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or meets the challenge of some changing
condition, trend or fact;

With the dramatic decline in population of the city of Detroit over the past 20 years, several of the
city?s neighborhoods have virtually been emptied. Large areas of the city have been razed and
currently sit vacant and blighted. The City of Detroit has taken the approach of re-energizing the
manufacturing segment of our economy, creating jobs. Many publicly held properties such as those
in the area of Junction and McGraw have been and are being sought for this purpose. The rezoning
request is in line with this stated purpose.

2) Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the Master Plan and the stated purposes
of this Zoning Ordinance;

The proposed rezoning of M3 is not consistent with the Master Plan of Policies, however the
Flaming and Development Department is developing a Master Plan Amendment to accommodate
this rezoning request.

3) Whether the proposed amendment will protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public;

Given that a developer for this site has not yet been selected, the Commission cannot opine on the

speci?c impacts a future development, not knowing the specifics of the proposed development?s
operations. The vast majority of the adjacent parcels are vacant and primarily publicly owned. The

Page 4 of6

subject site located directly north of the 1-94 Expressway and south of a Major Corridor (W. Warren
Avenue). In general, an intensi?cation in zoning adjacent to residentially zoned properties is not the
preferred approach. However, the remaining parcels adjacent to the subject site are commercially
zoned as B4. The Commission would like to review the City?s strategy for mitigating any negative
impacts which may occur for the few remaining residents within the area of the subject rezoning.

4) Whether the City and other service providers will be able to provide adequate public facilities
and services to the subject property, while maintaining adequate levels of service to existing
development;

The physical characteristics of the subject property will change signi?cantly as a result of the
proposed rezoning. Given the vast amount of vacancy in the subject area, the anticipated
consolidation of the subject parcels, the potential for street and alley vacations (which alter the
traditional street grid), it is not anticipated that there will be disruption to city services.

5) Whether the pr0posed rezoning will have signi?cant adverse impacts on the natural
environment, including air, water, soil, wildlife, and vegetation and with respect to
anticipated changes in noise and regarding storm water management;

The proposed development is anticipated to create a vast amount of hard surface, where pervious
green space currently exists; however stormwater management requirements should mitigate possible
negative impacts.

6) Whether the proposed amendment will have signi?cant adverse impacts on other property
that is in the vicinity of the subject tract;

The vast majority of the adjacent uses in the immediate area are commercial and industrial. Given
the sites proximity to the 1?94 Expressway impacts as a result of this proposed rezoning will
primarily be presented by increased and changing patterns of traf?c and noise.

7) The suitability of the subject property for the existing zoning classi?cation and proposed
zoning classi?cation; and

As noted previously, the existing R2 zoning classi?cation is not conducive for the proposed uses
which are industrial in nature. Before making the recommendation to pursue an M3 zoning
classi?cation, the Commission evaluated all zoning classi?cations and determined that the M3
zoning classi?cation was the least intensive zoning classi?cation that would allow for the proposed
use and likely dimensional needs. Zoning Map No. 45 generally shows a mixture of R2 and B4
zoning to the north, south, east and west of the subject property. This section of the Tireman
subsector is primarily developed with residential, commercial and industrial uses.

8) Whether the proposed rezoning will create an illegal ?spot zone.?

Given the commercial/industrial nature of the corridor, along with the size and proposed rezoning?s
consistency with the pending Master Plan amendment, the Commission is of the opinion that the
proposed rezoning would not constitute an illegal ?spot zone.?

Suitability of the Property

In general, the Commission would prefer that existing industrially zoned land be utilized, rather than
repurposing residential and recreational land in this way. However, given previous and current
trends, this area appears to be in transition. Therefore, the Commission looks favorably on the

Page 5 of6

rezoning of the subject parcel to accommodate the establishment of an automobile manufacturing
supplier.

CONCLUSION

The CPC is of the opinion that an M3 zoning classi?cation is an appropriate designation consistent
with the characteristics of the adjacent properties, which will allow for the establishment of industrial
related uses.

The rezoning of this property from an economic development stand-point will add to the
sustainability of the surrounding community by allowing the establishment of a development that is
economically viable, and both creates jobs and generates tax revenue. Based on the above analysis
and consistent with the approval criteria of Sec. 61-3?80 of the Zoning Ordinance, the CPC supports
the rezoning request. However, it should be noted that staff? 8 historical review of this matter caused
some concern for the integrity of the record of amendments to Map No. 45, so further review may be
warranted.

RECOMMENDATION

On October 3, 2019 the City Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of the request of
the City of Detroit Planning and Development Department to amend Article XVII, District Map No.
45 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing an M3 (General Industrial
District) zoning classi?cation where an R2 (Two-family Residential District) zoning classi?cation
currently exists on 175 parcels, generally bounded by the McGraw Avenue and W. Warren Avenue
to the north, the 1-94 Edsel Ford Expressway to the south and east, and 35th Street and Parkdale
Avenue extended to the west. Additionally the Commission authorized staff to work the Law
Department in order to reconcile any related errors on District Map No. 45. Finally, given that the
pending development would be a matter of right in the M3 zoning classi?cation, and therefore not
subject to legislative site plan review, the Commission recommends that the City Council make staff
level site plan review for any development chosen for this site a condition of any land sale, right-of-
way, street, or alley vacation subject to Council?s approval.

Lastly, the history of the Kronk Recreation Center and the many people who have come through its
doors are quite signi?cant. As part of the land transfer or when a developer is selected for the site,
City Council should consider how best to ensure that history is acknowledged and commemorated.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES,
CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr, Director
George A. Etheridge, Staff

Attachments:

Zoning Map No. 45
Ordinance

Page 6 of6

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 45 to show
an M3 (General Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where an R2 (Two?family Residential
District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on one-hundred seventy-?ve parcels, bounded by
McGraw Avenue, the westerly line of 35th Street (vacated), the Edsel Ford Freeway right-of-
way, the alley west of and parallel to 28th Street, the alley south of and parallel to W. Warren
Ave, and the alley west of and parallel to 31St Street.

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No.
45 to show an M3 (General Industrial District) zoning classi?cation where an R2 (Two-family
Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on one-hundred seventy-?ve parcels,
bounded by McGraw Avenue, the westerly line of 35th Street (vacated), the Edsel Ford Freeway
right-of?way, the alley west of and parallel to 28th Street, the alley south of and parallel to W.

Warren Ave, and the alley west of and parallel to 31St Street.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Article XVII, Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly

known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, is amended as follows:

District Map No. 45, by showina an M3 (General Industrial District) zoning,
classi?cation where an R2 Residential District} zoning classi?cation

Currently exists on one?hundred seventy-?ve parcels, bounded bv McGraw

 

Avenue. the westerly line of 35th Street {vacated J, the Edsel Ford Freewav right-
of?wav. the alley west of and parallel to 28th Street. the alley south of and parallel

to W. Warren Ave. and the allev west of and parallel to 31St Street.

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,

health, safety and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

1 Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after publication
2 in accordance with Section 401(6) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, Michigan Compiled
3 Laws Section 125.3401(6) and Section 4-118, paragraph 3, of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

Lawrence T. Garcia,
Corporation Counsel

 

 

 

 


'2



E5


<9

JIF-







 

 

SEP 2 is 2019
ate (a

    
 

ReVim'izath" Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
cl'rv or 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

September 25, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: FY 2019-20 BUDGET AMENDMENT TO OF Homeless Public Service
Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department (HRD) hereby requests to amend the 2019-20 Community
Development Block Grant Homeless Public Service budget to reflect the actual allocations
received from the US. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Please see the attached
spreadsheet for all account information relative to this amendment.

The fiscal year 2019?20 budget for ?nal allocations were received after the Departmental budgets
were ?nalized. Therefore, the budgets in this program needs to be adjusted to reflect ?nal
allocations. The Department is requesting that the revisions are approved to enable HRD to begin working
with the actual allocations and community partners to facilitate the great work planned in the City of Detroit.

We respectfully request that your Honorable Body approve the attached resolution authorizing this
amendment to the 2019-20 budget for the stated purpose.

ectfully submitted,

   
 

Donald Rencher

Director

Attachment

cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Office
V. Miller, HRD

 

APPROVED

canoe-r DIRECTOR {1

3r:- ia/??l/icj

 

 

 

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council hereby approved Fiscal Year 2019?20 City?s estimated Budgets for
the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Homeless Public Service; and

WHEREAS, the Mayor of the City of Detroit, Michael E. Duggan, is hereby authorized to amend the
revised 2019-20 budget w/appropriation numbers for revenues and expenditures, including all
understandings and assurances contained therein to the US. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) in accordance with the foregoing communication; and

RESOLVED, that the Budget Director be and is hereby authorized to amend the existing budget
with appropriation numbers for revenues and expenditures, to be re?ected in the budget allocations for
FY 2019-20 OF Homeless Public Service Section of the Schedule A budgeted activities
as outlined in the attached spreadsheet; and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Finance Director be and is hereby authorized to accept and
process all documents re?ecting these changes.

HRD FY 19-20 BUDGET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cost
Center AMENDED BUD AMENDED
Appr Num Sponsor (Decrease) BUD (Increase)
12168 364050 HOMELESS PUBLICSER VICE 2,475,417 
EMERGENCY SHELTER 
11784 366005 Alternatives for Girls 68,906.25
11838 366310 Cass Community Social Services (Family Project) 39,375.00 
11838 366310 Cass Community Social Services (Rotating Project) 2,375.00
11785 366010 Coalition on Temporary Shelter (COTS) 98,437.50 
12708 367175 Community Social Services of Wayne County (Catholic Social Svcs.) 39,375.00
11786 366015 Covenant House Michigan 64,125.00
20338 364125 DRMM Genesis House 11 Chicago 
11882 366880 Detroit Rescue Mission (DRMM Genesis House 111) Fairview 51,468.75
20339 364126 DRMM 3rd Street 62.437.50
11791 366040 Freedom House 37,500.00
11801 366090 Neighborhood Service Organization (NSO) 68,906.25
11839 366315 Operation Get Down 37,500.00
13644 364101 Salvation Army 67,500.00
11809 366130 YWCA interim House 45,562.50 
EMERGENCY SHELTER SUB-TOTAL 773,456.25
WARMING CENTERS 
11838 366310 Cass Community Social Services 105,000.00
11882 366880 Detroit Rescue Mission (DRMM Genesis House 111) airview 107,999.96
20339 364126 DRMM 3rd Street 75,000.00
WARMING CENTER SUB-TOTAL 287,999.96
HOMELESS PREVENTION
06505 360736 Legal Aid And Defender 75,000.00
[1806 366115 United Community Housing Coalition 369,589.06 
HOMELESS PREVENTION SUB-TOTAL 444.589.06 
RAPID REHOUSING 
10663 363079 Neighborhood Legal Services (Wayne County) 159,371.50 
10626 363065 Southwest Solutions 75,000.00
Wayne Metro Community Action 110,000.00 J,
RAPID REHOUSING 7 344,371.50 
STREET OUTREACH
11838 366310 Cass Community Social Services 75,000.00
11896 366920 Central United Methodist Church (NOAH) @00000 
11801 366090 Neighborhood Service Organization (NSO) 75,000.00 
STREET OUTREACH SUB-TOTAL 250,000.00 
FORECLOSURE PREVENTION 
11799 366080 Michigan Legal Services 150,000.00_
12168 364050 Foreclosure Prevention 225,000.23

 

FORECLOSURE PREVENTION SUB-TOTAL

375.000.23 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2,475,417)

2,475711700 -.

 

 

N.

 

 

 

Housing and Revitalization Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
Department

cm or -2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 wwdetroitmigov

 

October 2, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate
on behalf of LADY MONSTER, LLC in the area 8431 OAKLAND, Detroit, Michigan, in
accordance with Public Act 146 of 2000 (Petition 177).

Honorable City Council;

The Housing and Revitalization Department and Finance Departments have reviewed the
application of LADY MONSTER, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth by PA. 146 of
2000 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Public Act 146 of 2000 states that the legislative body of the qualified local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate in accordance with Section 8 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting
upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must
provide written notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing
unit that levies an ad valorem tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for
the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a
resolution establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

gm,

Donald Rancher
Director



cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
K. Trudeau, 
D. Rencher, I-IRD
A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt
resolution which approves the application of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate within the
boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, LADY MONSTER, LLC has made application for an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Certi?cate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description
attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public
Hearing, at which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at
which Public Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City,
or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described
application and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad
valorem tax within the City of Detroit.

(Eitp at Benoit

Janice M. OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Cavern West
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk/Chiefofstaff

July 26, 2019

To: Maurice Cox, Director
Planning and Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 908
Detroit, MI. 48226

Re: Lady Monster, LLC
Please ?nd attached an application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption

Certi?cate for Property located at 8431 Oakland, Detroit, MI, 48202. (RELATED TO
PETITION #177)

Respectfully submitted,

xii/pl .1 ?1 (If: I 
-


Michael J. O?Connell, Jr. Asst. City Council Clerk
Of?ce of the City Clerk

 

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit. Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

Michigan Department of Treasury
3674 (Rev. 05-13)

Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

This form is issued as provided by Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. This application should be ?led after the district is established. This project will
not receive tax bene?ts until approved by the State Tax Commission. Applications received after October 31 may not be acted upon in the current year.
This application is subject to audit by the State Tax Commission.

INSTRUCTIONS: File the original and two copies of this form and the required attachments with the clerk of the local government unit.
(The State Tax Commission requires two copies of the Application and attachments. The original is retained by the clerk.) Please see
State Tax Commission Bulletin 9 of 2000 for more information about the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption. The following
must be provided to the local government unit as attachments to this application: General de scription of the obsolete facility (year
built, original use. most recent use. number of stories. square footage); General description of the proposed use of the rehabilitated
facility. Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken. (cl) A descriptive list of the ?xed building
equipment that will be a part of the ehabilitated facility. A time schedule for undertaking and completing the rehabilitat ion of the
facility. A statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption. A statement from the assessor of the local unit of
government. describing the requned obsolescence has been met for this building, is required with each application. Rehabilitation may
commence after establishment of district.

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must be the OWNER ot the facility)
Lady Monster. LLC

Company Maillng?dress (No.?dstreet. P.O. Box. Cily?StatEElP Cod?e) I
8240 John St Detroit MI 48202 I
Location oiobsoiete?iacliity (at. am street. City?31a? alr- Code)
8431 Oakland Ave Detroit MI 48202

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City. Township. Village findic?which) "County
City Wayne
I Date of Commencement of Rehabilitation date of Cornpiebon 5i Rehabilita?on facility isuloc?alcd (include school code)
February 1, 2019 J?mm WW) February 1. 2020 .Detroit Public School 82010
I Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation Number of years exemption requested {Art?tach Legal Property on separate
set
$300,000.00 12 
Expected project likelihood (check all that apply):
Increase Commercial activity El Retain employment I Revitalize urban areas
Create em to ment Prevent a loss of em to ment Increasenulrnberof residents in the
'51 community in which the facility is situated

Indicate the number of jobs to be retained or created as a result of rehabilitating the facility. including expected construotion employment 1

 

 

Each yea. tho-State Treasurer may approve 25 additional reductions of half the school operating and state education taxes for a period not to exceed six years. Cheat-1h:-
tutlowmg box if you wish to be considered for this exclusion. 

 

CERTIFICATION

The undersigned. authorized of?cer of the company making this application certifies that, to the best ofhisiher knowledge. no inlnirnation contained
herein or in the attachments hereto is false in any way and that all of the inlormatirin is truly descriptive ot the property tor this application is being
submitted. Further. the undersigned is aware that. if any statement or information provided is: untrue the exemption protruded by Public act 146 at 2000
may be lit 

"the applicant certifies that this application relates to a rehabilitation program that. when completed, constitutes a rehabilitated facility, as
defined by Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended, and that the rehabilitation of the facility would not be undertaken without the applicant's
receipt of the exemption certificate.

It is iurther certified that the undersigned is familiarw ith the provismns of Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. ofthe Mich igan Compiled Laws. and to
the best of hisiher knowledge and belief. (5]he has complied or Will be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prereqursite lo the
approval at the application by the local unit cfgovernment and the issuance of an bsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the State

Tax Commission.

 

'Wf Corr?ar?/ after [no authorized ag?f We Number 'FaMber

Justin Snowden (414) 736-3363 I
IW 7 - IEmail Address 
. 8240 John St Detroit MI justin.snowden@gmail.com

Signature ofCom?pany Iiitiievr (no authorm 7 - 7 Title - 

      

Member

 
  

LOCAL venomous UNIT CLE ERTIFICATION

must also complete Parts 1. 2 and 4 on Page 2. Part 3 is to be completed by the Assessor

Signature 'Date application received

 

FOR STATE TAX COMMISSION use

'Application Number I[Slate Received Code

 

3674. Page 2

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION

This section is to be completed by the clerk of the local governing unit before submitting the application to the State Tax Commission. include a copy of
the resolution which approves the application and Instruction items through on page 1. and a separate statement of obsolescence from the
assessor of record with the State Assessor's Board. All sections must be completed In order to process.

PART 1: ACTION 
Action Date:


 

Exemption Approved for

Denied

Date District Established

A statement that the local unit is a Quali?ed Local Governmental Unit.

A statement that the Cl bsclete Property Rehabilitation District was
legally established including the date established and the date of
hearing as provided by section 3 of Public Act 145 of 2000.

A statement indicating nether the taxable value of the property
proposed to be exempt plus the aggregate taxable value of property
already exempt under Public Act 146 of 3mm and under Public Act 196
of 191'4 f'si exceeds of the total taxable value of the unit.

A statement of the factors. criteria and objectives. if any. necessary for
extending the exemption. when the certi?cate is for less than 12 years.
A statement that a public hean?ng was held on the application as
provided by section 4(2) of Public Act 146 of 2000 including the date of
the hearing.

A statement that the applicant is not delinquent in any taxes related to
the facility.

If it exceeds 5% (see above}. a statement that ex ceeoing 51-5. will not
have the effect of substantially impeding the operation of the Qtl?li?ad
Local Governmental Unit or of impairing the ?nancial soundness of an
affected taxing unit.

A statement that all of the items described under "Instructions" 
through of the Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate have been provided to the Quali?ed Local
Governmental Unit by the applicant.

PART 3: ASSESSOR RECOMMENDATIONS

 

 

 

Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of the Obsolete Property. as provided in Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended, for the tax year

Years. ending December 30.

LUCI code

(not to exceed 12 years)

School Code?

PART 2: (the following? statements must be included in resolutions approving)

A statement that the application is for obsolete property as de?ned in
section 2(h) of Public Act 146 of 2000.

A statement that the commencement of the rehabilitation of the facility
did not occur before the establishment of the Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation District.

A statement that the application relates to a rehabilitation program that
when completed constitutes a rehabilitated facility within the meaning
of Public Acl146 of 2000 and that is situated ithin an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation District established in a uaii?ed Local
Governmental Unit eligible under Public Act 146 of 2000 to establish
such a district.

A statement that completion of the rehabilitated facility is calculated to.
and will at the time of issuance of the certi?cate. have the reasonable
likelihood to. increase commercial activity. create employment. retain
employment/prevent a loss of employ ment. revitalize urban areas. or
increase the number of residents in the community in which the facility
I is situated. The statement shout indicate which of these the
rehabilitation is likely to result in.

A statement that the rehabilitation includes improvements aggregating
10% or more of the true cash value of the property at commencement
of the rehabilitation as provided by section of Public Act 146 of
2000.

A statement of the period of time authorized by the Quali?ed Local
Governmental Unit for completion of the rehabilitation.

 

immediately preceding the effective date of the certi?cate (December Stat of the year approved by the STC).

7 Taxable Value

Building(s)

Name of Governments?whit

 

 

PART 4: CLERK CERTIFICATION

State Equalized Value 

 

 

?Date of Action on applicatTon

 

The undersigned clerk certi?es that. to the best of his/her knowledge. no information contained herein or in the attachments hereto is false in any way.

Further. the undersigned is aware that if any information provided is untrue. the exemption provided

 

I Name of Clark Olen-t Signature

EClerk's Mailing Address City

by Public Act 146 of 2000 may be in jeopardy.

Date

 

I fit" it?l"

 

 

7Tstephone Numbe_r

 

 

Fax Number Email Address

 

 

Mail completed application and attachments to: Michigan Department of Treasury

State Tax Commission
PO. Box 30471

if you have any questions. call (517) 373-2408.

Lansing. Michigan 48909-7971

For guaranteed receipt by the State Tax Commission. it is recommended that applications and attachments are sent by certified mail.

Date of Statement of Obsolestxa?nce? I

 

Lady Monster, LLC

Wednesday, July 24, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Certificate at 8431 Oakland Avenue

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Certi?cate for the property located at 8431 Oakland Avenue and described on
Attachment A.

The property is located on the west side of Oakland Avenue between Philadelphia and
Euclid Street. The vacant building present today was developed in 1910 and previously
used as a retail shop and entertainment venue. The former mixed use commercial
building is composed of two stories and a basement totaling 3,000 square feet. The
property is currently vacant but boarded and maintained.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

As the owner of the Property, we intend to renovate the property into a mixed-use
building with a residential unit. Located in the Northend neighborhood, this investment
represents the redeveIOpment of one of the few remaining historic structures on Oakland
Avenue. A long-time resident of the Northend, and dedicated to investing in this
neighborhood, we acquired this property and will invest approximately $300,000 into
renovations. The property has been vacant for many years.

PURPOSE OF THE OBSOLETE PROPERTY REHABILITATION DISTRICT
This project will result in the renovation of a historic structure that has been vacant for
over 15 years. Residential and commercial rents in the Northend are lower than other
areas of the City. Oakland Avenue has limited occupied buildings and low rent will be
required to attract future tenants to take the risk of operating in this location. In
additional residential rents in the Northend are lower than nearby New Center or
Midtown areas. However, the improvement required are extensive as the property has
been stripped and previously open to the elements prior to the recent acquisition.
Without the OPRA, the property taxes would increase operating costs and make the
project not feasible. The OPRA tax incentive is necessary to reduce operating costs.

Lady Monster, LLC

PROJECT ELIGIBLITY
The property located at 8431 Oakland Avenue quali?es as functionally obsolete,
according to the de?nition in Act 381 of 1996; ?the property is unable to be used
adequately to perform the function for which it was intended due to the substantial loss in
value.? The building is not currently being utilized to its highest and best use. The loss in
value has resulted in the following:

- Outdated floor plan that cannot support modern demands for residential and

commercial use
- No core systems including electrical, plumping, heating and cooling; and windows; and

- A weathered facade requiring masonry updates.

Substantial improvements are planning for this property including: reconstruction of the
entrance, gut renovation of the interior, installation of new bathroom and kitchen
amenities, replacement of electrical systems, new roof, replacement of interior walls,
?oors, and ceilings, new heating cooling system and landscaping.

Description of Rehabilitation
We will invest $300,000 into the rehabilitation of 8431 Oakland Avenue. . It is expected
that the project will create one (1) full time equivalent (FTE) retail employment positions.
Improvements include:

- All new mechanical systems including: electrical, plumbing, HVAC

0 New kitchens with appliances

0 New bathrooms with updated time and fixtures

- Exterior facade repair including new windows and restoration of historic elements

0 Rebuild back wall and install new flat roof

- Installation of floors, insulation, and finishings will be installed

0 Fixed equipment includes: 2 furnaces and 2 air conditioning units

TIMELINE AND OPRA REQUEST
Renovation of the property is planned to commence in October 2018 and is expected to
be completed in December 2018. The OPRA is being requested for the full 12 years.

BENEFITS TO THE COMMUNITY

Counter Disinvestment Promote Community Revitalization: The project is located
in the low-income Census Tract 5112 where the housing vacancy rate is estimated at
30%. The majority of commercial structures along Oakland Avenue are vacant. This
investment will support the redevelopment of a vacant structure, bring new investment to
this neighborhood, and attract new residents. The investment will also provide for the
renovation of one of the few remaining historic structures on Oakland Avenue. The
property taxes are current and the property is properly boarded and maintained. No other
assistance is being requested.

Thank you for your time and consideration of this request. Should require any additional
information in order to proceed, please feel free to contact the owners: Justin Snowden 

lil, 

Lady Monster, LLC

Respectfully submitted,

Justin Snowden, Member

Attachment A: Site Map that includes the parcel(s) of property Legal Description
Attachment B: Paid Receipt of Current Taxes

cc: . K. Bridges, DEGC
N. Marsh, DEGC
V. Farley, HRD

Lady Monster, LLC

ATTACHMENT A

Site Map
8431 Oakland Avenue

. 

 

Tax Payer Information:
Lady Monster, LLC
8240 John Detroit MI 48202

Property Information:
Parcel ID: 03003010

LEGAL DSECRIPTION: 8431 Oakland: OAKLAND REAR 32 FT 53 BELA
HUBBARDS L21 P7 PLATS, 3/98 32 49.86A

Year Built: 1910 Square Footage: 2,400 plus 600 square foot basement
Taxable Value: $5,036 Building Status: Vacant

Building Status: Built in 1910 The Building is vacant

 

DISCLOSURE

As one ofthe two members for Lady Monster, LLC, I, Sarah Pavelko, am disclosing the intent to apply
for an Obsolete Rehabilitation Tax Abatement for a property owned by an LLC I have a partial ownership
interest in. The following actions will be taken to avoid a conflict of interest or a perception of conflict

of Interest:

- I will submit my application according the current requirements.
. A DEGC staff person will be responsible to review my application according to the City's current

policy. I will not review my application.
. If my application is discussed during a meeting, I will disclose my involvement in the project and

excuse myself.

(titty of Eetrnit
(WCENCIL

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

8431 Oakland Avenue

Contact info: Justin Snowden INCENTIVE INFORMAHDN CHART:
414.736.3363
Sarah Pavelko

313.670.5871

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project Type Incentive Type Investment Amount District
Mixed Use OPRA 300.000 D5
Jobs Available 
Construction Post Construction
Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled
Professional Labor Labor Professional Labor Labor
0 0 0 0 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rebound Construction is a Detroit based contractor. The Company is based
1_ What is the plan for hiring Detroiters? in the Northend oi Detroit. New hires are based on referrals from community
members and organizations such as Goodwnl Flip the Script.
2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e: job type, job
quali?cations, This is a small job and it is not anticipated to create newjobs.

3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents? Potentially. There is one

residential unit.
4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential

jObS? Northend Christian CDC and Oakland Avenue Artist Coalition are aware of the project and in support.

5. When is construction slated to begin? Spring 2019

6. What is the expected completion date of construction?
January 2020

*Please contact Linda Wesley at (313) 628-2993 or weslevl?detroitmi.aov to schedule a date to attend the
Skilled Trades Task Force.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 224-4095



.. COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-6380 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

 

 

October 4, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate
on behalf of K8 Partners LLC in the area of 2119 Field Street, Detroit, Michigan, in
accordance with Public Act 146 of 2000 (Petition #881).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department and Finance Departments have reviewed the
application of K8 Partners LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth by P.A. 146 of 2000
and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Public Act 146 of 2000 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate in accordance with Section 8 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting
upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must
provide written notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing
unit that levies an ad valorem tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for
the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a
resolution establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

D. Scott Brinkmann, Esq.
Director of Development Special Projects

SB/ml

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
K. Trudeau, 
D. Rencher, HRD
M. Langston, HRD

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt
resolution which approves the application of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate within the
boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, K8 Partners LLC has made application for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Certi?cate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached
hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public
Hearing, at which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at
which Public Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City,
or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 10th of October, 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th ?oor,
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application
and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad
valorem tax within the City of Detroit.

(Eitp of Ectrol?t

Janice OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk/ChiefofStaff

July 18, 2019

To: Maurice Cox, Director
Flaming and Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 908
Detroit, MI. 48226

Re: K8 Partners, LLC

Please ?nd attached an application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate for Property located at 2119 Field St, Detroit, MI 48214. (RELATED TO

PETITION #881)

Respectfully submitted,

1 

r' - 
r/Lr' f/ {?lm (pf/pr
., 

I 

Michael J. O?Connell, Jr. Asst. City Council t?lcrk
Of?ce of the City Clerk

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

x? 

Michigan Department of Treasury
3674 (Rev. 05-19)

Application for Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

This term is Issued as provided by Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. This application should be tiled after the district is established. This project will
not receive tax bene?ts until approved by the State Tax Commission. Applications received after October 31 may not be acted upon in the current year.
This application is subject to audit by the State Tax Commission.

INSTRUCTIONS: File the original and two copies of this form and the required attachments with the clerk of the local government unit.
(The State Tax Commission requires two copies of the Application and attachments. The original is retained by the clerk.) Please see
State Tax Commission Bulletin 9 of 2000 for more information about the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption. The following
must be provided to the local government unit as attachments to this application: General de scription of the obsolete facility (year
built. original use. most recent use. number of stories. square footage): General description of the proposed use of the rehabilitated
facility. Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken. A descriptive list of the ?xed building
equipment that will be a part of the ehabilitated facility. A time schedule for undertaking and completing the rehabilitat ion of the
facility, A statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption. A statement from the assessor of the local unit of
gOVernment. describing the required obsolescence has been met for this building. is required with each application. Rehabilitation may
commence after establishment of district.

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must be the OWNER of the lean-iv).

K8 Partners LLC

Company Malling address (No. and street. P.O. Box. City. State. ZIP Code)
175 Great Neck Road. Suite 407. Great Neck. NY 11021
Location of obsolete facility (No. and street. City. State. ZIP Code]
2119 Field Street. DetroitI Michigan 48214

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City, Township. thlage lindicate which] County
City of Detroit ayne
Date of Commencement of Rehabilitation Plant-fit date of Completion ofRehabilltatioT  School District where facility is located (include school code)
I 1  0
10/01/2019 10/01/2021 Detroit
'E'sttn?ed Cost of Rehabilitation Number of years exemption requested Attach Legal description or Obsolete Property on separate
0 I

$1 .715.000.00 12 ?t
Expected prolect likelihood (check all that apply):

increase Commercial activity Retain employment Revitalize urban areas

Create em to ment Prevent a loss of em to meat Increase number 0f residents in 
El CI community in which the facility is situated

Indicate the number of Jobs to be retained or created as a result of rehabilitating the facility. including expected construction employment 0

Each year, the State Treasurer may approve 25 additional reductions of hnitlho school operating and state education taxes for a period not to exceed years Check the
toilet/ling hot.- if you wish to be considered lot this and user- E,

 

 

 

 

 

CERTIFICATION

The authorized of?cer of the company making this application certi?es that. to the best ofhisiher knowledge. no information contained
herein or in the attachments hereto is false In any way and that all of the information is truly descriptive of the property for which this application is tiEliti']
submitted. Further. the undersigned is aware that. if any statement or information provided is untrue. the exemption provided by Public Acl146 of 2000
may be In jeopardy.

The applicant certifies that this application relates to a rehabilitation program that. when completed. constitutes a rehabilitated facility. as
defined by Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. and that the rehabilitation of the facility would not be undertaken without the applicant's
receipt of the exemption certificate.

it is further certi?ed that the undersigned is familiartv ith the provisions of Public Act 146 of 2000. as amended. of the Mich lgan Compiled Laws; and to
the best of his/her knowledge and belief, (s]he has compiled or will be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the
approval, of the application by the local unit of government and the issuance of an 0 bsolete Property Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the State

Tax Commission.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name of Company Of?cer (no authorized agents) TelEphorE Min-ther? Fax Number
Joseph Roubeni (516) 466?8001
Mailing Address Email Address
175 Great Neck. Suite 407. Great Neck. NY 11021 loseph@astralweeks.com
W??p??i?c?t?o?umfs) Title?_? 
Cg; _1 Managing Partner
. 

 

 

UNIT CLERK CERTIFICATION
The Clerk must also complete Parts 1. 2 and 4 on Page 2. Part 3 is to be completed by the Assessor.
Sign alure Dale application received

 

 

FOR STATE TAX COMMISSION USE
'Appiication Number Date Received Code

i 

i 3-313 Midi?

 

 

 

 

 

 

July 15, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act 
Certificate at 2119 Field Street, Detroit, Michigan 48214 for K8 Partners, LLC

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Certificate (OPRC) for the property located at 2119 Field Street, Detroit, Michigan 48214, which
is referred to herein as the ?Property" and described on Attachment A. The Property will be
rehabilitated by the petitioner and current owner, K8 Partners LLC.

Company and Project Synopsis

K8 Partners LLC (the ?Developer") was formed in 2018 and is af?liated with Astral Weeks
Development (?Astral Weeks?). Astral Weeks is a privately held real estate development and
management company, working primarily in the New York City region and Detroit. With a focus
on dynamic urban neighborhoods, Astral Weeks develops and invests in residential,
commercial, and mixed use projects. Whether through ground-up new construction or adaptive
reuse projects, the company contributes to the thriving neighborhoods in which its projects are
located by helping meet local demands for quality housing, community facilities, creative
workspaces, and retail. Because Astral Weeks owns, operates and manages its properties, the
company?s approach to development is distinguished by strategic purpose and professional
execu?on.

Astral Weeks has been active in the City of Detroit since 2014, making several property
acquisitions, as well as executing on a neighborhood development strategy in
Islandview/Greater Villages, including the planned rehab of approximately 60 single family and
duplex homes, 15 of which have been completed and leased out or sold to date.

The Roy Company. the construction manager (CM), is a contracting ?rm based in Detroit, and a
dedicated partner for this development. V\?th the experience of Astral Weeks and the dedication
of The Roy Company, the Developer is poised to successfully rehabilitate this historic building,
providing increased housing variety in an area of Detroit ripe for building rehabilitation and
increased residential density.

The proposed project contains one parcel totaling approximately 0.34 acres and is located at
2119 Field Street, Detroit, Michigan. The proposed project is bounded by the property line to the
north; Field Street to the east; Kercheval Avenue to the south; and the property line to the west.
The project is located in the Islandview neighborhood of Detroit, named for its proximity to
Detroit?s famous island park, Belle Isle. Smart Bus routes are located within a block east and
west on Kercheval Avenue to provide transportation alternatives. Additionally, planned bike
lanes along Kercheval Avenue and the forthcoming Beltline Greenway will connect residents to
local amenities, provided increased ease of access to reach the riverfront and RiverWalk. The

Request for Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate at
2119 Field Street, Detroit Mi 48214
for K8 Partners LLC

property is occupied by a two?story multi-family residential building with basement currently
containing approximately 11,980 square feet and constructed in 1910. The proposed
redevelopment will contain approximately 11,761 square feet of living space, not including an
additional 5,951 square feet of basement ?oor space. The building is currently uninhabitable,
with roof leaks, no windows or interior partitions, and no operating utilities.

The proposed project will entail the rehabilitation of the current building into eight residential
townhome apartment units. Each unit will include modern three-bedroom ?oorplans and finishes
with private entry and exit for each unit, including covered porches that face the streets, and

rear porches that access private parking.

As part of the rehabilitation, the building will be gutted to receive new utilities including electrical,
water, and natural gas, new energy ef?cient heating, cooling and ventilation systems, new
energy efficient windows and doors, and insulation, repairs to building structure and masonry
will be completed as needed, and the interior wall partitions will receive new framing and ?nish
materials, including drywall, trim, new ?ooring, appliances, and fixtures. The structure will be
brought up to current code as applicable.

The Necessity for Tax Relief

Substantial investment is necessary to rehabilitate the area into a viable, long-term
development. Additionally, the property currently contains a dilapidated and deteriorating
building that will require repair and selective demolition with the property rehabilitation. The
overall internal rate of return for the proposed development will be extremely low without the
receipt of the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate and planned Brown?eld 
Reimbursement, and therefore, the development would not be possible without it.

The costs associated with the rehabilitation require multiple capital sources including equity
contributed by K8 Partners LLC members, as well as an interim construction loan, and upon
completion, a long-term loan product. In order to secure this ?nancing and future tenants, the
operating costs of the proposed renovations and redevelopment of the project need to be kept

as low as possible (including property taxes).

The proposed Development included within the request will result in approximately 73
construction jobs and four full-time equivalent (FTE) jobs associated with the ongoing
management and maintenance for the proposed residential development.

PA 146 Request
A 12-year abatement is being requested.
Economic Advantages of the Rehabilitation

Upon completion, the Development will return an obsolete property to productive use and will
increase residential density in an area characterized by vacant land and disinvestment.
Activation of this property will spur further growth and act as a catalyst for future redevelopment
of numerous vacant and blighted properties along the Kercheval Avenue corridor and the
surrounding neighborhoods and provide spinoff consumer spending in an area of Detroit that is
currently left out of redevelopment planning.

Request for Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate at
2119 Field Street, Detroit MI 48214
for K8 Partners LLC

The granting of the OPRA tax abatement will not result in any fewer taxes to the City of Detroit
in the short-term or long-term. On a short-term basis approximately 73 construction jobs will be
created. The G0 has several Detroit-based contractors that they have used in the past and that
they have requested bids from to ensure Detroit-based contractors and workers benefit from the
redevelopment. In addition, should additional contractors be needed for the project, the
Developer will reach out to the Skilled Trades Taskforce and/or attend D2D meetings to ensure
Detroit?based contractors bene?t from the development.

Upon successful redevelopment, the proposed redevelopment will create approximately four
full?time equivalent (FTE) jobs related to the management and maintenance of the property.
These new jobs, along with the new residents living at the development, will generate increased
income taxes for the City of Detroit.

Following expiration of the 12?year abatement the building will deliver a significant increase in
tax revenue. Over time. the successful redevelopment and cultural growth will have a city-wide

impact.
Closing

K8 Partners LLC are a group of experienced professionals driven to redevelop dynamic urban
neighborhoods just like Islandview. Through diligent development planning, K8 Partners LLC
are poised to succeed with this multi-family investment in the City of Detroit.

Members of the Development team are planning to reach out to local community groups, such
as the Villages Community Development Corporation and the local Detroit City Council member
regarding the new ownership and anticipated improvements to receive meaningful feedback on

the anticipated project.

The team is looking forward to pursuing this redevelopment and creating a community in
Detroit's Islandview Neighborhood.

Respectfully Submitted,

5' is? a; 
Jo?eph Roubeni
Managing Partner
K8 Partners LLC
joseph@astralweeks.com

(516) 466-8001

Attachment A: Detailed Project Description
Attachment B: Parcel Map
Attachment C: Incentive Information Chart

Attachment A

Detailed Project Description

General Description

The proposed Development is located at the intersection of Kercheval Avenue and Field Street in
the lslandview neighborhood of Detroit, named for Detroit's famous island park, Belle Isle. The
property is bounded by the property line to the north, Field Street to the east, Kercheval Avenue
to the south, and the property line to the west. The property consists of one parcel totaling
approximately 0.34 acres and is outlined in the map below.

3.1.711? a,

?23: 


?"753; 
. .

Wu?.


I .

.- a C: 



pall?? ?h?if'



 

The property has historically been occupied as a
multi-tenant residential building, construated in
1910. The proposed project currently consists of a
complete building rehabilitation to create eight
residential townhome apartment units.

The associated address and parcel identification
number can be found below, and a copy of the
corresponding legal description can be found at the
end of this attachment.

 

Smart bus routes are located within a block east and west on Kercheval Avenue to provide
alternative transportation methods. Additionally, planned bike lanes along Kercheval Avenue and
the forthcoming Beltline Greenway will connect residents to local amenities, providing increased
ease of access to reach the riverfront and RiverWalk.

Attachment A
Page 1 of 5

Description of Proposed Use

The proposed redevelopment will create additional housing and increased residential density in
an area of lslandview that has been behind the curve for investment and redevelopment and is
characterized by vacant lots and disinvestment. The project will entail the rehabilitation of the
current building into eight residential townhome apartment units. The proposed development will
include approximately 11, 761 - -
square feet of living space (not
including an additional 5,951
square feet of basement floor
space), divided into eight three-
bedroom units with basements.
Each unit will include modern
floorplans and ?nishes with
private entry and exit for each
unit. A minimum of 20% of the
units will be priced to meet
affordable unit requirements for
80% of the Area Median Income

(AM 0- Existing building located at 2119 Field Street

 

 

The rehabilitation will create approximately 11,761 square feet of living space, spread across the
following anticipated proposed units, with an additional 5,951 square feet of basementfloor space:


. . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Unit-A UnltC UnItp UnltE UnltF ll UnltG UnltH
._?I_Sl?oor? 79?7_ 730 727 735 l_ 705 _7?00_ 778 
2nd Floor 797 Basement 797 730 727 735 779 705 700 778 

2, 391 2, 189 2161 2,184 2,316 2,093 2 
Total - ELJ 2?39 -
17 712 

The developer will create a new parking area at the rear of the property, including parking for
each apartment unit. The parking area will include an automatic gate, a four foot fence, and a
hedge row to screen green space from the parking lot. New concrete walkways will also be

installed throughout the property.

Nature and Extent of the Rehabilitation

As part of the rehabilitation, the building will be gutted to receive new utilities including electrical,
water, and natural gas, new energy ef?cient heating, cooling and ventilation systems, new energy
efficient windows and doors, and insulation, Repairs to building structure and masonry will be
completed as needed, and the interior wall partitions will receive new framing and finish materials,
including drywall, trim, new flooring, appliances, and fixtures. The structure will be brought up to

current code as applicable.

Attachment A
Page 2 of 5

 

-

1:33:15

 

I 
i??-rlr- 
. A. _q ..

 

 

 

Concept rendering of the proposed redevelopment

The Development will create residential tenant space for and encourage Detroiters to populate
these spaces. These developments are necessary components crucial to attracting resident and
visitor interest along with investment in this blighted area of Detroit.

K8 Partners LLC intends to apply for a 12?year real property tax abatement under the provisions
of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act tax abatement.

Descriptive List of the Fixed Buildinq Equipment/Renovations
Renovations and new fixed building equipment and materials for the project include;

Temporary Facilities; including dumpsters, construction fencing, and temporary lighting
and power maintenance

. Sitework; including new water, gas, and electrical service, limited site demolition, and
landscaping

. Site Utilities; including new water and gas service to the building

- Concrete; including repair or replacement of the current parking lot, sidewalks, porches,
and step repairs

- Metals; including gutters, downspouts, and porch railings

. Masonry; including masonry restoration and patching, and repairs to the front porches

- Rough Carpentry; including framing, subfloor repair, installation of doors and windows

0 Finish Carpentry; including stairs and wood flooring

Attachment A
Page 3 of 5

. Thermal and Moisture Protection; including general roofing repairs; roof repairs at
chimneys, front porches, gutters, and downspouts; and insulation forthe exterior walls,
attic, and above bay windows .

. Doors and Windows; exterior doors, interior
doors/frames/hardware, windows

- Equipment; including bathroom vanities; kitchen
cabinets; and countertops

. Plumbing; including new sanitary main; bathtubs;
toilets; sinks; and natural gas lines for range and
furnace

- Mechanical; HVAC and ductwork

- Finishes; drywall, ceramic tile, and painting

. Specialties; electrical distribution, ?re extinguishers
and dwelling unit appliances

 

 

Total construction hard and soft cost investment is estimated
at $1.7 million, with a total project investment of $2 million.

 

. Newel posts and bannisiers like these ca.
TIITI 30 ed '9 1910 will be refurbished where applicable

Construction activities are anticipated to commence in the fall of 2019. Construction completion
is anticipated for fall of 2021.

Statement of Economic Advantages

The proposed Development will bring needed investment to a residential area of Detroit's
Islandview neighborhood characterized by vacancy and blight. Primary planning goals for
Islandview include improving existing housing, increasing affordable housing options, increasing
the variety of housing, and increasing overall resident density. The Development will address
each of these goals by returning an obsolete property to the housing market and increasing
density within the neighborhood. Further, the Development is located just one-quarter mile
southwest of the Butzel Family Center where families can seek social services and self-help
technologies designed to improve their quality of life. Offering amenities such as a computer lab,
banquet hall, basketball court, baseball diamonds, tennis courts, and a playscape, Butzel Family
Center has much to offer future tenants of the Development. indeed, activation of this property
along the Kercheval Avenue corridor will spur further growth and infill development, acting as a
catalyst for future redevelopment of similar properties along Kercheval Avenue and throughout

the lslandview neighborhood.

The granting of the tax abatement will not result in any fewer taxes to the City of Detroit in the
short-term or long?term. Upon successful redevelopment, the Development will generate
increased income taxes, through the newjobs and residents that the project will create.

On a short~term basis approximately 73 construction jobs will be created (12.64 full?time
equivalent (FTED. The Roy Group, the construction manager (CM), has experience and contacts
to hire Detroit?based subcontractors and have reached out to the Skilled Trades Taskforce in
order to ensure Detroit-based contractors bene?t from the development.

Attachment A
Page 4 of 5

On a long-term basis the proposed redevelopment associated with the Certificate will create
approximately four FTE jobs and house at least eight new Detroit residents. Therefore, it is
anticipated the City of Detroit will collect approximately 2.4% income tax per resident per year.
The table below illustrates the resident tax impact the development will have following completion.

Annu_a_l Amount 

I Residential Benefits 
Minimum of 8 apartment units__ 
Median Household Income Units 2.4% $7,948.80
5812-4% 
Four 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gag/L .. - $0360.00

$50000 1 2.4% 7 $1200.00 1
. $41,600 x1 2.4% a $998._40,
Total 

Additionally, there will be other indirect benefits such as spin off spending in the City that will
contribute to the economic benefits produced by this investment. It will further help meet the
demand for housing in Detroit, with a reported 2.6% vacancy rate across metro Detroit (Crain's,
5/13/17). As one of ten neighborhoods targeted by Detroit?s second Strategic Neighborhood Fund,
several hundred residential units and thousands of square feet of retail space are planned for
lslandview (Crain's, 11/15/2018). These investments into the community will have long?term
effects and provide sustainable principals that will retain and foster local talent that is vital to
securing the City?s economic future.

Following expiration of the 12-year abatement the building will deliver a signi?cant increase in tax
revenue. Over time, the successful redevelopment and cultural growth will have a city-wide

impact.
Leqal Description

Parcel Number: 15007454.002L
Address: 2119 Field Street
Acres: 0.344

Legal Description:
FIELD 29&30 LINDEN LAWN SUB L21 P21 PLATS, 15/98 100 150 SPLIT ON
10/11/2018 INTO 15007454003, 15007454004, 15007454005, 15007454006, 15007454007,

15007454008, 15007454009, 15007454010;

Attachment A
Page 5 of 5

Attachment 

Parcel Map

April 7. 2019

 

1:1.128
0.01 0.02 0.04 ml

1

0-4-0

0.01 0.03 0.08 km

City 41 W'In?lu. EEMGOG. Elf! Cumin, Elli. HERE. Gurnh.
P. USES, EPA. USDA MFG, 

Attachment 

Incentive Information Chart

Qtity of ZlBetrnit
CITY 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

WEI:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project Type Incentive Type 1 Amount District__
residential PA 146 OPRA ISZ Million District 5 
Jobs Available 'j
Construction Post Construction
Professional Non- Skilled Non-Skilled Professional Non- 1 Skilled Non?Skilled
Professional Labor Labor Professional Labor Labor

"It 70 1 1 fl 

 

 

 

 

 

1. What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

The Roy Company (the GC) has several Detroit-based contractors that they have used in the
past and that they have requested bids from to ensure Detroit-based contractors and workers
bene?t from the redevelopment. in addition, should additional contractors be needed for the
project, the Developer will reach out to the Skilled Trades Taskforce meetings to ensure Detroit-
based contractors benefit from the development.

2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart,
i.e: job type, job quali?cations, etc.

It is anticipated that 4 full-time equivalent (FTE) permanent jobs associated with the management
and maintenance aspects of the proposed development. .

The developer will be hiring skilled and non?skilled labor for all of the rehab and construction
which would include roofers, framers, electricians, plumbers. heating, window installation,
insulators, drywallers, painters, ?nish carpenters, cabinets installers, flooring, clean up, security.

3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents?

There are no current residents at the subject property that will need to be relocated as a result of
this development. Rather, the development will create eight new housing units that will create
new Detroit residents

4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project
and/or any potential jobs?

Members of the Development team are planning to reach out to local community groups, such as
the Villages Community Development Corporation and the local Detroit City Council member
regarding the new ownership and anticipated improvements to receive meaningful feedback on

the anticipated project.

5. When is construction slated to begin?
Fall of 2019.

6. What is the expected completion date of construction?
Fall 2021.

*Please contact Linda Wesley at (313) 628-2993 or to schedule a
date to attend the Skilled Trades Task Force.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-301] - 

(313) 224-9400



  
  

a;

CITY OF DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR

August 23, 2019

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate - K8 Partners LLC
Property Address: 2119 Field Street
Parcel Numbers: 15007454003, 15007454004, 15007454005, 15007454006, 15007454007, 15007454.008,
15007454009, 15007454010. New Parcel Number 15007454.002L for 2020 Assessment Roll.

Dear Mr. Cox:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
certificate application for the property located at 2119 Field Street in the Islandview neighborhood in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for granting Obsolete Property Rehabilitation certificates under PA 146 of 2000, as amended, is based on the
anticipation of increased market value upon completion ofnew construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial

property and commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate
additional market value.

The proposed project by K8 Partners is to rehabilitate the two-story, 11,890 square foot, apartment building with a 5,951 square
foot basement built in 1910 on .344 acres of land into 8 residential townhome apartments with 3 bedroom. The units were
formerly condominiums and the condominium plan was dissolved for the 2020 assessment roll. The building is currently
uninhabitable with roof leaks, no windows, no interior partitions and no operating utilities. Rehabilitation will include gutting the
building, repairs to building structure, new windows, new interior walls, repairing the roof, new mechanical, plumbing and
electrical systems, and energy efficient heating, cooling and ventilation systems along with new apartment fixtures.

The 2019 values are as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Assessed Value Building Assessed Value Land
Parcel Address (SEV) Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
15007454.002L 2119 FIELD 40,000 40,000 26,400 26,400

 

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 146 of 2000, as amended. It applies to blighted, functionally obsolete and
contaminated properties. "Rehabilitation," meaning that changes to qualified facilities that are required to restore or modify the
property, together with all appurtenances, to an economically efficient condition.

The property located in the Islandview neighborhood is expected to increase commercial activity in the area, create employment,
retain employment, increase in the number of residence in the community and revitalize an urban area.

A field investigation indicated that the property located at 2119 Field Street is eligible as it pertains to the Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation Act under PA 146 of 2000, as amended.

 

Char es Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors

 

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certificate

K8 Partners LLC
Page 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2019 Parcel ID)

 

 

 

LLC

 

PARCEL PROPERTY OWNER NAME LEGAL DESCRIPTION
NUMBER ADDRESS
15007454.002L 2119 FIELD K8 PARTNERS FIELD 29&30 LINDEN LAWN SUB L21 P21 PLATs, 
LLC 15/98 100 150 SPLIT ON 10/11/2018 INTO
(2020 Parcel ID) 15007454.003, 15007454004, 15007454.005,
15007454006, 15007454007, 15007454008,
15007454009, 15007454.010;
15007454003 2119 FIELD K8 PARTNERS FIELD UNIT NO 1 WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN NO
LLC 1059 "2119 FIELD STREET RECORDED
(2019 Parcel ID) L53718 P1049 DEEDS WCR 15/98 12.5%; 2,391 sq FT
ON 10/11/2018 FROM 
15007454004 2119 FIELD K8 PARTNERS FIELD UNIT No 2 WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN No
LLC 1059 "2119 FIELD STREET RECORDED
(2019 Parcel ID) L53718 P1049 DEEDS WCR 15/98 12.5%; 2,169 SQ FT
ON 10/11/2018 FROM 
15007454.005 2119 FIELD K8 PARTNERS FIELD UNIT NO 3 WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN NO
LLC 1059 "2119 FIELD STREET RECORDED
(2019 Parcel ID) L53718 P1049 DEEDs WCR 15/98 12.5%; 2,161
ON 10/11/2018 FROM 
15007454006 2119 FIELD K8 PARTNERS FIELD UNIT No 4 WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN NO
LLC 1059 "2119 FIELD STREET RECORDED
(2019 Parcel ID) L53718 P1049 DEEDS WCR 15/98 12.5%; 2,184
ON 10/11/2018 FROM 
15007454007 2119 FIELD K8 PARTNERS FIELD UNIT NO 5 WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN NO
LLC 1059 "2119 FIELD STREET RECORDED
(2019 Parcel ID) L53718 P1049 DEEDS WCR 15/98 12.5%; 2,316 SQ FT
ON 10/11/2018 FROM 
15007454008 2119 FIELD K8 PARTNERS FIELD UNIT NO 6 WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN NO
LLC 1059 "2119 FIELD STREET RECORDED
(2019 Parcel ID) L53718 P1049 DEEDS WCR 15/98 12.5%; 2,093 SQ FT
ON 10/11/2018 FROM 
15007454009 2119 FIELD K8 PARTNERS FIELD UNIT No 7 WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN NO
LLC 1059 "2119 FIELD STREET RECORDED
(2019 Parcel ID) L53718 P1049 DEEDS WCR 15/98 12.5%; 2,079 SQ FT
ON 10/11/2018 FROM 
15007454010 2119 FIELD K8 PARTNERS FIELD UNIT NO 8 WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN No

1059 "2119 FIELD STREET RECORDED
L53718 P1049 DEEDS WCR 15/98 12.5%; 2,319 50. FT
ON 10/11/2018 FROM 

 

 

 

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Certi?cate
K8 Partners LLC
Page 3

The legal description matches the OPRA certificate request.



 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808

 

 

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
TO: Matthew Langston, Housing and Revitalization
FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Obsolete Property District (PA 146) at for 2119 Field Street
DATE: September 20, 2019
CC: Katy Trudeau, Deputy Director, Planning and Development

Alexa Bush, PDD East, Planning and Development

In order to ensure that the creation of an Obsolete Property District is in conformance with the City?s
Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial activity; create,
retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase the number of residents in
a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 146 of 2000 (section 125.2788), the Planning and
Development Department submits the following interpretation. The Petitioner Of this project is K8
Partners LLC

Location and Project Proposal: Project seeks to redevelop the existing vacant 2-story residential
property into (8) residential townhome apartments. The proposed development will contain
approximately 11,761 square feet of living space, not including an additional 5,951 square feet of
basement floor space.

Master Plan Interpretation

The subject site area is designated Neighborhood Commercial (CN). Neighborhood Commercial Districts
generally consist of a large collection of contiguous storefronts along a street or streets. This commercial
type is pedestrian oriented with wide sidewalks and landscaping. Parking should be on the street, in
structures (with ground floor retail), at the rear of commercial establishments or in concentrated nodes
at the periphery of the area. In addition to commercial uses, Neighborhood Commercial areas may also
include institutional uses such as libraries and post offices.

The Master Plan Future General Land use categories used on all the maps are generalized. Boundaries
are not meant to be precise as to blocks or property lines. Categories are descriptive of general
development recognizing that some intermixtures are permissible or desirable.

The following policies of the Butzel neighborhood describe the following recommendations:
- Goal 2 increase residential density
Policy 2.1 Redevelop the area northeast of the Mt. Elliott and Jefferson intersection as a
mixture Of high-density residential and commercial uses

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachment
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 3, Butzel, Map 3-.13

  
   

in?

.th

w?
.YRLM 
\A?g 

    

  

   
  

 

 

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Map 3'13 Neighborhood Cluster 3
Butzel

 

 

 

 

 

 

Futu re Land Use

a Low Density Residential (RL)
Low I Medium Density Residential (RLM)
- Medium Density Residential (RM)
High Density Re5idential (RH)
Major Commereiai (CM)
Retail Center (CRC)
Neighborhood Commercial (CN)

 



Thoroughfare CommerCiai (CT)
Special Commercial (CS)
General Industrial (IG)

Light Industrial (IL)

Distribution I Port Industrial (IDP)

  

[2 Mixed - Town Center (MTC)
Recreation (PRC)

1: Regional Park (PR)
E2 Private Marina (PRM)

_i Airport (AP)

Mixed - Residential (Commercial (MRC) Li; Cemetery (CEM)

Mixed - Residential I Industrial (MRI)

Institutional (INST)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.6380

cm, Departmem Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT 

Housing and Revitalization

 

September 26th, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI. 48226

RE: Request for Public Hearing to Establish an Industrial Development District on behalf of
REAL ESTATE INTERESTS, LLC in the general area of the INTERSECTION OF
MARROW AND MARSTON STREETS, Detroit, Michigan, in accordance with Public Act
198 of 1974. (Petition 994)

The Housing and Revitalization Department has reviewed the application of REAL
ESTATE INTERESTS, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth by PA. 198 of 1974 and
would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Prior to acting upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and
the City Clerk must provide written notice of the public hearing to the owners of all real property
within the proposed industrial development district at which time those owners and other residents or
taxpayers of the local governmental unit shall have a right to appear and be heard.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of establishing an Industrial
Development District. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution establishing a date
and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Wed/it?

Kelly Vickers
HRD Associate Director, Housing Underwriting

AM

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
K. Trudeau, PDD
K. Vickers, HRD
A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCILMEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Act No. 198 of the Public Acts of 1974, as amended 198"), this
City Council has the authority to establish "Industrial Development Districts" and ?Plant
Rehabilitation Districts? within the boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, REAL ESTATE INTERESTS, LLC has ?led an application for an Industrial
Development District whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal
description attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, Act 198 requires \that prior to the adoption of an Industrial Development District,
City Council shall provide an written notice to the owners of all real property within the
piupuscd indus'uiui dcvciupuicui Lllb?lJiUl. and shall llUlLl a public insuring 011 1.1115 of
the industrial development district at which time those owners and other residents or taxpayer of
the City of Detroit shall have a right to appear and be heard on the matter;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the day of 2019, at am, in the City Council
Committee Room, 13th ?oor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on
the approval of an Industrial Development District on the property referred to above and more
fully described in the application attached hereto; and be it ?nally,

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk will provide notice of the Public Hearing to the general public
by publication, and shall give written notice by certi?ed mail to the taxing authorities and to the
owners of all real property within the proposed Industrial Development District.

Qtitp at Detroit

Janice M. threv OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Vista A Hudson
City Clerk Deputy City Cr'eric

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Tuesday, July 23, 2019

0: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From' Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT
FINANCE 

994 Real Estate Interests, LLC, request to establish an Industrial Development
District at the intersection of Marrow and Marston Streets, Detroit, Michigan.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224?1466

REAL Emuma INTERESTS, LLC

RE I C360 \Noodwarcl Avenue- Suite Detroit Michigan 48226

 

July 22, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Petition for the Establishment of an Industrial Development District at the intersection of
Marrow and Marston Streets, Detroit, Michigan.

Honorable City Council:

On behalf of Tiberina Detroit, Inc. (?Tiberina?), please accept this letter as a request to establish an
Industrial Development District for the planned development of a new manufacturing facility
in the city of Detroit, located north of Marston St. and west of St. Aubin St. as shown more precisely

on the map in Attachment A.

The planned praiect represents Tiberina's first production facility in North America. Currently, the
firm has existing operations in Italy, Germany, Czech Republic, Turkey, Brazil and Argentina.
Tiberina's production processes include hot stamping, cold stamping and welding. The company has
developed a proprietary stamping process that allows it to create high quality structural parts out
of lightweight aluminum. As a result, the intended proiect will be designed and constructed with
future expansion in mind as Tiberina expects to grow its North American business.

The proiect involves construction of a new approximately 75,000 square foot hot stamping facility
on a lO?acre site. Initial plant output will consist of "B-pillar" aluminum components for passenger
vehicles using the company's patented U-Form technological process. The facility will be designed
with the ability to expand in two successive stages of at least 75,000 square feet each.

The plant requires a significant investment in both land, capital and personnel. We are requesting
that the be applicable to the development proiect area for a period of twelve (l 2) years. The
development area is eligible for designation pursuant to Section 2 of Public Act 198 of 1974,
the Plant Rehabilitation and Industrial Development Districts Act. The project represents a ?New
Facility" within the meaning of MCL 207.552 (5).

The will lead to construction of a new plant in an existing industrial area in keeping with the
City of Detroit Master Plan. The is critical to both the construction of the facility and ensuring
that it remains competitive in the future. Following this petition, Tiberina will not make any further
requests for tax abatements from the city of Detroit for this facility.

STEWARDS OF THE BUILT ENVIRONMENTTM

We respectfully request your consideration of an Industrial Development District for the proiect.
Please do not hesitate to call me at 31 3-408-5384 with any questions.

Respectfully submitrecl,

4 (-

W. Emery Matthews

Managing Principal

Attachment A Requested District
Attachment General _Pro? ect Description
Attachment Renderings

Attachment Legal Description

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(h HM ?n . mug: mu .unzsa; m0: new
I, D-ta new: 
l?0111.30 
3 Maidoud ?3 1' KlPOubu'd
mm
(45.6: to ?to ?0wa

 

 

 

 

r106 (Iw) 
moz uw) ONWHEJIH

SDSH

m3; wan; dew 3599'

.C003 BTVOS

.0303 .0

 

 

 

       
 

L. 

1; . 
.tmrfur" 9.1? i3

 

 

 

a Hlnr-zz

10er CIGI pausenbea


 

 9

ATTACHMENT A
Requested IDD Area (continued)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1mm
.m Imam J'h?f; uu- mum bum mum?
balm? Myriam
11cm
-
?l 
arm 
10534
anJo?s?
masm
533an ?Wild El
QT:
awn.? 
h? 
I?m-1m LJJ
(ham .th 
E:

ammo - .


-- - - 
?"3931
WIN 
I 
. 

- a 


Page 4

 

 

g. abr)?:

smai tug pammld

s; :umwruaun-Jn: pm mg; 30} pamnald

1.: 1 u! {sag-munbs n5 55w
pin: mung mag-aler?h (raf'n. 
Hum urn.- .?Inmlom ram nu uogpunmm
Uj 03.11 Lulu}:- .M1 at? mun.- 

.H'v

at? inunun.? - 2:11,: 

(2 ?mid DUB) I mud) 


51:95 5] my: alafdtuoa aq o: paparmd s; nouq?va

IS

Iln?m'g ?nial-Wu 1 g-?S??iutl- 51 1 

(mug in? uma'g anus prql?mu?tg} {am-11f: 5

"and V88 immumsg; 65:. i 

alqr?na {0016913

3mm 13$ 1313 1111 }mu new pm:
says 31113211111311: pm:

:pupm mun?nnlonxugquh;

my a: a: put HER: mauumplg v.10 



1313?) .!7?1li0 

I.

pm- man? Sit-rips?; mnuun-dnq
(3 952115) uomnu HS 9512115) 1. 313 pmumusg
inn-?ea

'mquy 131015;.? ?sasang unnoj-g
_10 quou pawaoy s1 

mamdouuopag mono-N :y 1101:; mm




:ammusg 
3A1 353;;
:asmqulm] o; swag

313301 

use.) alqusmnqulpu

30an alqr?na
:msuusaml 13910.1(; [3101

:Luadmd amp?ng 10 NHL

:nonunuq 13.1fm?

:auwg pafmd



El 

a l-Mnr?zz

22-July-l9

ATTACHMENT 
RENDERINGS

U.form

 

GRAPHICS



 a?ud



9 I I
59in we maceui

I 

 


3 

61""l"f"LZ

22-July-19

ATTACHMENT 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 

 

  
   
 
 
 
    

  

HO mu )i mo: mm .00: 
.132le ON 110? waa 
god?
?595' $59
(3053'
\4 
7'9;


"thJ 

)(Vd
IEOL-Zfi?mtl) WELL
IW 
OHVMCIOOM 






31'] 'lel

Noai 1.38 in
wow 


130mm mama q.




?at-9?
laomd waJDd 433?
:9 so
\aawaoo 

 

 

 

 

 

Parcel Split

Parent Parcel

LEGAL DESCRIPTION PARENT PARCEL

lets 1 Lhru 4-4 and 1015 I10 thru 15.3. bath .nciusle, and part of lots
?15 and 109, Includmg all vacated ulreut-s aml vacated alley; warm or
adjacenl thereto? and all cf vacated Vulcan Avenue fuel wide} 
[heretn c-f WM 1. LOTS 1'3 MID E0 HF 
SUBD cl QUARTER SECTION +2 10.000 ACRE TRACT. 1c. Lhe plat
{hr-urea! 03 lecord??l in Lihur 91 of F'luLs. page 6:1. ch?e Cuunly Rerc-rcls. alsc
mar-?E oi Bullets L215 ?21 and 22 m' OF LOTS 5. Eu. ?7 3 IN
QUARTER SECDOH All!) LOTS 15. 5' 18 IN QUARTER SECTION ?11 Ali! THE
EAST QUARTER 43 THC TRACT,
according to Inn there-cl as l'ecarierl in llher 1 cf Plats. page 1311, Wayne
County Recon-.15, also Lots 1 lhru 7?2. inclur?ve. and all 01 vaculud Hardy-3c
Au-?fmue [:50 feel wldej and all of vacate-u Avenue {platted rm 
Street 66 feel wide) and half uf vecales Mar-?tan Ave-nul- Lincoln
Avanue variable.- width) of WILHHS suau5'3
IDOEID ACRE TRACT. nccarulrlq In the plul ?warm? or, recorded l? Luber 11 
Hula. page 5?3, Wayne Count; Rewards, henng mare described 051?

nl Lhe lvlor'lheasterly ?rmer ml L31 3: of WM 1? 
also tcing lhe inic'sccliun cf the line chm-arm:-
(66 Fuel wide} and [he Westerly [me of SI. Aubin Ava-nut: (5U feet wide], 
2? degrees: 758 rnlnules 41 sect-m; 11ml (Plotted as South 25 degrees C13
nuruutes Cast] 10715.4(? feet along the Westerly line Elf said 51 Auhln Avemxe for
(I PLACE U?r' lhanc ll'lc three cuulzcs along 111::
We:1eriy 1mm: of said 5! Aulzlr. Avenm" South 2? degrees .153 Sentinel:
Eusl {platlnd 05 South 136 degree: 02 Funnies Lost] 1243 H1 l'cul. 27
degrees 43 minute's IE- seconds [East :15. South mlnuler.
Eust?l 50.00 fcc'. cm] Shuill 27' degrees 34'! [34 $ucund5 Eva-5t [pluchd us
Sunth SE dcgrues OE minutzra East] 107.55 fmzt'. lhcr'ca- South 63 augment. 19
minutes 5.7 sec-ands West?plaltec uu South :13 degrees 40 mmutes was: and
Sauth {1-1 degrees West} Gel reel Elam; ll-u Snuillurl; lim: sald vacated
Vulcan Avanuu. uni 1:10:19 the Ilru; of mud and along
the Soulhari; a? Quarter S?cziml 4: and the Marlheny line of Quarter
5?31. thence South 2? Ingmar. 4.3; minutes. 411' secunds East {Ful?lled as
?mulh 26 deal-lees East) 7353 89 Ice: along the EOSferly lune of said warmed
Fordyce Avenue and We lime a! lots 73 thr'u 96. Incluuwn. of said
thence 150.411: Ii," degrees 18 minutes 4?1 aecondr. was; (plotted
as. South degrees West) 350.5511 feet ulnnq 111-..- lune of acid Morslon
venue; (Mum South 21 degrees 5E1 rnmulea 27' seconds E051 31315 ?521.21:
thence Scull-l G: clugrces 18 seconds West 210 3.3 feel along the
01' said vacate-d Avemo; thence Mar 111 5  degree-s 63 minutes
.13 215}: 32 feel along Lin.- Egg-ml; Ilnc ol l?r?unn Tr'ur'k Wuulc'm
Ralu'oqd thence 1m: T?-llowinq four course: along an czalstinq chain
Ilnl. fence: 1'leth 58 degrees 18 r'llnutca 4i sec-ands Ens' 439 El MEL E35
dngrec": lElI mmules 45 seconds Eusl 4521?" l?c-et. Norll?. :15 degrees 5-1 Inmate:
M- aeuunds: East 1173.90 'eel. and lluth degrees L'Jllv' an-les 39 hum:
HUI-1.91 feel 10 1hr: F'ocu i'vl 2'3 cares of land, rnor'c or
L353. and It; ?nrruiiluons. r?nslr'scllons. and ewueptlun: of record.

if any.

NF

r~ OWAK 51 FRAUS 
45777 woo DWARD AVE,
FIAC. MI 48342?5032 PREPARED FOR SCALE DATE DRAWN JOB NO SHEET

TEL. (248) 332-7931 
FAX. (243) 332?8257 LLC I 5. 03-07-1019 K843 2 0  4

 

 

 

Parcel Split

LOT 81
Proposed Parcels
CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY

L331 I I IIF l~ I 3  ll-T 
d" IJLII THAT 'Ir'fi; Il.rI: .- 

I?m 5 

P.O.B. KEVIN *f
NAVAROLI 
SURVEYOR Eat:
a. 
53505 5435-
1 A 
I, Po nun 
111%?

     

LEGEND
FOUND IRON 
a SET IRON 5%

 

NE

ENGINEERS

NOWAK SI. FRAUS ENGI 
46777 WOODWARI) AVE.
PONTIAC. MI 48342-5032 PREPARED .

ALE I AT DR \10
TEL. (248) 332-793I SC 3 A 
FAX (243) 333?3257 LLC 300? 03-07-20?) K848 3 LII-I

SHEET

 

 

 

Parcel Split

Proposed Parcels
LEGAL DESCRIPTION - PARCEL A

Lots 1 thru 72. inclusive, and all of vacated Fordyce Avenue (50 feet wide) and all of
vacated Morrow Avenue (Plotted as Dequindre Street 66 feet wide) and the North
1/2 of vacated Marstan Avenue (Plotted as Lincoln Avenue Variable Width) lying
adjacent to said Lot 24 at SUBDIVSION OF A PART OF 1/4 58 8c
59 10.000 ACRE as recorded Liber 11 of Plats. on page 59. Wayne County
Records. being more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at the Northwest Corner of said Lot 1; thence North 62 degrees 19
minutes 57 seconds East along the North Line of said SUBDIVSION OF A
PART OF 1/4 58 ?Sc 59 10.000 ACRE 630.49 feet to the
intersection of said North line and the East line of said Vacated Fordyce Avenue;
thence South 27 degrees ~12 minutes 42 seconds East along the East line of said
Vccaled Fordyce Avenue. 71-9 89 feel to a paint on the North line of Mor'ston Avenue
rPIatted c1; Lincoln Avenue 80 leel, wide}; thence South 62 degrees 18 minutes 4-1
seconds West along mic: 01 Marston Avenue. 360 78 feet. thence South 21
degrees 56 minutes 27 seconds East. 5015 feet to 0 point on the centerline of
vacated Marston Avenue {.L'Inlted as Lincoln Avenue 60 feet wide); thence South
62 degrees 18 minutes 08 seconds West along said centerline. 210.33 feet; thence
North 31 degrees ?33 minutes 49 secnn'ls West :JItrlg the Easterly line of Grand Trunk
Raili'riaa. 772.23 feet to the Point of Beginning.

Containing 452.909 Square Feet or 10.40 Acres of land

LEGAL DESCRIPTION PARCEL 

Containing Lots 1 thru 44 and Lots 110 thru li?lti. bet-w and part of Lots 45
and 1031. including all of vacated Streets and Vacated Alleys contained within or
adjacent thereto. and all of vacated Vulcan Avenue feet wide) adjacent thereto
of Y. SUBDIVISION OF LOTS 19 AND 20 OF SUBDIVISION
OF QUARTER SECTION 42 10.000 ACRE according to the plat thereof as
recorded in Liber 9 of Plats. page 61. Wayne County Records. also part of Outlots 21
and 22 of OF LOTS 5. 6. 7 8c 8 IN QUARTER SECTION 42 AND LOTS 16.
17 8t. 18 IN QUARTER SECTION 41 AND THE EAST PART OF QUARTER SECTION 43 OF
THE TEN THOUSAND ACRE according to the plat thereof as recorded in Liber
1 of Plats. page 211. Wayne County Records. being more particularly described as
follows:

Commencing at the Northeasterly corner of Lot 81 of said Y. 
SUBDIVISION OF LOTS 19 AND 20 OF SUBDIVISION OF QUARTER SECTION
42 10.000 ACRE also being the intersection of the Southerly line of Holbrook
Avenue (66 feet wide) and the Westerly line of St Aubin Avenue (60 feet wide):
Ihencn South 27 degrees 38 minutes 41 seconds East along the Westerly line of said
St Aubin Avenuu. 1078.40 feet to the Point of Beginning; thence the following three
(3) courses along the Westerly line of said St. Aubin Avenue: 1) South 27 degrees
38 minutes 41 seconds East. 1243.76 feet and 2) South 27 degrees 43 minutes 15
seconds East. 60.00 feet and 3) South 27 degrees 34 minutes 04 seconds East.
107.56 feet; thence South 62 degrees 19 minutes 57 seconds West along the
Southerly line of said vacated Vulcan Avenue, as extended, also being the Northerly
line of SUBDIVSION OF A PART OF 1/4 58 81. 59 10.000 ACRE
as recorded in Liber 11 of Plats. on page 59. Wayne County Records. 907.53
feet; thence North 31 degrees 53 minutes 49 seconds West along the Easterly line of
Grand Trunk Railroad. 1380.59 feet; thence the following four (4) courses along on
existing chain link fence: 1) North 58 degrees 18 minutes 41 seconds East. 439 21
feet and 2) North 65 degrees 10 minutes 48 seconds East. 49.77 feet and 3) North
66 degrees 54 minutes 44 seconds East. 117.90 feet and 4) North 60 degrees 07
minutes 39 seconds East, 40-191 feet to the Point of Beginning.

Containing 1.341.866 Square Feet or 30.80 Acres of land.

NF

NOWAK ENGINEERS
46777 WOODWARD AVE.
.
PONTIAC. MI 48541 503}. I FOR. SCALE DATE DRAWN JOB NO SHEET

TEL (248) 332'7931
FAX (248) 332-3257 ICP. LLC I 03-07-20?) K843 40t4

 

 

201 9-07-23

994

994 Petition of Real Estate Interests, LLC,
request to establish an Industrial
DeveloPrnent District at the
intersection of Marrow and Marston
Streets, Detroit, [Michigan

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT
FINANCE DEPARTMENTIASS ESSOR

  

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
TO: Ashley McLeod, Housing and Revitalization
FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Industrial Development District Plant Rehabilitation
District (PA 198) at 4501 St. Aubin
DATE: September
CC: Katy Trudeau, Deputy Director, Planning and Development

Kevin Schronce, PDD Central, Planning and Development

In order to ensure consistency with the City?s Master Plan of Policies, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public
Act 198 of 1974 (section 207.554), the Planning and Development Department's Planning Division submits
the following Interpretation for the establishment of an Industrial Development District (IDD). The
petitioner is Real Estate Interests, LLC.

Location and Project Proposal: Project proposes to construct a 75,000 square foot hot stamping facility
on a 10-acre site. The plant?s initial will output components for passenger vehicles. Project seeks to

Master Plan Interpretation:

The subject site area is designated General Industrial (IG). General Industrial areas should consist of
areas for light and heavy industrial uses such as manufacturing, assembly or warehousing. General
Industrial areas are characterized as large sites with considerable truck or rail traffic. General industrial
areas should have freeway and rail access and be located along a major thoroughfare. Large-scale
industrial uses may include producing or assembling components, auto manufacturing, structural steel
fabrication, chemical plants, power plants, etc.

The following policies of the Upper East Central neighborhood describe the following recommendations:
I Policy 1.1 Redevelop the under-utilized sites by attracting new and encouraging existing
businesses requiring high accessibility such as distribution and manufacturing
Policy 2.1 Establish and enforce designated truck routes to and from the Ford and 

Freeways
. Policy 2.2 Buffer the negative impacts of industrial land uses upon residential areas to the

south and east

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 4, Upper East Central; Map 4?93

 

           
            
   
   




a
a
a



w"

H:




Hamtragi?ick
.3.

Subject Site
4501 St Aubin


u?u

 

 

 

?tap 4'93 Neighborhood Cluster 4
City of Detr0it Upper East Central

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Master Plan of 1?
Policies
Future Land Use 
Low Density Residential (RL) Thoroughfare CommerCial (CT) LE Mixed Town Center (MTC)
Low Medium Density ReSIdential (RLM) Special Commercial (CS) RecreatIon (PRC)
- Medium DenSIty Residential (RM) {if General Industrial (IS) a Regional Park (PR) I
- High Density ReSIdentiat (RH) (-1 Light Industrial (IL) E2 Private Marina (PRM)

Distribution I Part Industrial (IDP) i -, 1 Alrport (AP)

Mlxed ReSIdentIal (Commercial (MRC) its-L? Cemetery (CEM)

Mixed Remdentlal (Industrial (MRI) Institutional (INST)

k? ME"tor CommerCIal (CM)
Retell Center (CRC)
NEithorhood Commercial (CN)



 

Pending parcel split for this MPI.

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 . TTY27II
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

.2. OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

September 25, 2019

Katharine G. Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Industrial Development District Request Real Estate Interests LLC on behalf of Tiberina Detroit Inc.
Property Address: Part of 4501 St. Aubin (intersection of Marston Morrow Streets
Parcel Number: Part of 09004733-49

Dear Ms. Trudeau:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the request for the creation of an Industrial
Development District for part of the property located at 4501 St. Au bin, as described on page 2, in the Russell Industrial area.

The rationale for creating Industrial Facilities Exemptions under PA 198 of1974, as amended, is based upon the anticipation
that granting the exemption is a benefit to the city and that expansion, retention, or location of an eligible business will not
occur without this exemption. PA 198 of1974, as amended, also provides a tax incentive to manufacturers in order to enable
renovation and expansion ofaging facilities, building of new facilities, and to promote establishment of high tech facilities.

MCL 207.554 Sec. 4 (2) states ?The legislative body of a local governmental unit may establish a plant rehabilitation district
or an industrial development district on its own initiative or upon a written request filed by the owner or owners of 75% of
the state equalized value of the industrial property located within a proposed plant rehabilitation district or industrial
development district. This request shall be filed with the clerk of the local governmental unit.?

The project involves construction of a new 75,000 square foot hot stamping facility on the 10 acre site for aluminum
components for passenger vehicles. The facility will be designed with the ability to expand in two successive stages of at
least 75,000 square feet each.

A field investigation indicated that the proposed Marston and Morrow Area Industrial Development District located in the
Russell Industrial area as described above is eligible as outlined under PA 198 of 1974, as amended.

Sincer

m.

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



Industrial Development District Marston and Morrow Area 1 i3 a g; rs-

 

Property Address: PART OF 4501 ST AUBIN

Parcel Number: PART OF 09004733?49

Property Owner: TIBERINA DETROIT INC

Legal Description: ST.AUBIN THAT PT OF 1/4 SEC 42,43,58 59 T.T.A.T. LOTS 1-44 LOTS 110-153 AND PT OF LOTS 45-109
INCL ALL VAC STREETS AND ALLEYS INCL ALL OF VAC VULCAN ST IN WM HAMLINS SUB L9 P61 PLATS WCR 9/120; ALSO PT
OF OUTLOTS SUB LOTS 5,6,7 &8 IN 1/4 SEC 42 AND LOTS 16,T.T.A.T REC IN L.1 P.211 ALSO LOTS 1?72 ALL OF VAC FORDYCE ST, VAC EUCLID AVE BTW ST.AUBIN AND MORROW
ST, VAV MORROW ST BTW EUCLID AVE AND MARSTON ST, AND 1/2 OF VAC MARSTON OF WILKINS SUB PT OF 1/4 SEC
58&59 T.T.A.T REC IN L.11 P.59 WCR, DESC AS: BEG AT NE CORIOF LOT 81, WM SUB L.9 P.61 PLATS WCR 9/120,
ALSO BEING THE INTERSECTION OF 5 LINE HOLBROOK (66 FT WD) AND LINE ST.AUBIN (60 FT TH 27D 38M 415 
1078.4 FT TO TH 27D 38M 415 1243.76 TH 27D 43M 155 TH 27D 34M 045 107.56 TH 62D
19M 575 277.04 TH 27D 42M 425 739.89 TH 62D 18M 445 360.78 TH 21D 56M 275 30.15 TH 
62D 18M 083 210.33 TH 31D 53M 493 2152.82 TH 58D 18M 418 439.21 TH 65D 10M 485 49.77
TH 66D 54M 445 117.9 TH 60D 07M 395 404.91 TO POB 1411.32 IRREG 1,794,808.51 SOFT
ON 06/07/2017 FROM 09004727-8, 09003528-35, 09004729-49;

A parcel split has been approved for the 2020 assessment roll for the IFT district described as follows

LEGAL DESCRIPTION - PARCEL A

A new parcel identification number and preperty address will be assigned for the 2020 assessment roll.

Industrial Development District Marston and Morrow Area 2 a 

 

raga.




made?: 



09 045's -5





?r?m 9003522 

 

Industrial Development District Marston and Morrow Area 3 a 



R'?uun??m Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629



DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

October 3, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate on behalf
of PRINCE REALTY, LLC in the area of 4725 16th STREET, Detroit, Michigan, in
accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005 (Petition #132).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning Development Department and Finance
Department have reviewed the application of PRINCE REALTY, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria
set forth by RA. 210 of 2005 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master
Plan.

Public Act 210 of 2005 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate in accordance with Section 3 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a resolution
to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of
the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem
tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

We at

Kelly Vickers
HRD Associate Director, Housing Underwriting


Cc; S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
K. Trudeau, PDD

K. Vickers, HRD

A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act 210 of 2005 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a resolution
approving the application of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate within the boundaries of
the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, PRINCE REALTY, LLC has made application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certificate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto;
and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing, at
which a Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application
and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem
tax within the City of Detroit.

@3ny of Detroit

tmteM OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

Cid! A Hugm

Cesar; Cr; 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

January 24. 2018

To The Department or Commisrioit Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the

City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT FINANCE DEPARTMENT
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT

132 Prince Realty t'eqttext?fot' tlze eis'tublisl'tmem 0ft! 
Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate for property located (ll 4 725 tit/t Street
under Public Act 2/0 of2l)l)5 District is tmcler Petition 1513 76)

"Jl Irl?l'IItIi\ I'l ?1 ?r 
It.? .I It ?ullrl? rim Ill'tl

 

U56 I
Michigan Department of Treasury

4507 (Rev. 05.09) STATE USE ONLY

 

Application Number Date Received I LUCI Code

I

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Issued under authority of Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended

Read the instructions page before completing the form. This application should be filed after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 1. 2 and 3 and ?le one original application form (with required attachments)
and one additional copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU). Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC). Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon in the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC.

PART 1: OWNER INFORMATION (applicant must complete all ?elds)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must be the owner of the facility) NAICS or SIC Code
Tittle: Eng?m LUZ.
Facility's Street Address City State ZIP Code
11.114: state limit 52?; "ii-c; 4.9 
Name of City. Township or Village (taxing authority) County School District Where Facility is Located
A . 
City Township Village A ?l 
Date of Rehabilitation Commencement Planned Date of Rehabilitation Completion 
colours" 
I 1 I 
Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation Number of Years Exemption Requested (1-10)
5131'). 0" 2?9
Expected Project Outcomes (check all that apply)
Etherease Commercial Activity I: Retain Employment Revitalize Urban Areas
a, Create Employment [1 Prevent Loss of Employment ?3 Increase Number of Residents in Facility's Community

 

No ofjobs to be created due to facility's rehabilitation No ofjobs to be retained due to facility's rehabilitation No, of construction jobs to be created during rehabilitation
53 i 
I

PART 2: APPLICATION DOCUMENTS

Prepare and attach the following items:

General description of the facility (year built. original use. most recent use.
number of stories. square footage}

 

 

 

 

Statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption
Description of the qualifed facility's proposed use I: Legal description

I: Description ofthe general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken El Description Of the ?underserved area? (Quali?ed 
Establishments only)

I: Descriptive list of the ?xed building equipment that will be a part of the quali?ed facility Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certiilicale for Quali?ed Retail Food
Establishments (Form 4753) (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility's rehabilitation

PART 3: APPLICANT CERTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

Name of Authorized Company Of?cer (no authorized agents) Telephone Number
litil?dl? xiv to i4 - ?irt 115:3,
Fax Number E-mailAddress
5? $31.4 midget: i; Tc.- . .17) 3 
Street Address City State ZIP Code
is?? .. 'r a A 'f-Zf?rcrn' til i Mi llama

 

 

 

certify that. to the best of my knowledge. the information contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted. Further. i am familiar with the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended. and to the best of my knowledge the
company has complied or will be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the approval of the application by the local
governmental unit and the issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate by the State Tax Com'missron.

further certi?/ that this rehabilitation program. when completed. will constitute a rehabilitated facility, as de?ned by Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended.
and that the rehabilitation of this facility would not have been undertaken without my receipt of the exemption certificate.

Signature ofAthoriited Company Officer tno authorized agents) Title Date

Mr ly/f?l pill/rename. il?vifvtigiaet {0 i?


 

 

 

 

 

 

:Db MDT (ASE1

stint?Isms ONLY 

Michigan Department of Treasury
4507 (Rev 06 09)

 

Applcatien Daic Fir-sewed Cece

Ap I lication for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Ce ificate

Issued' authority of Public Act 210 of 2005 as amended

Read in: instructions page before completing the form This application should be filed er the commercial rehabilitation
districti~ established. The applicant must complete Parts 1 2 and 3 and file one origin . application form (With required attachments)
and one a itiortai copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU) Attach the agal description of property on a separate
sheet This t. olect will not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax CommI- aipn (STC) Applications received after October
31 may not acted upon in the current year This application Is subject to audit by 1e STC

PART1: ow INFORMATION (applicantmustcompleteItfelds) 

 

n?mpncam t?urnany ?(applicant mustbe the Owner of the facility) . Code 1
PRINCE FIEALT 1 6519
., 52' i '7-t.I 1 dip Code 
4725 16111 Street Detroi I Ml I 48208 
N?ame otCity .. or i; (taxing authority) Count 1 School District Where 
City of Detreit . . .
1 my . Umgge yne DetrOIt City School District I
1 Date of Renatrlitaion vT-Ir- lit?'1 i FI yin-11:1 Date oi Rehabilitation Comp'etion (mm/dd?ltiyy? 
05/01.. 1218 08/01/2018
Bummer! I: It In N?umber of Years Exemption Requested {1?40) 1

I Io 

Expected Protect Outcomes (check all that 

Increase CommeICIai Activity 1 1 Retain . Revitalize Urban Areas 



Create Employment PM Hi" i ass of Employment Increase Number oi Residents ll? Facility's Community I

1 No of wt: to tie created d6; Efacility's rehabilitation No of .L be retaneii due to Iacility IehabI-Mation, No of construction 10135 tgoogcated durirErehabilitatIon 1
40 20 1

2: 

Prepare and attach the tottowmg items

description 0f the facility (year bu"! ?3'3 a I Statementni the advantages expected from the 
number at stories Squaietootage) .

Description of the qualities facility's . .eii use Legal description
EQ Description of the general nature . extent at the rehabilitation to be undertaken 1 _1 Descripr the "uncerseived area? (Qualified Retail Food
Establish-?r Its ontyt

is! at the tit-ted tequriient that Witt be a part or the tacmty . 1 Commerce! whammy,? Exemption Certi?i?cai?e Qualified Petal/Food
Establishments (Form 4753) (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

1 8 Time schedule for i. :r t- 1 and roriiptet-ng the {acuity rehabilitation



 

  
  
    
  

Name otAuthonzed . 'I?l II Of?cer hi?oamthorized agantst Telephone t. 
1Philip Kafka 214-674-4458
Number ?E-maiIAddress -
.
none 1 ~II-Ipiinceconcepts com
ZA'Jdress Cede. 
595 Brean' ray #3 JiNew York 10012 
lcenity to the best 0/ my knowledge the information contained herein and In the attachments is .. - descriptive of the property for which this
is being submitted Further, I am with the of Public Act 210 0/2005, as arii??I. tri't and to the best otmy knowledge the
has complied or Will be able to comply With all ofthe raquuements thereof which are prereqmsite to 't . approval oflhe application by the local I
I: In-rra'I-II tat unit and the issuance ota Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate by the State Tax. i.
hither certify that this rehabilitation program when completed will constitute a rehabilitated facility as de?ned -Act 210 of 2005 as amended
. that the rehabilitation otthis lac..ity would not have been undertaken Without my receipt of the exeriipiion- ..I -
attire JiAii'hoiizeJ Company 0t? cc: tro authorizco agents ?1-1-1118 1

17M Mk iPresident 09lt 8/201 i .

v- 
LEW 17 It 15' atria"?

Form 4507, Page 2

tassassor of LGU-must Complete p354:

Provrde the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of Commercral Properly as provided to Public no: 2?0 graces. as amended for the lair yea-

 

 


I Taxable Value State Equalized Value (SEV)

Land

Buildingts) .

I The property to Decoy?cred by this exemptzon may not be Included on any other speci?c tax roll while receiving the Commercial Rehabrlilatiori Exemption For example
property on the Eligible t'ax Reverted Property (Land Bank) specr?c tax roll cannot be granted a Commercml Rehabilitation Exemption that would also put the same property
on the Commercial Rehabi'ilation specific tax roll I

By checking this box I oer1.ty that it approved the property to be covered by the exemption be on the Commercrai Rehabilitation Exemption speci?c tar roll
and not on any other speci?c tax roll

Name of Local Government?Body

Name of Assessor .rv-d last name) I ?Elephone Number

Fax 'NZ-unTa- Email Address

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge. the iriloimation con tamed in Part 4 of this application lS complete and accurate

 

?rs-ran r?s Signatlu?e Date

5: LOCALEOYIERNMENT of LGU must complete Part 5;

Fly LEO length?a certi?ed copy of the 

 

 

Exemption approved tor years. ending December 30. (not to exceed 10 years)

I Exemption Denied

 

I "tJl?Irnl'H't (attach resoluim?ororsr?nc?' Code School Code



PART 6: LOCAL EERTIFICATION (clerk of LGU complete hair 

 

 

 

 

'le-lv"- NarrTe Fir?stand last)_ I Telephone Number

i F?di?F' ?rT-mari wear-m I
!?Malling Address i City State ZIP i?ode 

for Additional Information till?Contact Person Telephone Number I Fax Number 

I 


certify that, to the best otrriy knowledge the information contained in this application and attachments is complete and accurate and hereby request 
the State Tax Commissron issue a Commercral Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate. as provided by Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended 

Clerk's :1 53%

The clerk must retain the original application at the local unit and mail one copy of the completed application attachments to

State Tax Commissron
Box 30471
Lansing, MI 48909

Instructions for Completing Form 4507
Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

'l he Commercial Rehabilitatitm Exemption Certi?cate was created by Public Act 2 to of'lDOS. as amended lhe application is initially tiled.
reviewed, and approved by the LGL, and then reviewed and approved by the State Tax Commission According to Section 3 ct Public Act EIO
as amended, the LGU must establish a Rehabilitation District Rehabilitation may commence after establishment of
the Commercial Rehabilitation District.

Owner lApplicant Instructions
Complete Parts I. 2 and 3 ot?applicatton
2. Prepare and attach all documents required under Part 2 ofthe application:
a. General description ot'tbe Facility (year built. original use, most recent use. number ol?stories. square Footage)
b. Description ol? the quali?ed Facility?s proposed use
Description of'thc general nature and extent ot?the rehabilitation to be undertaken
(1 Descriptive list ol'tiie ?xed building equipment that will be a part ofthc quali?ed Facility
Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility?s rehabilitation
Statement ot?thc economic advantages expected From the exemption
Legal description ol?the facility
It. Description ofthc area" (Quali?ed Retail liood Establishments only)
3. Quali?ed Retail Food Establishttients:
a Part 1 ot?the Rehabilitation Exemption ri'?t'otirmfw Qualified Remit r'i'oorr' 
(Form 4753). Submit to LGU clerk along with application
b. Describe the ?underserved area" and provide supporting documentation to show how the project area meets one or more of
the following requirements:

i An area that contains a low to moderate income census tractts) which. based on per capita income. are tracts below the
66 67 percentile ($23,643 in dollars) and 3 below average supermarket density

ii. An area that has a supermarket customer base with more than 509?s living in a low income census tractts) which based on
the per capita income. are tracts below the 66 67 percentile ($23,643 In 1999 doilars)

An area that has demonstrated signi?cant access limitations due to travel distance and has no Quali?ed Retail
Food Establishments within two tniles ofthe gee-center for an urban area or has no Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments
within nine miles ot?the gee-center For a rural area
For assistance in determining the project area's eligibility, visit and click on
Commercial Rehabilitation Act

4 Submit the application and all attachments to the clerk ol?the LOL, where the property is located

LGU Assessor Instructions
(?omplete and sign Part 4 ofthe application

LGU Clerk Instructions
Alter action. complete Part 5 ot'thc application



Attcr reviewing the application for complete and accurate information, complete Part 6 and sign the application to certify the
application meets the requirements as outlined by Public Act 2l0 of 2005. as amended



Assemble the Following, for a complete application:

a Completed (Form 4507)
All required attachments listed under Part 2

r: A copy ofthe resolution by the establishing the district

(1 A certi?ed copy ot?thc resolution by the liGl i approving the application

Complete Form 4753 (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

4 S?ubmit the completed application to: State tax Commission. Pt). Box 3047i. Lansing, Ml 43009

Application Deadline

the State tax Commission must receive complete applications on or before October 3! to ensure processing and certi?cate issuance For the
following tax year Applications received alter October may not be. processed in tune for certtlicat'c issuanw For the lotion ing tax year
For guaranteed receipt by the ?itate lat tmin'nsown. ?cud ainilittatioas and attachments via certified mail

It you base questions or need additional information or sample dotiirnents. visit or call
t5 i 7: 17.7-34th

 15 4&013

A. General Description of the Obsolete Facility
Year Built: 1925

Original Use: Car Garage

Most Recent Use: Auto Shop

Number of Stories: 1

Square Footage: 3,500

B. General Description of Proposed Use of the Rehabilitated Facility

We aim to rehabilitate this derelict building for a retail use. We have yet to identify a tenant or use for
this building?s space.

C. Description of the General Nature and Extent of the Rehabilitation to be Undertaken

- Mechanical: Install heating/cooling system
- Electrical: Update electrical to support use. Newjunction boxes, outlets, light switches.
Plumbing: Update bathroom

D. A Descriptive List of Fixed Building Equipment that will be a Part of the Rehabilitated Facility

To be determined. Fixed building equipment excluding mechanical, electric, and plumbing - will be
tenant-specific.

E. A Time Schedule for Undertaking and Completing Rehabilitation of the Facility

We anticipate to commencing the renovation of this building May of 2017 and completing the
renovation August 2017.

F. Statement of the Economic Advantages Expected from the Exemption

A ten?year tax freeze will give us time to invest and develop a market while our tax burden remains
predictable. Given that the neighborhood is in a steady decline and that there really is no real estate
?market? in the neighborhood we are rehabilitating, knowing more clearly what our tax burden will be
will give us more room to invest in developing inspired projects with affordable rents.

G. Legal Description

16TH 5 38.80 FT 596 SUB OF 44 L68 P2-3 DEEDS, 10/31 38.80 126.67A

2018-01-25

132

132 Petition of Prince Realty LLC, request
for the establishment of a
Commercial Exemption
Certi?cate for property located at
4 725 16th Street under Public Act 210
of 2005. District is under Petition

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING DEPARTMENTS)
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

FINANCE DEPARTMENT
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
- 2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-301i - TTYz7il
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

 

September 26, 2019

Katharine G. Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate PK Realty LLC
Parcel Number: 10006330.
Property Address: 4725 16th Street

Dear Ms. Trudeau:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the Commercial Rehabilitation District certificate
application for the property located at 4725 16th Street in the Core City area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for issuing Commercial Rehabilitation certificates under PA 210 of 2005, as amended, is based on the anticipation of
increased market value upon completion of new construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial property and
commercial housing prOperty. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate additional market
value.

The project as proposed by PK Realty LLC involves rehabilitating the building for retail use. The property comprises of a former
automotive shop with a 3,798 square foot building on .113 acres of land. The rehabilitation will include installing heating and

cooling, updating electrical and updating plumbing.

The 2019 values are as follows:

 

 

 

Building Assessed Building Land AssegedValue Land
Parcel Address Value(SEV) Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
150006330. 4725 16th Street 14,500 $8,906 2,500 1.536

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 210 of 2005, as amended. It applies to a building or a group of contiguous
buildings, a portion Of a building or group of contiguous buildings previously used for commercial or industrial purposes, obsolete
industrial property, and vacant property which, within the immediately preceding 15 years, was operating as a commercial business
enterprise.

A review of the general plans, along with the criteria set forth under the Commercial Rehabilitation Act, indicated that the proposed
project located at 4725 16th Street is eligible as it pertains to the Commercial Rehabilitation certificate criteria under PA 210 of
2005, as amended.

Sincere 

Charles Ericson, MMAO

Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

 

Commercial Rehabilitatibn Certificate
PK Realty LLC
Page 2

Property Owner: PRINCE REALTY LLC
Property Address: 4725 16th STREET
Parcel Number: 10006330.

Legal Description: 16TH 38.80 FT 596 SUB OF 44 L68 DEEDS, 10/31 38.80 126.67A

The legal description matched the applicant?s submitted legal description.

MP will-I.



harm 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 2244339 0 Tl?Y?ll

CITY OF DETROIT 3) 22443?)
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization Department
FROM: John Baran, Planning Division
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Commercial Rehabilitation District for 4725 16??
Street.
DATE: February 8, 2018
CC: Maurice Cox, Director

In order to ensure that the issuance of a certi?cate for a Commercial Rehabilitation District is
consistent with the City?s Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to
increase commercial activity; create, retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban
area; or increase the number of residents in a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public
Act 210 of 2005 (section 207.841), the Planning and Development Department?s Planning
Division submits the following interpretation.

The proposed Commercial Rehabilitation District is being requested by Prince Realty, LLC for
property located at 4725 16lh Street.

LLatiqa
4725 16'11 Street

Exis_ti_n2 Site Information

The subject site is zoned B4 (General Business District). The site currently is a single story,
3,500 square foot auto shop. The Master Plan Future Land Use designation for the site is RLM
(Low/Medium Density Residential).

Surrounding Site Information

The immediate surrounding zoning north of Hancock is M4 (Intensive Industrial District), south
of Hancock the zoning is R2 (Two?Family Residential District). Fronting on Gratiot the zoning
is B4. The immediate surrounding land uses north of Hancock and fronting on Gratiot are vacant
lots. To the west, on Hancock is a single story single family residential house. To the east and
south, along 16?? Street are single and two story residential and commercial quonset huts. The
Master Plan Future General Land Use designation for the surrounding area is RLM.

Proiect Proposal
The proposed project is to rehabilitate the building for retail use.

Interpretation

Imguct on Surrounding Land Use
The development of the subject site will contribute to the development of the Grand River

corridor. South of Warren, the immediate surrounding land uses are vacant lots and the
residential and conunercial quonset huts along 16'? Street. Further south, along Grand River, are
commercial buildings in areas designated in the Master Plan as Mixed Residential Commercial
(MRC) and Retail Center (CRC).

- Muster Rehabilitation DISTRICTS 210M725 l?thdoc

 

Impact on Transportation
The site is near the intersection of two Major Streets (Warren and Grand River) as designated by
the Master Plan of Policies. DDOT routes are along Grand River, Warren and 14?'1 Street.

Master Plan Interpretation

The Master Plan Future General Land use categories used on all the maps are generalized.
Boundaries are not meant to be precise as to blocks or property lines. Categories are descriptive
of general development recognizing that some intermixtures are permissible or desirable.

The development is near two Major Streets and in proximity to commercial and mixed use
designations along Grand River. Furthermore, the Master Plan recognizes that the Grand River
corridor has many vacant lots and underutilized buildings. Policy 4.1 of the Jeffries
Neighborhood recommends to replace obsolete commercial preperties along
Grand River.?

The proposed development does not change the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area and conforms to the policies of the City?s Master Plan.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Map 4-7B, Neighborhood Cluster 4, Middle Woodward.

Archaic Pl .1310 - Master doc

 

?13-qlmuu?nLnl-nuf
Inn-Ii



   

 

 
 
  

 

 

Map 4-33

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Neighborhood Cluster 4
Jeffries

 

 

 

 

 

Future Land Use
[j Low Dummy Ruidmull (nu

- Domity Rem?dantlu! 
mm Cmmardaucm
RaullCIntanCRC)

 

Low 'Modlum oamnynenrdenuu mum (cs;
Madium Denl?y RuId-ntld IRM)

Nl?ghbomood Communal (cu)

 

MlxodvTownConlu?MTC)

Recruuon 

RoubnlleWR)
uwmummumz E2 Pdv-la Marina (PHM)

Diat?bu?m?PoanoulmallfiDP) Alrpon(APl

[m CamatlrleEM)

Mud Ruldanlm! 'lndulmll lmulu?onll (INST)

(on

 

 

 

Genet-1 Indmmu LIB)

 

 

 

 

 

 

?Owing and REV'm'imti?m Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380

.. 
tum! Demr men 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

October 3, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate on behalf
of PRINCE REALTY, LLC in the area of 4817 17th STREET, Detroit, Michigan, in
accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005 (Petition #133).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning Development Department and Finance
Department have reviewed the application of PRINCE REALTY, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria
set forth by PA. 210 of 2005 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master

Plan.

Public Act 210 of 2005 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate in accordance with Section 3 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a resolution
to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of
the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem.
tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Wat/2,

Kelly Vickers
HRD Associate Director, Housing Underwriting



Cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
K. Trudeau, PDD
K. Vickers, HRD
A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act 210 of 2005 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a resolution
approving the application of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate within the boundaries of
the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, PRINCE REALTY, LLC has made application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certificate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto;
and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing, at
which a Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13?h
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application
and be it finally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certified mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem
tax within the City of Detroit.

?We of Detroit

mum Wnlr? OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

Ct? Gav ?Jmsn A Huge"

Crew? 17 Cat

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

It'lr'etlnerday. January 24. 20/ 

To. The Department or (L'on?zn?zission Listed Below

From Janice Art. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the

City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive. kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT
FINANCE DIV PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

133 Prince Realty L11 request for the establishment of a 'ommereial
Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate for property loeated at 481 7 1 7th Street
under Public A at 210 (#9005 {District is under Petition 51376)

u-Im.\ ?If v' I 
4 ?Mien.? 0 ll?l'lltl Hub-4m H225 

lltt,

 

Michigan Department of Treasury

4507 (Rev 05-09) STATE USE ONLY

Application Number Date Received LUCI Code

 

 

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Issued under authority of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended

Read the instructions page before completing the form This application should be filed after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 1. 2 and 3 and file one original application form (with required attachments)
and one additional copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU). Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax bene?ts until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC). Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon in the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC.

PART 1: OWNER INFORMATION (applicant must complete all ?elds)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must be the owner of the facility) NAICS or SIC Code
11": .L-
Fac-Iity's Street Address City State ZIP Code
'34 ?7 . if? 7 was
Name of City. Township or Village (taxing authority) County School District Where Facility is Located
. H,
- \f?J l? f:
I?City EITownship EIVillage
Date of Rehabilitation Commencement Planned Date of Rehabilitation Completion 
135-, i? i?Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation Number of Years Exemption Requested (1-10)
'if- . . I
Expected Project Outcomes (check all that apply)
Increase Commercial Activity eran Areas
l2 Create Employment lumber of Residents in Facility's Community
1' 
No ofjobs to be created due to facility's rehabilita i_ 7 ?9 client jobs to be created during rehabilitation
I dr?

 

?Fit?i H)

PART 2: APPLICATION 

Prepare and attach the following items:

General description 0f the facility (year omic advantages expected from the exemption
number of stories. square footage)

 

 

Description of the qualifed facility's propc
I: Description of the general nature and ex iderserved area" (Quali?ed Retail Food

El Descriptive list of the fixed building equipr itation Exemption Certiilicate for Qualified Retail Food

11 4753) (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)
Time schedule for undertaking and con

 

 

PART 3: APPLICANT CERTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

Name ofAuthorized Company Officer (no authorized agents) Telephone Number
1'3 - ,l 
1HI Kai" 1? .i "i 
Fax. Number E-maii Address
i; ?3 i5; for. lg? .15 .1: 
Street Address City State ZIP Code
certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the information contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted. Further, i am familiar with the provrsions of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended. and to the best of my knowledge the
company has complied or will be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the approval of the application by the local
governmental unit and the issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate by the State Tax Commission.

i further certify that this rehabilitation program, when completed, will constitute a rehabilitated facility as defined by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended,
and that the rehabilitation of this facility would not have been undertaken without my receipt of the exemption certificate

 

 

Signature ofAuthn?tizad Company Of?cer (no authorized agents) Title Date

. {0-7 I
a i?immense.limitless; 

 

 

 

 

 

Db

rm held

 

Michigan Department of Treasury
4507 iRev 06-09)

1?

STATE USE ONLY

 

 

 

 

   
    

Application Number Dale Received I LDCI Eerie . I
Applica for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate
Issued under author. of Public Act210 of 2005. as amended 

    
    
   
 
   

Read the instructio
district is establishe
and one additional copy
sheet This project will not
31 may not be acted upon in

 

 

PART 1: OWNER INFORMATION (applicant must complete all ?elds)

page before completing the form This application should be ?led after the commercial rehabilitation

The applicant must complete Parts 1. 2 and 3 and ?le one original application form (with required attachments)
Ilh the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU) Attach the legal description of properly on a separate
ceive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC) Applicatiprhs received after October
current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC





 

 

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must the owner of the facilityl

 

 

or SIC Code

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Increase Commercial Activity

El Create Employment

 

No of jobs to be created due to facility's rehabilitation

1-10

 

(V

 


Retain Employmenk


Prevent Loss of Employ

No or jobs to be retained duelo 

Prince Realty LLC 6519 
City State ZIP Code
4817 17th Street Detroit Ml 48208
Ema of City Township or \?llage (taxing authority) County School District Where Faculty is Located .
City of Detroit 
Wayne . Detroit City School District
City Township Village 
Dale of Rehabilitation Cnriimencemerir Planned Date of Rehab' alien Completion 
June 1, 2018 December 31, 2018
Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation Number onears emptinn Requested {1?10) 
$250,000.00 10
Expected Preject Outcomes (check all that apply) I,





Revitalize Urban Areas
I



Increase Number of Resrdents In Facility's Community

 

No of construction jobs to be created during rehabilitation

25

 

 

PART ZTAIRPLIEATION 
Prepare and attach the following items 

General description of the facility wear built original use most repent use
number at slt- fit"; square rootanei

 

I 
Description of the qualiied facility's proposed use 

?v
I





Description of the general nature and extent of the rt-tmbilitati. Ir: to be undertaken

Descriptive list or the fixed building equrpment martin. be a pan of the qualified facility

Time schedule for undertaking and camp! the laCIlIry's rehabilitation

??Av

 

     

Description .7

Establisl' Irliyl

 

PART 3: APPLICANT 

 

 

 

Ihmme ofAulhorIzed Company Officer/1 authorized agents)

lPhiIip Kafka

 

ln/a

E-mail Address



pk@princeconcept com 

Telephone Nlin?n?r

 

Street AddreSS

?595 Broadway Fl

2 certify that, to the
application is new

 


Fax Number
3/

     
  
   
  



governmental Ir

ifuriher
i and that in-'


I 

 

Company Dimer trio 

??ira




Pl?BSlde?t

_10012

iSlate Ny\l ZIP Code
.

Its: of my knowledge the Information contained here?In and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the proper? 'or i' inch rng. 

Further lam familiar with the provrsrons of Public Act 270 of 2005 as amended and to lhe best it My in. L'W't?dl?'t?n 

company has con pii-eri or will be able to comply with all of lhe requirements thereof which are prereqursite to the approval of the try riir: in. ii
ir and the Issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitalion Exemption Certi?cate by the State Tax Commission

 

.- that this rehabilitation program, when completed will conslilute a rehabilitated facrliry. as de?ned by Public Act 210 of 
rehabilitation facrlity would not have been undertaken without my receipt oflhe exemption certificate 

?ne 

N.

I Date
11?10/2017

Form 4507, Page 2

 

PART 4: ASSESSOR RECOMMENDATIONS (assessor of LGU must complete Part 4)

Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of Commercial Property, as provided in Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended, for the tax year
immediately preceding the effective date of the certi?cate (December 31 of the year approved by the STC)

 

 

Taxable Value State Equalized Value (SEV)

 

Land

 

Building(s)

 

 

 

The property to be covered by this exemption may not be Included on any other speci?c tax roll while receiving the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption For example,
property on the Eligible Tax Reverted Property (Land Bank) speci?c tax roll cannot be granted a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption that would also put the same property
on the Commercial Rehabilitation speci?c tax roll

By checking this box I certify that. if approved the property to be covered by this exemption will be on the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption specr?c tax roll
and not on any other speci?c tax roll

 

Name of Local Government Body

 

Name ofAssessor (?rst and last name) Telephone Number

 

Fax Number E-mail Address

 

 

certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the information contained in Part 4 of this application is complete and accurate

 

Assessor's Signature Date

 

 

PART 5: LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION (clerk of LGU must complete Part 5)
Action Taken By LGU (attach a certi?ed copy of the resolution)

 

El Exemption approved for years, ending December 30, (not to exceed 10 years)

El Exemption Denied

Date District Established (attach resolution for district) Local Unit Classi?cation identi?cation (LUCI) Code School Code

 

 

 

 

PART 6: LOCAL GOVERNMENT CLERK CERTIFICATION (clerk of LGU must complete Part 6)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clerk 5 Name (?rst and last) Telephone Number
Fax Number Email Address
Mailing Address City State? ZIP Code

 

 

 

 

LGU Contact Person-torAddr?nal Information_ 7 LGU Contact Perso?nTeiephone Number Fax Number

 

 

 

i certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the information contained in this application and attachments is complete and accurate and hereby request
the State Tax Commission issue a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate, as provided by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended

 

 

 

 

Clerk's Signature Date

 

 

 

 

The clerk must retain the original application at the local unit and mail one copy of the completed application with attachments to:

State Tax Commission
Box 30471
Lansing, MI 48909

4317.17?? ?t_reet, Detroit, Michigan 43203

 

A. General Description of the Obsolete Facility
Year Built: 1987

Original Use: Car Disassembly Factory

Most Recent Use: Car Disassembly Factory
Number of Stories: 1

Square Footage: 20,000 sf (building)

B. General Description of Proposed Use of the Rehabilitated Facility:

This building is derelict and has been abandoned for years. We will tear it down and build from
scratch office and retail space and a public park.

C. Description of the General Nature and Extent of Rehabilitation to be Undertaken

- Structural: Building(s)

a Mechanical: Install heating/cooling system

- Electrical: Install junction boxes, switches and outlets, park lights

0 Plumbing: Install all plumbing for buildings and park

- Landscaping: varied softscape and hardscape living plants, hard elements, park
furniture fixtures

D. A Descriptive List of Fixed Building Equipment that will be a Part of the Rehabilitated
Facility

To be determined. Living plants, park furniture fixtures.

E. A Time Schedule for Undertaking and Completing Rehabilitation of the Facility

We anticipate commencing rehabilitation of the property June 1,2018 and completing
rehabilitation by December 31,2018.

F. Statement of Economic Advantages
A ten-year tax freeze will give us time to invest and develop a market while our tax burden

remains predictable. Given that the neighborhood is in a steady decline and that there really is
no real estate "market? in the neighborhood we are rehabilitating, knowing more clearly what
our tax burden would be will give us more room to invest in developing inspired projects with

affordable rents.

G. Legal Description

17TH 16.83 FT OF 838 839 THRU 844 836 835 EXC A 16 FT STRIP FOR MCRR VAC
ALLEY BETW SD LOTS ALSO 1/2 OF VAC ALLEY LYG 5 OF ADJSD LOTS 1/2 OF VAC 16TH
ST LYG OF ADJ STANTONS SUB STANTONS SUB L10 P16 PLATS, WCR 10/39 48,420 SQ FT

2014-02?21

13 3
133 Petition of Prince Realty LLC, request
for the establishment of a
Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate for property located at
481 .7 I 7th Street under Public Act 210
of 2005. (District is under Petition

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING DEPARTMENTIS)
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT

FINANCE DEPTIASSESSMENTS DIV. PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

    



 

 

September 26, 2019

Katharine G. Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate Prince Realty LLC
Parcel Number: 10006928.
Property Address: 4817 17th Street

Dear Ms. Trudeau:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the Commercial Rehabilitation District certificate
application for the property located at 4817 17th Street in the Core City area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for issuing Commercial Rehabilitation certificates under PA 210 of 2005, as amended, is based on the anticipation of
increased market value upon completion of new construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial property and
commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate additional market
value.

The project as proposed by Prince Realty LLC involves demolishing the derelict structure and building new office/retail structure
along with creating a public park area. The abandoned car disassembly factory is a one-story storage warehouse with 11,321 total
square feet Of building area on 1.212 acres of land. The rehabilitation will include new building(s), new heating and cooling system,
new electrical and plumbing and varied landscaping for the park area.

The 2019 values are as follows:

 

 

 

Building Assessed Building Land Assessed Value Land
Parcel Address Value (SEV) Taxable Value Taxable Value
10006928. 4817 17th 812 $0 $0 $42,200 42,200

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 210 Of 2005, as amended. it applies to a building or a group of contiguous
buildings, a portion of a building or group of contiguous buildings previously used for commercial or industrial purposes, Obsolete
industrial property, and vacant property which, within the immediately preceding 15 years, was Operating as a commercial business
enterprise.

A review Ofthe general plans, along with the criteria set forth under the Commercial Rehabilitation Act, indicated that the proposed 
project located at 4817 17th Street is eligible as it pertains to the Commercial Rehabilitation certificate criteria under PA. 210 of
2005, as amended.

Sincere 

Charles Ericson, MMAO

Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

 

Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate
Prince Realty LLC
Page 2

Property Owner: PRINCE REALTY LLC

Property Address: 4817 17TH ST

Parcel Number: 10006928.

Legal Description: 17TH 16.83 FT OF 838 8 9 THRU 8451 83-5 8 8.35 EXC A 16 FT STRIP FOR MCRR 8L VAC ALLEY BETW SD
LOTS ALSO 1/2 OF VAC ALLEY LYG OF EL ADJSD LOTS 84 1/2 OF VAC 16TH ST LYG OF 84. ADJ STANTONS SUB STANTONS SUB
L10 P16 PLATS, WCR 10/39 48,420 SQ FT

The legal description matched the applicant?s submitted legal description.




"i .1000 2354? .







 

COLEMAN A. Youuo MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF (313) 224-13 In
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization Department
FROM: John Baran, Planning Division
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Commercial Rehabilitation District for 4817 17??
Street.
DATE: February 8, 2018
CC: Maurice Cox, Director

In order to ensure that the issuance of a certi?cate for a Commercial Rehabilitation District is
consistent with the City?s Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to
increase commercial activity; create, retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban
area; or increase the number of residents in a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public
Act 210 of 2005 (section 207.841), the Planning and Development Department?s Planning
Division submits the following interpretation.

The proposed Commercial Rehabilitation District is being requested by Prince Realty, LLC for
property located at 4817 17'?h Street.

may.
4817 17?" Street

Existing Site Information
The subject site is zoned M4 (Intensive Industrial District). The site currently is a single story,

20,000 square foot vacant and open industrial structure. The Master Plan Future Land Use
designation for the site is IL (Light Industrial).

Surrounding Site Information
The immediate surrounding zoning is also M4. To the south, across Hancock, is zoned R2

(Two-Family Residential District) and B4 (General Business District) fronting on Grand River.
The immediate surrounding land use to the west is a railroad corridor adjacent to an auto storage
yard. To the east and south is vacant land. Along Warren is a two story commercial building.
The Master Plan Future General Land Use designation to the north and west is IL. To the east
and south is designated RLM (Low/ Medium Density Residential).

Project Progosal
The proposed project is to demolish the existing structure and develop the site for office, retail

and park space.

Interpretation

Impact on Land Use

The development of the subject site will contribute to the development of the Grand River
corridor. South of Warren, the immediate surrounding land uses are vacant lots and the
residential and commercial quonset huts along 16'h Street. Further south, along Grand River, are

Master Plun?dnterpretnttun?tnmmercial Rehabililaunq il?i?w?l? [115593;

 

commercial buildings in areas designated in the Master Plan as Mixed Residential Commercial
(MRC) and Retail Center (CRC).

on Transportation
The site is near the intersection of two Major Streets (Warren and Grand River) as designated by
the Master Plan of Policies. DDOT routes are along Grand River and Warren.

Master Plan Interpretation

The Master Plan Future General Land use categories used on all the maps are generalized.
Boundaries are not meant to be precise as to blocks or property lines. Categories are descriptive
of general development recognizing that some intermixtures are permissible or desirable.

The development is near two Major Streets and in proximity to commercial and mixed use
designations along Grand River. Furthermore, the Master Plan recognizes that the Grand River
corridor has many vacant lots and underutilized buildings. Policy 4.1 of the Jef?-ies
Neighborhood recommends . .development to replace obsolete commercial properties along
Grand River.?

The proposed development does not change the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area and conforms to the policies of the City?s Master Plan.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Map 4-7B, Neighborhood Cluster 4, Middle Woodward.

W??i?tm? - Mister Rehabilitation DISTRK 71'5 {PK-?il?d?sl?l?tlhdoc

 

 

 

 

 

Subject Area

 

  
 
  

am:- - 
urn-Inn 

=33numah-nl?h?oI?u{7535", j? ..
C) a:

 

 

Map 4-33

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Neighborhood Cluster 4
Jeffries

 

 

 

 

 

 

Future Land Use
"f Law nemny Ruidonllal (RL)

CE Mudlum Daniny (RM)
- High Rum-mm (RH)
mm Communal {cu}

Raul Our-Int 

Mammal-nous Communal (cu)

 

Commumm (CT)

Low [Medium Danl?v Roo?rdanliu (RLM) ICS)

GmaralrnUmmuuG)

umunammum

mmnuum 'F'c?lndetiDPj
Mud mumm 
Mus nummu-Ir "mama 

[2 Conler'MTC)


I3 RoglonllParHPR)

EH 
Li] ?plantar-'1

c-m-mcam


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
Par 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629



DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

October 3, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate on behalf
of mm LLC in the area of 5000 w. GRAND AVENUE, Detroit, Michigan,
in accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005 (Petition #134).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning Development Department and Finance
Department have reviewed the application of PRINCE REALTY, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria
set forth by PA. 210 of 2005 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master

Plan.

Public Act 210 of 2005 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate in accordance with Section 3 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a resolution
to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of
the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem
tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Witt/A

Kelly Vickers
HRD Associate Director, Housing Underwriting



Cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
K. Trudeau, PDD
K. Vickers, HRD
A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act 210 of 2005 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a resolution
approving the application of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate within the boundaries of

the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, PRINCE REALTY, LLC has made application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto;

and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing, at
which a Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

 

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application
and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem
tax within the City of Detroit.

 

tilt,? at Detroit
ImuM OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Hum!

Oat
Draw C?r/ Gal

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

.lantuz'u'y 2'4, 20M

To: The Department or C'ommis.5'ion Listed Below

From Janice M. I?Vin??ey, Detroit City Clerk

The following petition is herewith rethrred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.
In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate

within four (4) weeks.

LAW DEPARTMENT PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION FINANCE DEPARTMENT

134 Prince Realty rcquextfor the mirth/zithment 0ft: Commercial
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?catefor property loomed at 5000 W. Grand
lilvemte under Public Act 2/ 0 0f2005. (District is under Petition #13 .76)

. (m i 4 "?ier I Prim?! ti HI 
3 

rm.

Michigan Department of Treasury

4507 (Rev. 05-09) STATE USE ONLY

Application Number Date Received LUCI Code

 

 

 

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

issued under authority of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended

Read the instructions page before completing the form. This application should be filed after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 1. 2 and 3 and ?le one original application form (with required attachments)
and one additional copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU). Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC). Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon in the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC.

PART 1: OWNER IAPPLICANT INFORMATION (applicant must complete all fields)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must be the owner of the facility) or SIC Code
le? Lu;
Facility's Street Address City State ZIP Code
52.000 some RN "it-e rl' it.
Name of City, Township or Village (taxing authority) County School District Where Facility is Located
Aug" ,e
City  : Town5hip Village I ?t i;
Date of Rehabilitation Commencement Planned Date of Rehabilitation Completion 
fl . fill I (1,-qu I
Estli'naled Cost of Rehabilitation Number of Years Exemption Requested (1-10)
:1 F- (1., 
01.1 .. 3L) .
Expected PrOJect Outcomes (check all that apply)

3 Increase Commercial Activity l:l Retain Employment [2 Revitalize Urban Areas
ECreate Employment Prevent Loss otEmployment Increase Number of Residents in Facility's Community

 

No ofjobs to be created due to facility's rehabilitation No ofjobs to be retained due to facility's rehabilitation No. of construction jobs to be created during rehab?ilitation
r? 3 I .4


PART 2: APPLICATION DOCUMENTS

Prepare and attach the following items:

General of the facility (year built, original use. most recent use.
number or stories square footage)

 

 

 

 

Statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption
Description of the qualifed facility's proposed use Legal description

El Description of the general nature and extent ofthe rehabilitation to be undertaken I Description Of the "underserved area" (Qualified Retail F00d
Establishments only)

I: Descriptive list of the ?xed building equipment that will be a part of the quali?ed L4 Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certiificate for Qualified Retail Food

Establishments (Form 4753) (Qualified Retail Food Establishments only)
I: Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility's rehabilitation

 

PART 3: APPLICANT CERTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

Name ofAuthorized Company Of?cer (no authorized agents) Telephone Number
semi?149:? ii My?
Fax Number E-mail Address
Gov 11:3? . 
Street Address City State ZIP Code
?1.734 l? P: r; 4 9,0115

 

 

 

certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the information contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted. Further, i am familiar with the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended, and to the best of my knowledge the
company has complied or will be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the approval of the application by the local
governmental unit and the issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the State Tax Commission.

further certify that this rehabilitation program, when completed, will constitute a rehabilitated facility, as defined by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended.
and that the rehabilitation of this facility would not haVe been undertaken without my receipt of the exemption certificate

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signature of Auth riz Company Of?cer (no authorized agents) Title Date
pm. "x1 its! [j

 

yo 

Misti-om at treasury
4537 [Rev '35 ~33)

. 
I huptc' ,1Ilication for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption - rtificate

:10 auttierirr of Public Act ZIO oi 2005 as amended

issued

Read th- nati'uctions page beiom completing the form This application should be fi -d after the commercial rehabilitation
district is . -tab ished. The applicant must complete Parts I, 2 and 3 and file one or?inal application form (with required attachments)

and one addi

nal copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGLJ) Attach

it legal description of piOperty on a sepaiate

sheet This -ct will not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax Cc missiion (STC) Applicaticms received after October
upon in the current year This application is subject to aiidi the SIG

1: OWNER enema (applicant must corn: te all tield_s)

 

?applicant (Klonip-?i-i?ty-j?lZiTJI-ne mus?t rte Ih?wnnr of the facilityl-
REALTY LLC


5000 Grand River Avenue.

Naive-em City I?JVH?ghtp or hi-II tan-"i: II I {ii-iv-

City at Detroit

TownshI-L'

H.115 p?F-ii?e-rani??tian Commencement 'i

04/01/201 8

Estimate-ct Cost 0! .11 

 



City

Expected Protect Outcomes (check all that apply}

I J?te'a 

Increase 

I 
i i .- 


tflreale Employment

 

til?0 ct :iiuw It: crgei'l due to [acuity fun-Trill?. 3.Ap'egc?rigu 
Prepare and attach the following items

General descipuori oi the Incitiry (year 
1- niimnei orstorics square indulge)

 

lilaimli use 
i

i i at the quali?ed faculty's 

.
Description of the general nature Eiletltui the rehabilitation to tie underta

List ct?trie i . - equipment that will no part at the ?ei??iw

Tim?: schedule to: linC9l?1" and the familiar is 
I PART 3: APPLICAN CERTIFICATION
I Name of Authorized F'w?iim' 
Philip Kafka
Faimiber

none

Street Metres;

595 Broadwii' 

 

certify that. r.
application is
company In. f'if he able in rmiripiy With at ofriin 
guvemmen i; unit and ihii issuance ofo Conirrieici-?ai Exam

    

i
i importer?, roiiabi

and the at this ivoui'ii' tor have been undermken Without my mneint or the ce nitrate
I

II 2 m. n! Aiihcnzed ?Ziigntpanf Stine.- ino mi:

"Wt tilt:



the bee! of my Jinan-tedge, the ir'itormaiirzri herem and fie attaci'iriisi?its r1. imiy c'escri'prive of the
?3an Si/Dniifi?d Further I am l'??'llitr?ii? with inc ofFubiic A: 210 of 2005, as Bil-1" to the: 

.?i'tei'nn ?mt'izim. when completed .wil a renal ("Hewitt as defined b" Public: 40'210
1?

I wire or 3:7: Code

6519

Cil?f 'Faiir' 54--

De nil Ml 48208

i' :icitnoi Dia'iv-r Wrige Facility IS Located
I

Wayne Detroit City School District

Elan-Q0 5% Hot Crimp-alum 
09/01/201 8
Minute of ears. Exemption Requested (into;

10

Revitalize Urban Areas

nl Resrdenls Facilily's Corrinziinilv

smiled 

25

I. [to ?nf jet): to. he
i

i 

 

.15..

5 I 

Hip lurwra'r-t: area Icifalihl'? tin-l Food 

E3 ?brl.? - 

at the premium inheritance nvpecica tree". the exam .n?on


ken

(In i-merc an 3' romprmii {Brilifr?iw For Quali?ed 
Establisfiirienis I . 4753)? Retail Food Establishments rum-j 

telephone Number I I - .
2141?67-1 M58

Erriail .DIJCI :s?k I

ka-?prtl?ICC?OilCGt com
?"1333 . zip Code
NY 10012

'riJ??rfy for which this

knowledge .?i'iri

Is: rh?mni? w?iir?n are premqrii?ite to the armm'xnl a! the In.? by the hire:

prion Certi'fi'Jate by the Start) To: 

A

gift.
New ?i?or 

 

6?5!


'5


2005

.5,

??ne pair:
lireSiijE-rt 

 

Iorm 4.50? Page 

 

IDrovnIle the Taxable Value and Slate EquaIIz?ed Value of CommerCIaI Property as In P?ublIc Act 210 of 2005_ as amended tor the tax year
Immedlatery preceding the effective date DI the ce?r?cate [December 3 I ulthe year approved by the SIC)

 

 

Taxable Value State Equalized Value (SEV)

Land I

Buildingts)
the p- op'IIty to be covered try UIIS am. "pugn may not be on _molhm spea?c II: I :he I. when _Ete'hplich 
I prope'l'y- on the I'm: Raver-ted Property (Land Bankl specIt'Ic lax toil I: annol he grantee a Commercial RcIIabIIilaI-on Exempt run that would alm p: It the same properly
I on the Commercial Rehatnlitalmn spdo?c 13: I

I Ihrs tm lawn-h; that It the prooerh I: he Irma-ed IhIr. eunmpnon he the Comn?urua Hanan. IIazIan Exempt-cm specItc ta. IIJII 
and nut on any other speultrt mu rc!l

Marne of Local (:cIIeInInenI 1m.

. .
I Name Asseswr (?rst and last name) 

 

Fax-tir?er? 

In the best of my knowledge. the Information contar?ned In Part It of application I5 complete and accurate

Assist-sat 5 Signature Dal;

PART 5: LOCAL ACTION [clerk of must camp?late 

Tait. r- latl a certi?ed copy ?ot the 

 

 

 

Exempllun nparzwed tor years. ending December 30 (not to exceed 10 years)



Denied

 

I IIJI lint-IA:- - Classi?cation Cede

LOCAL LGU must ppm_pleta Part a) 
CZ :ark . :NTrme {?rst 1d Ins?l) .. I telephone Nurnner I I
I 
I .IIrlan 5 I - 

I Anttress Elty --.I-I rm bade I
I

I I
I certify that to the be.? tot my I'Inowtong-r the Information corrtarned In ttIIs and attachments IS complete and accurate and hereby matters!
the State Tax theme a Era. Irptrurr as provided by PubttcA_c 210 0(2005 as amended
I DING.
I

. 
Contact Person 'aI 

 

 

 

 

II: 

The clerk must retain the orrginat applicalIon at the Icon! unit and mad one copy of the completed application attachments to

State tax Commissmn
Box 30471
Iansing MI 48909

instructions for Completing Form 4507
Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

'l hL? Exemption C?cni?uatc was created by Public A21 Bill of ?005. ?lS amended. ilic application is hit-d,
reviewed. and npprot ed b} the. LGU and il?l'dtt reviewed and :ipprotcd by the. Sta 9 Tax According lt?r Section 3 ot'l?uhlic Act 2 If)
as amended, the i til. establish ii Commercial Dis'rict. Rt?hitbilitiititrn may commence alter oi

the Commercial Rehabilitation District.

Owner I Applicant Instructions

Complete Ptii?ts LE and fi ol'appircutron

2 l?rt-nrire rind attach all documents required under Part 2 ol'lhe 

a description nt?tht: Facility iyear built. original usr: most recent USU, square liming-cl
Description ofthc facility?s proposed mt:

Description ul'the general nature entrant ot?the rehabilitation in he ill'It'itH'l?kLZi?l

Descriptive list ol?iho Fixed building equipment [her will he ti part ul lh: quitlii'iul 

?a on

 

Tirtrc schedule. for undertaking and completing:
Statement ol'the advantages expected from the exemption
Legal description irt'tlrc facility
it Description oi the :irezr? i0ualrtied Rctarl i nod tstiiblisli ocrits onlyl
3. Quali?ed Retail Food 
a Complete Part I oftlre for Retail and 
[Form 473 Submit to Gt; clerk along with app icirtion
0. Describe the urea" and provide suppo ting to Show hon. the project area meet: one or more ot?
the following 
i, An area that Contains a low to moderate income census which, based on per carpitn income. arc tracts below the
atom percuntilc ($2ft?r343 in dollars; and it belou average supermarket density
art-ti that has a supermarket custorrier this with more than 50% living in it low income t'enaiis tractis] which based on
the per ttnpitn income. are tracts below the (it) (323.643 in dollars)
An area that denionstriitud signi?cant anemia limitations it to travel distance and has no 
I?ood Establishniurrts two miles nt'tht: goo-center l'or urban area or has no Quali?ed Hutnil i?ood 
within nine milcs ol'tlre gen-center For it rural zirca.
For assistance in the t1rtl_l'Cl zrroli's slit; visit iytaxuxiintptirrns rind click on
(?ornrnorciail Rehabilitation Act.

Submit the application and till to the clerl; O?Hrr: I when: th property is located

LGU Assessor Instructions

('or?nplete and Sign Part 4 ol?tht' applicsrtiun

LGU Clerk Instructions
Alter LOU notion, complc Part5 oi the application.
2 t\t?lcr' ruvrcwing the application for and riccirrat: l?art t?r and Sign the tu cortil?y {lift
:rpplimticm meets the rcqtiimmtintn as outlined by Public not It) ot'EthS, .s uriiendcd
'l Assemble the following for it complete application:
it C'Otrrpictcd t' [debt-thorny tl Orin 
All required ?i'in'iChll'tCttiri listed under Part 
A copy oflhu resolution by the Hit . tlri: district
it A certified copy ol the resolution by the approxirrg tin: application
Complete. l-?nm: 47?53 Retail Food only!

it. Submit the :rpp'iuatiorr Start-tam nmmis?ion l?i?l tit-x Lon-ting Ml i?'JtI?)

Application Deadline
he State tax (fornrirrssion must applications on or ttciinr: (Licr rim: 3! to ensure and cortilictitc For the

Following un- tear Applications renniteud liflcr October it may not be in tor :crirt?ruatc issuance tor tin: ll'riroti'ing; tux- you
For guaranteed receipt by tin: Matt; 1-.iv. Jurrtl tipplirszitiirnr? rind inertia. via mail
It you lira" (pusstrona or read rnlumrrititn or wit-rott- tlwcuinctrit ?v'lh'll twin or cat!

iS'Vr 175-3408

59.95: 43.295
A. General Description of the Obsolete Facility
Year Built: 1952

Original Use: Grocery Store

Most Recent Use: Furniture Store

Number of Stories: 1

Square Footage: 13,967 Net Rentabie Square Feet

8. General Description of Proposed Use of the Rehabilitated Facility

This building is derelict. it has been abandoned for 3 years. We will white box it and prepare it far
commercial tenants.

C. Description of the General Nature and Extent of the Rehabilitation to be Undertaken

Mechanical: Install heating/cooling
0 Electric: Place junction boxes, outlets, and switches at optimal locations.
- Plumbing: Update bathroom];
0 Repaint interior

I Repair Roof

Waterproof walls and windows
a? Seal the building.

D. A Descriptive List of Fixed Building Equipment that will be a Part of the Rehah?ilitated Facility

To be determined. Fixed building equipment excluding mechanical, electric, and plumbing will be
tenant-specific.

E. A Time Schedule for Undertaking and Completing Rehabilitation of the Facility

We anticipate to commencing the renovation of this building May of 2017 and completing the
renovation August 2017.

F. Statement of Economic Advantages

A ten-year tax freeze will give us time to invest and develop a market while our tax burden remains
predictable. Given that the neighborhood is in a steady decline and that there really is no real estate
"market" in the neighborhood we are rehabilitating, knowing more clearly what our tax burden will be
will give us more room to invest in developing inspired projects with afforda bie rents.

G. Legal Descriptlon

GRAND RIVER ALL THAT PART OF STANTON FARM LYG 3 GRAND RIVER AVE OF MCRR ALSO
LOTS 11 TH RU 4 AND VAC STREET 8.: ALLEY ADJ MARY ARMEBTONGS SUB L6 P3 PLATS, 10/48
27,896 SQ FT

2018-01-24 134

134 Petition of Prince Realty LLC, request
for the establishment of a
ommer?cial Rehabilitation Exemption
ert?ficate for pmperrty located at
5000 W. Grand Avenue under Public
Act 210 of2005. (District is under

 

REFERRED TO 11-IE FOLLOWING DEPARTMENTIS)

LAW DEPARTMENT PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION FINANCE DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

  
  

September 26, 2019

Katharine G. Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate Prince Realty LLC
Parcel Number: 10000598.
Property Address: 5000 W. Grand River

Dear Ms. Trudeau

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the Commercial Rehabilitation District certificate
application for the property located at 5000 W. Grand River in the Woodbridge area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for issuing Commercial Rehabilitation certificates under PA 210 of 2005, as amended, is based on the anticipation of
increased market value upon completion of new construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial property and
commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate additional market
value.

The project as proposed by Prince Realty LLC involves rehabilitating the building for white box commercial use. The property
contains a one-story 14,025 square feet former furniture store on .628 acres of land, for white box. The rehabilitation will include

installing heating and cooling, updating electrical and plumbing, repairing the roof and waterproofing the walls and windows.

The 2019 values are as follows:

 

 

Building Assessed Building Land Assessed Value Land
Parcel Address Value (SEV) Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
10000598. 5000 W. Grand River $59,700 22.349 3 20,000 7.487

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 210 of 2005, as amended. It applies to a building or a group of contiguous
buildings, a portion of a building or group of contiguous buildings prewously used for commercial or industrial purposes, obsolete
industrial property, and vacant property which, within the immediately preceding 15 years, was operating as a commercial business
enterprise.

A review of the general plans, along with the criteria set forth under the Commercial Rehabilitation Act, indicated that the proposed
project located at 5000 W. Grand River Avenue is eligible as it pertains to the Commercial Rehabilitation certificate criteria under
PA. 210 of 2005, as amended.

Sincer 

Charles Ericson, MMAO

Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

 

Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate
Prince Realty LLC
Page 2

Property Owner: 5K LLC

Property Address: 5000 GRAND RIVER

Parcel Number: 10000598.

Legal Description: GRAND RIVER ALL THAT PART OF STANTON FARM LYG OF GRAND RIVER AVE OF MCRR ALSO LOTS 11
THRU 4 AND VAC STREET ALLEY ADJ MARY ARMSTONGS SUB L6 P8 PLATS, 10/48 27,896 SQ FT

The legal description matched the applicant?s submitted legal description.

10-00531; I 

?Irx- uni," 2'
Full, Dr?? . I. .


 

   

 

:zugmfnae? Rev'ta'izati? Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
cm or 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

October 3, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate on behalf
LLC in the area of 4885 15th STREET, Detroit, Michigan, in

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning Development Department and Finance
Department have reviewed the application of PK POWER PLANT, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the
criteria set forth by RA. 210 of 2005 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the
Master Plan.

Public Act 210 of 2005 states that the legislative body of the qualified local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certificate in accordance with Section 3 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a resolution
to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of
the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem
tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please find a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,
Kelly iokers

HRD Associate Director, Housing Underwriting



Cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
K. Trudeau, PDD
K. Vickers, HRD
A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act 210 of 2005 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a resolution
approving the application of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate within the boundaries of
the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, PK POWER PLANT, LLC has made application for a Commercial Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached
hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing, at
which a Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13?h
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application
and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certified mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem
tax within the City of Detroit.

 Of Detroit

ImvceM Wnrrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

Cry Oat Wm A Hut-:01

0610?? r1 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION
January 24. 2018

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four weeks.

 

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION FINANCE DEPARTMENT
LAW DEPARTMENT PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

135 PK PLANT LLC request/(5r the extal?ialrment of a ('urnmereial
Rehabilitation Exemption C'ei?tifieatefor propertj.? located at 4885 [5th Street
under Public Act 210 of 2005 (District is umler Petition #13 76)


"1 I i . Puma want.? my two
.)


,v .


 SE 
Michigan Department of Treasury

4507 (Rev. 06-09) STATE USE ONLY

Application Number Date Received Code

 

 

 

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Issued under authority of Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended.

Read the instructions page before completing the form. This application should be ?led after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 2 and 3 and ?le one original application form (with required attachments)
and one additional copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU). Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax bene?ts until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC). Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon in the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC.

PART 1: OWNER I APPLICANT INFORMATION {applicant must complete all ?elds)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must be the owner of the totality} NAIGS or SIC Code

.1 13.: 141-1 .. -or-
Facility's StreetAdd less City State ZIP Code


Name of City. Township or Village [taxing authority) County School District Where FacilityI ls Located

tilt-v.1 \ikli;

aptly Drownehlp Dillilage a 
Date oi Rehabilitation Commencement Plan nee Date of Rehabilitation Completion lmml'ddl?l'llwl
Estimated Cost ot Rehabilitation Number of Years Exemption Requested (1-10)

 

 

Expected Project Outcomes (check all that apply)

motorist: Commercial Activity Retain Employment [3 Revitalize Urban Areas

E'Create Employment Prevent Loss of Employment El increase Number of Residents in Facility's Community

 

No. of ions to be created due to lacilihfs rehabilitation No of jobs to be retained due to factors rehabilitation No. or construction Jobs to be denied during rehabilitation

 

 

 

PART 2: APPLICATION DOCUMENTS

Prepare and attach the following items:

General description of the facility (year built. original use. most recent use.
number of stories. square footage}

 

Statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption
Description of the quallfed facility's proposed use [3 Legal description

Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken El Egacgillilmazll?ll: 'Isgtderaerved area' (Quali?ed Retail Food
[1

El Demdp?ve list of the ?xed building sentiment that be a pan of lhe qua??ed Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate for Quali?ed Retail Food
- Establishments (Form 4753) (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

Time schedule for undertaking and completing the iacillty's rehabilitation

PART 3: APPLICANT CERTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

Name of Authorized Company Of?cer (no authorized agents} Telephone Number
'ui r~1 -Ii [-32
Fax Number E-mailAddreos
Slree?tAdtlreas CityI Slate ZIP Code
?Tilt . - I.- borrow .. 

 

 

 

 

certify that. to the best of my knowledge. the information contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted. Further. i am familiar with the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended. and to the best of my knowledge the
company has compiled or will be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the approval of the application by the local
governmental unit and the issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the State Tax Commission.

I further certify that this rehabilitation program, when completed, will constitute a rehabilitated facility. as de?ned by Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended.
and that the rehabilitation of this facility would not have been undertaken without my receipt of the exemption certi?cate.

Signature olAulho'rized Company Of?cer (no authon?zed agents} Title

 

 

Date

h/L minimise MEMEEK If
I

 

 

 

 



otTreaSury STATE USE 

?apicatIon ?lumbur Date Recencd

   

 

     

 

 

 

 

      
    
 

Applicant lCum" any; 

 

'rIr: owner of it'll: thII NAICS or SIC Code
PK POWERPLANT LLC 5]
Fat-?w" Strut-t Address i (lay State ZIP Code
4885 15th Street Detroit Ml 48208



'tI-Ime all" It, Townsh- In or ?Jiilage' authority) County

City of Detroit
City township

  
  
  
 
   
 
    
   
   
  

School District Where Facility is Lo?cated I

Detroit City School District
I

 

D?ate? of Rehabilitation Commencement Marine Data. at Rehabilitation Completion 
03/01/2018 0228/2017 
?Etirn?ated Comt?ahaf?iWT HI I. of Yea's 10)
$472 614.00_ 10

 

Expected Project Outcomes tchectt all that apply)

Increase Commercial Activity

EOE-ale Employment

No ot tons? to De - Jl?d due to ta?cility? rehabilitation rat?. I. 

Revitalize Urban Areas

Number 01 Residents In Faciltty?s Community

No of lJ-l obs to be created during rehabilitation - 

 

 

2: 

Prepare artd attach the following items;

General J-I1LIIption ofthe tacil?, wear bu tt original use . .st racentuse,
number :It ?In ies. square footage;

 

Statement of it economic advantages expected trom the exemption


LA

 

Description of the qualrled proposed use . Legal description

Description oi the general nature and extent at M- to be undertaken I 
Estabtishnicnls only)

.21 area? (Quali?ed RetaIl Food

in Certificate for Qualified 99th Food

Descriptive list 0! the. ?xed Dui'dlng equipment" will be a pad of the quali?ed lacilit?y L. Cominercral Rehabilitation .
:Retaii Food Establishments only]

4753) ?rm I

Time schedule tor undertaking and - '1 the facility's rehabii lation

PART 3: APPLICANT ATION



.. agantst

Philip Katha

 

 

II: Number

214-674-4458

 

 

 

  
 

rm I
none I pk@princeconcepts.com i
smu?es?? is? zipcm?\

595 Broadway #3 New York NY I 100%:

certify that. to the best 'tr lrnowtedge the Information contained herein ant.I in the attachments is truly descriptive of . . .32 
application Is being at -- Further, I am familiar with the of Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended and to the hr .. - .1.

company has complied II/i't'l be able to comply With all at the reqwrernents thereolwhich are prereqrrisite to the approval of the application by the 2:
I governmental unit 2' I: . issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the State Tax 

lfurther certify. thatII rehabilitation program. when Completed le.cI a rehabilitated faculty. as eflned tIvPo-blic Act 210 of 2005 as amended. 
and that the it'i .. tacIl lity would not he ve been undertaken my receipt of the erempti on certi. icate

Ii Lori-El I. 4' authorized agents I Ittle - Date


I President 

i" CHI: 4 ?ii?I 3:51

Li. .. . .II 

Form 4507. Page 2

RECOMMENQATIONS (assessor of LGU must a Part 4)

Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of Commercial Property as prowded in PiiblicAct 210 of 2005 as amended fo?r the tax year - I
Immediately preceding the effectiv_e date of the certificate (December_ 31 ot the year approved by the STC)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Taxable Value State Equalized Value (SEV)
. I. . -.
Land I
I Buildingts)
I
The properly tr: amazed by the eren?ption may n3 be Included on any other speci?c tax roll while wan-Ivan; the _'il'I1'liH. Ial Rent-L Exerripiiori For example

prOperty on the Eligible Tax Reverted Property (Land Bank) specific lax cannot be granted a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption that would also the same property
on the Commercrel Rehabilitation speci?c tax roll

I I Ely checking this box caniiy that, it approved, the property to be covered by this exemption will be on the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption speci?c tax roll
I am not on any other specr?c tax roll

 

'lame of Loan. Government Body

 

Name .. -1 last En13f Telephone Number

Fax Number FIE-mail Address

 

 

 

I certify that. to the best of m_y knowledge the information contained In Part 4 of this application is complete and accurate

 

 

 

i Assessor s; prints-1 .17,

5: LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION LGU must plummet?e Part 5)

Taker By LGU?ittach a certi?ed copy of the resolution)

 

Exemption approved for years. ending December 30, (not to exceed 10 years)

i
It Cl Exemption Denied


Date tIIr. viti-I tIatIJi Ii .z-Itn for district)I Local Unit Identi?cation (Dian?Cod} _lrlSIIrmoi :L'uli' 


 

 

 

 

Clerk's Name (first and l?ast) I Telephone Number
ii: a 
. I
. 
Mailing Address I 5y 
5 LEUTontact Person lorAddItionat l?m?tron i Contact PFsorTTelephone Numbe' Fax?Numb;

I
t? 

lserlify that to the be st of my knowledge the information contained in this application and attachments Is complete and accurate and hereby request
Ithe State Tax Commission Issue a Comrnemial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate as prowdeo' by Public Act? 210 of 2005 as amended

I

I


I ..
"1 [?g'og

 

The clerk must retain the original application at the local unit and man one copy of the completed application with attachments to

State Tax Commissmn
PO Box 30471
Ml 48909

Instructions for Completing Form 4507
Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

The Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate was created by Public Act 2I0 of 2005. as amended. The application is initially ?led.
reviewed. and approved by the LG and then reviewed and approved by the State Tim Commission. According to SectiOn 3 of Public Act 2 I 0
or' 2005. as amended. the must establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District Rehabilitation may commence after establishment of

the Commercial Rehabilitation District.

Owner I Applicant Instructions
Complete Parts I. 2 and 3 ot'applieatioii
2 Prepare and attach all documents required under Part 2 of the application:
a (icneral description ol'thc facilit) (year btiill. original use. most recent use. number oFstories. square footage)
Description oi the qualtlied facility '5 proposed use
Description ol'thc general nature and extent oflbe rehabilitation to be undertaken
d. Descriptive list ol?tlie ?xed building equipment that will be a part oftlie quali?ed facility
I?inie Schedule for undertaking and the facility's rehabilitation
Statement ot the economic advantages expected from the exemption
3 Legal description ol?tlic facility
Description ol'tlte ?underserved area" (Quali?ed Retail Food Fstablishments only)
5 Quali?ed Retail l-?ood Establishments:
a Complete Part 1 of the Conundrum! Rehabilitation Certification for Quali?ed Retail Food establishments
(Form 4753) Submit to LGU along with application.
Describe the area? and provide supporting documentation to Show how the project area meets one or more of
the following requirements:
I An area that contains a low to moderate income census tract(s) which, based on per eapila income, are tracts below the
(16.67 percentile ($23 641i in I999 dollars) and a below average supermarket density

ti An meat that has a supennarkct customer base with more. than 5 living in a low income. census lraclts) which based on
the per capita income. are tracts below the 66 67 percentile ($23,643 in I999 dollars)
An area that has. demonstrated signi?cant access limitations due to travel distance and has no Quali?ed Retail
Food Establishments within two miles ol the gen-center for an urban area or has no Qualified Retail Food Fstablishments
within nine miles ot?the goo-center for a rural area
For assistance in deten'nining the project area's eligibility. visit w? and click on
Commercial Rehabilitation Act

-I Submit the application and all attachments to the clerk ol'tlie LGU where the property is located

LGU Assessor Instructions
and sign Pan .1 ofllie application

LGU Clerk Instructions
A [let LGU action. complete Part 5 ol?tiie application
7 After reviewing the application for complete and accurate information. complete Part 6 and sign the application to certify the
application meets the requirements as outlined by Public Act lid of 2005. as amended
3 Assemble the lollowinjz for a complete application
a Completed .~lppiicorieiijor Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate [Form 4507)
All required attachments listed under Part 2
A copy oi'ihe resolution by the Hill establishing the district
0? A certi?ed copy ol?the resolution by the LGU approving.' the application
Complete Form l753 (Quali?ed Retail Food only)

-I Submit the completed application to State lax I?t'l Hos lit-17]. I rinsing. Ml 48909

Application Deadline

The State [as (C'onuntssion must receive complete applications on or I-el?orc October 1] to ensure processing and certi?cate issuance for the
following trot year Applications rccencd alter October ll may not be processed to time for certificate issuance tor the t'ollowmg trot year
For guaranteed receipt by the State lax t?oiitrnissmn. send applications and attachments Via certified mail

It you have questions or need additional :n?'irniation or sample documents. visit wow or call
t5 WI 373 2408

we? StreeL Detroit. Mimmez?

A. General Description of the Obsolete Facility

Year Built: 1926

Original Use: Warehouse Space

Most Recent Use: Architectural Salvage Warehouse (Current Tenant)
Number of Stories: 2

Square Footage: 8,500 Square Feet

B. General Description of Proposed Use of the Rehabilitated Facility

We aim to rehabilitate this derelict building for a retail use. We have yet to identify a tenant or use for
this building?s space.

C. Description of the General Nature and Extent of the Rehabilitation to be Undertaken

- Mechanical: Install heating/cooling system
0 Electrical: Update service, install junction boxes, switches, and outlets
- Plumbing: Install bathroom

D. A Descriptive List of Fixed Building Equipment that will be a Part of the Rehabilitated Facility

To be determined. Fixed building equipment excluding mechanical, electric, and plumbing will be
tenant-specific.

E. A Time Schedule for Undertaking and Completing Rehabilitation of the Facility

We anticipate to commencing the renovation of this building March 2018 and completing the
renovation February 2020.

F. Statement of Economic Advantages

A ten?year tax freeze will give us time to invest and develop a market while our tax burden remains
predictable. Given that the is in a steady decline and that there really is no real estate
?market" in the neighborhood we are rehabilitating, knowing more clearly what our tax burden will be
will give us more room to invest in developing inspired projects with affordable rents.

6. Legal Description

15TH SUB OF PT OF 0F LAFONTAINE FARM L20 P44 FLATS, 10/49 127.17 

2018?01-24 135

135 Petition of PK POWER PLANT 
request for the establishment of a
Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate for property located at
4885 15th Street under Public Act 210
of 2005. (District is under Petition
#13 76)

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION FINANCE DEPARTMENT

LAW DEPARTMENT PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - TTYz7ll
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OFFICE ASSESSOR 

September 26, 2019

Katharine G. Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate PK Power Plant LLC
Parcel Number: 10005729.002L
Property Address: 4885 15th Street

Dear Ms. Trudeau:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the Commercial Rehabilitation District certificate
application for the property located at 4885 15?h Street in the Woodbridge area in the City of Detroit

The rationale for issuing Commercial Rehabilitation certificates under PA 210 of 2005, as amended, is based on the anticipation of
increased market value upon completion of new construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial property and
commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate additional market
value.

The project as proposed by PK Power Plant LLC involves rehabilitating the warehouse building, part two-story and part one-story
with 8,994 total square feet on .141 acres of land, for retail use. The rehabilitation will include installing heating and cooling,

updating electrical and updating plumbing.

The 2019 values are as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Building Assessed Building Land Assessed Value Land
Parcel Address Value (sev) Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
10005729.002L 4885 15th Street $17,300 $17,300 3.200 3,200

 

 

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 210 of 2005, as amended. It applies to a building or a group of contiguous
buildings, a portion of a building or group of contiguous buildings previously used for commercial or industrial purposes, obsolete
industrial property, and vacant property which, within the immediately preceding 15 years, was operating as a commercial business
enterprise.

A review of the general plans, along with the criteria set forth under the Commercial Rehabilitation Act, indicated that the proposed
project located at 4885 15th Street is eligible as it pertains to the Commercial Rehabilitation certificate criteria under PA. 210 of
2005, as amended.

Sincerel 

Charles Ericson, MMAO

Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

 

Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate
PK Power Plant LLC
Page 2

Property Owner: PRINCE REALTY LLC
Property Address: 4885 15th STREET
Parcel Number: 10005729.002L

Legal Description: 15TH SUB OF PT OF OF LAFONTAINE FARM L20 P44 PLATS, 10/49 127.17 IRREG

The legal description matched the applicant?s submitted legal description.

 

. 1? 34-317., \s

t- .. 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

(3 I3) 2244339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (3 t3) 224-I3 I0
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization Department
FROM: John Baran, Planning Division
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Commercial Rehabilitation District for 4885 15?h
Street.
DATE: February 8, 2018
CC: Maurice Cox, Director

In order to ensure that the issuance of a certi?cate for a Commercial Rehabilitation District is
consistent with the City?s Master Plan Of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to
increase commercial activity; create, retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban
area; or increase the number Of residents in a community, pursuant to State Of Michigan, Public
Act 210 of 2005 (section 207.841), the Planning and Development Department?s Planning
Division submits the following interpretation.

The proposed Commercial Rehabilitation District is being requested by PK. Power Plant, LLC for
property located at 4335 15th Street.

Location
4885 15m Street

Existing Site Information

The subject site is zoned B4 (General Business District). The site currently is a two story, 8,500
square foot warehouse sales/building. The Master Plan Future Land Use designation for the site
is INST (Institutional).

Surrounding Site Information

The immediate surrounding zoning south of Warren is also B4. To the east is parking and a
secondary school. To the south is a church and to the west, fronting on Grand River, are
industrial/warehouse buildings. To the north of Warren the zoning is M4 (Intensive Industrial
District) with an auto supply building and storage lot. The Master Plan Future General Land Use
designation south of Warren is also INST. To the north of Warren the designation is Light
Industrial (IL).

Project Proposal
The proposed project is to rehabilitate the building for retail use.

Interpretation

on Surrounding Land Use

The development Of the subject site will contribute to the develOpment of the Grand River
corridor. South of Warren, the immediate surrounding land uses are institutional (such as a
church, school and postal facility). Further south, along Grand River are commercial uses
designated in the Master Plan as Mixed - Residential Commercial (MRC) and Retail Center
(CRC).

- Master Rang _l_._5t_h.doc

Intranet 011 Transportation
The site is near the intersection of two Major Streets (Warren and Grand River) as designated by
the Master Plan of Policies. DDOT routes are along Grand River, Warren and 14th Street.

Master Plan Interpretation

The Master Plan Future General Land use categories used on all the maps are generalized.
Boundaries are not meant to be precise as to blocks or property lines. Categories are descriptive
of general development recognizing that some intemtixtures are permissible or desirable.

The development is along two Major Streets and in proximity to commercial and mixed use
designations along Grand River. Furthermore, the Master Plan recognizes that the Grand River
corridor has many vacant lots and underutilized buildings. Policy 4.1 of the Jef?-ies
Neighborhood recommends . .development to replace obsolete commercial properties along
Grand River.?

The proposed development does not change the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area and conforms to the policies of the City?s Master Plan.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Map 4-7B, Neighborhood Cluster 4, Middle Woodward.

woo-eon?? DJSERKTS {rm 1  amass ljth?oc

 

 

 

.- Subject Area

 

 

  

  

i

 

          

 

 

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

I 
it i
i- at tf'; -vi 
'l ?ti!
tiMap 4-38

Neighborhood Cluster 4
Jeffries

 

 

 

Future Land Use

Law Ruldanilal (an
Medium Density Residential (RM)
- High Donl?y Renuenw (RH)

RmIICcntormHC)

Neluhbomood (CN)

 

I Thomuahiaru Commerdu (CT)

LuwlMIdium SpedllCommorclaHCS)

a Gunonlindult?dUG)

_f 
(IDP)

a Mixed- [Commemlai (mac;
Mlxed~ unnuwuu (Man

Mmed-TownCunlerlMi'Cl
EB Recreation (PRC)

RegionllPuktF?R)

PriJltuMnn'nHF'RM)
AirpomAP)

L3 Comm:ry(CEM)

lnlillutmnalUNST)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$79

 

Sensing aunt: Revitalization Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313-224-1529

(ITVOF 

DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

October 3, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate on behalf
of W- LLC in the area of 4884 AND 4892 w. GRAND RIVER, Detroit,

?St-5? Michigan, in accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005 (Petition #136).

    

  
   
    
 
 

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning Development Department and Finance
Department have reviewed the application of PK SAWTOOTH, LLC and find that it satis?es the criteria
set forth by PA. 210 of 2005 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master

Plan.

Public Act 210 of 2005 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate in accordance with Section 3 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a resolution
to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of
the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem
tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Writ/L.

Kelly Vickers
HRD Associate Director, Housing Underwriting



Cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
K. Trudeau, PDD
K. Vickers, HRD
A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER 

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act 210 of 2005 (?the Act") this City Council may adopt a resolution
approving the application of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate within the boundaries of

the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, PK SAWTOOTH, LLC has made application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto:

and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity For a Public Hearing, at
which a Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
?oor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application

and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem
tax within the City of Detroit.

Witty of Detroit

imusl anr? OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

(n 06' A 

Cater; Cr; Ga!

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

I/I?eclneycluy, January 24. 2018

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From Janice M. I?Vinfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith refen'ed to you for report and recommendation to the

City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive. kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four weeks.

 

LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE DIV
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

136 PK SA request/or tlte oft: 'ommereial
Rehabilitation Exemption 'ertl?eate for property located at 4884 W. Grand
River Avenue under Public .tlet 2/ (l of 2005 (Dixtriet is under Petition #1376)

VI'lirl I. ?vln?l 
'r - I?r-tm Him 1m)



usel

1

 

Michigan Department of Treasury

4507 (Rev 06-09) STATE USE ONLY

Application Number Date Received LUCI Code

 

 

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Issued under authority of Public Act 21 0 of 2005. as amended

Read the instructions page before completing the form. This application should be filed after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 1, 2 and 3 and ?le one original application form (with required attachments)
and one additional copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU) Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC). Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon in the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC.

PART 1: OWNER I APPLICANT INFORMATION (applicant must complete all fields)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must be the owner of the facility) NAICS or SIC Code
lean-m
Facility?s Street Address City State ZIP Code
4i- 5 31". ., heme: PNE- 3? ii i Mi ?Valli
Name of City, Township or Village (taxing authority) County School District Where Facility is Located
tact-air? I . 

gory Township Village
Date of Rehabilitation Commencement Planned Date of Rehabilitation Completion 
i?i. ?Si (title)
Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation Number of Years Exemption Requested (1-10)
93:14? with." I:

 

 

Expected Project Outcomes (check all that apply)

 

Increase CommercialActivity I: Retain Employment B'Revitalize Urban Areas
Create Employment El Prevent Loss of Employment '7 Increase Number of Residents in Facility's Community
No of jobs to be created due to facility?s rehabilitation No ofjobs to be retained due to facility's rehabilitation No of construction jobs to be created during rehabilitation
t  

 

 

 

PART 2: APPLICATION DOCUMENTS

Prepare and attach the following items:

General description of the facility (year built, original use. most recent use,
number of stories square footage}

 

Statement of the economic advantages expected from the exemption
Description of the qualifed facility's proposed use Legal description

El Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken Description Of the ?underserved area" (Qualified Retail Food
Establishments only)

El Descriptive list of the fixed building equipment that will be a part of the quali?ed facility ?1 Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate for Qualified Retail Food
Establishments (Form 4753) (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

I: Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility?s rehabilitation

 

PART 3: APPLICANT CERTIFICATION

 

Name ofAuthorized Company Officer (no authorized agents) Telephone Number
{?rth-pl? ?S-t?rF?ti-pr g'll?I ,3 '9 33
Fax Number E-mail Address

 

Pic tam
Street Address City State ZIP Code

. . .
:u at A nae. i I ?it?ll-1e

.

 

 

 

 

I certify that) to the best of my knowledge, the information contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted. Further, i am familiar with the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended, and to the best of my knowledge the
company has complied or will be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the approval of the application by the local
governmental unit and the issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the State Tax 

I further certify that this rehabilitation program, when completed, will constitute a rehabilitated facility, as de?ned by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended,
and that the rehabilitation of this facility would not have been undertaken without my receipt of the exemption certi?cate

 

 

 

 

 

Signature 0' Author 3? Of?cer (no authorized agents) Title Date
[7 WY Ni? lh?in?l?eiR (0 1 [1


 

 

 

>0 MBT USEI

Michigan or 'reasury 1 STATE 

4507 {Rev 06-091 
01"" m: Taiehicrm 2-:

   
 

  

 

 

 

       

Code

   

 
 

lished. The applicant must complete Parts 1 2 and 3 and file one app .. art" (with required attachments)
. i copy the clerk ofthe local governmental unit (LGU) Attach the legal {teen on of property on a separate

  
 
  
 

Im 

Rpm-mot -. on; II 311 Name 

   

 

 

 

'art: n- uat hi the owner 4: the IavrtIInI: or Ft? End:

 

  
   
 

  

PK SAWTOOTH LLC 516?}
I Film-1', a State?_ .. 
4884 Grand River Avenue Detroit . Ml 48208

  

 

:n'y I Scone?lDIQRtw?mere is Located i

     

Name or City Township or V?Iag'o axing 

City of Detroit

     

  

Wayne Detroit City School Distrir:

  
 

 

   

 

   
  
 
   

City Village
Dale of Rehabilitation- Commencement - fmanu . IQ?eh?abi lttation Completion (tout/dd: I
1 12.1101 l2016 07/31/2017
I?IE?s?t'TmIEost ct Rehaim I . Exemption Requested ?1 In)
$543 245? 00 10

I Expected Protect Outcomes tcheck all that apply)

I

2; Increase 
I MCreate Employment


No 011005 to be created due to Iacrlity is it . ale-?TI: It? rare?t-n?t- -

.rot- 315? 

2: APPLICATION 

Peyttaitze Urban Areas

Prevent L035 -.Ir Z-i Increase Number 0: Res.dents Faotlitys Comm-tun ty

  
   
    
  
 
 
   
 
    

- No? Tau-hr. tn ht-t . teaterl rehahtli lelIon

i . 

 

1 Prepare and attach the items
x: General :ov-c't. -- oftiteraci" .. ..earbuilt crtginal use 
number 2r.? square 10-31..le

. XI Descrtotton or the quali?ed tacility's proposed use . I





ofthe 'ttrt'feweme-zt are'a? Quali?ed Reta? 5:qu
IIS 

   

nh to be 

   
    
   
 
  
 
  

I lie-script on of the gereral nature and enter! of the 
y, ,u

  

1

Commercial Exemp 'rtmr .Jertr?care for/maimed 93311551135
47531 Crag t?ec literati F.3d Fstao ems 21?.in

05- "not: we ?st of 1m?. 2- t' be a pan otlhe qtla'i?ed tacuny I

    


l'tme ;cttedute for tindertaitwg and the 'ac :ty 5 renabtiiation

PART 3: APPLICANT 
?JJvr- tI a tun Company Ott'tcer art re: agents; Telethonei tr' 

Philip Kafka

I Fax Number I 

Inone

    

    

pkli?r- princecort: zoom

       
   
   
 

 

 

Address I 
595 Broadway #3 . _New York NY 10-012
1 certify that to the car-t my Rhett-tecge the information contained here :1 an the attic. 'i'tr em: 15 aesonoft're of ?ne tor .thich 'hrs
wee. this

- apohcarton .5 being Prime! 1 an: ?anullar twin lite or; 5 one of Poor 6 to: 210 c" 2065 as ems/ides: an: to he L's-s: -.2
a company has complied or will :6 am: to comply mm oreretytitetfe to the errant-Leif (:i?tfie -.
governmental untr arts the meal: nce ere Commercial thab lira}. on Exempt on Ca are by t! 313. 9 7'Iron ?hirer-emf, F?ial?Il'il'S rehab Ha.? to"- program mt'c: .t Jr"; re a :iiaettrareara: :tzr as re by ptrbICn-If?i? _,quOc5 :r?e'deu

 


4
CE ?t?t'rC :fae

 

 

- gnu that the e'tattitt'at'ron of VHS '3ch n5 rave be? i tat-Item my recent, at if the eta-mt):

Signatu :t (no aut .cr med .- Lat-e
JP: Freetdenl 9118/20]
I .. . . 
.

 

Form 450? Page 2

 

 

i- PERT 4: ASSESSOR lama?5501' of LGU rn_ust complete Part 4)

Previde the ?Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of Commercial Properly as provided In Public Act 210 of 2005 as amended for the tax year

immec'r ately preceding the effective date of the certi?cate (December_ 31 of the year approved by the STC)
_r i
Taxable Value

 

 

Land

Buildingls) I
I

 

The property to be cove?red by t?his cit?empta any other spa-1 tax roll white renewing the Commercial Fm example
property on the Eligible Tax Reverted Properly ILand Bank) speci?c tax roll cannot be granted a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption that wc-ru 'd also put the same property

on the Commerclai Rehabilitation speci?c tax rotl

By checking this box I certify that If approved. the property to be covered by the exemption Will be on the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption spec-tic tax roll

1 and not on any other specific tax roll

 

Marne at Local Govemmt?t Body

 

 

_Name orAssessor (first?and last name) TelephoFN-ui'nber
I 
Farr Number E?n1ail Address

 

 

cer Ify that to the best or my knowledge the mfomtation contained In Part 4 application Is complete and accarate

5 Signature
I


1 PART 5: LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION (clerk or LGU must complete Part 5)

i Taken By (attach a certi?ed copy cl the 

Exemption approved lor years, ending December 30, (not to exceed 10 years)

emotion Denied

 

 

Dal te EWSI ict Established (alta?ch resolution tor dismal) I School Code

Local Unit Clam lIzstIon IaoantIcallcn (LUCIJ Code

 

 

 

State Equalized Value (SEV)

 

 

 

Eta?1c

 

 

EST 6: LOCAL GOVERNMENT CLERK CERTIFICATION (Clerk of Leo must cornplete Part 5)

Clerk's Name (?rst and last) felt-prom Number

1
Fa xt?lumber 


E-mail Address

?ailing Address .. Elly

EU Contact Person Telephone North?


P_erson for Additional Information-

a

 

merrily that to the best of my knowledge the mfomtatIOh contained In this application and attachmem re complete and accurate and hereby re- ues:
the State Tax on Issue a CommerCIal Rehabilitation Hem?prion Certi?cate as provided by Public Act 210 of 2005 as amended

 

 

(?Ilerk SIgnatIIre

 

Suite i Code
I 33.1: Number

 

Date

The clerk must retain the original applIcatIon at the local unit and mail one copy of the completed application with attachments to

State Tax CommISSIon
Box 30471
Lansing, MI 48909

Instructions for Completing Form 4507
Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

The t?omniercinl Rchiibililarion [exemption Lertilicatc was created by Pub ic Act All) as amended. The application is :I?till?ll) filed.
and approved by the LGU and then reviewed tutti approved by th: State tax L?ommismon Acuotding to Section 3 of Public Am 210
oi 2005. amended. the LGU must establish zi {Somme-rum Reliabilitiitior District Rehabilitation may commence after establishment of

the Commercial Rehabilitation District.

Owner I Applicant Instructions
Complete l'iirts t. 2 and 3 tit-application
7. Prepare and attach all documents" required under Part. 2 oi the applicati .in;
ti. Genera! description ol'the facility (year built. original use, most recent use. number of stories square ?iioliigol
Description ol?t'ne quali?ed t?iicility't proposed use
it Description ol?the general nature and extent of'tlic rehabilitation to be undertaken
Descripth list ol'the ?xed building equipment that will be a part. ot?the quali?ed Facility
Time schedule for undertaking rind completing the t?ncilit;r 's rehabilitation
i? Statement ot?tbc economic advantages ex'pcc ad from the exemption
egal description ofthe 
Description t' the :ireii? (Quali?ed Reno] Food listanlishnients only)
'5 (Joiilitied Retail Food Establisninents
it Complete Part 1 ot'lhe (?omriicr?cmt Rehabilitation (Certification {01' Qualified Remit Food Establishmentt
(Form 4753:) Submit to clerk along with application
Describe the ?onderserved nice" and provide suppuning doctiinen anion to show how the project area meets one or more ot?
the following thuircments:
I An area that coniaim? 'd low to moderate income census uncut] which. based on pet capita income, are tracts below the
66.67 percentile (323.643 in 1999 dollars) and ii below it zerage supermarket density
ei An area that has it supermarket customer base With more than livmg in a low income census tracti?s) which beloved on
the per capita income. are tracts below. the 66.67 percentile t$23.643 in 1999 dollars)
An zuca that has demonstrated signi?cant access doc to travel dismnce Eil'ld has no Quali?ed Retail
Food Establiehinent? within two miles ol'ihc goo-center For an urban area or has no Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments-
witbin nine miles ol?thc goo-center for :1 rural area
For in the project iiren's eligibility, vi?sn and click on
Commermal Rehabilitation Act

4 Submit the application and attachments: to the clerk ot'ihc LGU where the property is located

LGU Assessor Instructions
("ornple a Sign Pan 4 ot'ihc. application
LGU Clerk Instructions
After i GU action. complete Part 5 {ll-iilc' EEF?piiC?tiOi't,
Ai?ter revicu mg the application for complete and accurate information. complete Port 6' and sign the application to Cerltf} the
application meets the requirement: as outlined by Pubhc Act 2 Ft of 2005 its amended



DJ

Assemble the following for a complete application

it Completed commercial Rehabir?minmi [exemption ai?eriificutc Form 1507)
All teouired attachmenm listed under Part 2

cop) ot'tlie resolution by the i {it the district

(I A certified copy or the resolution 'nc approiitig the applieition

oniplete term 475 4 (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments om}?

Smeit the completed :iprlicntion to Stine Llominissiont PO Box ill-17": Lansing. \ll 4890?;

Application Deadline

the Stzite I: (,?ririiniisswi: E?lthl receii: complete uppitc on or before (Jc ober to ens?tire processing and certi?cate tor the
tiilloii in; tax you: -\pplie:itioiis receiiett Lift-:- October 3  may not be processed in time l'or l?iali?tl?ic? tor the following [in wait
[or guaranteed receipt b} in: Mitte- tax (?i?niniissimt send tipplicut OHS and ?rlt! certilic-d mm

It you ham: doe-mom or need addition:i or aninple documents iiniihiit?higun gmt'propert}tzuincriiptions or ?ill
Ml?ri 

@84_W._G_ra nd River, Detr_oit,_Michiga_n, 4_820?

A. General Description of the Obsolete Facility

Year Built: 1935

Original Use: Jeep Seat Upholstery Factory

Most Recent Use: Storage

Number of Stories: 2

Square Footage: 12,000 Net Rentable Square Feet

B. General Description of Proposed Use of the Rehabilitated Facility

The building contains two floors. Each floor is 6,000 SF. We are going to demise the first floor into four
suites. The second floor will likely be demised into three suites. The building is currently derelict and

obsolete.

First Floor

1.

Coffee Roasting Facility: Populace Coffee, a coffee roasting company based in Bay City, has
executed a lease on a space on the first floor. They will be moving their
roasting facilities from Bay City to Detroit. They will operate and distribute beans out of this
space.

Commissary Kitchen: Seven months ago, we opened a popular Thai restaurant, in
Corktown. Under umbrella, we plan to open a commissary kitchen on the first floor of
this building. The space will be used to host dinner parties and experiment with new cuisines.
This space is not yet claimed. It will likely be a yoga studio.

This space is not yet claimed. it will likely be a cafe.

Mendez Boxing Gym: We are currently negotiating a lease with Mendez Boxing, a world-
renown, New York-based Mexican boxing Mendez Boxing anticipates occupying half of the
second floor, approximately 5,000 Square Feet.

This space is not yet claimed.

C. Description of the General Nature and Extent of the Rehabilitation to be Undertaken

Mechanical: Install heating/cooling Likely infrared for boxing gym. Ductless minisplits for other
uses.

Electrical: Update services for each space and place switches, outlets, and junction boxes in
optimal locations.

Plumbing: Update bathrooms with new fixtures

Demising Walls

- Commercial Kitchen Equipment
- Roasting Equipment
- Overhead Doors

D. A Descriptive List of Fixed Building Equipment that will be a Part of the Rehabilitated Facility

. Coffee Roaster
- Commercial Kitchen
0 Movie Screening Equipment

E. A Time Schedule for Undertaking and Completing Rehabilitation of the Facility

Coffee Roasting Facility: We anticipate that the construction of the roasting facility will begin in
December 2016 and will be complete in March 2017.

Commissary Kitchen: We anticipate that the construction will begin in February 2017 and will be
completed in May 2017.

Yoga Studio: To Be Determined

Caf?: To Be Determined

Mendez Boxing: We anticipate that the construction of the boxing will begin in February 2017 and
will be completed in March 2017.

Unidentified Use: We have yet to determine use of this space.
F. Statement of Economic Advantages

A ten-year tax freeze will give us time to invest and develop a market while our tax burden remains
predictable. Given that the neighborhood is in a steady decline and that there really is no real estate
"market? in the neighborhood we are rehabilitating, knowing more clearly what our tax burden will be
will give us more room to invest in developing inspired projects with affordable rents

G. Legal Description
GRAND 2 AND VAC ALLEY 1 MARY SUB L6 P8 PLATS, 10/48 50 120

2018-01-24

1 3 6

136 Petition of PK SA TOOTH 
requestfor the establishment of a
Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate for property located at
4884 W. Grand River Avenue under
Public Act 210 of 2005. (District is
under Petition #13 76)

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE 
DIV.
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224?3011 - 

(313) 224-9400



CITY OF DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

October 1, 2019

Katharine G. Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate - Prince Realty LLC
Parcel Number: 10000599001
Property Address: 4884 and 4892 W. Grand River

Dear Ms. Trudeau:

The Office Of the Chief Financial Officer, Office Of the Assessor, has reviewed the Commercial Rehabilitation District certificate
application for the properties located at 4884 and 4892 W. Grand River in the Woodbridge area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for issuing Commercial Rehabilitation certificates under PA 210 Of 2005, as amended, is based on the anticipation of
increased market value upon completion of new construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial property and
commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate additional market
value.

The project as proposed by Prince Realty LLC involves rehabilitating the warehouse building at 4892 W. Grand River, part two-story
and part one?story with 5,942 total square feet of building area for retail use. The rehabilitation will include installing heating and
cooling, updating electrical and updating plumbing. The project at 4884 W. Grand River involves rehabilitating the building, a two-
story warehouse with 11,970 square feet Of building area into 4 suites on the first floor and 3 suites on the second floor. The first
floor will have a coffee roasting facility, a commissary kitchen, possible yoga studio and possible caf?. The second floor will contain
a boxing on half ofthe floor. The rehabilitation will include installing heating and cooling, updating electrical and plumbing and
demolishing walls.

The 2019 values are as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Building Assessed BUiiding Land Assessed Value Land
Parcel Address Value Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
10000599001 4884 W. Grand Riverl $52,000 $29,343 3 11 ,600 6,546

 

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 210 of 2005, as amended. It applies to a building or a group of contiguous
buildings, a portion of a building or group Of contiguous buildings previously used for commercial or industrial purposes, obsolete
industrial property, and vacant property which, within the immediately preceding 15 years, was operating as a commercial business
enterprise.

A review ofthe general plans, along with the criteria set forth under the Commercial Rehabilitation Act, indicated that the proposed
project located at 4884 and 4892 W. Grand River Avenue is eligible as it pertains to the Commercial Rehabilitation certificate criteria
under PA. 210 of 2005, as amended.

Since rely,

Charles ricson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

 

Commercial Rehabilitation District
Prince Realty LLC
Page 2

PRINCE REALTY LLC

10000599001

4884 AND 4892 GRAND RIVER

GRAND RIVER 1 THRU 3 VAC ALLEY ADJ MARY SUB L6 P8 PLATS, 10/48GRAND RIVER AVE 100 MARY SUB 104 IRREG

ON 11/20/2018 FROM 10000601., 10000599., 10000600., 10000602.;

 

5?

 

 
   
 

REV'm'ilat'? Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
mm- 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

October 3, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate on behalf

   
 

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning Development Department and Finance
Department have reviewed the application of PK 4842, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth
by PA. 210 of 2005 and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Public Act 210 of 2005 states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate in accordance with Section 3 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a resolution
to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of
the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem
tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

W?wf

Kelly Vickers
HRD Associate Director, Housing Underwriting



Cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
K. Trudeau, PDD
K. Vickers, HRD
A. McLeod, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act 210 of 2005 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a resolution
approving the application of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate within the boundaries of

the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, PK 4842, LLC has made application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate
whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing, at
which a Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the ?2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application
and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certified mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem
tax within the City of Detroit.

 of Eetroit

Lance.? Wort.
Ar OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Winn A. Hutm

C'uur; r; Gar

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

.lanm'nj' 2-1, 2013

To The Departure?: or "omrm?xxsr'wz Listed Below

From. Janice M. Winfrey. Derroii (?in Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.
In accordance with that body's directive. kindly return the same with your report in duplicate

within four (4) weeks.

 

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE DEPARTMENT

137 PK 4843 rcqucx! {Or flu? 031(1in simian! of a Commercial Rehabilimrion
Exemption (I 'errific?me for property [aimed at 4843 IV (?1de River .-Ii'cnw
Imdcr l?nhiic' Jr)! 210 (if?.2005 r'Disrricl? ix under Pcririmz 3115762


Uri" Li" I Uil? far i Fair

.JII 1422"} 
Hill-I Illh

 

I
Michigan Department of Treasury

4507 (Rev. 06-09) STATE USE ONLY

Application Number Date Received LUCI Code

 

 

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Issued under authority of Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended

Read the instructions page before completing the form. This application should be filed after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 1. 2 and 3 and file one original application form (with required attachments)
and one additional copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU). Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC). Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon in the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC.

PART 1: OWNER I APPLICANT INFORMATION (applicant must complete all fields)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applicant (Company) Name (applicant must be the owner of the facility) NAICS or SIC Code
. .. .,
1-6::th 
Facility?s Street Address City State ZIP Code
4.7541 (news: :2 'i at?: in 113' DE taut i
Name of City. Township or Village (taxing authority) County School District Where Facility is Located
. - I 
I 4"an ?1 EH:
EBay Township Village
Date of Rehabilitation Commencement (mmiddiyywi Planned Date of Rehabilitation Completion 
Us; i . ?5 i 
Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation $1 (1-10)

I .
ii.



 

Expected Project Outcomes (check all that apt

EIWncrease CommerciaIActivity :e Urban Areas

?l
. 

 

 

Create Employment I I a Number of Residents in Facility's Community
I,
No of jobs to be created due to facility's rehabili ruction jobs to be created during rehabilitation
1 
i; 

 

 

PART 2: APPLICATION DOCLI

 

 

Prepare and attach the following items:

General description of the facility (year bl

10mic advanta es ex ected from the exam tion
number of stories. square footage) 

I: Description of the qualifed facility's propo

El Description of the general nature and ext derserved area" (Quali?ed Retail Food

Descriptive ?31 0f the fixed building equipment that be a part Of the qualified facility Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption for Quali?ed Retail Food
Establishments (Form 4753) (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility's rehabilitation

 

PART 3: APPLICANT CERTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

Name ofAuthorized Company Officer (no authorized agents) Telephone Number
WM 1. i- 
(F ml. evict? 1:3 I {1 
Fax Number E-mail Address
:3 remit?? NLEPTS iota
Street Address City State ZIP Code
?In 4 51.; at t: A 95.1 . 

 

 

 

certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the information contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted. Further, i am familiar with the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended, and to the best of my knowledge the
company has complied or will be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the approval of the application by the local
governmental unit and the issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate by the State Tax Commissron.

further certify that this rehabilitation program, when completed, will constitute a rehabilitated facility, as defined by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended,
and that the rehabilitation of this facility would not have been undertaken without my receipt of the exemption certificate.

 

 

 

Signature of Authonzed Compa th'icar (no authorized agents) Title Dale
#1 

 

 

 

I

 

?.1cnrgan '"Jepartrna?Itot freasuy - 
use 

4?4" - 
19:1? I-vrto ., rr'u :Ie'Jlr 1.1 3.1-4:

 

. ptication for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

nutter anthem-y of Punt I: 2 10 of 200?} as arnelee:

Read . page before compielmg the form This application should be filed after the cornm- :ial rehabitrtation
district :5 ambushed. The applicant must comotete Parts 2 and 3 an: file one origlnat for (with required attachmenlal
and one as: coal copy warn the clerk of the local governmenlat ..nlt Attach- the legal dear. :aroI- fproperty on a seoarate
sheet o' :1 it t! not recalve tax bene?ts untIt approved by the State Tax a .I.oattons rec-awed after Octooer
31 may not be ac 11 upon the current year thus Is sunset! to audzt the 

 

PART1: OWNER ?ar?mcar?t must ?oInplete at: ru es,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Aaptmanll-CmrpaWt 1; mus?l belhe omer o'tCod 
48-12 Lo 
haeITtys'?lreErAdHras?' if I: as?? 
4.842 Gran-.1 Btu-er Avenu Den-mt Mt I 45208 I
"th2 r- tazirg I . I O:stnc' Where.- Fac. t,I 5 Located 1
City of Detroit
. . iWaI/ne Detroit City School 
Bit-W . . .1. 
- ?Er-ah Haley :r n-v: Date of .r na?u' Completion 
02/01/2017 09801201 7
3-: 3n - Numb-2r of .- Requested I I
18 681 00 10
Expected Protect Outcomes (week all that apply)
LJ Retain II, r?r' [g?evttatrze Urban Areas 
IE Create Employment Prevent .035 of -.-, . rr :ncreasa Number 0! Res dents tn 5 Common :y 
No 1t (?1135 .ubs to he I-- Itw' I. 'a 'v-I?nrt? 1r" :11? '.rna?l: .t-_APr_Il.lcn.rloN DOCUMENTS

 

Prepare and attach the following items3:21:12? ?femur, ot?herl'xtlu ?83' buatt 5? ~13? 1 96 ol the econom: advantages expected from the 
n. 2.1.91 sou I: ?Irv-I 

 

 

 

 

 


. XI o: the qualrteo tacrIIty a pronoun use Legal :r-x 3 r-
.
Descr plan nttne genera! nature and extent or I'm-1r to no uncommon 1 Der-mp! ..the - 3?63 Retail 3005
Estao shmenls on-?yl
I -1
Closeup:- w: isl ol'he ?xed outta n: me Edd otlne :ua?mfuctty i ?Mm. Cem'icale lorl?Juattfr'ed Halon-'Foott
I II - 7.4-. 1Reta.l Food Estabtohmenls only

X: Time screcwe for wounding and --I the tat-July I. :eI-ah- was In
PART 3: APPLICANT GER ICATION
- .u :f ?wt-ch. #Cornoany' . F?rer . a ems) It Telephone Number
I .
Pt. I 0 Ha? It: 6374 4?458 
Fa'r'rTumae: 
none .- ok- ?looms-concepts 
. . -1. . . . . 
3119*: harass . i l, a Caz?:-
555 train-13'. . New York NY 10011
.-.I "a .: vie I: '1rniat9n harem an: may o' t-"e open?;- search 
I: .- r? - - Eu that ?am family a. GI .?hs Draw-5 a of REM Jot; Gof7. 3(5 as amewoej :ru? 10 're Duo? Jim; the
. .30 r} to Corw',? ?rt: ar?. ..?rhe Iago: enIr: 'I?s ('19 E: Jr: to are are .;ur5r.e to the acpro 11;. WNW Jap'.'c.3tron Zr ma .I?cca

and the Issuance ofo Con-mun Ia- ephemeral. Gf' Eve-I Inc or": (?yanks .3 333? .- Tax 

   

?nat latron :Ircqra'v?l arr-9" mi PM bozo a ?me-u I. 3 o?er?: out (2- Put dz?! 2 it": as amenxeo?
'chatm hon ctrhIs mm he! have tee-II .I'orsr?s?e?r vfro '2 2.519! '77 monarch war

 

-- au?tl'vmso 3 a

U) i 9/18"? 0? 

Form 4507 F?ngc 

BEE ?sgssoage?ommsunj?ons ragga; of mu rm}; co?rwpicigfarl 9) 4

 

Prov-?19 the Taxable Vaiue and Staie Equalized Vaiua of Commerce! Property, as prov?rded Pubic Act 210 or 2005, as amended for the tax year
ummedmalely preceding the effective data of the cenr?cate (Demrnber 31 of ma year aer by the 5 



I
. .

Taxable Value State Equaflzed Value (SEV)

La nd

Buiidingts) 



I. . 4
?1:6 any other 9- m: val: (?h-re recur-n9 me Comma-mar Exemplar For erampk:
ca! Rehab: tatecn Examplhon ma! wsuld am: put me same 

T-ne to be ci?l-?red by m: urempbon may: 551-51.
property on Eh: Tax Revevtar: Frags-1y VLana? Back) spacu?c 13x rorl cannot be games a Comma
on me Cwmeycuar Rehabjl?allon rorl

Li a, Jreck-ng 1m: bu: rcenn?y tnal? app-cued me properly {0 De omensCorr Hehanrmaucn Exemptron spear: ran ror!

no: an any mher speci?c rev

.. .
Name ol 

 

 

.. . . .. 
'n-I 0' ant :sor {?rst and last narre} zetp'ru hm aw

.. . 
Farr Nun-bar xT-Ilf "2:11:

.
.

I certify that. to me has: of my knowfedge the mfonnarron conramed Part 4 of apph?carrcn rs mammals and accurate
.. 
- Date

 

Assessor's Slg?m?r?u?r

 

. PART 3: ACTION (am of LGU must 

min-I Taker Er Lou 31* m: a runfw copy qr the msohai'znl

 

 

 

7 Exempilon approved for years, December 30 (not In exceed 10 years)

1 Exempmn Demed

Lian: Diirnc: {allach rasuluuan par (?mm?Local Unit Clag??gatian identi?cation'rLUCl) 6369? Sch-Dal Uzi:-

 

[?clerk Elev mg; @3993 Pan 5; 

 

 

 

Clerk's Name {?rst and rat-?- Telephone Burma?
I - - .. 
. Lax Number E-mu'l Address

'JnlquTamess 2r Code 
.. . I .. . .. 
LG :w Pvt-z -- Adm;- ., Contact Person 'elechcne Number Fuv 3?47111" 
.
-. .4

 

 

 

1 certify mar the best of my Knowreoge the rnrorrnarmn cor-?amed app?carr?on and is complere and accurare and hereby request I
the State Tax Commissron :ssue a Commercial Rehabrhrahon Exempnon Codi?care, as prowded by Public Act 210 of 2065 as amended .

 

 

 

.


1 Ck?k 

The men. must reram (he applicauor a: the local um and mail one copy of the compseted appucaiion attamments to

State Tax 
Box 304 '11
Lansmg Ml 48909

Instructions for Completing Form 4507
Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Ehc tirnrnercmt xcniption .iz?s by Puo ic Ac; Bit) of" 2005. LLS articnu?cd The appiication i: mitiail; ?led.
anti upprtitcd ti} ilic I (it! and rat-icwcd and approved hv 'x?taii: lax {fuminisaion According to Seotioti of Puhlic Act 21!)
\t?ltlti? its Ltit rtitisi us?lat'ril?i" (J. Commit-rant! Ruliatiilitattmz' lint: ict Rehabilitation may commence after establishment of

the Rehabilitation District.

Owner i' Applicant Instructions
Varmint: Part5 l. 2 And .3 
2 and attach all required under Prirt 2 oi tht- .?zoplitnttort
a (icncrul description of the t'ncilitjv (yo tr built. original use most r: can" use number ot'sitirici, quart- Footage)
Descripmn ot?iht- tiuriti?t-tl '5 [ll?flpt'?iil?i use
Description of the nature and intent nt'thc rchabilitatioii to he 
u? [)cS?ripiivi: iist Liftlm building cqtiipincnt that wi!? EC 21 part ?fth: qualiliod titt?ilit'}
time t'or undertaking and completing the facilin 
orilie artwinirigci hunt the: cxcniption
lcgril or ti?t: iliij.
oi the arce? (Uttali?c-l Retail Food Estajlitiin?ents one? .
3 Quali?ed Rciail rootl 
Complete Part 1 ot'tht: t?nmmercrai Ji?er?iahrlitorimt Exemption ('eru??mnmr for itemrf Fraud 
tFoim 4?53) Submit to i (sit clan?; along with application
[)cscribc area" and pro? ido Supptmioy ilocunicn slim: to :i?ltiw how 1hr: prtiiuct area illt?tfizs one or more of



the: l'tillowirig requirements:

i An arca that contains a low to moderate income tracltsi which. based on poi capita income. nit: tracts below the
66.67 percentile {$23,643 in 199?) dollars) and 3 below average supeimarkct density

An arcii that has a supermarket customer base with more. than it living tn a low income census tracltsi which based on

the: put capiia income. a: - tracts below the 66 t5? 623-643 in 2909 dollars)

An area that has demonstrated significant access limitations dot: to travel dimmer: and has no Quali?cd Rtl??ti

'r?ootl Estublishliicnts within two miles ol'thc gco-centcr for an urban area or has Retail Food Establishments

within nine miles of the gen-center [for it rural arm

For assismnce in determining the project area?s eligibility Visit anti stick on

Rciiahilitatitm Act

4 Submit the. application and all attachments to the clerk ot? the iGli whore the property is located

LGU Assessor Instructions
and Sign Part -l of the application

LGU Clerk Instructions

1. Alter LGU action. coriipieic Part 5 ot?the application.

3 Artur reviewing the application for complete and accurate information. (1 and sign the. in ccriit'y the
application riicets the i'cquirements as outlined by Public Act 2 IO of 3001 its 

?i the following {or a complete application:

.irpfi'imitim ?zr t1 ~ornrriirrcivri.? Rehabtlr?mtmn erririwi?c tlitirtti 45ft?)

It All require-j atiauhirtctits listed undcr Part 2

copy ot'tiio resolution by the-l till establishing the 

.i A corliliud copy of inc :csnluttoo Ly the 1.61.; apprm mg the 

Form 173." (Qualified Rr'?li Food E'stdbiislinicitts oni.?

tat: 2 Mt: ??909

. 
I

-l Suhnti? tho completed apni cation to Stat-r i133 nittr?s?on. PO Box 3047: Lu

Application Deadline

Inc S'tatc 13o. tTtiriintitasiot?: tnust rtrcuim an .iicntiom on or (thin; Octu'mr St to Grows-32m: Ltili?J turti?gatc For 
. 

13.x )car -?tpplic3 it?t'? mount: ,1 (Tictohcr ma). not rt- on: itrliuriilui it" t? to low tog fro. pm:

"or moon: by th: Rtuft: [hn?m?lh?lon mini and lustiil ttu?ltiri -. at tittict?l into.

it you hut-c- qLJCiiltirH or additional int'rtrritalmtt or ?known-ix 4311 ?w?,inicliigan 2m propertyt-iuxemptions or toll



 

A. General Description of the Obsolete Facility

Year Burlt: 1958

Original Use: Car Garage

Most Recent Use. Radiator Shop

Nomber of Stories: 1

Square Footage: 2,138 Square Feet

8. General Description of Proposed Use of the Rehabilitated Facility

The building will be activated by a restaurant operated under the KATOI umbrella. The restaurant is
currently being designed by Rafiuddin, the Principal of Till Inc who designed KATOI. The type of
cuisine is to be determined. We are Currently in the design phase of this restaurant/bar concept. The

building is currently derelict

C. Description of the General Nature and Extent of the Rehabilitation to be Undertaken

Mechanical: Install heating/cooling system

0 Electrical: Update service, install junction boxes. switches, and outlets
- Plumbing: Install bathroom

a Commercial Kitchen

New windows facing shared courtyard

- Seating for guests

D. A Descriptive List of Fixed Building Equipment that will be a Part of the Rehabilitated Facility

- Seating for guests
0 Commercial Kitchen

E. A Time Schedule for Undertaking and Completing Rehabilitation of the Facility

We anticipate to commence rehabilitation of the property February 2017 and to complete, rehabilitation
May 2017.

F. Statement of the economic advantages expected the exemption

A ten-year tax freeze will give us time to invest and develop a market while our tax burden remains
predictable. Given that the neighborhood is in a steady decline and that there really is no real estate
"market? in the neighborhood we are rehabilitating, knowmg more clearly what our tax burden will be
will give us more room to invest in developing inspired projects with affordable rents.

(5. Legal Description

GRAND RIVER 2 THRU 4 SUB L20 P44 PLATS, 10/49 70 40 

2018?01?24 137

[37 Penna!) (.gf PK 4843 111 rcqumr for
(1w of L'ummwm?l
Rehubtl?ution 'w?'?cuiu
property lacuna! 48-153 Drum!
River :1 Vet-mu under Pub/11' Ac! 3/ (.1 a}
3005. (Ohmic! under 991116011
#115 7.6)

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING DEPARTMENHS)

POLICY DIVISION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

LAW DEPARTMENT FENANCE DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

   
 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

September 26, 2019

Katharine G. Trudeau, Deputy Director
Planning Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate PK 4842 LLC
Parcel Number: 10000599003
Property Address: 4842 W. Grand River

Dear Ms. Trudeau:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the Commercial Rehabilitation District certificate
application for the property located at 4842 W. Grand River in the Woodbridge area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for issuing Commercial Rehabilitation certificates under PA 210 of 2005, as amended, is based on the anticipation of
increased market value upon completion of new construction and /or significant rehabilitation of existing commercial property and
commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate additional market
value.

The project as proposed by PK 4842 LLC involves rehabilitating the former one?story repair shop with 2,116 total square feet of
building area on .199 acres of land into restaurant/bar use. The rehabilitation will include installing heating and cooling, updating

electrical and plumbing, new windows and installing a commercial kitchen.

The 2019 values are as follows:

 

 

 

Building Assessed Building LandAssessedValue Land
Parcel Address Vaiue(SEV) Taxable Value (SEV) Taxable Value
10000599003 4842 W. Grand Fiivel $13,000 35 13,000 7,400 7,400

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 210 of 2005, as amended. It applies to a building or a group of contiguous
buildings, a portion of a building or group of contiguous buildings previously used for commercial or industrial purposes, obsolete
industrial property, and vacant property which, within the immediately preceding 15 years, was operating as a commercial business
enterprise.

A review Ofthe general plans, along with the criteria set forth under the Commercial Rehabilitation Act, indicated that the proposed
project located at 4842 W. Grand River is eligible as it pertains to the Commercial Rehabilitation certificate criteria under PA 210
of 2005, as amended.

HEM

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



 

Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate
PK 4842 LLC
Page 2

Property Owner: PRINCE REALTY LLC

Property Address: 4842 GRAND RIVER

Parcel Number: 100005991303

Legal Description: GRAND RIVER ALL THAT PT OE 44?1.- LYG AND GRAND RIVER AVE 100 FT WD, ADJ LOT 1 OF MARY
SUB AND 11/20/2018 FROM 10000601.,10000599., 10000600., 10000602.;

The legal description matched the applicant?s submitted legal description.

3? .
., 

11;. I
moomamz


 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - TTY2711

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
October 2, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
331 Melbourne, Detroit, MI 48202

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Flaming and Development Department has received an Offer from
Motown Rising, LLC (the ?Purchaser), to purchase certain City-owned real property at 331
Melbourne, Detroit M1 (the ?Property?) for the purchase price of Seven Thousand Two Hundred
Fifty and 00/100 Dollars 

Motown Rising, LLC proposes to utilize the property as a side lot. Jacob De Golish, owner Of
Motown Rising, LLC owns the adjacent property at 325 Melbourne. Currently, the property is
within a R3 zoning district (Low Density Residential District). Motown Rising, LLC proposed use
of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director Of
or his or her authorized designee to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents
as may be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Motown
Rising, LLC.

Respectfully submitted,



Katharine G. Trudeau
Deputy Director

[gr-cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 331 Melbourne, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Motown Rising, LLC (the ?Purchaser?)
for the purchase price of Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars 

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his or her
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary
or convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and

be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Three Hundred Sixty Two 50/100 Dollars 62.50) shall be paid
to the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up
to Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his or her authorized designee, is authorized to execute
any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit
claim deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or
timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct
minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may
arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his or her authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:
MELBOURNE LOT 27 MC LAUGHLIN BROS L17 P73 PLATS, 1/109 31.6 114.5A

a/k/a 331 Melbourne
Tax Parcel ID 01002484.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By:

 

Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

   
 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

{313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT {313) 224-[310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

September 30, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226 

RE: Property Sale
3205 Tyler, Detroit, Michigan 48238

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
Ms. Sylvia Greene (the ?Purchaser), tO purchase certain City?owned real property at 3205 Tyler
(the ?Property?) for the purchase price of One Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 Dollars


Ms. Greene proposes to utilize the property as a green space adjacent to her home at 3221 Tyler.
Currently, the property is within a R2 zoning district (Two-Family Residential District). Ms.
Greene?s proposed use of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the
Property is zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of

or his or her authorized designee to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents
as may be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer Of the Property by the City to Sylvia Greene.

Respectfully submitted,

Katharine G. Trudeau

Deputy Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 3205 Tyler, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Sylvia Greene (the ?Purchaser?) for the
purchase price of One Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 Dollars 

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his or her
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary
or convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Ninety and 00/100 Dollars ($90.00) shall be paid to the DBA from the sale proceeds,
2) Seventy Five 00/ 100 Dollars ($75.00) shall be paid to the real estate brokerage ?rm
from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars
($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his or her authorized designee, is authorized to execute
any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit
claim deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or
timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct
minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may
arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it finally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his or her authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

TYLER LOTS 100 THRU 102 WARK-GILBERT COS SECURITY SUB L38 P60 PLATS, 
110

a/k/a 3205 Tyler
Tax Parcel ID 12004300.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By:

 

Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
September 30, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
17264 Mt Elliott, Detroit, MI 48212

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
21St Century Holdings LLC (the ?Purchaser), to purchase certain City-owned real property at
17264 Mt Elliott (the ?Property?) for the purchase price of Eight Thousand Eight Hundred and
00/100 Dollars 

21St Century Holdings LLC proposes to utilize the property as parking for their adjacent property
management company located at 17272 Mt. Elliott. Currently, the property is within a M4 zoning
district (Intensive Industrial District). 21St Century Holdings LLC proposed use of the Property
shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
or his or her authorized designee to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents
as may be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to 21St Century
Holdings.

Respectfully submitted,

W528, 

Katharine G. Trudeau
Deputy Director

Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 17264 Mt. Elliott, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to 21St Century Holdings LLC (the
?Purchaser?) for the purchase price of Eight Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/100 Dollars



RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his or her
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary
or convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Four Hundred Forty 00/ 100 Dollars ($440.00) shall be paid to the
real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to Two
Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his or her authorized designee, is authorized to execute
any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit
claim deed (including but not limited to corrections to or confirmations of legal descriptions, or
timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct
minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may
arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his or her authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

MT ELLIOTT 13 FT OF LOT 5 4BLK 24 PLAT OF VILLAGE OF NORRIS L3 P30 PLATS,
15/197 63 X140

a/k/a 17264 Mt Elliott
Tax Parcel ID 15014268.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By:

 

Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

September 30, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
13113 Dexter, Detroit, MI 48238

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Flaming and Development Department has received an offer from
Kali Clowney (the ?Purchaser), to purchase certain City-owned real property at 131 13 Dexter (the
?Property?) for the purchase price of Seven Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/100 Dollars



Ms. Clowney proposes to utilize the property as a restaurant. Currently, the property is within a
B4 zoning district (General Business District). Ms. Clowney proposed use of the Property shall be
consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of

or his or her authorized designee to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents
as may be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Kali Clowney.

Respectfully submitted,

Katharine G. Trudeau
Deputy Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 13113 Dexter, Detroit, MI (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Kali Clowney (the ?Purchaser?) for the
purchase price of Seven Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/100 Dollars 

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his or her
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary
or convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed for transfer of the Property to Kali Clowney shall include a
condition subsequent such that if the Purchaser does not obtain a certi?cate of occupancy for the
Property within twelve (12) months of closing, then title the Property may, at the sole discretion
of the Director, revert back to City of Detroit; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Three Hundred Ninety 00/ 100 Dollars ($390.00) shall be paid to
the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to
Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his or her authorized designee, is authorized to execute
any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit
claim deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or
timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct
minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may
arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his or her authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

mun

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follOws:

DEXTER LOT 138 SULLIVANS DEXTER BLVD SUB NO 1 L55 P53 PLATS, 14/211
20 100

a/k/a 13113 Dexter
Tax Parcel ID 14006184.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By:

 

Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313)224-1310
4? PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

September 27, 2019

 

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Transfer of Jurisdiction/ Property Sale
Harry Downey Play?eld (a/k/a 3090 Humboldt)

Honorable City Council:

We are in receipt of an Offer from FCC Committee For Civic and Social Causes, a Michigan
Nonpro?t Corporation (?the Purchaser?) to purchase 3090 Humboldt (?the Property?) for the
amount Of Ten Thousand and 00/100 Dollars This property measures
approximately 36,315 square feet and is zoned R3 (Low Density Residential).

The Recreation Department has declared the property surplus to their needs. In order to facilitate
this transaction, we request that your Honorable Body approve the transfer of the Property, as
described in the attached Exhibit A, from the Recreation Department to the Flaming and
Development Department. In accordance with Chapter 14, Article 8 Of the Detroit City Code, the
Finance Director has designated the Planning and Development Department responsible for its

management.

FCC proposes to make improvements and continue the use of the Property as a pocket park. This
would beautify the neighborhood and help support the adjacent Fountain Court Apartments
located at 3088 Lawton.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body approve the transfer of jurisdiction of the
Property, as described in the attached Exhibit A, from the Recreation Department to the Flaming
and Development Department and the designation of this property as surplus.

Further, we request that your Honorable Body approve the sale and authorize the Director of the
Planning and Development Department, or his or her authorized designee, to execute a deed and
such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of the Property to
FCC Committee For Civic and Social Causes, a Michigan Nonpro?t Corporation.

Respectfully submitted,

we.?

Katharine G. Trudeau
Deputy Director



cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

By Council Member

 

WHERAS, in accordance with the foregoing communication, a request has been made to your
Honorable Body to approve the transfer of jurisdiction and the declaration of surplus of 3090
Humboldt (?the Property?), as described in the attached Exhibit A, from the Recreation
Department to the Planning and Development Department and, in accordance with
Chapter 14, Article 8 of the Detroit City Code, the Finance Director has designated 
responsible for its management; and:

WHEREAS, has received an offer from FCC Committee For Civic and Social Causes, a
Michigan Nonpro?t Corporation (?the Purchaser?) requesting the conveyance by the City of
Detroit of the Property; and

WHEREAS, the Purchaser intends to continue the use of the Property as a pocket park; and

WHEREAS, the project area is zoned R3 (Low Density Residential). Any uses of the Property
shall be consistent with and subject to the guidelines and approval processes for zoned areas.

NOW. THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the transfer of jurisdiction and declaration of
surplus of the Property, as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A, from the
Recreation Department to the Planning and Development Department is hereby approved; and be
it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the sale of the Property, as more
particularly described in the attached Exhibit A, to FCC Committee For Civic and Social Causes,
a Michigan Nonpro?t corporation, for the purchase price of Ten Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his or her
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other documents necessary or
convenient to execute the sale consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars (2,500.00) shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($500.00) shall be paid to the
real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to
Two Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct
minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may
arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter
the substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to
form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LAND IN THE CITY OF DETROIT, COUNTY OF WAYNE AND STATE OF MICHIGAN BEING:

HUMBOLDT LOTS 106 THRU 109 BRADISH HUBBARDS SUB L1 133 PLATS

WCR 10/27 36472 SQ FT

DESCRIPTION CORRECT

BY
ENGINEER OF SURVEYS

 

3090 HUMBOLDT
WARD 10 ITEM 008119?48

