Investment Committee Meeting

Held at the Office of the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (the Fund)
Held on May 28, 2019
Presiding:
Present;

Tmstee and Investment Committee Chair: Mr. Thomas Beyna
Tmstees: Ms. Melissa Conyers-Irvin, Ms. Carol Hamburger, Mr. Michael Lappe,
and Mr. Edward Wodnicki

Not Present:
Trustee staff:

Tmstees: Ms. Jennie Huang- Bennett, Ms. Susie Park, Mr. Brian Wright,
Mr. Tariq Malhance and Maricio Banvelos of the City Treasurer's Office; Mr. Marty
Johnson of the Chief Financial Officer's Office

Fund Office:

Mr. Kenneth Kaczmarz, Interim Executive Director, Ms. Caroline Vullmahn,

Comptroller and Sebastian Medina and Jackson Lockard Interns.

NEPC,LLC

Mr. Kevin Leonard, Partner, Kristen Finney Senior Consultant and Ms. DeAnna Jones,
Senior Consulting Specialist

Others

Ms. Rosemarie Giainbalvo and Roberto Gonzalez, Fund Annuitant members,
Ms. Grace Del Vecchio, reporter Forbes, Mauro Tecura, reporter City Bureau,

Matthew Norris, reporter City Bureau
President Beyna called the meeting to order at approximately 9:15 a.m.
I. Cash Flow Update
Ms. Caroline Vullmahn, Comptroller of the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (FABF or the Fund),
began her presentation regarding the Fund's cash flow. Ms. Vullmahn provided the Committee members a PABF

Cash Flow worksheet which was distributed and shows the Fund's cash balances, expected benefit payments, other
expenses for the month, and the resulting expected cash on hand as of May 31,2019. Ms. Vullmahn indicated that
at the end of the month, the cash balance is anticipated to be approximately $237.8 million. Ms. Vullmahn also
indicated that the Fund has pending Capital Calls totaling $80 million that might reduce the available cash over the
next several months.

Ms. Vullmahn explained the details pertaining to the Tax Receipts information provided on the Cash flow
worksheet. Ms. Vullmahn indicated the ainounts attributable from the receipts for each individual Levy and
Payment year along with information on the amounts received through the Fund's ability to "Intercept" funds
directly from the State of Illinois Comptroller's Office for outstanding balances on each year's Levy.

II. Formal 1st Quarter 2019 Performance Analysis and Discussion
Mr. Kevin Leonard, Ms. DeAnna Jones and Ms. Kristin Finney-Cook of NEPC reviewed the Fund's formal
Quarterly Investment Performance report for March 31,2019. Mr. Leonard began his comments by stating that the
Fund, valued at $2.6 billion at March 31, 2019 returned 7.24% for the quarter. The Fund's 42% allocation to
Domestic and International equities led the way with returns of 11.88% and 1 1.76% respectively. The Fund's

Fixed Income investments also had a tremendous quarter, returning 3% overall.
Mr, Leonard noted that the Fund determined to move away from Private equity several years ago and the current
over allocation to Fixed income is a result of that decision. The Fund's current allocation of 27.75% to Fixed

Income investments is currently overweight its target of 22.00 %, while only .67% of the Fund is allocated to
Private Equity compared to the target allocation of 5.00%. The Fund is currently reviewing its Fixed Income
investments and can revisit Private Equity this sun-uner.

 Investment Committee Meeting

May 28,2019
Page Two:
III. TNT Performance Flash at April 29, 2019 (unaudited)
Kevin Leonard and Ms. DeAnne Jones of NEPC reviewed the unaudited Performance Flash of April 29, 2019
provided by the Fund's Custodian Bank, The Northern Trust Bank. The report indicates that the total Fund returned

1.8% in April of 2019. Equity returns led the way with Us Equities outperforming Non-Us 4.02% to 2.58% for the
same time period. Year to date for the four months ended April 30, 2019 shows the Fund returning 9.14% above
its policy benchjnark of 8.62% for the same period.
IV. Fixed Income Core and Core Plus RFP

Ms. DeAnne Jones reported that 43 firms have provided a response to the Fund's request for RFP in its search for

Core Fixed Income manager and 25 have responded in the Fund's search for Core-Plus Fixed Income Manager.
The Fund's existing Incumbent managers in these categories have also responded. They are aware that they are re-

competing for the mandate. Ms. Jones reports that NEPC will provide summary reports and recommendations
based on both Quantitative and Qualitative criteria at the June 2019 meeting with interviews being scheduled for

July after the Board selects finalists for each mandate.
V. Miscellaneous

A motion was made by Trustee Hamburger, seconded by Trustee Lappe to go into executive session under 2 (c) (7)
ROLL CALL
For: Beyna, Conyers-Irvin, Hamburger, Lappe, and Wodnicki, (5)
Against: None (0)
Absent Huang-Bennett, Park and Wright (3)
Upon Completion of the Executive Session;

A motion was made by Trustee Hamburger , seconded by Trustee Lappe to come out of Executive Session
ROLL CALL
For: Beyna, Conyers-Irvin, Hamburger, Lappe, and Wodnicki, (5)
Against: None (0)
Absent Huang-Bennett, Park and Wright (3)

Mr. Beyna asked if there was any member of the Public present that desired to address the Committee.
There were none.

A motion was then made by Trustee Hambwger, seconded by Trustee Lappe to adjourn the meeting.
ROLL CALL
For: Beyna, Conyers-Irvin, Hamburger, Lappe, and Wodnicki, (5)
Against: None (0)
Absent Huang-Bennett, Park and Wright (3)

Respec^Fully submitted,

wding Secretary of the Board of Trustees
In istment Committee Member

 