Investment Committee Meeting

Held at the Office of the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (the Fund)
Held on April 22, 2019
Presiding:

Tmstee and Investment Committee Chair: Mr. Thomas Beyna

Present:

Tmstees: Ms. Samantha Fields, Ms. Carol Hamburger, Mr. Michael Lappe,
and Mr. Edward Wodnicki

Not Present:

Trustees: Ms. Carole Brown, Mr. Kurt Summers Jr., and Mr. Brian Wright

Fund Office:

Mr. Kenneth Kaczmarz, Interim Executive Director, and Ms. Caroline Vulbnahn,
Comptroller

NEPC,LLC

Mr. Kevin Leonard, Partner, and Ms. DeAnna Jones, Senior Analyst

Others

Ms. Rosemarie Giambalvo, Funds Annuitant member

President Beyna called the meeting to order at approximately 9:00 a.m.
I. Cash Flow Update

Ms. Caroline Vullmahn, Comptroller of the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (PABF or the Fund),
began her presentation regarding the Fund's cash flow. Ms. Vullmahn provided the Committee members a PABF
Cash Flow worksheet which was dista-ibuted and shows the Fimd's cash balances, expected benefit payments, other
expenses for the month, and the projected cash on hand as of April 30, 2019. Ms. Vullmahn indicated that at the
end of the month, the cash balance is anticipated to be approximately $257.8 million. Ms. Vullmahn also indicated
that the Fund has pending Capital Calls totaling $110 million that might reduce the available cash over the next
several months.

Ms. Vullmahn explained the details pertaining to the Tax Receipts information provided on the Cash flow
worksheet. Ms. Vullmahn indicated the amounts attributable from the receipts for each individual Levy and
Payment year along with information on the amounts received through the Fund's ability to "Intercept" funds

directly from the State of Illinois Comptroller's OfFice for outstanding balances on each year's Levy.
n. Performance Discussion

Ms. DeAnna Jones and Mr. Kevin Leonard ofNEPC briefly reviewed the unaudited monthly Performance Flash
provided by the Fund's Master Custodian, The Northern Trust Bank at month end March 3 1, 2019. For the month
the Fund returned a positive 0.75% slightly lower than the Fund's policy benchmark return of 0.85% for the same
time period. Year to date for the three months ended March 31, 2019 indicates a positive rehim of 7.34% ahead of
the Policy benchmark return of 6.89%. Ms. Jones indicated that NEPC will provide its formal 1st Quarter 2019
performance report at the Fund's scheduled Investment Committee meeting of May 28, 2019. It was noted that the
report included performance statistics "gross" of fees. Performance statistics "net" of fees was not available at the
time of the report
m. Non-U.S. Equity Review Portfolio Review

Mr. Kevin Leonard and Ms. DeAima Jones ofNEPC reviewed materials, previously prepared and distributed, to
review and evaluate the structural components of the Fund's International Equity Portfolio at December 31, 2018.
The review will examine the underlying Capitalization, Geographic and Style characteristics of this section of the
portfolio. The review will also determine if any changes to the Portfolio or the underlying benchmarks may be
warranted..

 Investment Committee Meeting

April 22,2019
Page Two:

The prepared materials begin with several graphs which indicate the size of the Non U.S. Equity component as 24%
of the Fund's total portfolio and that the developed component, at 17% of the total portfolio was 2% greater fhan
the targeted allocation of 15% and that the Emerging percentage of 7% of the total portfolio was 1% greater than
its target allocation of 6%.

Mr. Leonard then discussed the three appropriate benchmarks used to compare performance of the International
portfolios:

MSCI ACWI ex USA is used for 3 portfolios. Artisan, UBS, and William Blair representing $305 Million
or 54% of the International component

MSCI EAFE which captures smaller cap securities, is utilized for the Acadian portfolio representing $105
million or 19% of the International component.

MSCI Emerging Markets Index captures the developmg nations and is utilized for two portfolios. Earnest
Partners and Lazard representing $151 million or 27% of the International component.
Ms. Jones and Mr. Leonard reviewed the perfonnance of each portfolio as of December 31, 2018. The comments
on each portfolio and the materials provided indicate that returns for each manager in the International component
are exceeding the assigned benchmarks across the time periods presented.
Mr. Leonard also provided an analysis of the Active Management fees associated with each portfolio and a
comparison to an average of fees drawn from NEPC's international data base and indicates that the Fund is paying
less than the average fees on 5 of 6 International portfolios, and 1 bp higher than the average on the 6th.
Ms. Jones and Mr. Leonard summarized by indicating that no changes to the International Component are warranted
at this time.
IV. Miscellaneous

A motion was made by Tmstee Hamburger , seconded by Trustee Lappe to go into executive session under 2 (c)

(7)

ROLL CALL

For: Beyna, Fields, Hamburger, Lappe, and Wodnicki, (5)
Against: None (0)

Absent Brown, Summers and Wright (3)
Upon Completion of the Executive Session;

A motion was made by Trustee Lappe, seconded by Tmstee Hamburger to come out of Executive Session
ROLL CALL

For: Beyna, Fields, Hamburger, Lappe, and Wodnicki, (5)
Against: None (0)

Absent Brown, Summers and Wright (3)

 Investment Committee Meeting
April 22, 2019
Page Three:

A motion was then made by Trustee Hamburger seconded by Trustee Lappe to adjourn the Invesbnent Committee
meeting

ROLL CALL

For: Beyna, Fields, Hamburger, Lappe, and Wodnicki, (5)
Against: None (0)

Absent Brown, Summers and Wright (3)
Resggptfully submitted,

bright
RecoMing Secretary of the Board of Trustees
Investment Committee Member

 