Investment Committee Meeting

Held at the Office of the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (the Fund)
Held on June 24, 2019
Presiding:

Tmstee and Investment Committee Chair: Mr. Thomas Beyna

Present:

Tmstees: IVts. Melissa Conyers-Irvin, Ms. Carol Hamburger, and Mr. Edward Wodnicki
and Mr. Brian Wright

Not Present:

Trustees: Ms. Jennie Huang- Bennett, Mr. Mike Lappe and Ms. Susie Park

Trustee staff:

Mr. Tariq Malhance and Maricio Banvelos of the City Treasurer's Office; Mr. Marty
Johnson of the Chief Financial Officer's Office

Fund Office:

Mr. Keimeth Kaczmarz, Interim Executive Director, Ms. Caroline Vullmahn,
Comptroller and intern Sebastian Medina.

NEPC,LLC

Mr. Kevin Leonard, Partner and Ms. DeAnna Jones, Senior Consulting Specialist

Others

Ms. Rosemarie Giambalvo, Fund Amiuitant member, Ms. Christine Williamson, Senior
Reporter P&I

President Beyna called the meeting to order at approximately 9:15 a.m.
I. Cash Flow Update
Ms. Caroline Vullmahn, Comptroller of the Policemen's Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (PABF or the Fund),

began her presentation regarding the Fund's cash flow. Ms. Vullmahn provided the Committee members a PABF
Cash Flow worksheet which was distributed and shows die Fund's cash balances, expected benefit payments, other

expenses for the month, applicable Capital Calls and the resulting expected cash on hand as of May 31, 2019. Ms.
Vullmahn indicated that at the end of the month, the cash balance is anticipated to be approximately $103.5 million.
Ms. Vullmalm also indicated that the Fund has pending Capital Calls totaling $80 million that might reduce the
available cash over the next several months.

Ms. Vullmahn explained the details pertaining to the Tax Receipts information provided on the Cash flow
worksheet. Ms. Vullmahn indicated the amounts attributable from the receipts for each individual Levy and

Payment year along with information on the amounts received through the Fund's ability to "Intercept" funds
directly from the State of Illinois Comptroller's Office for outstanding balances on each year's Levy.
II. Fonnal 1st Quarter 2019 Performance Analysis and Discussion

Mr. Kevin Leonard, Ms. DeAnna Jones and Ms. Kristin Finney-Cook of NEPC reviewed the Fund's fonnal
Quarterly Investment Performance report for March 31, 2019. Mr. Leonard began his conunents by stating tliat the
Fund, valued at $2.6 billion at March 31, 2019 retiimed 7.24% for the quarter. The Fund's 42% allocation to
Domestic and International equities led the way with returns of 11.88% and 11 .76% respectively. The Fund's
Fixed Income investments also had a tremendous quarter, returning 3% overall.
Mr. Leonard noted that the Fund determined to move away from Private equity several years ago and the current
over allocation to Fixed income is a result of that decision. The Fund's current allocation of 27.75% to Fixed

Income investments is currently overweight its target of 22.00 %, while only .67% of the Fund is allocated to
Private Equity compared to the target allocation of 5.00%. The Fund is currently reviewing its Fixed Income
investments and can revisit Private Equity this summer.

 Investment Committee Meeting

June 24,2019
Page Two:
m. TNT Performance Flash at April 29,2019 (unaudited)
Kevin Leonard and Ms. DeAiine Jones of NEPC reviewed the unaudited Performance Flash of April 29, 2019

provided by the Fund's Custodian Bank, The Northern Tmst Bank. The report indicates that the total Fund returned
1.8% in April of 2019. Equity returns led the way with Us Equities outperforming Non-Us 4.02% to 2.58% for the

same time period. Year to date for the four months ended April 30, 2019 shows the Fund returning 9.14% above
its policy benchmark of 8.62% for the same period.
IV. Fixed Income Core and Core Plus RFP

Ms. DeAnne Jones reported that 43 finns have provided a response to the Fund's request for RFP in its search for
Core Fixed Income manager and 25 have responded in the Fund's search for Core-Plus Fixed Income Manager.

The Fund's existing Incumbent managers in these categories have also responded. They are aware that they are recompeting for the mandate. Ms. Jones reports that NEPC will provide summary reports and recommendations
based on botli Quantitative and Qualitative criteria at the June 2019 meeting with interviews being scheduled for
July after the Board selects finalists for each mandate.
V. Miscellaneous

A motion was made by Trustee Hamburger, seconded by Trustee Lappe to go into executive session under 2 (c) (7)
ROLL CALL
For: Beyna, Conyers-Irvin, Hamburger, and Wodnicki and Wright (5)
Against: None (0)
Absent Huang-Bennett, Lappe, and Park (3)
Upon Completion of the Executive Session;
A motion was made by Trustee Hamburger, seconded by Trustee Lappe to come out of Executive Session
ROLL CALL
For: Beyna, Conyers-Irvin, Hamburger, and Wodnicki and Wright (5)
Against: None (0)
Absent Huang-Bennett, Lappe, and Park (3)

Mr. Beyna asked if there was any member of the Public present that desired to address the Committee,
There were none.

A motion was then made by Trustee Hamburger, seconded by Trwtee Lappe to adjourn the meeting.
ROLL CALL
For: Beyiia, Conyers-Irvin, Hamburger, and Wodnicki and Wright (5)
Against: None (0)
Absent Huang-Bennett, Lappe,and Park (3)

Resp§i2t^illy submitted,

Brian Wright
Recording Secretary of the Board of Trustees
Investment Committee Member

 