Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ, Chair
WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of Electkn Commissioflers

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutesof Special Board Meeting
August 8,2019,9i)0 a.m.
69 West Washington Street,8th Floor Conference Room,Chicago, Illinois 60602

Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Bill Perez, Hispanic Outreach Coordinator
LaCretia Dandridge, Manager-Human Resources
Paulina Mysliwiec, Acting Manager-Community Services
Opal Walls, Purchasing Agent
Trupti Patel, Law Clerk
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant

Geneva Morris, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

C, Betty Magnus, Rainbow P.U.S,H.
Sandy Hed, Election Works
Justin Laurence, City Bureau

Waldeep Singh, Dominion
Sheannse Smith, Dominion Voting

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 9:16 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members present

III.

Consideration of Agenda: Commissioner Kresse moved to defer agenda item VII (B)consideration and possible approval of a contract for an executive search firm for future
employment/recruitment purposes. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion by a vote of 3:0. The item was deferred.

IV.

Approval of Minutes: [None presented for approval at this meeting.]
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago iL 60602• 312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027

chicagoelections.com•cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoElection

 Special Board Meeting - August 8, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

V.

Executive Director's Report(Mr. Lance Gough)

• Executive Director Gough reported that he met with representatives of the Cook County
Clerk's Office regarding Senate Bill 2090(SB2090). We along with the Clerk's office will
meet with the Sheriff regarding pre-trial detainees.
A.

Assistant Executive Director(Mr. Charles Holiday)

Assistant Executive Director Holiday reported:
o The staff is working on regular summer projects.

o Staff evaluations shouid be finished by this afternoon.
B.

Communications Director(Mr.Jim Allen)

Communications Director Allen reported:

o The Board's Legal Intern, Isabel Launspach, recently finished her term with us and
completed some research for us in advance of the century celebration of the 19^^
Amendment and how laws in Illinois changed to allow women the franchise for
certain offices and in certain elections.

o Mila Zidel, the student at Whitney Young High School who designed a "power
dress" made of "I Voted" wristband, is excited to work with us and have her work

permanently displayed here at the Board. We are looking at time in September or
October to honor her. She served as a Student High School Judge of Election in
2018 and plans to serve again in 2020.

o The ".gov" website is now live. We are working on the last tweaks which should
be complete later today.

o As the Assistant Executive Director mentioned, we are working on summer

projects and are going ahead with the Canvass mailing. We should be ready to
mail by the end of this month or, at the latest, the Monday or Tuesday after Labor
Day.
Commissioner Swain asked Mr. Allen about how the "REAL ID" roll out will affect the

Automatic Voter Registration (AVR) program. Mr. Allen explained that we are

receiving conflicting signals regarding "REAL ID" from the Secretary of State and the
Law Bulletin. Commissioner Kresse has been issued a "REAL ID", yet the Law Bulletin
recently published an article about the Secretary of State getting a 2 year extension
to comply. We are receiving more registrations through the AVR program. Mr. Allen
said we will follow up with the Illinois State Board of Election to see the status of the

full AVR roll out and what impact the "REAL ID" implementation has on that.
Executive Director Gough added that there are several State agencies that have not
signed up for AVR yet and that is causing a delay in AVR being fully instated.
VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: will discuss shortly
along with Voting Equipment.

B.

Electronic Poll Books: The Assistant Executive Director reported that the weekly
Page 2 of 4

 Special Board Meeting - August 8, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

meeting took place yesterday and that ES&S is moving forward on all of the
updates
C.

Voting Equipment: Will be discussed shortly.

D.

Legislation: General Counsel Adam Lasker reported that he had nothing to report
today, other than that we had a meeting with the Cook County Clerk's Office

regarding SB2090 and the mandate to have a polling place at Cook County Jail.
The next step is to work with the Jail.
VII.

New Business

A.

Recommendation and Approval of Award for the Request for Proposal (RFP):
Voting System

The Chair pointed out that this has been a long, long process. Executive Director
Gough agreed. It started in 2017. We have had meetings and demonstrations
which are posted on YouTube.
Mr. Gough agreed, stating that the process started in 2017; we have had
meetings, and meeting/demonstrations, including one meeting/demonstrations
at the Union League Club and another in our lower level (Pedway)conference

room. The demonstration video from this latter meeting/demonstration Is posted
on YouTube.

The Chair pointed out that about two meetings ago the bids were opened by the
Board's Purchasing Agent, Opal Walls. The Chair called upon Ms. Walls to give a
brief overview of the process thus far.
Ms. Walls reported:

o A couple of meetings ago the Purchasing department opened the
proposals from two vendors;
o The proposals were distributed to the Board's 9-member evaluation
committee;

o Those proposals were vetted;

o Additional questions were sent to each of the vendors;
o Responses to those questions were received;

o Another meeting with evaluation team was held;
o As a result of this team meeting, there was an additional round of
questions;

o The evaluation criteria included in the RFP was used;
o The evaluations were reviewed;

o Based on the responses to the RFP,the questions and responses, and

the meetings, the team made a recommendation as to the winning

Page 3 of4

 Special Board Meeting - August 8, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

vendor. Ms. Walls sent a memo to the Chair and the other members
of the Boa rd with that vendor identified.

Ms. Walls asked if there were any questions regarding the evaluation process.
The Chair said that there weren't any questions and added that the Board has
been involved in this process since 2017.

The Chair thanked the staff and Ms. Walls for everything they have done, and
the vendors for supplying their excellent responses. The team was very
thorough and the Chair is confident that the Board is going in the right
direction.

The Chair stated that today the Board will be awarding the winner of the

bidding process. The winning bidder will now be subject to very specific, very
intense contract negotiations. The Board has certain demands and we expect
a lot from the vendor; security is the top concern. Everyone understands what
the priorities of the Board are and we can proceed for the 2020 elections
Commissioner Kresse made a motion to approve the award to Dominion
Voting Systems Inc., pending successful contract negotiations. Commissioner
Swain seconded the motion.The motion passed by unanimous vote of the
Board.

Commissioner Kresse echoed the Chair's comments regarding how well Ms.
Walls and the staff performed the tasks involved.
B.

Consideration and possible approval of a contract for an executive search firm for

future employment/recruitment purposes: postponed per item III above.
VIII.

Legal Report

General Counsel Adam Lasker reported that this is the first meeting since we received a
Petition to Appeal related to the 2018 citywide referendum petition seeking Mayor Term
limits and creating a City Advocate office. Our arguments have prevailed in the courts so
far. We will now see what the Supreme Court does. We might not participate in this
phase, as the case has been argued already.
IX.

Financial Report: none

X.

Public Comment: none

XI.

Executive Session: none

XII.

Adjournment: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn until the next scheduled Board

meeting of August 13^*^. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion.The motion passed by
unanimous vote of the Board. The meeting was adjourned at 9:30 a.m.
Submitted,

Commissioner William J. Kresse
Secretar

Page 4 of 4

 