Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ, Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE. Commissioner/Secmtary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH,Executive Director

Board of Electkm CominissioDers

Board of Electbn Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting
August 13,2019,9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street,8th Floor Conference Room,Chicago, Illinois 60602

Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel (absent]
Joan Agnew, Deputy Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director [absent]
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Bill Perez, Hispanic Outreach Coordinator
LaCretia Dandridge, Manager-Human Resources
Paulina Mysliwiec, Acting Manager-Community Services
Opal Walls, Purchasing Agent
Sarita Villarreal, Consultant

Trupti Patel, Law Clerk
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant

Geneva Morris, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

C. Betty Magnus, Rainbow P.U.S.H.

I.

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:37 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All Board members were present.

III.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented.

IV.

Approval of Minutes:

A.

Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 25, 2019. Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 25, 2019.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was approved by 3:0
vote of the Board.

69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago il 60602•312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027

chicagoelections.com •cboetgchicagoeleclions.net •@ChicagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting - August 13,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

V.
Executive Director's Report {Mr. Lance Gough)
Executive Director Lance Gough reported as follows:
• The Bud Billiken Parade was on Saturday. Mr. Gough walked the entire route and met
with many Deputy Registrars. Many voter registrations were taken.

• Mr. Gough spoke with the Lieutenant Governor's Office. They expect that the pretrial detainee bill will be signed on August 21^\ and they're working on a location. Mr.
Gough offered our office and the State Board offered their offices. Wherever the bill
is signed, they would like a representative of the Board to attend.

• Wednesday we will be meeting with Voting Access Chicago regarding our accessibility
program. Equip for Equality has trained almost all of the City agencies(whose
property we use for Polling Places) to go out and survey the City properties. Our

office personnel was trained last week on the electronic survey tool. They will be
using iPads to complete the surveys and take photos. The application has been
working well. Mr. Gough is pleased with the progress that we have had with this tool
and we are still refining it.
• There will be a joint meeting of the Association of Election Commissioners of Illinois

(AECOl)and the Illinois Clerks' Association on September 22^^ in Springfield. Both
General Counsel Adam Lasker and Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday will
attend. The two associations include both types of agencies(County Clerks and
Election Commissions)that handle elections in Illinois. The meeting will include
demonstrations of voting equipment; numerous vendors will be there.

• We are planning on having someone come in and conduct a program on post-election
audits. Our key personnel will attend this program. Mr. Gough believes that we will
benefit from this program.

A.

Assistant Executive Director(Mr. Charles Holiday)

Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday reported as follows:

• Mr. Holiday sat in for a portion of the training conducted by Equip for Equality.
• Registration Manager Jim Carii and the Registration Department are working on
duplicate registration matches from the Electronic Registration Information
Center(ERIC)for the November 2018 election. The duplicate matches were sent
to us by the Illinois State Board of Elections(ISBE) after checking ERIC. Once data
are verified we will be in touch with ISBE and General Counsel Adam Lasker.

• We have started meeting with various companies regarding our need for the
conversion of our microfilm and microfiche files.

• We are preparing for the upcoming Mail Canvass

• We are preparing for the implementation and roll-outof new voting equipment.
B.

Communications Director [Mr. Jim Allen - absent]

Page 2 of 4

 Regular Board Meeting - August 13, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners
VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: Much of this was
addressed at the last Board meeting.

B.

Electronic Poll Books: Mr. Holiday reported that we are continuing our weekly
meetings, with the next meeting at 9:30 tomorrow.

C.

Voting Equipment: Addressed this at the last Board meeting.The process of
negotiating the agreement has begun.

D.

Legislation: [General Counsel Adam Lasker-absent] The Chair noted that the pretrial detainee legislation was already addressed by Mr. Gough.

VII.

New Business

A.

Consideration and possible approval of a contract for an executive search firm for
future employment/recruitment purposes:

• The Chair mentioned that the Board's Human Resources(HR)director, LaCretia
Dandridge, has conducted a search of possible search firms for this position and
has made a recommendation to the Board.

• Ms. Dandridge recommended one firm based on experience and professionalism.

Ms. Dandridge had reached out to four companies.The recommended company
has experience in Government recruitment and is coming to the City. The
recommended firms has been very responsive to inquiries from Ms. Dandridge,
while one of the other companies has not responded to Ms. Dandridge's requests
for information at all.

• The recommended company has several offices and would have no problem
conducting a nationwide search. They were also responsible for finding the

Executive Director of the Municipal Employee Annuity and Benefits Fund (MEABF)
Commissioner Kresse made a motion to enter into further negotiations for a final agreement and
to authorize the Executive Director to sign such an agreement for Executive Recruitment with an

estimated fee of 33.3% of selected candidate's salary with a minimum fee of$35,000 and any
appropriate, necessary and reasonable expenses. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion.

The motion was approved by unanimous vote of the Board.The final agreement contingent
upon the Board's Attorney's negotiation of the agreement, approval of the agreement and the
Executive Director's signature.

VIII.

Legal Report: General Counsel Adam Lasker was absent. Deputy Counsel Joan Agnew
stated there is no Legal Report.

IX.

Financial Report: none

X.

Public Comment: none

XI.

Executive Session: none

XII.

Adjournment: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn until the next Regular Board
Pages of4

 Regular Board Meeting - August 13,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

meeting of August 27^'^ at 9:30 a.m. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The
motion was approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.The meeting was adjourned at. 9:49
a.m.

Submitted,

Commis^or)er William J. Kresse
Secretar

Page 4 of4

 