Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
May 29, 2019
Call to Order
A meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on May 29, 2019
at the Thompson Center, 100. W. Randolph Street, 16th floor, Room 504.
Goldberg called the meeting to order at 1:06 pm.
The following members of the Board were in attendance:
Mitchell Goldberg (Board Chair)
Dipesh Mehta
Alicia Oberman
Andrew Lappin
Martin Noven (Telephonic)
Richard Ingram (Telephonic)
A motion was made (by Mehta, seconded by Oberman) to permit Noven and Ingram to appear
telephonically. The motion passed (3-0).
Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel to the IIPB.
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the Board held March 13, 2019 were presented to the members by Gamble.
No additions or corrections were noted. By vote upon motion (by Lappin, seconded by Oberman), the
Minutes were approved (5-0) as written.
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
Mehta reported on current bids offered by MCSI and ISS-Ethix/Sustainalytics. He is to seek specific
examples of screens used by MCSI and seek appearance of MCSI representative for next meeting to
answer questions relating to their methodology for list creation. The Board agreed to continue the
decision of vendor until the next meeting, at which time the Board will vote as to the matter.
Gamble reported on IT issues dealing with access to the IIPB website. Mehta to work with Gamble and
ISBI IT people to resolve the issue.
Report from the Committee on Sudan, Iran and Expatriate Restrictions
No report
Report/Action as to the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions
The Board, as a Committee of the Whole, reviewed correspondence from Airbnb. Gamble updated the
Board regarding updated ISS-Ethix list removing Airbnb per Airbnb’s position and its public statements. By
1

 motion (by Lappin, seconded by Ingram), the Board voted that, subject to receipt of standard affidavit of
compliance from Airbnb, Airbnb will be removed from the list. The motion passed (5-0).
Other Business
None
Board Member Comments
None
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting is scheduled for June 12. The Iran/Sudan/Expatriate Restrictions Committee is
scheduled to meet at 11:30am, followed by the Israel Boycott Restrictions Committee, followed by the
meeting of the full Board. By motion (by Ingram, seconded by Noven), the Board voted (5-0) to have
each meeting begin at the end of the preceding meeting.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Lappin motioned to adjourn at 1:30 p.m., seconded by Noven. The motion
was approved (5-0).

2

 