Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
June 12, 2019
Call to Order
A meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on June 12, 2019
at the Thompson Center, 100. W. Randolph Street, 16th floor, Room 504.
The following members of the Board were in attendance:
Mitchell Goldberg (Board Chair)
Dipesh Mehta
Alicia Oberman (Telephonic)
Andrew Lappin
Martin Noven
Richard Ingram
Michael Mahoney
A motion was made (by Ingram, seconded by Lappin) to permit Oberman to appear telephonically. The
motion passed (5-0).
Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel to the IIPB.
Goldberg called the meeting to order at 12:01 pm.
Approval of Minutes
No additions or corrections were noted as to the minutes of the meeting of the Board held May 29. By
vote upon motion (by Lappin, seconded by Ingram), the Minutes were approved (6-0) as written.
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
Mehta reported on current bids offered by MCSI and ISS-Ethix/Sustainalytics and written responses to
questions asked by Board. Goldberg reported on his conversations with Whitney Blanton, General
Counsel of the Texas Treasury Safekeeping Trust Company and Philip Larrieu, Associate Portfolio
Manager of the California State Teachers’ Retirement System – who were provided as references by
MSCI. ISS-Ethix representatives, Stephen Friedman and Michael Jenks, called in to answer questions of
the Board as to renewal of the vendor contract. MSCI representatives, Alberto Rodriguez and Joseph
Williams, called in to answer questions of the Board as to potential vendor services. On motion (by
Noven, seconded by Lappin) the IIPB voted (6-0) to accept MSCI’s bid as replacement vendor for IIPB
Sudan, Iran and Israel Boycott restriction lists. Sustainalytics will remain vendor for Expatriate
companies.
Gamble reported on communications with Bill sponsor for potential legislative clarification regarding
meaning of specific exemption for coverage by Sudan list requirements. Request that IIPB provide
sample proposed language.
1

 Gamble also reported on a verbal request by Airbnb to be exempted from providing an affidavit of
compliance with the Illinois statute. By vote (5-0; by Lappin, Seconded by Noven), the Board denied this
request.
Report from the Committee on Sudan, Iran and Expatriate Restrictions
Ingram reported that the Committee met earlier today. The Committee reviewed updated lists provided
by ISS-Ethix. The Committee recommended that the Board accept recommended deletions as to
companies on the restricted lists for both Iran and Sudan. The Committee recommended the addition of
Almutek Corp. to the Iran list and that the Committee send notice to Almutek Corp. of its identification
as an Iran Restricted Company. The Committee recommended that additions to the Sudan list be held in
abeyance pending further information as to clarification of statutory exemption language. By motion
(by Lappin, seconded by Mehta) the IIPB voted to accept the committee’s recommendations (6-0).
Report/Action as to the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions
Goldberg reported that the Committee met earlier and reviewed ISS-Ethix recommended additions and
deletions. Per ISS-Ethix recommendations, the Committee recommends to identify Ramphastos
Investments Management B.V. as a company boycotting Israel and that the committee provide notice.
The Committee recommended delaying removal of Duch Lion B.V. and Dutch Lion Cooperatief U.A.
pending further explanation from vendor. By motion (by Ingram, seconded by Lappin), the Board to
accept the Committee’s recommendation. The motion passed (6-0).
Other Business
None
Board Member Comments
None
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting is scheduled for September 11, 2019. The Iran/Sudan/Expatriate Restrictions
Committee is scheduled to meet at 11:30am, followed immediately by the Israel Boycott Restrictions
Committee, followed immediately by the meeting of the full Board. By motion (by Ingram, seconded by
Noven), the Board voted (6-0) to have each meeting begin at the end of the preceding meeting.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Lappin motioned to adjourn at 1:51 p.m., seconded by Ingram. The motion
was approved (6-0).

2

 