ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
COMMITTEE ON ISRAEL BOYCOTT RESTRICTIONS
June 12, 2019
12:30pm
Thompson Center
200 W. Randolph Street, 16th Floor Room 504
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 11:51 pm.
2. Roll Call: In attendance were Mitchell Goldberg (committee chair), Alicia Oberman
(telephonic), Andrew Lappin, Michael Mahoney and Richard Ingram. Also in attendance
was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel of the IIPB, Martin Noven and
Dipesh Mehta.
Lappin moved that Oberman can appear telephonically (seconded by
Mahoney). The vote passed (3-0).
3. Approval of Minutes: The Minutes of the committee meeting of March 13, 2019 was
reviewed with no revisions or corrections. By motion (by Lappin, seconded by Ingram) the
minutes were approved (4-0).
4. Administration Matters: None.
5. Public Comment: There was no public comment.
6. Business: Address and approve updates to List of Boycotting Companies (as applicable):
Goldberg reported on ISS-Ethix recommendations, adding Ramphastos Investments
Management B.V. as a company boycotting Israel and recommending deletion of Duch Lion
B.V. and Dutch Lion Cooperatief U.A. By motion (by Ingram, seconded by Lappin), the
Committee voted to recommend accepting the addition/identification of Ramphastos
Investments Management B.V. as a company boycotting Israel (and to send notice to same)
and to pass deletion of the Dutch Lion entities until next meeting to get clarification from
vendor as to basis for deletion. The motion passed (4-0).
7. Other Business: None.
8. Next Meeting Date: The next committee meeting is scheduled for September 11, 2019 at the
earlier of the conclusion of the meeting of the Committee on Iran and Sudan Restrictions and
Expatriate Companies, or at approximately 12:30 pm, unless otherwise convened with due
and timely notice of the next committee meeting to be posted.
9. Adjournment: Upon unanimous motion (4-0; by Lappin, seconded by Ingram), the meeting
was adjourned at 11:58 am.

 These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 