MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE
OSI ART APARTMENTS @ WEST END
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
Tuesday, September 17, 2019
Goodwill Industries of Greater Detroit
3111 Grand River Ave., Main Building
Detroit, MI 48208
5:30 PM
In attendance were:
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Roderick Hardamon (URGE)
Benecia Cousin (URGE)
Izegbe D. N’Namdi (West End Gallery District)
Ben Gorback (Advance Plumbing)
Richard Hosey (Hosey Development)
Evette Napier (WND – Woodbridge)
Eric Jones (WCC)
Pamela Jones (WCC)
Elise Jones (WCC)
Robert Evans (WCC)
Jeffrey Moss (Advance Plumbing)
Carletta Flowers (Advance Plumbing)
Qahanun Muqauibu (Advance Plumbing)
Jason Jones (Property Owner)
Carol Forsythe (Woodbridge Homeowner)
Morenike Christian (OBCA Homeowner)
Kathleen Williams
Ms. Kanalos called the meeting to order at 5:35 PM.
Ms. Kanalos and Ms. Capler informed the hearing of the tax increment financing request per the Brownfield
Plan, provided an overview of the project, and answered questions regarding the activities to be reimbursed
through tax increment financing.
Mr. Hardamon and Ms. N’Namdi provided details regarding the redevelopment plan for the project location
and answered questions regarding the plan for parking, potential tenants for the retail spaces, the plans for
greenspace and landscaping, the anticipated groundbreaking and construction timeline, the dimensions of
the balconies, the material for the façade, ownership of adjacent properties, the plans for the West End
Gallery District and the types of art that are expected to be displayed.
Mr. Jones stated that he loves the design of the project and the developer should be proud that the project
has gained the support of residents of the Woodbridge neighborhood.
Ms. Flowers and Mr. Moss provided information regarding the effect of the demolition on the adjacent
building and the potential impact of the new construction on the foundation of the adjacent building.

 Paper copies of the Brownfield Plan, renderings for the project, and the attached handout were provided.
Three people verbally provided their support for the project, and five people indicated their support for the
project on the sign-in sheet. There were no comments received in opposition of the project.
Citing no further public comments, Ms. Kanalos closed the public hearing at 6:13 PM.

 