ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD COMMITTEE ON
SUDAN RESTRICTIONS, IRAN RESTRICTIONS, AND EXPATRIATED ENTITIES
Minutes of the committee
Thompson Center
100 W. Randolph, 16th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60601
March 13, 2019
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 11:35 a.m. by Goldberg, as Board Chair.
2. Roll Call: The following members of the Committee were in attendance: Mitchell Goldberg, Dipesh
Mehta, and Martin Noven. Also, in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and
counsel of the IIPB.
3. Approval of Minutes: The minutes of the meeting of the committee held December 12, 2018 were
presented to the members by Goldberg. No additions or corrections were noted. By vote upon
motion (by Ingram, seconded by Mehta), the Minutes were approved (3-0) as written.
4. Administrative Matters
None.
5. Public Comments
None.
6. Business: Address and approve updates to List of Sudan Restrictions, Iran Restrictions, and Expatriated
Entities (as applicable):
Goldberg reported that the updated list from ISS-Ethix and recommended that the Sudan additions
be held until we have a legislative update. Goldberg moved (seconded by Mehta) that IIPB hold all
additions until Gamble speak with Senator Collins.
Iran:
Recommended Additions: ISS Ethix recommendation
Recommended Deletions:
Sudan:
Recommended Additions: None. Held until next Iran, Sudan, and Expatriated committee hearing.
Recommended Deletions:
Expatriated:

 Recommended Additions: AON PLC, Altisource Portfolio Solutions SA, Ensco Plc, Invitel Holdings A/S,
ConvaTec Healthcare D S.a.r.l (subsidiary of Convatec Group PLC)- only Convatec Group Plc is in our,
universe- IQ is for parent comp., Tycom Ltd., Gold Reserve Inc., Everest Re Group Ltd, White Mountains
Insurance Group Ltd., Accenture PLC, Weatherford International plc, Herbalife Ltd, Loral Space &
Communications Ltd.
Recommended Deletions: None.
Gamble reported that ISS Ethix reviewed A. P. Maersk’s supplemental documents. Maersk appears to
argue that it is fine to have some commercial operations in Sudan as long as parts of its business in
the country are authorized by the U.S. Government. However, ISS Ethix determined that is not the
case. Both the Committee and ISS Ethix determined that for Maersk to be excluded from divestment,
all of its operations in Sudan, including its commercial operations, have to be authorized or licensed
by the US Government. As a result, Maersk is properly placed in Illinois’ Sudan list.
Martin moved (seconded by Mehta) that IIPB accept the recommendations of the Committee. The
motion passed (3-0).
7. Other Business
Work with the Sudan Legislation sponsor to determine if any legislative changes should be made.
8. Board Member Comments
None.
9. Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be on June 12,, 2019 at 11:30 a.m., unless otherwise scheduled, which will be
provided with due and timely notice posted.
10. Adjournment
Seeing no further business Mehta (seconded by Goldberg) motioned to adjourn at 11:55 a.m. The
motion was approved (3-0).

These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 