Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
September 11, 2019
Call to Order
A meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on September 11,
2019 at the Thompson Center, 100. W. Randolph Street, 16th floor, Room 504.
The following members of the Board were in attendance:
Mitchell Goldberg (Board Chair)
Dipesh Mehta
Alicia Oberman (Telephonic)
Andrew Lappin
Richard Ingram (Telehphonic
Michael Mahoney
A motion was made (by Lappin, seconded by Mahoney) to permit Ingram and Oberman to appear
telephonically. The motion passed (5-0).
Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel to the IIPB.
Goldberg called the meeting to order at 12:35 pm.
Approval of Minutes
No additions or corrections were noted as to the minutes of the meeting of the Board held May 29. By
vote upon motion (by Lappin, seconded by Ingram), the Minutes were approved (6-0) as written.
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
Mehta reported on current status of the agreement with MCSI.
Report from the Committee on Sudan, Iran and Expatriate Restrictions
Ingram reported that the Committee met earlier today. The Committee addressed three appeals from
companies as follows:
A. LafargeHolcim: Ingram reported that a representative of the company attended in-person and
presented before the Committee. The sum and substance of written materials and presentation
was that the company had divested its business interests in Sudan. The company’s
representative also represented that the company would submit a certification of compliance
with the Illinois statute within 10 days. Ingram reported that the Committee recommends to the
IIPB that, subject to receipt of the promised certification from the company that it is compliance
with IL law, LafargeHolcim be removed from the Sudan Restrictions List.
B. CG Power: Written materials submitted to the Committee showed that this company no longer
appeared to be in violation of the Illinois statute. Ingram reported that the Committee
1

 recommends to the IIPB that, (1) subject to receipt of a certification from the company that it is
in compliance with IL law and (2) subject to the removal of seemingly erroneous information on
the company’s website that addresses issues of compliance with IL law, the company be
removed from the Sudan Restricted List.
C. Bureau Veritas: Ingram reported that written materials to the Committee were reviewed. The
Committee recommends that the matter be entered and continued this appeal pending the
vendor’s review of appeal and clarification regarding scope of IL law as to Sudan Restricted
Companies under the statute.
By motion (by Ingram, seconded by Mahoney) the IIPB voted to accept and adopt the Committee’s
recommendations (6-0).
Report/Action as to the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions
Goldberg reported that the Committee had met earlier. He reported that a letter identifying
Ramphastos Investment Management BV (“Ramphastos”) as a company boycotting Israel was sent to
that company following the last meeting. Gamble reported on receipt of a new appeal letter from
Ramphastos prior to this meeting. The committee recommended that the appeal letter be submitted to
the vendor and that the appeal be entered and continued until review can be made by the vendor and
other committee members. Gamble reported regarding a certification received from AirBNB. Gamble
will have the certification posted to the website. By vote (motion by Ingram, seconded by Mahoney) the
Board voted to adopt the Committee’s recommendations.
Other Business
A discussion was had regarding legislative fixes to the statute to clarify issues regarding Sudan restricted
entities. Gamble reported that the Treasurer’s office had contacted the IIPB to seek its opinion as to
whether the Africa Development Bank constituted a Sudan restricted company. The Board shall send
the inquiry to our vendor for its input.
Board Member Comments
None
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting is scheduled for December 12, 2019. The Iran/Sudan/Expatriate Restrictions
Committee is scheduled to meet at 11:30am, followed immediately by the Israel Boycott Restrictions
Committee, followed immediately by the meeting of the full Board. By motion (by Ingram, seconded by
Mahoney), the Board voted (6-0) to have each meeting begin at the end of the preceding meeting.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Lappin motioned to adjourn at 12:57 p.m., seconded by Ingram. The motion
was approved (6-0).

2

 