ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD COMMITTEE ON
SUDAN RESTRICTIONS, IRAN RESTRICTIONS, AND EXPATRIATED ENTITIES
Minutes of the committee
September 11, 2019
Call to Order
A regular meeting of the members of the Iran, Sudan, Expatriated Companies (“ISE Committee”)
convened on Wednesday, September 11, 2019 in the James R. Thompson Center located at 100. W
Randolph St., 16th floor.
The following members of the Committee were in attendance:
Richard Ingram (telephonic)
Dipesh Mehta
Mitchell Goldberg
Michael Mahoney
Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel to the IIPB.
Mehta, as Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 11:39 am.
A motion was made (by Goldberg, seconded by Mahoney) to permit Ingram to appear telephonically.
The Motion passed (3-0). Ingram then took over chairing the meeting.
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the committee held June 12, 2019 were presented to the members by
Goldberg. Goldberg noted several corrections. By vote upon motion (by Goldberg, seconded by
Mahoney), the Minutes were approved (3-0) as corrected.
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
None.
Committee Business
The Committee addressed three appeals from companies as follows:
A. LafargeHolcim: Craig Knott, US general counsel for the company, attended in-person and
presented before the Committee. The sum and substance of written materials and presentation
was that the company had divested its business interests in Sudan. The company’s
representative also represented that the company would submit a certification of compliance
with the Illinois statute within 10 days. Following the presentation, Goldberg moved (seconded
by Mahoney) that Committee recommend to the IIPB that, subject to receipt of the promised
certification from the company that it is compliance with IL law, LafargeHolcim be removed from
the Sudan Restrictions List. The Motion passed (4-0).

 B. CG Power: Written materials submitted to the Committee showed that this company no longer
appeared to be in violation of the Illinois statute. Mahoney moved (seconded by Goldberg) that
the Committee recommend to the IIPB that, (1) subject to receipt of a certification from the
company that it is in compliance with IL law and (2) subject to the removal of seemingly
erroneous information on the company’s website that addresses issues of compliance with IL
law, the company be removed from the Sudan Restricted List. The Motion passed (4-0).
C. Bureau Veritas: Written materials to the Committee were reviewed. The Committee entered
and continued this appeal pending the vendor’s review of appeal and clarification regarding
scope of IL law as to Sudan Restricted Companies under the statute.
Other Business
None
Board Member Comments
None
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be on December 12, 2018 at 11:30 a.m., unless otherwise scheduled, which will be
provided with due and timely notice posted.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Goldberg motioned to adjourn at 11:58 a.m. Seconded by Mehta. The motion
was approved (3-0).

These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 