Illinois Investment Policy Board
Minutes of the regular meeting of the board
March 13, 2019
Call to Order
A regular meeting of the members of the Illinois Investment Policy Board (“Board”) convened on March
13, 2019 at the Thompson Center, 100. W. Randolph Street, 16th floor, Room 504.
The following members of the Board were in attendance:
Mitchell Goldberg (Board Chair)
Dipesh Mehta
Alicia Oberman
Andrew Lappin
Martin Noven
Also in attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel to the IIPB.
Goldberg called the meeting to order at 1:00 pm.
Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the meeting of the Board held December 12, 2018 were presented to the members by
Goldberg. No additions or corrections were noted. By vote upon motion (by Oberman, seconded by
Noven), the Minutes were approved (5-0) as written.
Public Comments
None.
Administrative Matters
Mehta raised the issue of the contract renewals for outside vendors ISS-Ethix and Sustainalytics. He is to
work with the Retirement Systems to research new contract alternatives and report to the board.
Report from the Committee on Sudan, Iran and Expatriate Restrictions
The Committee reported on ISS-Ethix findings regarding AP Moll Maersk appeal and updates to lists.
Mehta moved (seconded by Lappin) that IIPB accept the recommendations of the Committee. The motion
passed (4-0).
Report from the Committee on Israel Boycott Restrictions
The Committee reported that there were no recommended changes from ISS-Ethix. The Committee chair
reported that no response was received to the IIPB’s letter to Airbnb. Further, no response had been
received from Airbnb as to questions asked by committee to Airbnb’s representative who was present at
the 12.12.18 meeting. No Airbnb representative was present at this meeting. No request for a hearing
was made or submitted by Airbnb. Accordingly, the Committee recommended that Airbnb be added to
the published list per ISS-Ethix list. Lappin moved (seconded by Noven) that IIPB accept the
recommendations of the Committee. The motion passed (4-0).
Other Business
None
1

 Board Member Comments
None
Upcoming Meetings
The next meeting will be scheduled for May for a report on potential vendor options, with due and
timely notice posted.
Adjournment
Seeing no further business Mehta motioned to adjourn at 1:30 p.m., seconded by Noven. The motion
was approved (5-0).

2

 