ILLINOIS INVESTMENT POLICY BOARD
COMMITTEE ON ISRAEL BOYCOTT RESTRICTIONS
September 11, 2019
Thompson Center
200 W. Randolph Street, 16th Floor Room 504
MEETING MINUTES
1. Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 12:02 pm.
2. Roll Call: In attendance were Mitchell Goldberg (committee chair), Alicia Oberman
(telephonic), Andrew Lappin, Michael Mahoney and Richard Ingram (telephonic). Also in
attendance was Monica-Kaye Gamble, executive secretary and counsel of the IIPB, Martin
Noven and Dipesh Mehta. Ingram moved that Ingram and Oberman can appear
telephonically. The vote passed (3-0).
3. Approval of Minutes: The Minutes of the committee meeting of June 12, 2019 was reviewed
and accepted with no revisions or corrections.
4. Administration Matters: None.
5. Public Comment: There was no public comment.
6. Business: Address and approve updates to List of Boycotting Companies (as applicable):
Goldberg reported that a letter identifying Ramphastos Investment Management BV
(“Ramphastos”) as a company boycotting Israel was sent to that company following the last
meeting. Gamble reported on receipt of a new appeal letter from Ramphastos prior to this
meeting. The committee recommended that the appeal letter be submitted to the vendor and
that the appeal be entered and continued until review can be made by the vendor and other
committee members. Gamble reported regarding a certification received from AirBNB.
Gamble will have the certification posted to the website.
7. Other Business: None.
8. Next Meeting Date: The next committee meeting is scheduled for December 12, 2019 at the
earlier of the conclusion of the meeting of the Committee on Iran and Sudan Restrictions and
Expatriate Companies, or at approximately 12:30 pm, unless otherwise convened with due
and timely notice of the next committee meeting to be posted.
9. Adjournment: Upon unanimous motion (4-0; by Mahoney, seconded by Ingram), the
meeting was adjourned at 12:15 pm.
These minutes are intended to conform to the requirements of Section 2.02 of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/02).

 