MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE
STONE SOAP
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
2751 E. Jefferson Ave.
Detroit, MI 48207
5:30 PM
In attendance were:
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Aamir Farooqi (Banyan)
Frank Arvan (Banyan)
Mike D’Agostino (Banyan)
Achea Gist (Banyan)
Erica White (Banyan)
Dan Cannon-Wilson (Banyan)
Elizabeth Masserang (PM Environmental)
Karen Slaughter-DuPerry (Detroit Riverfront Conservancy)
Constance Bailey (Rivertown)
John Stroh (The Stroh Companies)
Christopher Stroh (200 River Place Condos)
Mr. Vosburg called the meeting to order at 5:40 PM.
Mr. Vosburg informed the hearing of the tax increment financing request per the Brownfield Plan, provided
an overview of the project, and answered questions regarding the activities to be reimbursed through tax
increment financing.
Mr. Farooqi provided details regarding the redevelopment plan for the project location and answered
questions regarding the anticipated retail tenants, the size and operation of the planned theater, the number
of residential units and their size, configuration, and availability for sale or lease, the architect for the project,
VolumeOne, the anticipated start of construction and construction timeline, the history of the existing
structures and their past uses, parking to be available to the future residents and the public, the
infrastructure planned for potential commercial tenants, and the potential and existing developments
surrounding the project location.
Mr. John Stroh stated that he is excited for the project and is eager for construction to begin.
Ms. Slaughter-DuPerry stated that she would like to see a pedestrian plaza between the project location
and the riverfront, and that she is very excited for the project.
Mr. Christopher Stroh stated that he is excited for the project and eager for more infill development along
the East Riverfront.
Paper copies of the Brownfield Plan and renderings for the project were provided.

 One person present indicated their support for the project on the sign-in sheet. There were no comments
received in opposition of the project.
Citing no further public comments, Mr. Vosburg closed the public hearing at 6:22 PM.

 