Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Zoological Committee
Tuesday, October 15, 2019

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0175
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

JEFFREY

R.

TOBOLSKI,

Forest

Preserve

District

of

Cook

County

Board

of

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REQUESTING A HEARING OF THE ZOOLOGICAL COMMITTEE FOR A REPORT FROM THE
SENIOR STAFF OF THE CHICAGO ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY CONCERNING CAPITAL
INFRASTRUCTURE AT BROOKFIELD ZOO
WHEREAS, in 1919, Edith Rockefeller McCormick donated 83 acres of land to the Forest Preserves of
Cook County for the sole purpose of creating a large, modern zoological park. In 1921, the Chicago
Zoological Society was formed at the recommendation of the Forest Preserves of Cook County to
manage Brookfield Zoo, which opened its doors in 1934; and

Page 1 of 2

 Zoological Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 15, 2019

WHEREAS, Brookfield Zoo is the most popular ticketed cultural destination in the Midwest, with over 2

million visitors every year. The zoo supports nearly 2,000 jobs and has generated over $670 million in labor
income, over $1.5 billion in economic activity, and over $211 million in local, state and federal tax revenues
over the past 10 years; and
WHEREAS, Brookfield Zoo provides crucial community programming, including early childhood

natureplay activities, an elementary and junior high science program hosted at community libraries, and a
High School program focused on STEM learning and college readiness. These programs serve mainly
under resources communities and reach over 4,000 individuals every year; and
WHEREAS, Brookfield Zoo is an example of a successful public-private partnership. It is owned by the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County and operated by the Chicago Zoological Society. The Zoo is an
important and valuable asset of the Cook County Forest Preserve District; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Forest Preserve District annually provides $14 million for the Chicago
Zoological Society in support of its world-class operations; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby request that a meeting of the Zoological Committee be convened to discuss the status of capital
infrastructure at Brookfield Zoo; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a member of the senior staff of the Chicago Zoological Society appear before
the Committee and be prepared to update the Committee on Brookfield Zoo’s capital infrastructure...end

Legislative History: 2/19/2019 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Zoological Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Tobolski
Vice Chairman: Moore
Members:
Arroyo, Daley, Deer, Miller, K. Morrison, S. Morrison and Silvestri

Page 2 of 2

 