
[0?15 'lq

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

 
 
 

cou In mp.-

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

Deacon Alfred Lee Murphy

July 4, 1945 September 29, 2019

Mr. Alfred Lee Murphy made his entrance on July 4, 1945 in Inkster, Michigan to the parents of the late Alfred and Virginia
Murphy, who proceeded him in death. He is the oldest of four siblings: Myron, Robert and William; AND

Mr. Alfred Lee Murphy attended Sumpter Michigan Schools prior to going to Belleville High School, where he was a
member of the track team. In 1961 the family moved to Detroit, Michigan, where he later graduated from Mackenzie High
School in June 1964. He attended Port Huron Junior College before enlisting in the United States Anny during the summer
of 1965. While serving in the Army in Vietnam, Alfred was wounded and received the Purple Heart Army
Commendation in March of 1967; AND

Mr. Alfred Lee Murphy was an extremely intelligent man and received a B.S. in History from Wayne State University. In
1980, he met the love of his life, Kathleen (Pretty Face), affectionately call ?Kat.? Throughout their 30 plus years of marriage,
they were inseparable. They did everything together and enjoyed life to the fullest; AND

Mr. Alfred Lee Murphy was an educator who worked as a guest teacher at various Detroit and South?eld Public Schools.
He was also a tour guide for the Detroit Institute of Arts. He retired from the Michigan State Department of Human Services
as a Social Worker in 2007; AND

Mr. Alfred Lee Murphy accepted Christ as his Lord and Savior and was baptized as a believer. He later joined Cedar
Christian Church under the guidance and leadership of Pastor Henry Hall, Jr. Al?'ed was a dedicated Deacon who served in
multiple capacities within the church. Deacon Murphy was the gatekeeper at the church. As a leader, Deacon Alfred Lee
Murphy was a proud member of Cedar Christian Prison and Food Ministries. In his continuous service to the community,
he volunteered at Magnolia Nursing Home Facility as a gerontology activities coordinator; AND

Deacon Alfred Lee Murphy was an extremely generous man. He always provided a helping hand to those in need. He was
someone you could count on. Alfred was an honorable man and a dear ?-iend to many. He was an avid reader and loved
playing golf, gardening, and traveling. Alfred was funny and made everyone laugh. He loved spending time with family and
friends. Alfred was a dedicated man and treasured his loving wife ?Kat?; AND

Deacon Alfred Lee Murphy made his transition at 3:13 am on Sunday, September 29, 2019, surrounded by his wife and
children. He leaves to cherish his memory his wife, Kathleen Murphy, Daughters; ToShanna L. Trent (Joseph L.), Jaronique
D. Devezin (Terrence D.), Niema A. Stone (Horace E.), one son; DeMarco M. Compton (Carla 8.), two God daughters;
Danielle Lester and Sharonda Trammel, one God son; Jajuan Judkins, three brothers; Myron, Robert and William Murphy,
three grandsons; Dairez, DeMarco II and Arrington, two granddaughters; Angel and Joi, special niece and nephew; Traci
Boyd and Ke?ng Murphy, two brother-in-laws; Ricky Boyd (Pam) and Kenneth Boyd, one sister-in-law; Hedy Boyd
(Willie), special friends; Eddie Brown (Denise), Reginald Beasley (Kim), Otis Lane, proceeded him in death (Pat), many
nieces and nephews and a host of relatives and friends; NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

On this date, October 2019, that Councilman Roy McCalister, Jr. and the entire Detroit City Council, hereby present
this testimonial resolution in Memoriam as an expression of gratitude and esteem, on behalf of the residents of the City of
Detroit, to honor the life and service of Deacon Alfred Lee Murphy. We extend our deepest sympathy and join with family
and friends to celebrate his life.

  
  

 

 

    

October 05, 2019
DATE

 

 

