September th
11
, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 10:00 AM: Commenced at 10:09 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (9/11/2019)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda”.

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin Irvin
Johnny Miller, Alejandro Silva, Bernard Jakes.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Cynthia Allen, Bob Israel.

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
th
August 14
, 2019. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with five yes votes and one
abstention (Jakes).

BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve an ordinance fixing the salary
Reverend Bernard Jakes as a temporary member of the Chicago Transit Board. After the motion w
moved and seconded, the ordinance was adopted with five yes votes and one abstention (Jakes).

Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve an ordinance appointing members and cha
certain standing committees of the Chicago Transit Board. After the motion was moved and secon
the ordinance was adopted with six yes votes.

Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve a resolution changing the date of the Janua
2020 Chicago Transit Board regular meeting. After the motion was moved and seconded, the reso
was adopted with six yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Chairman Silva presented the report. The commi
reviewed the monthly (September) report on Finance and approvedth,the
August
14
2019
committee
meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda items, listed on the Comm
Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Boa
approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Silva. After b
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes and one abstention (Jakes).
All approved September 2019 Board ordinances are available on-line, www.transitchicago.com
.
“Chicago Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 019-74 through 019-84.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Bill Mooney presented the Construction Repo
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (September 2019), “Construction Report”.
th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the
, 2019
September 11
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

 