19w?

(046-49

BUD GET, 
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

 A. Your?; MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 Wobcwano Avmue. suma 1026
MICHIGAN 48226

Cr" 0F PHONE: 313 - 628-2158
OFFICE OFTHE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 3 I 3 . 224 . 0542

Dmce OF DEVELOPMENT AND Gums 

 

 

September 13. 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk O?lce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate a cash donation from the Quicken Loans
Community Fund in the amount of $200,000.00

The Quicken Loans Community Fund has awarded a cash donation to the City of
Detroit Board of Fieview to purchase property tax exemption software. in the amount of
$200,000.00. There no match requirement for this donation.

The objective of the cash donation to the department is to purchase a property tax
exemption software that will provide greater access to property tax exemption
Opportunities for Detroit homeowners.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this donation, the appropriation number
is 20686.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate this donation in accordanCe
with the attached resolution.

Sincerely.
on?!


Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Office of Development and Grants

CC:

Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants

Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department

This request has been approved by the Office of Budget

as?"

Of?ce of Development and Grants - mamas

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Board of Review has been awarded a cash donation from the Quicken
Loans Community Fund in the amount of $200,000.00: and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Detroit Board of Review is hereby authorized to accept
a cash donation of $200,000.00 to purchase a property tax exemption software that will provide
greater access to property tax exemption opportunities for Detroit homeowners; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20686 to accept and appropriate a donation in the amount of $200,000.00 from the
Quicken Loans Community Fund.

Page 1 0H

Quicken Loans B?390ii?$?3?3

Communliy Fund 

September 11. 2019

Detroit Board of Review 
Coleman Young Municipal Building
2 Woodward Ave.

Detroit, Ml 48226

Attn: Willie Donwell

Re: Offer to Pay for Property Tax Exemption Software
Dear Mr. Donwell.

At Quicken Loans, we know the value of a home. For more than 25 years. Quicken
Loans has worked diligently to build a national reputation centered on a simple, user-friendly
mortgage process that inspires con?dence. One of our [or core values] is that we are
"obsessed with finding a better way." This mentality continues to position Quicken Loans as
the nation's largest mortgage lender with 15 ID Power awards for client satisfaction and
origination.

The Quicken Loans Community Fund - the philanthropic arm of Quicken Loans and
its Family of Companies also embodies this spirit of being obsessed with ?nding a better
way. it is that drive to always innovate, alongside our dedication to housing stability in
Detroit. that has led us to invest deeply in property tax foreclosure prevention and reform.
Through that work. we have invested in a direct outreach campaign called Neighbor to
Neighbor that has reached all 65,000 Detroit families behind on their property taxes.

As we embarked on that campaign. it became clear that homeowners are not aware
of or able to access the support for which they may be eligible. One of the most powerful tools
to empower Detroit homeowners to retain their home is the Homeowner?s Property Tax
Assistance Program. which could reduce or eliminate their property tax burdens.
Understanding the critical importance of supporting Detroithomeowners. the Quicken Loans
Community Fund would like to support an online software system that will help Detroit
homeowners, and the Detroit Board of Review. in the completion, submission, and review of
llomeowner's Property Tax Assistance Program applications.

It is our sincere hope thatthis software assists thousands of Detroit homeowners and
their families in accessing critical property tax exemptions that can stave off tax foreclosure
and increase housing stabilityin neighborhoods across Detroit. Simultaneously, we hope that
this software eases the workload of the Detroit Board of Review. whose oversight and
diligence are integral to the fair and expedient adminisiration of property tax exemptions.
We are honored to support this endeavor in service to homeowners in our home city of
Detroit.

Pursuant to our previous discussions, this letter agreement [this ?Letter
Agreement?) confirms Quicken Loans Community Fund's offer to pay for certain
property tax exemption software to be procured by DBR under the following conditions:

1050 Woodward,

Quicken Mans Detroit, MI 48226

Communlly Fund 

1. BER will issue a request for preposal for the development and use of
software to process propertytax exemptions {the ?Software"]. The Software will
include set up, integration and education services, setup that allows the
Software to have an interface for residents to complete and submit property
tax exemption applications and review the status of such applications. including
approval or denial and [ii] an administrative interface for DER to review, approve
0r deny property tax exemptions and a subscription-based agreement for a
per-submission use of the Software.

2. Upon completion of the RFP process, DBR will notify QLCF of the vendor selected
to provide the Software [the Wonder?) and will provide QLCF with a copy of the
drait software agreement between the Vendor and DBR (the 
Agreement"). Subject to due-diligence and review of the Soitware
Agreement. QLCF will pay for DBR's use of the Software for up to three years.
at a cost not to exceed $200,000 (the ?Grant Amount?) over such three (3) year
period. with a maximum payment of $80,000 in the ?rst year.

3. The Software Agreement will be entered into directly between the Vendor and
DER. QLCF will have no liability to Vendor or DBR other than liability to DBR for
the payment of fees in accordance with this Letter Agreement

if Vendor, BER and QLCF mutually determine that QLCF will pay Vendor directly
Vendor will invoice both BER and QLCF. QLCF will pay undisputed invoice
amounts within 30 days of receipt of invoice. QLCF will not be required to pay
invoices on disputed amounts until resolved between Vendor and DER in
accordance with the Software Agreement. QLCF will have the right to withhold
payments to Vendor as may be directed by DBR in accordance with DBR's rights
under the Software Agreement or applicable law.

5. The payment arrangement described in this Letter Agreement will not give QLCF
or its af?liates the right to access or use any con?dential and non-public data
transmitted through the Software.

6. Prior to or concurrently with the execution of the Software Agreement, Vendor,
BER and the Quicken Loans Community Fund will enter into a mutual agreement
letter (the ?Final Agreement") to re?ect the terms of this Letter Agreement and
any other terms that may be necessary or advisable (for purposes of clarifying
obligations and rights) based upon the ?nal draft of the Software
Agreement The execution of the Final Agreement and the Software Agreement
shall be a condition precedent for payment for the Software as
contemplated by this Letter Agreement.

[continued on the following page]

Quicken Loans . B?390li??fjl?32d?

Community Fund 

This Letter Agreement represents our full and ?nal understanding of the matters
discussed herein and supersedes and replaces any prior written or oral agreemenis or
understandings (including but not limited to the letter agreement submitted by QLCF to BER
and Court innovations. inc. dated February 2019). Any modi?cation of this Letter
Agreement will require a written amendment signed by all parties. This Letter Agreement
will be governed by Michigan Law.

To con?rm that you agree with the foregoing. please sign in the Space provided below
and provide a copy to me at Wham Should you have any

questions, please contact Alex Alsup at (313) 782-9585 or W.

Sincerely,

Laura Grannemann
Vice President. Quicken Loans Community Fund
Accepted and agreed to as of September 11, 2019:

Detroit Board of Review
K.
By:
Nam Low 

Tide: Vi Pr {Si dLVl?l?

7.

 

Assessmem Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313-628-0722
Board of ReVIew 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 124 Fax: 313-224-4576
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

CITYOF
DETROIT

DATE: October 4, 2019
TO: Detroit City Council
FROM: Board of Review
Willie C. Donwell, Admin/Chair
RE: Board of Review Update
MEMORANDUM

 

Honorable City Council, this is an update of activities being performed by the Board of Review. The
purpose is to provide continued communication to this honorable body relative to the operations and actions
of the Board of Review

HPTAP APPLICATION UPDATE

Currently the Board of Review has received approximately 5,500+ applications, which would place the
Board at approximately 15% more applications than this same time last year. Partly due to the continued
outreach. Over 6,500 application were submitted in 2018 which was approximately 22% higher than 2017
which supports the growth trend for more applications being submitted to the Board of Review.

The Board of Review has submitted the proposed 2020 income levels and application to the ACLU as
required under the settlement agreement and awaiting their response so that the guidelines and application
may be submitted to City Council on or before October 15th as required. As in the past, the memo that will
accompany the recommendation from the Board will also be submitted to the CFO, Law Department, Office
of the Assessor and LPD.

OUTREACH

We are continuing an ongoing outreach campaign to all residential homeowners, especially those that may
be delinquent or in threat of foreclosure. As you are aware, there will be a mailing that will be sent to
residential properties. This may increase the overall numbers of applications this year.

Information and/or presentations regarding the appeal process and HPT AP application are done on an
ongoing basis with community groups, organizations, blocks clubs, churches and other events.

With the increase in applications it is important that the board maintains a line of communication with
community groups, organizations and any other entity that may be assisting with applications to stress the
importance of proper completion to limit or reduce the amount of additional work that may be placed on
the Board in the review process of the applications.

There are a number of other events scheduled through the end of the year where presentations and/0r
information will be distributed. Over 10,000 HPTAP applications has been distributed through the Board
of Review efforts alone.

 

Assessment Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313-628-0722
Board of ReVIew 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 124 Fax: 313-224-4576

CITY OF . . . . .
Detrort, an 48226 ov
DETROIT 

HPTAP ONLINE APPLICATION SOFTWARE

It was recommended by the law department that the contract be placed out for bid and the funding donated
directly to the city. A new letter was requested and provided by QL-CIF. The letter was provided to Grants
Management and should be in front of City Council in coming weeks for approval and acceptance.

 

Acceptance of the grant is the final step as I have met with the law department, procurement and to
make sure that all of the necessary concerns and questions were discussed and resolved. This was truly a
collaborative effort of all of the required parties involved.

MOVE TO SUITE 105

The Board of Review will be moving to Suite 105. This is intended to be the Board of Review?s final move.
There is an extensive remodeling of the first ?oor as it relates to Treasury, Income Tax and other offices.
The Board will be moving into the location as of October 14, 2019 (tentatively). At the completion, the
Board of Review should have a fully functional location to conduct all its business.

The location is optimal for serving citizens as it is in the center of the building on the first floor which will
provide easy access, especially for our most fragile.

REQUIRED COMMUNITY MEETING

The Board of Review held its required community meeting on September 12, 2019 at Central Detroit
Christian. During that meeting the Board of Review met with multiple community groups, organizations,
leaders and citizens to discuss the Homeowners Property Tax Assistance Program.

