k3 2w 
Qiga?w?b



PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. surrE 1026
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

CITY or DETROIT PHONE: 3 I3 - 628-2 I 58
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FM. 313 . 224 . 0543

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS GOV

 

September 12, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority
(ATPA) Grant

The Michigan State Police have awarded the City of Detroit Police Department with the
FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) Grant for a total of $1,823,095.00. The
State share is 60 percent or $1,823,095.00 of the approved amount, and a there is a
required cash match of 40 percent or $1,215,397.00. The total project cost is
$3,038,492.00. The grant was adopted in the FY 2020 budget in the amount of
$2,877,469.00. The grant was awarded at a higher amount than was budgeted. We are
asking for an increase in appropriation 20605, in the amount of $161 ,023.00. in order to
reflect the total project cost of $3,038,492.00.

The objective of the grant is to implement innovative programs to address auto theft and
fraud. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to pay for salaries, fringe
bene?ts, overtime, vehicles, and cell phones for police of?cers.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number
is 20605, with the match amount coming from appropriation number 00380.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,

Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director. Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget

g?

Office of Development and Grants cremation

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from Michigan State Police, in the amount of $1,823,095.00. to implement
innovative programs to address auto theft and fraud: and

WHEREAS, the Grant was adopted in the FY 2020 budget under 20605, in the
amount of $2,877,469.00; and whereas the total project cost for the grant is $3,038,492.00, which
includes a required cash match of $1,215,397,00; and whereas the grant was awarded at a higher
value than was budgeted; and now we are requesting that appropriation 20605 be increased by
$161,023.00 in order to reflect the total project cost amount of $3,038,492; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director for the Office of Development and Grants is
hereby authorized to sign the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and that the
Director or Head of the Department is authorized to execute the grant agreement on behalf of the
City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to increase the budget
accordingly for Appropriation number 20605, in the amount of $161,023.00, in order to equal the
total project cost of the grant, in the amount of $3,038,492.00, which inciudes a cash match
coming from ApprOpriation 00380, for the FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) Grant.

Page 1 of 1

 

or MICHIGAN

GRETCHEN WHITMER DEPARTMENT OF STATE POLICE COL. JOSEPH M. GASPER
GOVERNOR AUTOMOBILE THEFT PREVENTION AUTHORITY DIRECTOR
LANSING

September 9, 2019

Ms. Katerli Bounds

Detroit Police Department

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1026
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: 21-20 PAT

Dear Ms. Bounds:

I am pleased to inform you that your application to the Michigan State Police, Grants and Community
Services Division, Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA). has been selected to receive grant funding.
With a focus on innovative programs that address auto theft and fraud, your efforts are valued and
appreciated. The award for your teamfproject, pending the finalization of the Grant Agreement (contract),
is $3,038,492. The ATPA portion of your award is $1,823,095, and the match requirement is $1,215,397.
Please note that the ATPA Board of Directors has issued a one-time 60l40 funding match for
FY2020. Further details regarding allowable expenditures is contained in the enclosed grant contract.

It is crucial that you read through the entire contract to be sure you and your financial officer are aware of
and able to abide by the grant requirements. Contract requirements will be enforced. Non-compliance of
contract requirements may result in grant suspension and financial penalties. The deadline for returning
your signed contract is September 30, 2019.

If you have any questions or concerns regarding your award, please contact Insp. Michael Johnson,
ATPA Executive Director (acting), at JohnsonM45@michigan.gov or 517-243-3232. We look forward to
working with you.

Sincerely,

.- 
.f . r' r} Rx? 
Jay 
lnsp. chael Johnson, Executive Director (acting)
Automobile Theft Prevention Authority

Enclosure

Got Joseph Gaspar Chair
Chief Cnrlis Carri Undersherilt Daniel -- Hepresenling Law Enlorcunmni
Ms. Lon Davis, Mr. William I'atlerson -- Insurers
Mr. Michael 'l?hompson. Mr. Gene Representing Purchasers oi Automobile Insurance

MICHIGAN STATE POLICE HEADQUARTERS 7150 HARRIS DRIVE 0 DIMONDALE. MICHIGAN 48821
MAILING ADDRESS a PO. BOX 30634 I LANSING. MICHIGAN 4890f!
. 517-284-3193

GRANTS-043 (04/2019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 1 of 8

AUTO THEFT PREVENTION AUTHORITY (ATPA)
GRANT CONTRACT

AUTHORITY: MCL 500.6105; COMPLIANCE: Voluntary, however, failure to complete will result in cancellation of grant/loss of funds.

Scan and email one complete copy with original signatures to the ATPA by September 30, 2019 at
MSPATPA?michioanoov. Do not send a paper copy.

 

I. Award Information
Name of Grantee/Fiduciary

P?ect Title/Acronym

 

 

 

 

Detroit Police Department PAT
AMT _Clty I State? ZIP Code
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1026 Detroit MI 48226
T'Bi'a?mt Award Mia?Airm? Match Raqum 
$3,038,492 $1,823,095 $1,215,397
Want Pemtad Grant Perlod End Date ?F?roject Number
October 1, 2019 September 30, 2020 21?20
Authorizati?C?ficial I Project Director Financial Contact

 

 

 

Ms. Katerli Bounds Lt. Willie Duncan Mr. Aharon Elchonen

 

ll. Contract Conditions and Requirements

Grant Award

The ATPA grant award is to be utilized solely for the benefit of motor vehicle theft prevention programs and initiatives.
The ATPA will only reimburse expenditures incurred during the grant period of October 1, 2019, to September 30, 2020.

The project number (listed above in Award information) must be included on all correspondence addressed to the ATPA
regarding this grant.

A change in authorized official, project director, financial contact, participating agency, personnel assigned to the team, or
budget line item change requires a Project Modification Request (GRANTS-034), which can be downloaded from the
ATPA website at miohiqangovfatpa.

The authorized official and financial officer will serve without compensation from the ATPA grant award.

Any amount of the grant award received, or forfeiture funds generated as a result of motor vehicle theft prevention
activities shall be used to enhance motor vehicle theft prevention programs or initiatives. Forfeiture funds include, but are
not limited to, forfeiture of cash and receipts from the sale of property.

Public communications materials, news releases, or training announcements that result from this grant must cite the "Auto
Theft Prevention Authority" as the source of funding. Copies of the materials or news releases must be sent to the ATPA
at least five days prior to publishing, and the ATPA reserves the right to make any necessary edits. The ATPA also has
the royalty-free right to copy, publish, and distribute any data or material associated with this grant.

Law enforcement personnel funded by the ATPA grant award shall dedicate 100 percent of their regular work hours
conducting ATPA grant?related duties. Prosecuting attorneys who designate a portion of their time for ATPA activities will
dedicate 100 percent of their designated time to ATPA grant related duties. This will be reflected in daily logs which will
be made available for on-site monitoring by ATPA personnel.

The grantee agrees to return all unexpended grant funds to the ATPA within 60 days after the project is completed. The
check shall be made payable to the "State of Michigan.?

Reporting

Failure to comply with any reporting responsibilities identified in this contract may result in withholding grant payment(s) or
the cancellation of the grant award. The grantees tack of compliance will also be taken into account when considering
future grant applications and awards from the ATPA.

All grantees must comply with the requirements of the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) System Act, 1968 PA 319, as
amended. This act requires county sheriffs' departments, as well as city, village, and township police departments, to
submit UCR data.

 

GRANTS-043 (0412019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE

Page 2 of 8

The Progress Report Financial Report and Expenditure Detail (GRANTS-036), can be
downloaded from the ATPA website at The grantee agrees to submit reports in accordance with
the schedule referenced in this contract.

All grant?funded employees, including employees of subgrantees, will complete and submit an Employee Time
Certification (GRANTS-038). Grantees will submit to the ATPA annually via email to
MSPATPAKQmichiqanom.

All projects must maintain adequate supporting documentation for financial and progress reports submitted to the ATPA.
Failure to provide adequate supporting documentation may adversely affect current~year reimbursements and future

ATPA grant requests.
ATPA Teams

The grantee will serve as the fiduciary for the ATPA grant. The fiduciary will be responsible for receiving grant funds,
distributing funds to participating team members, and receiving and compiling reports from team members. The grantee
will submit grant reports according to the schedule referenced in this contract, as well as those specially requested by the

ATPA.

When an agency withdraws an employee from an ATPA team, the ATPA approved budget for that position will remain
with the ATPA team. The project director must inform the ATPA when the withdrawal occurs by completing the Project
Modification Request (GRANTS-034). The vacant position must be replaced within 30 days or the position will be
unfunded unless an extension request has been approved in writing.

Participating agencies are expected to participate on the ATPA team that received the grant award for the entire grant
period. Participating agencies that withdraw personnel from the ATPA team before the end of the grant period will be
reimbursed based upon the percentage of the grant period in which they participated. The ATPA Board of Directors
reserves the right to deny future grant awards based on agency participation.

All personnel who are funded by an ATPA team must have their activities approved by the team commander.
Program and Financial Review
On-Site Monitoring and Payments

ATPA staff will schedule appointments with grantees in order to conduct on?site monitoring and grantees must accept
these appointments.

Grantees must maintain separate accounting records to document grant revenues and expenditures.

This grant is reimbursement only (excluding non-profit organizations). Grantees must document that expenditures have
been paid by local sources before requesting reimbursement from the ATPA.

Supporting documentation which must be submitted with the ?nancial report is as follows:

Time and Attendance: Payroll expenditures must be supported by employee's earning history, attendance sheet,
time sheet, payroll register, and duty log. These records must be retained and made available to ATPA staff
during on-site monitoring.

0 Law Enforcement and Prosecutors Only Attach the duty logs to the Financial Report (GRANTS-
035) when submitted.

- Fringe Benefits and Overtime: Retain a copy of cost allocations for fringe benefits charged to the ATPA program.
0 Law Enforcement and Prosecutors Only - Each person's overtime hours must not exceed twenty percent
of the person's actual regular hours worked. For grantees only paying overtime, this limit does not apply.

- All payments for expenditures utilities, office rent, copier use, vehicle lease/rent, cell phones) must be
supported by an actual invoice or the method of determining cost.

Equipment Procurement Service: Grantees must attach a copy of the actual
invoice or the method of determining cost.

Payment Procedure: For non?profit organizations only, advance payment, with exception, will be based on prior
experience and budget limitations. The ATPA agrees to provide the agency with an advance as needed, up to
90 percent of the total ATPA share. Non-profit organizations must submit the Financial Report (GRANTS-O35) to
request an advance payment. Non?profit organizations acknowledge that upon receipt of this advance, a liability
due to the ATPA wili be established. The liability will be reduced as expended and reported to the ATPA. Any
unexpended funds shall be returned to the ATPA.

- Advances are conditional upon receipt of financial and progress reports completed in accordance with grant
conditions. The final payment will be made on a reimbursement basis.

GRANTS-043 (04/2019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 3 of 8

All grantees must sign up through the online SIGMA Self Service vendor registration process to receive State of Michigan
payments as Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT)/Direct Deposits. as mandated by the Management and Budget Act, 1984
PA 431, MCL 18.1283a. Vendor registration information is available on the Michigan Department of Technology,
Management and Budget's (DTMB) website located at 

Should the grantee discover an error in a previous reimbursement request, the grantee shall immediately notify the ATPA
and refund the ATPA any funds not authorized for use under this contract and any payments or funds advanced to the
grantee in excess of allowable reimbursable expenses.

Mileage EXpense for Non-profit Organizations: Limited to the grantee's established mileage reimbursement allowance for
non?federally funded activities, not to exceed the ATPA approved budget amount. Grantees must provide supporting
documentation for these expenses

Vehicle Usage/Rental Expenses for Law Enforcement and Prosecutors: Limited to the grantee's established
reimbursement policy for non-federally funded activities, not to exceed the ATPA approved budget amount.

IV. Criminal or Administrative Investigations/Charges

If any employee of the grantee/subgrantee associated with this grant project becomes aware of a criminal or
administrative investigation or charge that directly or indirectly involves grant funds referenced in this contract, the grantee
shall immediately notify the ATPA's Executive Director in writing that such an investigation has been initiated or that a
charge has been issued.

V. Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters (Direct Recipient)

Pursuant to Executive Order 12549 (Debarment and Suspension) and implemented at 2 C.F.R. Part 2867 for prospective
participants in primary covered transactions as defined at 28 C.F.R. Part 2867, Section 2867.20(a) the grantee certifies
that it and its principals:

- Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, sentenced to a denial of
federal benefits by a state or federal court, or voluntarily excluded from covered transactions by any federal
department or agency;

- Have not within a three-year period preceding this application been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered
against them and are not presently indicted for or othenrvise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity
(federal, state, or local) for commission of fraud or criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to
obtain, or performing a public (federal, state, or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; violation
of federal or state antitrust statutes; commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or
destruction of records, on making false statements, or receiving stolen property;

- Have not within a two-year period preceding this application been convicted of a felony criminal violation under
any federal law; and

- Have not within a three?year period preceding this application had one or more public transactions (federal, state,
or local) terminated for cause or default.

VI. Suspension/Termination

The ATPA and/or the grantee may suspend and/or terminate this contract without further liability or penalty to the ATPA
for any of the following reasons:

Failure to comply with any of the terms of this contract. Suspension requires immediate action by the grantee to
comply with the terms of this contract; otherwise, termination by the ATPA may occur.

- Failure of the grantee to make satisfactory progress toward the measurable objectives set forth in this contract.

Filing false certification in this contract or other report or document.

This contract may be terminated by either party by giving 15-days written notice to the other party. Such written notice will
provide valid, legal reasons for termination, along with the effective date of termination.

This contract may be terminated immediately if the grantee, an official of the grantee, or an owner is convicted of any
activity referenced in Section of this contract during the term of this contract or any extension thereof.

GRANTS-043 (04(2019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 4 of 8

Should this contract be terminated by either party, within 30 days after the termination, the grantee shall provide the ATPA
with all financial, performance, and other reports required as a condition of this contract. The ATPA will make payments
to the grantee for allowable reimbursable costs not covered by previous payments. The grantee shall immediately refund
to the ATPA any funds not authorized for use and any payments or funds advanced to the grantee in excess of allowable
reimbursable expenditures.

VII. Liability

All liability to third parties; loss or damage as a result ofclaims; and demands, costs, orjudgments arising out of activities
such as direct service delivery to be carried out by the grantee in the performance of this contract shall be the
responsibility of the grantee and not the responsibility of the ATPA if the liability. loss, or damage is caused by or arises
out of the actions or failure to act on the part of the grantee, any subgrantee, or anyone directly or indirectly employed by
the grantee, provided that nothing herein shall be construed as a waiver of any governmental immunity that has been

provided to the grantee or its employees by statute or court decisions.

All liability to third parties; loss, or damage as a result of claims; demands, costs, orjudgments arising out of activities
such as the provision of policy and procedural direction to be carried out by the ATPA in the performance of this contract
shall be the responsibility of the ATPA and not the responsibility of the grantee if the liability, loss, or damage is caused by
or arises out of the action or failure to act on the part of any ATPA employee or agent, provided that nothing herein shall
be construed as a waiver of any governmental immunity by the state of Michigan, its agencies (the ATPA), or employees
as provided by statute or court decisions.

In the event that liability to third parties, loss, or damage arises as a result of activities conducted jointly by the grantee
and ATPA in fulfillment of their responsibilities under this contract, such liability, loss, or damage shall be borne by the
grantee and the ATPA in relation to each party's responsibilities under thesejoint activities, provided that nothing herein
shall be construed as a waiver of any governmental immunity by the grantee, the state of Michigan. its agencies (the
ATPA), or their employees, respectively, as provided by statute or court decisions.

It is specifically understood and agreed that, if the State of Michigan or any County is party to this contract, nothing in this
Section will require such party to indemnify any other party or entity in any litigation that may arise from the performance
of this contract. This is not to be construed as a waiver of governmental immunity.

Eligible Expenditures

All eligible expenditures listed below with identified amounts are the ATPA portion; agencies are responsible for
appropriate match as identified in Section I. Any expenditure not detailed below must have approval from the ATPA prior
to acquisition/purchase.

Regular salaries.
Longevity costs.

Fringe benefits (FICA, unemployment, workers
compensation, retirement, life, medical, dental
and vision insurance).

Overtime hours. llours must not exceed 20
percent of the total sworn employees' budgeted
salary/fringe amount. This amount is cumulative
for the team and can be utilized at the teams'
discretion. For grantees only paying overtime,
this limit does not apply.

Travel and meals. Travel outside normal
territory, not to exceed $1,000 per employeelper
yeah

Vehicle operation cost. Not to exceed:

0 Law enforcement agency - Calculated at
$10,000 per employee/per year. Costs

are cumulative, not limited per
employee. Only vehicles engaged in
road patrols/investigations are eligible.

Prosecutor's office $750 per assistant
prosecuting attorney/per year for
mileage and parking reimbursement.

0 Non-profit organization - $1,500 per
employee/per year for mileage
reimbursement.

Office space or utilities. Requires prior approval.
Office furniture. Requires prior approval.
Copier purchase/usage. Not to exceed:

0 Law enforcement agency - $1.200 per
year

0 Prosecutor's office $1,200 per year.

0 Non-profit organization - $2,400 per year

Phone installation. Prior approval is required.

GRANTS-043 (04/2019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 5 of 8

I

Landline phone purchase/usage. Not to exceed:

0 Law enforcement agency and
prosecutor's office - $750 per
person/per year.

0 Non-profit organization $1,500 per year

Office supplies. Not to exceed $200 per
year/per person.

Investigative supplies for law enforcement
agency (sworn employees only). Not to exceed
$300 per year/per person.

Computer purchase. Prior approval is required.

IX. Ineligible Expenditures

Cell phone purchase/usage. Prior approval is
required.

Motor vehicle theft-related association dues,
including dues to the International Association of
Automobile Theft Investigators and Michigan
Association of Vehicle Theft Investigators.

Training or conference for educational purposes
relating to vehicle theft/fraud investigations.
Prior approval is required.

This is not an all-inclusive list. Prior approval is required for any expenditure(s) not listed below.

Inordinate fringes, including, but not limited to,
lump sum payments banked sick/vacation
time, bonuses, pensions, health benefits, and
holiday pay).

Health care benefit waiver bonuses.
Indirect Costs.

Expenditure(s) incurred before or after the grant
penod.

Any administrative costs not directly related to
the administration of this grant.

In-car terminals and system.

Law Enforcement Information Network (LEIN)
usage fees.

Vehicle, liability, or professional insurance.

Non-motor vehicle theft?related membership and
agency dues.

Entertainment.

Expenditures in excess of approved budget.
Clothing/cleaning/gun allowance.
Emergency response compensation.
Show?up pay.

Educational incentives college courses
and trade schools).

First?class travel.

X. Law Enforcement Objectives

Costs incurred applying for this grant 
consultants, grant writers).

Personnel, including law enforcement officers.
not connected to the project to which this grant
refers.

Fundraising and any associated salaries or
expenses.

Legal fees.

Purchase of promotional items unless prior
approval is received in writing.

Contributions and donations.

Fines and penalties.

Losses from uncollectible bad debts.
Purchases of land.

Military?type equipment such as armored
vehicles, explosive devices, and other items
typically associated with military arsenal.

Construction costs and/or renovation, including
remodeling.

Expert witness fees.
Weapons, including tasers

Conducting law enforcement operations with the
intent of generating revenue for personal or
agency gain through deceitful, fraudulent,
unethical, or illegal methods.

Reduce the number of motor vehicle thefts in your grant area by investigating cases that have the highest
potential for reducing the demand for stolen vehicles, arresting individuals who are involved, and reducing false

motor vehicle theft reports.

Reduce the economic gain associated with motor vehicle theft by recovering stolen vehicles/parts/equipment and

by identifying fraudulent insurance activity.

Recover more in stolen vehicles/parts/equipment value than the total approved grant award from the ATPA.

GRANTS-043 (04f2019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 6 of 8

Comply with ATPA guidelines/policies/conditions and UCR requirements for submission of data.
Maintain clear and reliable documentation for the project?s performance activity and financial expenditures.

Following auction. report to the ATPA the dollar amount deposited into the forfeiture account on the Progress
Report (GRANTS-037).

A team member shall attend regular meetings for area detectives and insurance investigators, including
participation in the Anti Car Theft (ACT) meetings. Please note that email correspondence will be accepted in lieu
of physical attendance.

XI. Law Enforcement Evaluation Criteria (See Section XVII. Arrest Ranking)

XI.

Number of 14 point motor vehicle theft (MVT) - Number of passenger vehicles recovered.

related arrests. - Dollar value of passenger vehicles recovered.
Number of 12 point MVT related arrests.

Number often point MVT related arrests.

- Number of other vehicles recovered.

Dollar value of other vehicles recovered.

Number Of eight potnt MVT related arrests. - Number of parts parts/equipment recovered.

Number Of pomt MVT related arrests. - Dollar value of parts/equipment recovered.

Number Of four omt MVT related arrests. - Number of commercial vehicles recovered.

Number Of two pOInt MVT related arrests. - Dollar value of commercial vehicles recovered.

Number or Insurance fraud related arrests. - Dollar amount deposited into forfeiture account.

Prosecutor Objectives

Provide full-time access to the judicial system for the ATPA task forces in the grant area and provide opportunities
to informally discuss cases and legal issues.

Vertically prosecute all selected motor vehicle theft related cases.

Maintain a policy of plea bargaining only when absolutely necessary.

Achieve an overall conviction rate of 80 percent.

Achieve a trial conviction rate of 70 percent.

Strive for maximum sentence for defendants.

Maintain clear and reliable documentation of project's financial expenditures and performance activity.

Prosecutor Evaluation Criteria

Number of cases initiated. Number of cases disposed by trial (jury/judge).

Number of preliminary exams held. - Number of defendants convicted on original

Number of preliminary exams waived. charge.

Number of cases disposed pre?trial. - lcvruanrw?aeer of defendants convicted on reduced
Number of defendants who pled guilty to original

charge.

Number of defendants who pled guilty to lessor
included offense.

- Number of defendants incarcerated.

- Number of defendants fined/placed on
probation.

Number of plea bargain dismissals. - Dollar amount cfrestitution ordered.

- Number of defendants convicted of insurance

Number of other dismissals. fraud

XIV. Non-Profit Organization Objectives

Conduct 1_5 motor vehicle theft awareness education programs/seminars (minimum of 20 attendees each).
Etch 2_09 vehicles.

GRANTS-043 (04/2019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 7 of 8

Distribute 1 ,500 ATPA approved auto theft preventative fliers/brochures regarding motor vehicle theft prevention.
- Write and publish no less than articles about motor vehicle theft prevention. The articles must cite the ATPA as

a source of funding. Forward article copies to the ATPA.

- Contact residences within your community with a door-to?door strategy. Inform them of the most up to date

auto theft prevention strategies.

- Maintain clear and reliable documentation of project's financial expenditures and performance activity.

XV. Non-Profit Organization Evaluation Criteria
Number of programs/seminars conducted.
- Number of vehicles etched.
- Number of fliers/brochures distributed.
XVI. Reporting Schedule

Number of theft prevention articles written and

pub?shed.

Number of residences contacted.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

All Other Charges

 

 

 

 

Organization Type Quarterly Proqress and Financial Reports Due Date
Proqress Report 10~01?19 to 12-31-19 01-31-20
Financial Report (GRANTS-035) 10-01-19 to 12?31-19 01-31?20
Law Enforcement Agency Progress Report (GRANTS-037) 01-01-20 to 03?31-20 04-30?20
prosecuting Attorney's Of?ce Financial Report (GRANTS-035) 01-01?20 to 03-31-20 04-30-20
. Progress Report 04-01-20 to 06-30-20 07-31-20
N00~Pr0flt Orgamzatlon Financial Report (GRANTS-O35) 04?01-20 to 05?30?20 07?31?20
Financial Report 07-01-20 to 09?30?20 10-15?20
Proqress Report (GRANTS-037) 07?01?20 to 09?30-20 10-31-20
-FelonyC?han'ggs - MOT ?Arrest Points
_A_lterirlg Veh?icle Identification Number with Intent to Mislead 750. 415 10?-
A?rson? _Owner InVOIved 7w- 750. 75 14 .
Car-jacking 750.529a 8
Chop Shop 750.535? _14_ 
Continuing Criminal Enterprise 750.15917 14
Counterfeit Insurance Certi?cates 257.222 6
Embezzlement 7 750.174 7 
FailuEFc Ret??i Rantal Vehicle 7503?62 5
Fals?e Certification 257.903 12
- False Police Report_ 750.411a 73
False Pretenses 750.218 12
False Statement In Application for Title 12
Forged License Documents/License Plates 257.257 6
Insurance Fraud- Owner Staged Arson/Larceny/T heft 500.4511 14
Interstate?Transportation of Stolen Motor Ve_hicle 750.535 14 
Larceny by Conversion 75-0362 
Larceny from Motor Vehicle I 750 356a 4
Obtain Personal Identi?cation Without Permission 257.324 
?Odometer Fraud Wise 12 
?Operating License Forged. Altered. or False ?257.324" _6
Poss?esso?rSTeWRosetIe Rivets 750.415 4
Possess Stolen Vehicle?with Intent to Pass Title 257.254 10 
Repair- Salvage Facil_ity _Vlolation 257.217 _4
Receiving and Concealing Stolen _P_roperty 750?5?) 8 
Uniawfully Driving Away Automobile 750.413 6
Unlawful Use 750.414 4
?Use Fraudulent ID to Lease or Purchase Vehicle 750.415 12 
2

 

 

GRANTS-043 (04/2019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 8 of 8

XVII. Arrest Ranking

Note to Arrest Rankings:
Team takes credit for most serious charge against subject and ignores others.

Team takes credit for original arrest charge, even if reduced later by prosecutor.

If subject is arrested on three separate warrants, team may count three arrests.

Attempted crimes or conspiracy to commit crime earns same points as listed.

Special Conditions

This contract is valid upon approval and execution by the ATPA.

This contact is conditionally approved, subject to and contingent upon the availability of funds.

The grantees will not assume any responsibility or liability for costs incurred by the ATPA prior to the full execution of this
contract.

XIX. Contract Signatures

Grant funding will not be released until all requirements of the signed grant contract have been agreed upon. The
undersigned has the authority to accept the terms of this grant contract.

 

 

 

Printed Name of Authorized Official Signature of Authorized Official Date
Printed Name of Project Director Signature of Project Director Date
Printed Name of Financial Contact Signature of Financial Contact Date

 

Printed Name of ATPA Executive Director Signature of ATPA Executive Director Date

COLFMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

2 WOODWARD AVENUE, sum: [026
MICHIGAN 48226
FINANCIAL OFFICER PHONE: 3 '3 - 628-2158
AND GRANTS FAX: 3 I 3 224 "542


October 08, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Authorization to submit a grant application to the Department of Health and
Human Services for the FY 2020 Ryan White HIVIAIDS (RWHAP) Programs A and


The Detroit Health Department is hereby requesting authorization from Detroit City
Council to submit a grant application to the Department of Health and Human Services,
for the FY 2020 Ryan White (RWHAP) Programs A and B. The amount being
sought is $2,960,466.18. There is no match requirement for the grant. The total project
cost is $2,960,466.18.

The Ryan White grant will enable the department to:

. Support HIV medical care and treatment services for uninsured and under-
insured persons living with HIV in Detroit eligible metropolitan areas.

We respectfully request your approval to submit the grant application by adopting the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,

41>

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants



Office of Development and amornmonr

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Health Department has requested authorization from City Council to
submit a grant application to the Department of Health and Human Services, for the FY 2020
Ryan White (RWHAP) Programs A and B. In the amount of $2,960,466.18, to support
HIV medical care and treatment services for uninsured and under-insured persons living with HIV
in Detroit eligible metropolitan areas; and

WHEREAS, there is no city match requirement: now

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Detroit Health Department is hereby authorized to submit a
grant application to the Department of Health and Human Services.

Page 1 of 1

Office of Grants Management
Grant Application Request Form

 

In order to secure the Of?ce of Grants Management approval required under Section 18-4-2 of the
Detroit City Charter. this form is to be filled out by City Departments as soon as possible upon learning
of an opportunity that the Department would like to pursue. This form must be submitted not later than
20 business days prior to the application deadline.

Please submit this form to Sajjlah Parker, Associate Director. Office of Grants Management at

parkers@detroitmi.gov

 

 

 

 

 

 

City Department Health

Date October 7. 2019

Department Contact Name Angelique Ton-talc

Department Contact Phone 313-870-0073

Department Contact Email 

Grant Opportunity Title emu Ia- HIV Epidemic A Plan tarmac? Ryan wm. am A and a

 

Grant Opportunity 

Doom-rut ol Health and Human Serviou- Haalth Rama and 5-th Mauritanian

 

Web Link to Opportunity Information

 

Award Amount (that Department will apply for)

Currently 52.960.466.15 - can apply to $4,000.000 (Appendix B. page 

 

Application Due Date

October 15. 2019

 

Duration of Grant Award

12 months. March 1. 201- February 29. 2020

 

 

 

Anticipated Proposed Budget Amount $2.950 466.18
Match Requirement Amount None
Source of Match [Include Appropriation

Number, Cost Center. and Object Code) None

 

List of programs/services/activities to be
funded and the Amount of Funding
Requested for Each

Sample:

- ABC Afterschool program: $150,000

- XYZ Youth leadership program: $1 00,000
- Solaryf?ene?ts: $95,000

- Supplies: $5,000

Outpatient and ambulatory health services. medical case
management. eany Intervention services. medical nutrition
therapy. mental health. home and health
services. health Insurance premium and cost sharing
assistance. medical transportation. food bank. emergency
?nancial assistance. housing services. other professional
services (legal). support services. non-medical
case management (please see funding amount on page 2)

 

Briei Statement of Priorities/Purpose for the
Application

Sample: To support expansion of prom ising
youth development programs in MNO
neighborhood.

To support HIV medical care and treatment services for
uninsured and under-insured persons living with HIV in

the Detroit eligible metropolitan area (Lapear. Macomb.
Monroe. Oakland. St. Clair and Wayne Counties).

 

 

Key Performance Indicators to be Used to
Measure the Programs/Services/Activities
Sample:

of kids newly enrolled in ABC and XYZ

ill of kids who complete ABC and X72

9? of kids from ABC who demonstrate
improved educational performance

96 of kids from XYZ who demonstrate improved
lea e?rship skills

 

Health and Human Services and Health
Resources Services Administration] HIV AIDS
Bureau Core Performance Measures (please
see page 2)

 

 

    

{m

Date

Ending the HIV Epidemic: A Plan for America - Ryan White Part A and Part Pending
Draft Budget 11 I to 50 455.1 an to 4

SERVICES
- Media Campaign: $250,000
a Community Health Worker Programs: $200,000
- Mp0werment+: $175,000
- Initiatlve Services: 51,200,000

0 Emergency Financial Assistance: $50,000
- Planning 8- Evaluation: 2,500

TOTAL Service: $1,377,500.00

TOTAL Ryan White Service Providers: $500,000
TOTAL Infrastructure: $294,233.00
TOTAL Administration, Planning Evaluation: $264,207.43

TOTAL Clinical Quality Management: $24,525.75

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 AVENUE. SUITE I026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

cm 0" Demo? PHONE: 313 0 628-2158
OFFICE OF THECHIEF FINANCIALOFFICER 3 3 . 224 . 0542
OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

LGOV

 

August 19, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2019 Recycling infrastructure
Grant

The Michigan Department Of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) has
awarded the City of Detroit Department of Public Works with the FY 2019 Recycling
infrastructure Grant for a total of $458,370.40. The State share $458,370.40 of the
approved amount, and a there is a required cash match of $496,538.60. The total
project cost is $954,909.00.

The Objective of the grant is to increase resident enrollment in the City of Detroit's
recycling programs. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to purchase
recycling containers that will grow the residential curbside recycling program, launch a
public space recycling program and establish a municipal building recycling program.
This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20679, with the match amount coming from appropriation number 12396.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,

I i.

I
Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget



Office of Development and Grants CITvnmemI'r

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Department of Public Works is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes. and Energy (EGLE).
in the amount of $458,370.40. to increase resident enrollment in the City of Detroit's recycling
programs: and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20679, in the amount of $954,909.00, which includes a cash match. in the amount of
$496,538.60, coming from Appropriation 12396. for the FY 2019 Recycling Infrastructure Grant.

Page1 of1

Fl" I I-
I: I. 

RECYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE GRANT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE

MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENT, GREAT LAKES, AND ENERGY
AND CITY OF DETROIT DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

This Grant Agreement (?Agreement") is made between the Michigan Department of Environment. Great
Lakes, and Energy (EGLE), Materials Management Division and City of Detroit Department of
Public Works ("Grantee").

The purpose of this Agreement is to provide funding in exchange for work to be performed for the project
named below. Legislative appropriation of Funds for grant assistance is set forth in Public Acts of 2018,
Public Act No. 588. This Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions speci?ed herein.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project Name: City of Detroit DPW Project 
Amount of grant: $458 3?0.40 of grant state of grant federal 9
Amount of match: $496 538.60 Project Total: $954 909.00 (grant plus match)
Start Date (date executed by EGLE): End Date: September 30, 2020
GRANTEE CONTACT: CONTACT:

Ron Brundidge, Director Elizabeth Garver, Recycling Specialist

Name/Title Name/Title

City of Detroit Dept. of Public Works Materials Management Division

Organization Division/Bureau/Of?ce

2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 611 PO. Box 30241

Address Address

Detroit. MI 48226 Lansing, MI 48909-7741

Address Address

313-224-3905 586-753?3837

Telephone number Telephone number

Fax number Fax number

brundidger@detroitmi.gov garvere2@michigan.gov

E-mail address Email address

38?6004606

Federal ID number?

006530661

Grantee DUNS number - (Required for Federal

Funding)

The individuals signing below certify by their signatures that they are authorized to sign this Agreement on
behalf of their agencies and that the parties will ful?ll the terms of this Agreement. including any attached
appendices. as set forth herein.

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THE GRANTEE:
Signature Date
Name/Title

FOR THE STATE:
Signature Date

Jack Schinderle. Division Director, Materials Management Division
Name/Title

I. PROJECT SCOPE

This Agreement and its appendices constitute the entire Agreement between the State and the
Grantee and may be modi?ed only by written agreement between the State and the Grantee.

(A) The scope of this project is limited to the activities speci?ed in Appendix A and such activities
as are authorized by the State under this Agreement. Any change in project scope requires prior
written approval in accordance with Section Changes, in this Agreement.

(B) By acceptance of this Agreement, the Grantee commits to complete the project identi?ed in
Appendix A within the time period allowed for in this Agreement and in accordance with the terms
and conditions of this Agreement.

II. AGREEMENT PERIOD

Upon signature by the State, the Agreement shall be effective from the Start Date until the End
Date on page 1. The State shall have no responsibility to provide funding to the Grantee for
project work performed except between the Start Date and the End Date speci?ed on page 1.
Expenditures made by the Grantee prior to the Start Date or after the End Date of this Agreement
are not eligible for payment under this Agreement.

CHANGES

Any changes to this Agreement shall be requested by the Grantee or the State in writing and
implemented only upon approval in writing by the State. The State reserves the right to deny
requests for changes to the Agreement or to the appendices. No changes can be implemented
without approval by the State.

IV. GRANTEE DELIVERABLES AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

The Grantee shall submit deliverables and follow reporting requirements specified in Appendix
A of this Agreement.

(A) The Grantee must complete and submit quarterly ?nancial and progress reports according to a
form and format prescribed by the State and must include supporting documentation of eligible
project expenses. These reports shall be due according to the following:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Reporting Period Due Date

January 1 March 31 April 30

April 1 June 30 July 31

July 1 September 30 Before October 15*
October 1 December 31 January 31

 

*Due to the State's year-end closing procedures, there will be an accelerated due date for the
report covering July 1 September 30. Advance noti?cation regarding the due date for the
quarter ending September 30 will be sent to the Grantee. If the Grantee is unable to submit a
report in early October for the quarter ending September 30, an estimate of expenditures through
September 30 must be submitted to allow the State to complete its accounting for that ?scal year.

The forms provided by the State shall be submitted to the State?s contact at the address on page
1. All required supporting documentation (invoices, proof of payment, etc.) for expenses must be
included with the report.

(B) The Grantee shall provide a ?nal project report in a format prescribed by the State.

The Grantee shall submit the ?nal status report, including all supporting documentation for
expenses, along with the ?nal project report and any other outstanding products within 30 days
from the End Date of the Agreement.

(C) The Grantee must provide 2 copies of all products and deliverables in accordance with
Appendix A.

(D) All products shall acknowledge that the project was supported in whole or in part by Recycling
Grant Program, EGLE, per the guidelines provided by the program.

V. GRANTEE RESPONSIBILITIES

(A) The Grantee agrees to abide by all applicable local, state, and federal laws, rules, ordinances,
and regulations in the performance of this grant.

(B) All local, state, and federal permits, if required, are the responsibility of the Grantee. Award of
this grant is not a guarantee of permit approval by the State.

(C) The Grantee shall be solely responsible to pay all applicable taxes and fees, if any, that arise
from the Grantee's receipt or execution of this grant.

(D) The Grantee is responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy, timely
completion, and coordination of all designs, drawings, specifications, reports, and other services
submitted to the State under this Agreement. The Grantee shall, without additional
compensation, correct or revise any errors, omissions, or other deficiencies in drawings,
designs, specifications, reports, or other services.

(E) The State?s approval of drawings, designs, specifications, reports, and incidental work or
materials furnished hereunder shall not in any way relieve the Grantee of responsibility for the
technical adequacy of the work. The State?s review, approval, acceptance, or payment for any
of the services shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights under this Agreement or of any
cause of action arising out of the performance of this Agreement.

(F) The Grantee acknowledges that it is a crime to knowingly and willingly file false information
with the State for the purpose of obtaining this Agreement or any payment under the
Agreement, and that any such ?ling may subject the Grantee, its agents, and/or employees to
criminal and civil prosecution and/or termination of the grant.

VI. USE OF MATERIAL

Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, the Grantee may release information or material
developed under this Agreement, provided it is acknowledged that the State funded all or a
portion of its development.

The State, and federal awarding agency, if applicable, retains a royalty-free, nonexclusive and
irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, and use in whole or in part, and authorize others to do so,
any copyrightable material or research data submitted under this grant whether or not the material
is copyrighted by the Grantee or another person. The Grantee will only submit materials that the
State can use in accordance with this paragraph.

VII. ASSIGNABILITY

The Grantee shall not assign this Agreement or assign or delegate any of its duties or obligations
under this Agreement to any other party without the prior written consent of the State. The State

does not assume responsibility regarding the contractual relationships between the Grantee and

any subcontractor.

 SUBCONTRACTS

The State reserves the right to deny the use of any consultant, contractor, associate, or other
personnel to perform any portion of the project. The Grantee is solely responsible for all
contractual activities performed under this Agreement. Further, the State will consider the
Grantee to be the sole point of contact with regard to contractual matters, including payment of
any and all charges resulting from the anticipated Grant. All subcontractors used by the Grantee
in performing the project shall be subject to the provisions of this Agreement and shall be qualified
to perform the duties required.

IX. NON-DISCRIMINATION

The Grantee shall comply with the Elliott Larsen Civil Rights Act, 1976 PA 453, as amended,
MCL 37.2101 91? seq., the Persons with Disabilities Civil Rights Act, 1976 PA 220, as amended,
MCL 37.1101 et seq., and all other federal, state, and local fair employment practices and equal
opportunity laws and covenants that it shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant
for employment, to be employed in the performance of this Agreement, with respect to his or her
hire, tenure, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, or any matter directly or indirectly
related to employment, because of his or her race, religion, color, national origin, age, sex,
height, weight, marital status, or physical or mental disability that is unrelated to the individual?s
ability to perform the duties of a particular job or position. The Grantee agrees to include in
every subcontract entered into for the performance of this Agreement this covenant not to
discriminate in employment. A breach of this covenant is a material breach of this Agreement.

X. UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICES

 

The Grantee shall comply with the Employers Engaging in Unfair Labor Practices Act, 1980 PA
278, as amended, MCL 423.321 et seq.

XI. LIABILITY

(A) The Grantee, not the State, is responsible for all liabilities as a result of claims, judgments, or
costs arising out of activities to be carried out by the Grantee under this Agreement, if the liability
is caused by the Grantee, or any employee or agent of the Grantee acting within the scope of their
employment or agency.

(B) Nothing in this Agreement should be construed as a waiver of any governmental immunity by
the Grantee, the State, its agencies, or their employees as provided by statute or court decisions.

XII. CONFLICT OF INTEREST

No government employee, or member of the legislative, judicial, or executive branches, or
member of the Grantee?s Board of Directors, its employees, partner agencies, or their families
shall bene?t ?nancially from any part of this Agreement.

ANTI-LOBBYING

If all or a portion of this Agreement is funded with federal funds, then in accordance with OMB

Circular A-21, A-87, or A-122, as appropriate, the Grantee shall comply with the Anti-Lobbying
Act, which prohibits the use of all project funds regardless of source, to engage in lobbying the
state or federal government or in litigation against the State. Further, the Grantee shall require
that the language of this assurance be included in the award documents of all subawards at all
tiers.

If all or a portion of this Agreement is funded with state funds, then the Grantee shall not use
any of the grant funds awarded in this Agreement for the purpose of lobbying as defined in the
State of Michigan?s lobbying statute, MCL ??Lobbying? means communicating directly
with an of?cial of the executive branch of state government or an official in the legislative branch
of state government for the purpose of influencing legislative or administrative action." The
Grantee shall not use any of the grant funds awarded in this Agreement for the purpose of
litigation against the State. Further, the Grantee shall require that language of this assurance
be included in the award documents of all subawards at all tiers.

XIV. DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION

By signing this Agreement, the Grantee certifies that it has checked the federal
debarment/suspension list at wwSAMgov to verify that its agents, and its subcontractors:

(1) Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or
voluntarily excluded from covered transactions by any federal department or the state.

(2) Have not within a three-year period preceding this Agreement been convicted of or had
a civil judgment rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in
connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (federal, state, or
local) transaction or contract under a public transaction, as defined in 45 CFR 1185;
violation of federal or state antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft,
forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or
receiving stolen property.

(3) Are not presently indicted or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a government entity
(federal, state, or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in subsection

(2).

(4) Have not within a three-year period preceding this Agreement had one or more public
transactions (federal, state, or local) terminated for cause or default.

(5) Will comply with all applicable requirements of all other state or federal laws, executive
orders, regulations, and policies governing this program.

xv. AUDIT Am) ACCESS TO 

The State reserves the right to conduct a programmatic and ?nancial audit of the project, and the
State may withhold payment until the audit is satisfactorily completed. The Grantee will be
required to maintain all pertinent records and evidence pertaining to this Agreement, including
grant and any required matching funds, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and other procedures speci?ed by the State. The State or any of its duly authorized
representatives must have access, upon reasonable notice, to such books, records, documents,
and other evidence for the purpose of inspection, audit, and copying. The Grantee will provide
proper facilities for such access and inspection. All records must be maintained for a minimum of
years after the ?nal payment has been issued to the Grantee by the State.

XVI. INSURANCE

(A) The Grantee must maintain insurance or self-insurance that will protect it from claims that may
arise from the Grantee?s actions under this Agreement.

(B) The Grantee must comply with applicable workers? compensation laws while engaging in
activities authorized under this Agreement.

XVII. OTHER SOURCES OF FUNDING

The Grantee guarantees that any claims for reimbursement made to the State under this
Agreement must not be ?nanced by any source other than the State under the terms of this
Agreement. If funding is received through any other source, the Grantee agrees to delete from
Grantee's billings, or to immediately refund to the State, the total amount representing such
duplication of funding.

COMPENSATION

(A) A breakdown of costs allowed under this Agreement is identi?ed in Appendix A. The State will
pay the Grantee a total amount not to exceed the amount on page 1 of this Agreement, in
accordance with Appendix A, and only for expenses incurred and paid. All other costs necessary
to complete the project are the sole responsibility of the Grantee.

(B) Expenses incurred by the Grantee prior to the Start Date or after the End Date of this
Agreement are not allowed under the Agreement.

(C) The State will approve payment requests after approval of reports and related documentation
as required under this Agreement.

(D) The State reserves the right to request additional information necessary to substantiate
payment requests.

(E) Payments under this Agreement may be processed by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).
The Grantee may register to receive payments by EFT at the SIGMA Vendor Self Service web
site 

(F) An amount equal to percent of the grant award will be withheld by the State until the
project is completed in accordance with Section XIX, Closeout, and Appendix A.

(G) The Grantee is committed to the match percentage on page 1 of the Agreement, in
accordance with Appendix A. The Grantee shall expend all local match committed to the project
by the End Date on page 1 of the Agreement.

XIX. CLOSEOUT

(A) A determination of project completion, which may include a site inspection and an audit, shall
be made by the State after the Grantee has met any match obligations, satisfactorily completed
the activities, and provided products and deliverables described in Appendix A.

(B) Upon issuance of ?nal payment from the State, the Grantee releases the State of all claims
against the State arising under this Agreement. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or
by State law, final payment under this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of the State?s
claims against the Grantee.

(C) The Grantee shall immediately refund to the State any payments in excess of the costs
allowed by this Agreement.

XX. CANCELLATION
This Agreement may be canceled by the State, upon 30 days written notice, due to Executive

Order, budgetary reduction, other lack of funding, upon request by the Grantee, or upon mutual
agreement by the State and Grantee.

The State may honor requests forjust and equitable compensation to the Grantee for all
satisfactory and eligible work completed under this Agreement up until 30 days after written
notice, upon which time all outstanding reports and documents are due to the State and the
State will no longer be liable to pay the grantee for any further charges to the grant.

XXI. TERMINATION
(A) This Agreement may be terminated by the State as follows.
(1) Upon 30 days written notice to the Grantee:

a. If the Grantee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, or with
the requirements of the authorizing legislation cited on page 1, or the rules
promulgated thereunder, or other applicable law or rules.

b. If the Grantee knowingly and willingly presents false information to the State for the
purpose of obtaining this Agreement or any payment under this Agreement.

c. If the State finds that the Grantee, or any of the Grantee's agents or representatives,
offered or gave gratuities, favors, or gifts of monetary value to any official, employee,
or agent of the State in an attempt to secure a subcontract or favorable treatment in
awarding, amending, or making any determinations related to the performance of this
Agreement.

d. If the Grantee or any subcontractor, manufacturer, or supplier of the Grantee appears
in the register of persons engaging in unfair labor practices that is compiled by the
Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs or its successor.

e. During the 30-day written notice period, the State shall withhold payment for any
findings under subparagraphs a through d, above and the Grantee will immediately
cease charging to the grant and stop earning match for the project (if applicable).

(2) Immediately and without further liability to the State if the Grantee, or any agent of the
Grantee, or any agent of any subcontract is:

a. Convicted of a criminal offense incident to the application for or performance of a
State, public, or private contract or subcontract;

b. Convicted of a criminal offense, including but not limited to any of the following:
embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving
stolen property, or attempting to influence a public employee to breach the ethical
conduct standards for State of Michigan employees;

0. Convicted under State or federal antitrust statutes; or

d. Convicted of any other criminal offense that, in the sole discretion of the State,
reflects on the Grantee's business integrity.

e. Added to the federal or state Suspension and Debarment list.

(B) If a grant is terminated, the State reserves the right to require the Grantee to repay all or a
portion of funds received under this Agreement.

XXII. IRAN SANCTIONS ACT

By signing this Agreement, the Grantee is certifying that it is not an Iran linked business, and
that its contractors are not Iran linked businesses, as defined in MCL 129.312.

PROJECT-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS APPENDIX A

I. GRANT PROJECT SCOPE

The scope of this project is outlined in the Grantee?s approved Fiscal Year 2019 Recycling
Infrastructure Grant Program Proposal, which is included in this grant agreement as part of this
Appendix A, as well as any subsequent modifications to the original grant proposal as approved
by the State.

ll. GRANT REIMBURSEMENT PROCESS
Breakdown of project funds covered under this Agreement:

Grant Amount $458,370.40
Matching Funds $496,538.60
Total Grant Budget $954,909.00

The total payment made to the Grantee by the State shall not exceed $458,370.40. Any
additional costs associated with the project shall be the responsibility of the Grantee.

The Grantee is responsible for the payment of all eligible costs necessary to complete the
project. The Grantee shall submit reimbursement requests to the State which specify the time
period covered by the reimbursement request and the payments made by the Grantee during
the time period. Grant reimbursements will be for up to 75 percent of the documented purchase
expenditures, not to exceed the awarded grant amount, less a 5 percent retention amount that
will be released upon approval of the final report. The final report is due six months after the
infrastructure item(s) have been purchased and/or constructed, but no later than February 28,
2021.

A request for payment shall be submitted by the Grantee on a form provided by the State and
shall include proof of payment to the vendor (such as canceled checks, ACH, wire transfer
confirmations, bank statements, etc.) and proof of receipt of goods. Grantees will be
reimbursed up to 75 percent of documented purchase expenditures, not to exceed the awarded
grant amount. The remaining unreimbursed expenditures serve as the required match amount
for the grant. Reimbursement forms will be available on the Recycling Program website
located at: 

The Grantee is responsible for ensuring that all partner entities fulfill their commitments under
the grant proposal.

The Grantee is responsible for ensuring that all products requiring reimbursement acknowledge
that the project was supported in whole or in part by the EGLE Recycling Grant Program.

REPORTING REQUIREM ENTS

The Grantee shall comply with all reporting requirements of the State during the Agreement
Period.

QUARTERL REPORT

The Grantee shall submit the final quarterly status and financial report, including all supporting
documentation for expenses, by September 30, 2020. Supporting documentation must include
proof of payment and proof of receipt of goods.

Quarterly progress and ?nancial reports must be submitted at least every three months
during the Agreement Period, even if no funds were expended. Provide the following
narrative using the numbers and headings listed below:

VI.

SUMMARY OF ACTIONS TAKEN DURING THE CURRENT PERIOD

A. Describe the tasks completed and how project funds were expended during the time
period covered by the report. If no funds were expended during the current period,
include a statement to that effect and explain why. A description of tasks completed
during the current period must still be included.

B. If any products were developed during the time period covered by the report, include a
copy of the products with the report.

. SUMMARY OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS DURING THIS PERIOD

A. Goals and objectives as set forth in the grant application and grant contract. List the
project's stated goals and objectives and describe how the project is meeting them.

B. Additional project accomplishments not included in original project goals and objectives.

C. Project data: Provide any data collected during the current period, as described in the
grant application incorporated with this contract. Attach available documentation which
supports the data. If the data provided covers a previous reporting period, specify the
dates which the data is from.

SUMMARY OF REMAINING ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN

A. Describe the remaining tasks to be completed and indicate whether or not these tasks
will be completed within the approved project schedule. For tasks which will not be
completed within the approved project schedule, discuss the reasons for the delay and
provide the revised task completion date.

. PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED DURING THIS PERIOD

A. Identify any problems encountered during the current reporting period and explain how
they were resolved. Describe the impact these problems have had or will have on
project design, completion, and operations.

ADDITIONAL COMMENTS
A. Provide any additional comments relevant to the status of the project and its operations.
FINANCIAL DOCUMENTTION

A. Provide required documentation, including proof of payment and proof of receipt of
goods, for funds expended during the reporting period.

FINAL PROJECT REPORT

The purpose of the final project report is to provide the State with data on your project and a
narrative discussion about your project, including an evaluation of the project to date. The final
report is due six months after the infrastructure item(s) have been purchased and/or
constructed, but no later than February 28, 2021. Retained funds will be forfeited by the
Grantee if the final report is not accepted.

Identify the time period covered by the final project report. Provide the following narrative
information using the numbers and headings listed below:

I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Provide a description of the project funded.

i. Provide a 4-5 sentence summary of the project, including the following
information, as applicable: description of item purchased and/or constructed,
geographical area served, population and/or number of households/units served,
volume of containers, collection frequency, collection method, list of recyclable or
organic materials collected, name and location of recycling processor, increase in
processing capacity, and description of how project will be sustained beyond the
grant timeline.

ii. Include any news articles and/or photographs as appropriate.

Include the date project operations began and a discussion of the current status
of project operations.

B. List and explain the steps involved in completing the project, from planning through
implementation to ongoing operations. Include the dates of major project activities and
events.

C. List and discuss other entities companies, nonprofit groups, local units of
government) that played a role in planning and implementing the project and briefly
describe their role. Describe any formal agreements that were entered into as a part of
project implementation.

ll. PROJECT DATA

A. Diversion rate, participation rate, and geographical area. Project data must also be
submitted through the system.

i. For the time period covered by this report, provide the quantity of recyclable or
organic materials diverted, in tons or cubic yards /time period. Specify which
recyclable or organic materials are included in this reported volume. Describe the
methods for measuring these quantities.

ii. Provide diversion rates prior to the grant project, if known.

For the time period covered by this report, provide information on the number of
people and/or number of households/units served by the project. Describe the
methods for measuring these numbers.

iv. Provide information on the number of people and/or number of households/units

served prior to the grant project, if known.

10

v. For the time period covered by this report, provide information on the geographical
area served by the project.

vi. Provide previous information on the geographical area served by the program prior
to the current grant project.

B. Education and Outreach Program. Provide the following information for all project
related promotional activities which have occurred as a result of the project:

i. Types of groups (audience) targeted.

ii. Types of promotional materials developed.

Methods used to distribute information or materials.
iv. Planned/future educational efforts.

Ill. PROJECT COSTS: Provide the following information regarding additional costs required to
implement the project:

A. Provide the dollar amounts and a description of all additional program related capital
costs which have been incurred during the time period covered by this report. Identify
the specific dates these costs were incurred.

B. For the time period covered by this report, provide the dollar amounts and a description
of all additional costs (beyond match) required to complete the project. Identify the
specific dates these costs were incurred.

C. For the time period covered by this report, provide the dollar amount and a description of
the costs needed to operate the project.

D. Describe the funding mechanisms utilized to operate and maintain the project activities.
IV. PROJECT EVALUATION

A. Goals and Objectives. Summarize each of the project's goals and objectives as stated
in your original proposal. Discuss (in both narrative and numerical terms) how well you
are meeting each goal and objective. For each goal or objective that is not being met,
discuss why.

i. If the project goals and objectives have changed from those that were originally
established, discuss how and why. Also, discuss how these changes have impacted
the final project.

ii. Recovery/AccesslParticipation Goals: As a part of the above discussion of project
goals and objectives, identify the increase in either volume collected (in tons or cubic
yards per year) by material type, or geographical access/population served that the
project is currently achieving. If the project is not meeting its goals, provide a
discussion on why these goals are not being met. Also, indicate what steps you are
taking in order to meet the stated goals in the future, and provide a timeframe for
meeting these goals.

B. Discuss any project accomplishments not included in the project's original goals and
objectives.

11

C. Discuss the economic impact the project has had on the local economy. Include
information on newjobs created and sustained and any other relevant economic
information.

D. List and describe all significant problems encountered during project implementation,
including any cost overruns, institutional barriers, local issues, etc. Describe how the
problems were addressed and resolved. Describe any impact these problems had in
project design, implementation and/or ongoing operations.

E. Describe the most successful components of the project and explain why you think they
are successful.

F. Describe the least successful components of the project and explain why you think they
are not successful.

G. Lessons Learned. Discuss any conclusions you have made about the technical and
economic feasibility of carrying out a similar project. Identify what you would do
differently if you were to carry out a similar project, and why.

V. ADDITIONAL COMMENTS

A. Provide any additional information relevant to the status of the project and its operations.
The quarterly and final project report must be signed by the authorized contact person for the
project. Indicate any name, address or telephone number changes for the contact person

and/or the project.

Submit the quarterly and final project reports to the attention of the State?s contact at the
following email address:



12

 

MEMORANDUM

TO: Jan Anderson, Director, GSD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Saskia Thompson, Director, DLBA i3";
Ron Brundidge, Director, DPW 

   
  

Donald Rencher, HRD 
FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

Angel Squalls, Forestry
Brian Farkas, DBA
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 4 October 2019
RE: CONSTITUENT CONCERNS

My of?ce has receiVed calls regarding the following 3rd District concerns, some of which have
also been submitted into See, Click, Fix.

Demolition: The following homes need to be demolished
17408 McDougall 17552 McDougall 17447 McDougall
17801 McDougall 17802 McDougall 2141 Dearing

Sidewalks:

180511 Alcoy tree roots have damaged and lifted pavement

17624-26 Hoover demolition process damaged next door sidewalk, which needs to be replaced
19191 Shields a tree that has been removed damaged sidewalk and needs to be repaired.

Blight Enforcement:

8087 Sirron code enforcement for scattered trash and rodents. Home in general disrepair.
19800 VanDyke Masjid has trash bags in the parking area that have languished since May
2019.

8103 Sirron scattered trash

Forestry:

19248 Shields Remove tree from DLBA property that has fallen on privately owned property
and damaged fence.

19234 Shields - Remove tree from DLBA property that has fallen on privately owned property
and damaged fence.

8095 Sirron Prune City owned tree that is encroaching onto private property. Insurance
company cancelled homeowner?s insurance policy due to tree overhanging property owner?s roof.
18511 Alcoy Tree needs to be pruned. Limbs continue to fall in to street and damage cars and
property.

Please provide a status update and resolution to all of the above issues by 1 November 2019.
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226

(313) 224?1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

