wan) BusiNS/o?

@aFe?wWL



PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

/7

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
October 9, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6000438 100% Block Grant Funding AMEND 3 To Provide Administrative and
Implementation Services for the City?s 0% Interest Home Repair Loan
Program. This Amendment includes an Extension of the Contract Term
and an Increase in Funds. Contractor: Local Initiatives Support
Corporation Location: 660 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1600, Detroit, MI
48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through June 30,
2020 Increase Contract Amount: $1,431,236.00 Total Contract
Amount: $1 1,251,23 6.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Officer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000438 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated October 9, 2019, be hereby and is approved.



Alton James @it? at Bttnit Brenda Goss Andrews

MCD Damion W. Ellis
Vice Chair/gammy CITY PLANNING 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center- Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Msf?ce? R- Todd: Jr- Detroit, Michigan 48226 A?gy Webb
IreCtor Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224?4336

e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.govi

October 11, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of Wayne County Community College District for PCA (Public
Center Adjacent) Special District Review of proposed signs on the Downtown
Campus Buildings at 901 W. Fort Street. (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

REQUEST

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has received a request from Wayne County Community
College District for PCA (Public Center Adjacent) Special District Review of proposed
signs to be located at 901 W. Fort Street. This request is being made consistent with the provisions
of Section 50-3?222 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

PROPOSED PROJECT
The petitioner proposes to install seven new signs on the buildings of the Downtown Campus. This
is the ?rst phase of signs to be reviewed; the overall plan calls for a total of 19 signs.

Office Building Three of the new signs are proposed for the Of?ce Building located at the corner
of West Fort and Third Streets. One sign will be located above the main entrance on the front of
the building and one over the rear entrance. A third sign is proposed near the top of the building
as an identi?cation sign facing Fort Street. Generally, 2.6 square feet of signage is allowed per
lineal foot of building frontage up to a maximum of 500 square feet for the building. Based on the
building?s frontage, 873 square feet would be allowed, therefore the 500 square foot maximum
controls. The proposed signs total 496 square feet, complying with the size allowed.

Main Building - One sign is proposed for the main building. The sign is proposed to be 1 15 square
feet and located above an entrance. This building is also large enough to warrant the entire 500
square feet of signage. Three additional signs are proposed for this building in a future phase.

Health Wellness Education and Sports Center - Three signs are proposed for the new Health
Wellness Education building which is currently under construction. Two of the signs are large
identi?cation signs proposed for the front (Fort Street) and rear (parking lot) facades. The third
sign is proposed above the entrance near the northeast corner of the building. Two additional signs
are proposed in a future phase.

Based on the size of this building, 819 square feet of signage would be allowed if not for the 500
square foot maximum. The three signs in this phase total 750 square feet. For developments that
require City Council approval, the 500 square foot maximum may be waived per Section 
In this case, because the building is very large and not all of the signs will be visible from one
vantage point, the additional area is justi?able.

REVIEW ANALYSIS PCA District Review Criteria
There are eighteen PCA District Review Criteria listed in Section 50?11-97 of the Zoning
Ordinance. Only one applies speci?cally to signage:

(11) Signage and graphics should be tastefully designed to be visually appealing and in
character with surrounding development; they should provide needed information,
direction and orientation in a clear and concise manner.

Generally, Downtown Campus does not stand out. Appropriate signage is
necessary to identi?z the campus and assist the public in locating an important institution.
Although several of the signs are rather large, due to the size of the buildings and the
nature of the use, additional signage is reasonable.

Design
The Flaming Development Department has reviewed the proposed signage and recommends
approval. A formal letter is forthcoming.

CONCLUSION RECOMMENDATION

Consistent with the above, the City Planning Commission recommends approval of the seven
proposed signs. The additional signs will be reviewed in a future application.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Jamie J. Murphy, Staff

Attachment: Sign Plans for 

cc: Arthur emison, Director, PDD
Katy Trudeau, Deputy Director, PDD
David Bell, Director, BSEED

 

Curtis Livery Health and Wellness
Education and Sports Center

(under construction) 
Curtis L. Ivary

Downtown Cam pus

 



SIGN TYPE LEGEND

0 Site Identity .
i 0 Building Identity 
I Building Entrance
- 0 Parking Identity 


I 0 Site Identity 
?i 

9

 

 

 

Wayne
County
Community

11

Dr Distrigct

   

 

Wayne County Commun ty
College District

Curtis 1.. Iver},r Central Educational
Complex

Wayfinding Signage
Design Intent Documents

 

      

is.- .u (lidrl mm; 
y. 1 a

lrlr? g:

a. ali.

 

"33? (X'lel?

The content of this documar?.  5 subject
to tr-a sealgn Intent requnrements
nutiincd In the Specifications.

 

Date issued? 04/04/19 PRICING SET

 

Revismns:

 

.. -, Hill 

MAA

 

Sign Location
Plan

 

AG-202

 

 

 

 

and 

 

 

 

 

32"

tturtis lvenl.

Health Wellness Education CenterJ



NOTE: SEE PAGE 2 FOR LED AND POWER SUPPLY INFO

NOTE: 3M 3635-222 Day/Night vinyl on the

North Elevation only



3 

 

lmi

North Elevation oriy I

Curtis Ivery 

?lump?(-

Return El?\

Face {it 

 

lg}

to.) 3-2

 

NOTE: The South Elevation will be justthe white acrylic Back I
face Willi no Day/Night vinyl

 

 

leA'oolt'
I

"1

NOTE: SOUTH ELEVATION WILL BE WHITE DURING NIGHT
NO FILM

 


i

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION DETAIL 

BILL OF MATERIALS

 

Part 

DESCRIPTION

 

.063' Glass anodized white aluminum sheet

 

.040? Black aluminum coil stock

 

1' Black Jewelile trim cap

 

3447 352' Plaskotite white acrvlic

 

 

GE Tetra MAX 

 

GE Tetra LED Power Supply 

 

Toggle switch

 

Electrical pass?ru (by installers)

 

 

 

 



weep holes

 

 

HarmonIAllen electrical label

 

UL label

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mechanical fasteners
3/8? Expansion Bolts

 

 

 

 

COLOR SPECS

3M 3635-222 Day/Night vinyl on the North Elevation

 



 

only.
The South Elevation will bejusl the white acrylic
lace with no vinyl

 

 

(In box as required)



Primary power with

r.

 

- FABRICATION NOTES

- 3? deep channel letters,.063? aluminum backs with
.040" aluminum returns
- White LED illumination

?r'?fl
_l

 

 

disconnect switch
to sign location
(by others)

. White acrylic lace with surlaoe applied Daleight vinyl
on one elevation only

black trim cap

 

INSTALL NOTES

- Wall fasteners as required (provided by installers)
- Remote located power supplies

 

 



cum

 

QTY. 2 Lighted Letters

Diunu?rrl'h'v

 

 

muLumn - 120V primary power with disconnect to remote power

?mourns

 



 

lf?l??lgdq?zries impose)? qunchoI 

Wayne County Community COIIEQB

"-?ul?ll 

supply location - BY OTHERS

 

 

 

419.841.6656 I 800.338.9773
allenanduslrlas 

VET .33 5L PERSON: Jenn-y
?air-ail. Ml 45335 Er' LATE ltd-1'}

 

 

SHEET 1 OF 2

 

 

 

 

 

tn: Liv-an m: women-o I: Lubrnmu :2 l-c-raus In: :1 't u" ru y-rlt'. a COPYRIGHT 201.5

ELECTRIC SIGN

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

II

II

II Underwriter:

Laboratories Inc.
"m

It

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l_z.

 

 

 

 

      

[fl/enlndusfries


419.541.6656 I 800.338.9713
allenrndustnes (om

 

 

:ICurtis

 

Iver -

3 

l?l

Return 

lg: .

 

Face 

 

 

is)

entral Educational omplex

NOTE: SEE PAGE 2 FOR LED AND POWER SUPPLY INFO

I-ESIifei?

Mechanical fasteners
3/8" Expansion Bolts

 

 

(In box as required)
\d

 

 

 

SECTION DETAIL (N.T.S.)

Primary power with
disconnect switch
to sign location

(by others)

BILL OF MATERIALS

 

Part DESCRIPTION

 

.063" Gloss anodized while aluminum sheel



 

.040" Black aluminum coil Stock

 

1" Black Jewelile lrim cap

 

2447 3/32? Plaskolile while acrylic

 

 

GE Tetra MAX GEMX2471-W1

 

GE Tetra LED Power Supply 

 

Toggle switch

 

NH?d?lOtDP-mm

Electrical pass {by installers)

 




 




 




 

13 5/16? weep holes

 

14-

 

15 Harmon/Allen electrical label

 

16 UL label

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLOR SPECS

 

3M 3635-30 Diffuser vinyl
3M 3635-222 Daleight vinyl

 

FABRICATION NOTES

 

- 3' deep channel letters..063" aluminum backs with
.040' aluminum returns

- White LED illumination

- White acrylic face with 1st surlace applied DayINighi vinyl
2nd surface Diffuser vinyl (40% light transmission)

- 1' black trim cap

 

INSTALL NOTES

 

 

Jil? I



- J34 here
oumrirr

QTY. 1 Lighted Letters



 



 

. an.

 

?HWEWayneCeun Communl College

armies-


mm: a
admit HI 4-5225

 



SCALE: 0'

 

 

PERSON: Jannihl? Jam?,

 

 

mm.- ?1 KWr'vum 7-1749

 

 

 

SHEET 1 OF 2

 

 

 

Th: E?x? inn ll antral-:34. p'ar-CLI um! 19m" Jll'l ml Liz-415T.- .r-?rul-n .nm in?ll-Hi II: ?rt-?MB 

 

 

 

 

USE LLISTED
ml?ll?l?l?l?t?nll? Im

II

II

II

II Undemr?zrs

Laboratories Inc.




ELECTIRIC SIGN

 

 

- Wall fasteners as required (provided by installers)

Remote located power supplies

- 120V primary power with disconnect to remote power
supply location - BY OTHERS

 

 

 

 



 

      

I?ll/en Industries

quI in IFI 

419 841. 6656 I 800. 335. 9773

 

 

C-3

 

 

 

NOTE: SEE LED AND POWER SUPPLY INFO ON PAGE 2

. 3? Backer Depth


3" retumst 2? 

Facesf J.-

 

 

LED 

Channel interior painted
for light enhancement

it

Channel hacks whit
diffuser vinyl

t5 Est?1 

Weep hole with baf?e-


HALO-LIT LETTER DETAIL

 

1" stand-off sleeves
painted to match 

 

 

2] MI. fasteners as required

BILL OF MATERIALS

 

Part DESCRIPTION

 



390" Brushed aluminum #4 Horizontal Finish

 

.063' aluminum sheet

 

le' Tuflak clear polyp-emanate sheet

 

 

GE Tetra MAX GEMM 2471-W1

 

GE Tetra LED Power Supply 

 

 

118' thick aluminum sheet

 

vammh-aocn

114' x1-1f2' Nelson weld studs wl hardware

 

10 -

 

1' stand-off sleeves

 

Mechanical fasteners (TED per wall type)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mechanically fasten to

 



per wall type

 

 

 

Power supplies located in backer

 

panel

COLOR SPECS

 

Brushed Aluminum Horizontal Grain

Match building per survey

Akzo Nobel White (light enhancement paint)
3M 3635-70 While (trans) diffuser vinyl

120V primary power to
sign I power supply location
by others. coordinate ?nal
location of stub with (50



Low Voltage secondary
power cable 1? wire in

 

conduit as required

FABRICATION NOTES

 

- 3' reverse channel halo-lit letters mounted on a hacker
Clear polycarbonate backs with White diffuser vinyl
White LED halo-lighting

 

Scale: n.Ls

 

INSTALL NOTES

 

- Channels mechanically fasten to fascia wall surface.
fastener type as required with 1' stand-off sleeves

 

Remote locale LED power supplies (drivers)

 

 

laun?mwnm QTY. 1 Reverse Halo Lighted Letters ..-.

 

mummummw
Human-hummus; minus:

 

 

so] we: WE ne ICOUH Communit COIIG E- mrm- arduous outrun. sou sad: ire-nine-

 

 

Underwriien
Laboratories Inc.

 

 

 

 

NJFEFSCH JlnnilerJanm SHEET 10F2

I Wright l-v1nl-?Ll.
ELECTRIC SIGN

 

TM suit-p ?11th mm? ?mm-1 L-. [12-5-14 "chain-rt, mill mica] and gala-din LAM-duh: . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3-5 and C-7

 

 

 

IL.

SIGN C-T ELEVATION

 

     

,!I[enlndusfties

419.841.6656 800.338.9173
as corn

?Curtis lvery

NOTE: SEE LED AND POWER SUPPLY INFO ON PA GE 2

 

SIGN C-5 ELEVATION

27' 5'

Channel backs 
ditfuser vi

 

1" stand-off sleeves
painted to match wall

Scale: 

 

Weep hole with battle

3n
Letter
Depth





 



Channel interior painted 'P?gl 
[or light enhancement L.



\l


.5. Fr
i

 

o?jE];

HALO-LIT LETTER DETAIL

District Office?mi

1" Stand-ofls

Faces '1 1:

LED halo-lighting G?s -,

3?1

am-

no?

Mechanically fasten to
Us; wall, lasleners as required
per wall type

Remote located power
supplies in box as required

r1. In; I 5? ?Toggle5w'rtch
I

Low Voltage secondary

power cable wire in

conduit as required

- 120V primary power to
sign power supply location
by others, coordinate linal
location oi stub with GE:

'zia?h

BILL OF MATERIALS

 

Part DESCRIPTION

 



aluminum sheel

 

063" aluminum sheet

 

1/8? Tuflak clear polycarbonate sheet

 

 

GE Tetra MAX GEMM 2471-W1

 

GE Tetra LED Power Supply GEPSZ4-1ODU-GLX

 

 

11?8" thick aluminum sheet

 



1-1112" Nelson WeId studs wl hardware

 




 

11 1" stand-off sleeves

 

12 Mechanical lasleners per wall typeCOLOR SPECS

 

- Brushed Aluminum
Akzo Nobel White (light enhancement paint)
3M 3635-70 White (trans) diffuser vinyl

 

FABRICATION NOTES

 

- 3" reverse channel halo-lit ID letters and bars

- Fabricated aluminum channels painted as noted

- Clear polycarbonate backs with White diffuser vinyl
- White LED halo-lighting

 

INSTALL NOTES

 

 

me I '51 1'4 

QUANTITY

QTY. 2 Lighted Letters

 

mun: 

Ill. Him

 



 

 

HJB mve- Community College
bots-ale." {521:6

PEERLESS CS-P

QTALE I 

 

 

WEE FEE-KN JInnl?hr Jinn-y

 

UM 

SHEET 1 OF 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Trdaeuri M4 lel?: a newt-an on: Mal an: n. I: luv?sin :ur mom. ends?~11: Ini mm mum! mm OCEIWRJM :?ln

uh
ELECTRIC SIGN

 

 

 



I

I Underwriters

l? Laboratories the

I
I
I
I
I
.4

 

 

than

- Channels mechanically fasten lo fascia wall surface.
fastener type as required with 1? stand-off sleeves
Remote locale LED power supplies (dn'vers)

 

 

 

 

 

0-8

I 

27' 2' 

 


E'Elr?

26' 2' 

very ?uc

NOTE: SEE LED AND POWER SUPPLY INFO ON PAGE 2

        

[fl/en Industries

lib" IT 
419.841.6656 1' ?0.3383773
xv allenlndustr es (cm

3" Backer Depth
I

3? inIJI'I'lil .2 I?r

Fare-J 



LED halo-lightingr? 

Channel interior painted 
for light enhancement 

lib? - 

Channel backs mill I
diffuser vmle-g?Lwi I

Weep hole with baffle

 

 

 



 

Mechanically fasten to

2) wall, fasteners as required



Power supplies located in backer
panel

120V primary power to

sign power supply location
by others, coordinate ?nal
location of stub with G0

Low Voltage secondary
power cable] wire in
conduit as required

BILL OF MATERIALS

 

Part 

DESCRIPTION

 



.090' Bnished aluminum #4 Horizontal Finish

 

.063' aluminum sheet

 

1/8" Tuflak clear polycarbonate sheet

 

 

GE Tetra MAX GEMM 2471-W1

 

GE Tetra LED Power Supply GEPSZ4-1OOU-GLX

 

 

118' thick aluminum sheet

 

qu-mwh-mm

1W Nelson weld studs wl hardware

 




 




stand-off sleeves

 




Mechanical fasteners per wall type)

 

13

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLOR SPECS

 



Brushed Aluminum Horizontal Grain

Match building per survey

Altzo Nobel White (light enhancement paint)
3M 3635-70 While (trans) diffuser vinyl

 

1" stand-off sleeves 3? I
painted to match wall 

HALO-LIT LETTER DETAIL

 

Scale: n.t.s

FABRICATION NOTES

 

- 3' reverse channel halo-Iil ID letters mounted on a 3"backer
- Fabricated aluminum channels painted as noted

Clear polycarbonate backs with White diffuser vinyl

- White LED halo-lighting

 

INSTALL NOTES

 

 

 

Mlt??' 
. 1-.

J05:

 

1 5 

cum QTY. 1 Reverse Halo Lighted Letters on Backer

 

1? ..

 

 

 

Wa ne Coon Community Colle 
"?ame: art I. 

muniL-Mld??i manhunt-tr: ?wright a-e-ia SHEET 1 OF 2

Thai ?:th rho-(MA! I. V4 L. "LT-am ?Lin-?Ir u'ul IEWM Am :evz?u b; Lu?! 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



iI
mm

(31? lineman-1
L. Willi-I I?l



mam-ET: snow

- Channels mechaninlly fasten lo fascia I wall surface.
fastener type as required with 1' stand-off sleeves
- Reroute lomte LED power supplies (drivers)

 

 

 

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION CALLING A PUBLIC HEARING REGARDING
APPROVAL OF THE BROWNFIELD PLAN OF THE
CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE OSI ART APARTMENTS WEST END REDEVELOPMENT

 

The following preamble and resolution were offered by Member
and supported by Member 

 

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, Michigan (the ?City") is
authorized by the provisions of Act 381, Public Acts of Michigan, 1996 (?Act 381?), to
create a brownfield redevelopment authority; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Act 381, the City Council of the City duly established the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the ?Authority"): and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Authority has
prepared a Brownfield Plan for the Osi Art Apartments West End Redevelopment (the
?Plan") and submitted the Plan to the Community Advisory Committee for review and
comment; and

WHEREAS, after receipt of the recommendation of the Community Advisory
Committee to approve the, the Authority has approved the Plan and fonrvarded it to City
Council with a request for its approval; and

WHEREAS, prior to approval of the Plan, the City Council is required to hold a
public hearing in connection with consideration of the Plan pursuant to Act 381.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1. The City Council hereby acknowledges receipt of the Plan from the
Authority.

2. A public hearing is hereby called on Thursday, the 31St day of October, 201 9
at 10:10 AM, prevailing Eastern Time, in the Council Chambers, 13th Floor of the Coleman
A. Young Municipal Center in the City to consider adoption by the City Council of a
resolution approving the Plan.

3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the
provisions of this resolution are rescinded.

4. The City Clerk is requested to submit three (3) certified copies of this
resolution to the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226.

AYES: Members

 

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED 

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION APPROVING BROWNFIELD PLAN
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE OSI ART APARTMENTS (?12 WEST END REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381?), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (?Authority") has been established by resolution of
the City Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City") for the purpose of promoting the
revitalization of eligible properties in the City; and

WHEREAS, under Act 381 the Authority is authorized to develop and propose for
adoption by City Council a brownfield plan for one (1) or more parcels of eligible property;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the resolution establishing the Authority and the bylaws
of the Authority, the Authority has submitted a proposed Brownfield Plan for the Osi Art
Apartments West End Redevelopment Project (the "Plan"); and

WHEREAS, the Authority submitted the Plan to the Community Advisory
Committee for consideration on September 11, 2019, per the provisions of the resolution
establishing the Authority, and a public hearing was conducted by the Authority on
September 17, 2019 to solicit comments on the proposed Plan; and

WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee recommended approval of the
Plan on September 11, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the Authority approved the Plan on October 9, 2019 and fonivarded it
to the City Council with a request for its approval of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, the required notice of the public hearing on the Plan was given in
accordance with Section 13 of Act 381; and

WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing on the proposed Plan on
October 31, 2019.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT:

1. Definitions. Where used in this Resolution the terms set forth below shall
have the following meaning unless the context clearly requires othenNise:

?Eligible Activities? or ?eligible activity? shall have the meaning described in Act
381.

?Eligible Property? means the property designated in the Plan as the Eligible
Property, as described in Act 381.

?Plan? means the Plan prepared by the Authority, as transmitted to the City Council
by the Authority for approval, copies of which Plan are on file in the office of the City Clerk.

?Taxing Jurisdiction? shall mean each unit of government levying an ad valorem
property tax on the Eligible Property.

2. Public Purpose. The City Council hereby determines that the Plan
constitutes a public purpose.

3. Best Interest of the Public. The City Council hereby determines that it is in
the best interests of the public to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed
areas in the City to proceed with the Plan.

 

4. Review Considerations. As required by Act 381, the City Council has in
reviewing the Plan taken into account the following considerations:

Portions of the property designated in the Plan meets the definition
of Eligible Property, as described in Act 381, including consideration of the criteria of
?facility? as defined in Act 381;

The Plan meets the requirements set forth in section 13 of Act 381.

The proposed method of financing the costs of eligible activities is
feasible and the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.

The costs of eligible activities proposed are reasonable and
necessary to carry out the purposes of Act 381.

The amount of captured taxable value estimated to result from
adoption of the Plan is reasonable.

5. Approval and Adoption of Plan. The Plan as submitted by the Authority is
hereby approved and adopted. A copy of the Plan and all amendments thereto shall be
maintained on file in the City Clerk's office.

6. Preparation of Base Year Assessment Roll for the Eliqible Property.

Within 60 days of the adoption of this Resolution, the City Assessor
shall prepare the initial Base Year Assessment Roll for the Eligible Property in the Plan.
The initial Base Year Assessment Roll shall list each Taxing Jurisdiction levying taxes on
the Eligible Property on the effective date of this Resolution and the amount of tax revenue

-2-

derived by each Taxing Jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on the Eligible Property,
excluding millage specifically levied for the payment of principal and interest of obligations
approved by the electors or obligations pledging the unlimited taxing power of the local
governmental unit.

The City Assessor shall transmit copies of the initial Base Year
Assessment Roll to the City Treasurer, County Treasurer, Authority and each Taxing
Jurisdiction which will have Tax Increment Revenues captured by the Authority, together
with a notice that the Base Year Assessment Roll has been prepared in accordance with
this Resolution and the Plan approved by this Resolution.

7. Preparation of Annual Base Year Assessment Roll. Each year within 15
days following the final equalization of the Eligible Property, the City Assessor shall
prepare an updated Base Year Assessment Roll. The updated Base Year Assessment
Roll shall show the information required in the initial Base Year Assessment Roll and, in
addition, the Tax Increment Revenues for each Eligible Property for that year. Copies of
the annual Base Year Assessment Roll shall be transmitted by the Assessor to the same
persons as the initial Base Year Assessment Roll, together with a notice that it has been
prepared in accordance with the Plan.

8. Establishment of Project Fund; Approval of Depositary. The Authority shall
establish a separate fund for the Eligible Property subject to this Plan, which shall be kept
in a depositary bank account or accounts in a bank or banks approved by the Treasurer
of the City. All moneys received by the Authority pursuant to the Plan shall be deposited
in the Project Fund forthe Eligible Property. All moneys in the Project Fund and earnings
thereon shall be used only in accordance with the Plan and Act 381.

9. Use of Monevs in the Proiect Fund. The moneys credited to the Project
Fund and on hand therein from time to time shall be used annually to first make those
payments authorized by and in accordance with the Plan and any development
agreement governing such payments and then to the Local Brownfield Revolving Fund,
as authorized by Act 381:

10. Return of Surplus Funds to Taxinq Jurisdictions. The Authority shall return
all surplus funds not deposited in the Local Brownfield Revolving Fund proportionately to
the Taxing Jurisdictions.

11. Pavment of Tax increment Revenues to Authority. The municipal and the
county treasurers shall, as ad valorem and specific local taxes are collected on the Eligible
Property, pay the Tax increment Revenues to the Authority for deposit in the Project Fund.
The payments shall be made not more than 30 days after the Tax Increment Revenues
are collected.

12. Disclaimer. By adoption of this Resolution and approval of the Plan, the
City assumes no obligation or liability to the owner, developer, lessee or lessor of the
Eligible Property for any loss or damage that may resultto such persons from the adoption

of this Resolution and Plan. The City makes no guarantees or representations as to the
ability of the Authority to capture tax increment revenues from the State and local school
district taxes for the Plan.

13. Repealer. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict
with the provisions of this resolution be and the same hereby are rescinded.

14. The City Clerk is requested to submit four (4) certified copies of this
Resolution to the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226

AYES: Members

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the City Council of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, at
a regular meeting held on 2019, and that said meeting was conducted
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended, and that
the minutes of said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required by said Act.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 
     


500 Griswold. Suite 2200

Detroit. MI 48228

 

October 10, 2019

Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit. Michigan 48226

Re: Osi Art Apartments West End Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Dear Honorable Council Members:

The enclosed Brown?eld Plan for the Osi Art Apartments West End Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan")
(Exhibit A), was submitted by the Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority Board (the and to
the Community Advisory Committee (the The Plan was considered and reviewed by the CAC at its
September 11, 2019 meeting and a public hearing was held by the DBRA on September 17, 2019 to solicit
public comments. The Committee?s communication to the City Council and the DBRA, dated September
11, 2019 (Exhibit B), recommending approval of the Plan, including the excerpt of the minutes of the CAC
meeting pertaining to the plan and the minutes the public hearing held by the DBRA, are enclosed for the
City Council?s consideration.

On October 9, 2019, the DBRA adopted a resolution (Exhibit C) approving the Plan and authorizing the
submission of a copy of its resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the Detroit
City Council call a public hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions to approve the Plan in
accordance with Act 381.

The Plan is now presented to the City Council for approval. The Detroit City Council will, after publication
of the notices, hold a public hearing on the Plan. After the public hearing, the City Council shall determine
whether the Plan constitutes a public purpose and, if so, may approve or reject the Plan or approve it with
modi?cations.

Project lntrod uction
3820 West End, LLC is the project developer (the "Developer") for the Plan which entails the construction

of a mixed-use development on the Property. The redevelopment, currently referred to as ?The Osi Art
Apartments West End," is planned to consist of ?rst floor commercial-use square footage with an
estimated 30 residential units on the upper floors. The proposed structure will be fronted along Grand River
Avenue with tenant parking to the rear of the building. The Property is presently vacant with no structures.

The total investment is estimated to be $6.6 million. The Developer is requesting $360,172.00 in TIF
reimbursement.

There will be 53 temporary construction jobs and 2 FTE job. The 2 FTE jobs will be related to property
management.

l3 Iii? CLERK Elli? ii? 9219.555!

Honorable City Council
October 10, 2019
2

Property Subiect to the Plan

The eligible property (the ?Property") consists of one (1) parcel bounded to the north by a public alley; to
the south by Grand River Avenue; by Avery Street to the west beyond a vacant adjacent parcel; and by the
Patterson Dog and Cat Hospital at 3800 Grand River Avenue to the east.

Basis of Eligibility

The Property is considered "eligible property" as de?ned by Act 381, Section 2 because the Property
was previously utilized as commercial as well as industrial purposes; it is located within the City of
Detroit, a quali?ed local governmental unit under Act 381; and the Property is determined to be a facility.

Eligible Activities and Protected Costs

The ?eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered ?eligible activities"
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include environmental assessment activities, due care
activities and additional response activities (department-speci?c activities). exterior foundation demolition
and development and preparation of a brown?eld plan and Act 381 work plan(s). The eligible activities and
budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be ?nanced solely by the
Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no debt. The
eligible activities are estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan and be completed
within 3 years.

Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue generated
by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible activities
completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement Agreement
with the DBRA.

COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 . Environmental Assessment Activities $16,850.00
2. Department Speci?c Activities $95,048.00
3. Demolition $60,000.00
4. Infrastructure Improvements $50,000.00
5. Site Preparation $30,884.00
6. Storm Water Management $50,000.00
7. Brown?eld Plan Work Plan Preparation $14,500.00
8. Contingency $42.890.00
Total Reimbursement to Developer $360,172.00

9. Authority Administrative Costs $122,693.00
10. State Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund $60,436.00
11. Local Brownfield Revolvi_ng Fund $274,650.00
TOTAL Estimated Costs $817,951.00

 

 

 

 

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.

Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of a
Commercial Rehabilitation Act PA 210 Tax Abatement.

Honorable City Council
October 10, 2019

3

DBRA's Reguest
The DBRA is respectfully requesting the following actions from the City Council:



October 15 2019

City Council adoption of the Resolution (Exhibit D). setting the Osi Art Apartments West End
Brownfield Redevelopment Plan public hearing. as approved by the Planning and Economic
Development Standing Committee Chair and the City of Detroit Clerk. for October 31, 2019 at
10:10 AM in the Council Chambers, 13?? Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center,

 

located at 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit. Michigan.

October 31. 2019. 10:05 AM
Discussion with taxing jurisdictions regarding the fiscal impact of the Plan.

October 31. 2019. 10:10 AM

Public Hearing at City Council's Planning and Economic Development Standing Committee

concerning the Osi Art Apartments West End Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan.

November 5 2019

 

City Council adoption of the Resolution approving the Osi Art Apartments West End

Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan (Exhibit E).

Sincerely. I. 
(WA ?lo-(7 
ennifer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

City Clerk
Marcel Todd
Irvin Corley, Jr.
David Whitaker
Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt
DeAndree Watson
Kevin Johnson
Malinda Jensen
Matthew Walters
Allen Rawls
Brian Vosburg
Stephanie Washington

CITY OF DETROIT

EXHIBIT A

BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

BROWNFIELD PLAN FOR THE

THE OSI ART APARTMENTS WEST END

REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Prepared by:

3820 West End, LLC

52 East Forest Avenue

Detroit, Michigan 48201

Contact Person: Roderick Hardamon
Phone: (917) 673-2102

AND

The Mannik Smith Group, Inc.
65 Cadillac Square, Suite 3311
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Contact Person: Matthew Danus
Phone: (216) 378-1490

September 6, 2019

II.





P1



.m .m

r?

cops?

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

1-1

CITY OF DETROIT
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
BROWNFIELD PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Description of Eligible Property

Basis of Eligibility

Summary of Eligible Activities

Estimate of Captured Taxable Value and Tax
Increment Revenues; Impact of Tax Increment

Financing on Taxing Jurisdictions

Plan of Financing; Maximum Amount
Indebtedness

Duration of Plan

Effective Date of Inclusion

Displacement/Relocation of Individuals on Eligible Property
Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (LBRF)

Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund

Developer?s Obligations, Representations and Warrants
ATTACHMENTS

Site Map

Legal Description

Project Description

Supportive Letters

Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities

11-2

11-3

11?4

11?5

11?7

11-7

11?8

11-8

11-8

11-8

11-8

A-l

B-l

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

F. TIF Tables ., 
G. Acknowledgement and Other Environmental Documents 6-1
H. Incentive Chart H?l

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

I. INTRODUCTION

In order to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed and blighted areas within the
boundaries of the City of Detroit, Michigan (the ?City?), the City has established the City of Detroit
Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (the pursuant to Michigan Public Act 381 of
1996, as amended (?Act 381?).

The primary purpose of this Brown?eld Plan (?Plan?) is to promote the redevelopment of and
private investment in certain ?brown?eld? properties within the City. Inclusion of property within
this Plan will facilitate ?nancing of environmental response and other eligible activities at eligible
properties and will also provide tax incentives to eligible taxpayers willing to invest in
revitalization of eligible sites, commonly referred to as ?brown?elds.? By facilitating
redevelopment of brown?eld properties, this Plan is intended to promote economic growth for the
bene?t of the residents of the City and all taxing units located within and bene?ted by the DBRA.

This Plan is intended to apply to the eligible property identi?ed in this Plan and, if tax increment
revenues are proposed to be captured from that eligible property, to identify and authorize the
eligible activities to be funded by such tax increment revenues.

This Plan is intended to be a living document, which may be modi?ed or amended in accordance
with the requirements of Act 381, as necessary to achieve the purposes of Act 381. A subsequent
change to the identi?cation or designation of a developer for the eligible property after the approval
of this Plan by the governing body shall not necessitate an amendment to this Plan, affect the
application of this Plan to the eligible property, or impair the rights available to the DBRA under
this Plan. The applicable sections of Act 381 are noted throughout the Plan for reference purposes.
This Plan describes the project to be completed (see Attachment C) and contains all the information
required by Section 13(2) of Act 381.

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

II. GENERAL PROVISIONS

A. Description of the Eligible Property Section 13 and the Proiect

The site comprising the eligible property consists of a single parcel, currently addressed as 3834
West Grand River Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, which is a ?facility,? as de?ned in Part 201 of
Michigan Public Act 451 (1994), as amended. The parcel and all tangible personal property located
thereon will comprise the eligible property and is collectively referred to herein as the ?Property.?

Attachment A includes a map of the Property. The Property is located along the Grand River
corridor in the Woodbridge neighborhood, more speci?cally within the West End Gallery District.
The Property is bounded to the north by a public alley; to the south by Grand River Avenue; by
Avery Street to the west beyond a vacant adjacent parcel; and by the Patterson Dog and Cat
Hospital at 3800 Grand River Avenue to the east.

Parcel information is outlined below.

 

 

 

Address 3834 West Grand River Avenue

(pending change will be to 3820 West Grand River Avenue)
lParcel ID 08001 182-4
Owner 3820 West End, LLC

 

 

Land situated in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of
Michigan, described as follows:

Lots 7 through 9, both inclusive, Block 3 of Avery and
Murphy?s Subdivision of out lots 8 and 9 Lognon Farm and out
lots 100, 101, 104, 105 and the northerly 358.64 feet ofout lot
106 and westerly 71 feet of out lot 97, according to the plat
thereof recorded in Liber 9 of Plats, Page 42 of Wayne County
Records.

Legal Description

 

 

 

3820 West End, LLC is the project developer (the ?Developer?) and acquired the Property on May
9, 2019. The proposed project is a mixed-use redevelopment of the Property. The Property is
presently vacant with no structures; however the foundations of former structures remain. These
foundations will be removed from the Property to facilitate the redevelopment. The
redevelopment, currently referred to as ?The Osi Art Apartments West End,? is planned to
consist of ?rst ?oor commercial?use square footage with residential units on the upper ?oors. The
proposed structure will be fronted along Grand River Avenue with tenant parking to the rear of the
building. It is currently anticipated that eligible activities will begin within 18 months of Plan
approval by the governing body and construction is anticipated to be completed within three years
after this Plan is approved by the governing body. The project description provided herein is a
summary of the proposed redevelopment at the time of the adoption of the Plan. The actual
redevelopment may vary from the project description provided herein, without necessitating an

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

amendment to this Plan, so long as such variations are not material and arise as a result of changes
in market and/or ?nancing conditions affecting the project and/or are related to the addition or
immaterial removal of amenities to the project. All material changes, as determined by DBRA in
its sole discretion, to the project description are subject to the approval of the DBRA staff and shall
be consistent with the overall nature of the pr0posed development, its proposed public purpose,
and the purposes of Act 381. Attachment provides a detailed description of the proposed project
and eligible activities to be completed at the Property (the ?Project?), and Attachment includes
letters of support for the Project.

B. Basis of Eligibilityr [Section 13 and Section 2 

The Property is considered an ?eligible property? as de?ned by Act 381, Section 2 because: 
the Property was previously utilized as commercial as well as industrial purposes; it is located
within the City of Detroit, a quali?ed local governmental unit under Act 381; and the Property
is determined to be a facility.

The Mannik Smith Group, Inc. completed a Phase II Environmental Site Assessment 
of the Property dated January 17, 2019, which identi?ed volatile organic compounds in
excess of the soil volatilization to indoor air inhalation criteria Based on laboratory
analytical results, the Property meets the de?nition of a facility, as de?ned in Michigan
Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy Part 201 of the NREPA,
Michigan Public Act 451, 1994, as amended. Additionally, the City of Detroit Building,
Safety, Engineering Environment Department has reviewed the results of the Phase
I ESA, the Phase II ESA, and the Baseline Environmental Assessment reports and
concurs with the facility designation per Part 201. A copy of the BSEED determination form can
be found in Attachment G.

C. Summary! of Eligible Activities and Description of Costs (Suction 13 

The eligible activities that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered eligible
activities as de?ned by Section 2(0) of Act 381, because they include environmental assessment
activities, department speci?c activities and additional response activities, exterior foundation
demolition and the development and preparation of a brown?eld plan and Act 381 work plan(s).

A summary of the eligible activities and the estimated cost of each eligible activity intended to be
paid for with Tax Increment Revenues from the Property are shown in the table attached hereto as
Attachment E. The eligible activities described in Attachment are not exhaustive. Subject to the
approval of DBRA staff in writing, additional eligible activities may be carried out at the Property,
without requiring an amendment to this Plan, so long as such eligible activities are permitted by
Act 381 and the costs of such eligible activities does not exceed the total costs stated in Attachment
E.

Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the DBRA, all eligible activities shall commence within
eighteen (18) months after the date the governing body approves this Plan and be completed within
three (3) years after approval of the Michigan Strategic Fund work plan, if applicable, or
three (3) years after execution of the Reimbursement Agreement (as that term is de?ned below).
Any long?term monitoring or operation and maintenance activities or obligations that may be
required will be performed in compliance with the terms of this Plan and any documents prepared

3

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

pursuant to this Plan.

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities incurred by it. Some
eligible activities may commence prior to the adoption of this Plan and to the extent permitted by
Act 381 shall be reimbursable pursuant to the Reimbursement Agreement. Tax Increment Revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the
eligible activities completed on the Property pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement Agreement,
to be executed by the DBRA and the Developer after approval of this Plan (the ?Reimbursement
Agreement?), to the extent permitted by Act 381. In the event this Plan contemplates the capture
of Tax Increment Revenue derived from ?taxes levied for school operating purposes? (as de?ned
by Section 2(uu) of Act 381 and hereinafter referred to as ?School Taxes?), the Developer
acknowledges and agrees that obligation to reimburse the Developer for the cost of
eligible activities with tax increment revenue derived from Local Taxes, or Speci?c Taxes that are
considered Local Taxes, (as these capitalized terms are de?ned by Act 381) is contingent upon: 
the Developer receiving at least the initial applicable work plan approvals by the MSF and the
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy as may be required
pursuant to Act 381; or (ii) the Developer providing the DBRA with evidence, satisfactory to
DBRA, that the Developer has the ?nancial means to complete the project without the capture of,
and subsequent reimbursement with, the contemplated School Taxes.

The costs listed in Attachment are estimated costs and may increase or decrease depending on
the nature and extent of environmental contamination and other unknown conditions encountered
on the Property. The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will
qualify for reimbursement from tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be
governed by the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement. No costs of eligible activities will be
quali?ed for reimbursement except to the extent permitted in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the Reimbursement Agreement and Act 381. The Reimbursement Agreement and
this Plan will dictate the total cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement,
provided that the total cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement under the
Reimbursement Agreement shall not exceed the estimated costs set forth in Attachment B. As long
as the total costs are not exceeded, line item costs of eligible activities may be adjusted after the
date this Plan is approved by the governing body, to the extent the adjustments do not violate the
terms of the approved EGLE or MSF work plan.

D. Estimate of Captured Taxable Value and Tax Increment Revenues (Section 
Beginning Date of Capture of Tax Increment Revenues (Section Impact of Tax
Increment Financing on Taxing Jurisdictions (Section 

This Plan anticipates the capture of tax increment revenues to reimburse the Developer for the
costs of eligible activities under this Plan in accordance with the Reimbursement Agreement.
subject to Section 13(b)16 of Act 381, a table of estimated tax increment revenues to be captured
is attached to this Plan as Attachment F.

Tax increments are projected to be captured and applied to reimbursement of eligible activity
costs and payment of DBRA administrative and operating expenses, (ii) make deposits into the
State Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund, and make deposits into the Local Brown?eld
Revolving Fund, as follows:

4

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Reimbursement BRA Admin. State Revolving Revolving
Costs Reimbursement Fund Fund

School Capture

State Education Tax (SET) 5? 44:102 $60=436 5* 16335
School Operating Tax .13 264,609 98,009
Local Capture

Wayne Co 39 1,233 8 2,939 3,839
WC Jails 1,168 2,785 3,639
WC Parks 33 306 730 ?15 954
WC HCMA 265 33 632 '5 826
WC RESA 120 35 287 374
WC RESA SP ED 4,194 9,999 ES 13,065
WC RESA ENH 2,491 35 5,938 51'; 7,759
WC Comm College 4,036 9,622 5 12,572
General City 53 24,847 59,240 515 77,401
Library 5,767 13,749 5 17,964
WC Tax 7,034 16,771 51; 21,912
16 360,172 122,693 3 60,436 5: 274,650

 

In addition, the following taxes are projected to be generated but shall not be captured by the DBRA
during the life of this Plan.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Zoo 35 972
DIA 1,945
Debt Service 87,519
School Debt 126,417

TOTAL 216,854

The Developer anticipates approval of a tax abatement under the Commercial Rehabilitation
Development District Tax Act, PA 210 of 2005 as amended, for up to 10 years. If the
PA210 is approved, this tax abatement will reduce the property-tax obligations of the Property for
the period applicable under the approved abatement certi?cate, thereby reducing the amount of
Tax Increment Revenues available under this Plan. Assumption of this reduction is included in the
tax capture projections provided with this Plan.

In no event shall the duration of this Plan exceed thirty-?ve (35) years following the date of the
governing body?s resolution approving this Plan, nor shall the duration of the tax capture exceed
the lesser of the period authorized under subsection (5) of Section 13 of Act 381 or 30 years.
Further, in no event shall the beginning date of the capture of Tax Increment Revenues be later
than ?ve (5) years after the date of the governing body?s resolution approving this Plan or such
other date as authorized by Act 381.

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

E. Plan of Financing (Section Maximum Amount of Indebtedness {Section
1312mm

The eligible activities are to be ?nanced solely by the Developer. The DBRA will reimburse the
Developer for the cost of approved eligible activities, but only from tax increment revenues
generated from the Property. No advances have been or shall be made by the City or the DBRA
for the costs of eligible activities under this Plan.

All reimbursements authorized under this Plan shall be governed by the Reimbursement
Agreement. The inclusion of eligible activities and estimates of costs to be reimbursed in this Plan
are intended to authorize the DBRA to fund such reimbursements and does not obligate the DBRA
or the City to fund any reimbursement or to enter into the Reimbursement Agreement providing
for the reimbursement of any costs for which tax increment revenues may be captured under this
Plan, or which are permitted to be reimbursed under this Plan. The amount and source of any tax
increment revenues that will be used for purposes authorized by this Plan, and the terms and
conditions for such use and upon any reimbursement of the expenses permitted by this Plan, will
be provided solely under the Reimbursement Agreement contemplated by this Plan. Unless
otherwise agreed upon by the Developer, the DBRA, and the State of Michigan, the DBRA shall
not incur any note or bonded indebtedness to ?nance the purposes of this Plan. Reimbursements
under the Reimbursement Agreement shall not exceed the cost of Eligible Activities permitted
under this Plan.

F. Duration of Plan (Section 

Subject to Section 13b(16) of Act 381, the beginning date of capture of Tax Increment Revenues
for each eligible property shall occur in accordance with the Tax Increment Financing (TIF) table
described in Exhibit F. In no event, however, shall this Plan extend beyond the maximum term
allowed by Section 13(2)(t) of Act 381 for the duration of this Plan. Furthermore, this Plan, or
any subsequent amendment thereto, may be abolished or terminated in accordance with Section
14(8) of Act 381 in the event of any of the following:

a. The governing body may abolish this Plan (or any subsequent amendment thereto)
when it ?nds that the purposes for which this Plan was established have been accomplished; and

b. The governing body may terminate this Plan (or any subsequent amendment thereto)
if the project for which eligible activities were identi?ed in this Plan (or any subsequent
amendment thereto) fails to occur with respect to the eligible property for at least two (2) years
following the date of the governing body resolution approving this Plan (or any subsequent
amendment thereto), provided that the governing body ?rst does both of the following: gives
30 days? written notice to the Developer at its last known address by certi?ed mail or other method
that documents proof of delivery attempted; and (ii) provides the Developer with an opportunity
to be heard at a public meeting.

Notwithstanding anything in this subsection to the contrary, this Plan (or any subsequent
amendment thereto) shall not be abolished or terminated until the principal and interest on bonds,
if any, issued under Section 17 of Act 381 and all other obligations to which the tax increment
revenues are pledged have been paid or funds suf?cient to make the payment have been identi?ed
or segregated.

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan
G. Effective Date of Inclusion in Brownfield Plan
The Property will become a part of this Plan on the date this Plan is approved by the governing

body.

H. EsplacementfRelocation of Individuals on Eligible Property Section 

There are no persons or businesses residing on the eligible property and no occupied residences or
businesses will be acquired or cleared, therefore there will be no displacement or relocation of
persons or businesses under this Plan.

I. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund (Section 8; Section 

The DBRA has established a Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund The LBRF will consist
of all tax increment revenues authorized to be captured and deposited in the LBRF, as speci?ed in
Section 13(5) of Act 381, under this Plan and any other plan of the DBRA. It may also include
funds appropriated or otherwise made available from public or private sources.

The amount of tax increment revenue authorized for capture and deposit in the LBRF is estimated
at $274,650.00. All funds, if any, deposited in the LBRF shall be used in accordance with Section
8 of Act 381.

J. Brown?eld Fund (Section Sn: Section 

The DBRA shall pay to the Department of Treasury at least once annually an amount equal to 50%
of the taxes levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to 211.906, that are
captured under this Plan for up to the ?rst twenty-?ve (25) years of the duration of capture of tax
increment revenues for each eligible property included in this Plan. If the DBRA pays an amount
equal to 50% of the taxes levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to
211.906, on a parcel of eligible property to the Department of Treasury under Section 13b(14) of
Act 381, the percentage of local taxes levied on that parcel and used to reimburse eligible activities
for the Project under this Plan shall not exceed the percentage of local taxes levied on that parcel
that would have been used to reimburse eligible activities for the Project under this Plan if the 50%
of the taxes levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to 211.906, on that
parcel were not paid to the Department of Treasury under Section 13b(14) of Act 381.

K. Developer?s Obligations. Representations and Warrants

The Developer and its af?liates shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, executive
orders, or other regulations imposed by the City or any other properly constituted governmental
authority with respect to the Property and shall use the Property in accordance with this Plan. The
Developer, at its sole cost and expense, shall be solely responsible for and shall fully comply with
all applicable federal, state, and local relocation requirements in implementing this Plan.

The Developer represents and warrants that a Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessment 
and if appropriate, a Phase II ESA, BEA, and due care plan, pursuant to Part 201 of Michigan?s
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act (MCL 324.2010] et seq), have been or will
be performed on the Property (the ?Environmental Documents?). Attached hereto as Attachment
is the City of Detroit?s BSEED acknowledgement of its receipt of the Phase I ESA, the Phase II
BSA and the BEA reports.

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

The Developer further represents and warrants that the Project does not and will not include a City
of Detroit Land Bank Authority, Wayne County Land Bank Authority or State of Michigan Land
Bank ?nancing component.

Except as otherwise agreed to by the DBRA, any breach of a representation or warranty contained
in this Plan shall render the Plan invalid, subject to the Developer?s reasonable opportunity to cure
as described in the Reimbursement Agreement.

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENTS

10

ATTACHMENT A

Site Maps

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Path: Date Saved: 7/23/2019 11:48:Figure 1 Site Location
3834 Grand River Avenue
Detronf Michigan

 

Notes

.. .: 

.
I

1-K

USGS Quadra

Feet
0 1.000 2.000

(11980

Topographic

Detroit, MI-ON 1988 Revise

ngle, 7.5? Series

 



. 'if?! Elli," . 
I. . . 5

'c-?mxa 4L1 at 05.1

A. 


irk'_ar" 4.
:9 

0-2

 

 

 

MARATHON




'52.


c;
734

Ill
APARTMENTS

RESIDENTIAL

VACANT

PATTERSON
DOG 8: CAT
HOSPITAL

PARKING LOT
VACANT

LEGEND

SCALE
1" 100'



El

FIGURE 2: SITE MAP

5820 WEST END DEVELOPMENT
3834 GRAND RIVER AVE
DETROIT, MICHIGAN

 

11

Exhibit A
The Osi Art Apartments West End
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Legal Descriptions of Eligible Property to which the Plan Applies

