 gu?iw @53

\anF?ax?W?WL/
\0 ?5 

BUD GET, .
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1100
Detroit, Ml 48226

CITY OF DETROIT Phone: (313) 628-2535

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Fax: (313) 224-2135

E-Mail: OCFO@detroitmi.gov

September 13, 2019

 

The Honorable Detroit City Council
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue

Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Resolution submitting bond proposal and authorizing Unlimited Tax General Obligation
Bonds

Dear Honorable City Council Members:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer respectfully submits the attached resolution proposing
that a $250 million Blight Removal Bond Issue be placed on the March 2020 Ballot and authorizing
Unlimited Tax General Obligation (UTGO) Bonds. The proposal, in concert with blight reduction
funding called for in the Plan of Adjustment, will allow for the City to address the remaining
abandoned houses by 2025. Important to many of you, all neighborhoods not eligible for federal
HHF funding will now see demolitions without raising taxes on Detroiters.

The proposed investment will be made possible due to the continued collaboration between you
and the Mayor?s Administration to set a fiscally sustainable course for Detroit. Also important,
the City will maintain capacity to continue capital infrastructure investments over the next ten
years.

Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me or my office.

Best regards,

David P. Massaron
Chief Financial Officer

Cc: Mayor Michael E. Duggan, City of Detroit
Hakim Berry, Chief Operating Officer
Katie Hammer, Chief Deputy CFO/Policy Administration Director
John Naglick, Chief Deputy CFO/Finance Director
Tanya Stoudemire, Deputy CFO/Budget Director
Christa McLellan, Deputy CFO/Treasurer
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison



RESOLUTION SUBMITTING BOND PROPOSAL
AND
AUTHORIZING UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS

CITY OF DETROIT
COUNTY OF WAYNE, STATE OF MICHIGAN

 

WHEREAS, the City Council (the ?City Council?) of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) has
determined that it is necessary to secure additional resources to continue to pay the cost of
eliminating blight in the City through demolition and other blight remediation activities (the
?Project?); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Housing Law of Michigan, Act 167, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1917, as amended, and the City?s police powers, the City has the authority to conduct
all of the activities that comprise the Project, and pursuant to the Home Rule City Act, Act 279,
Public Acts of Michigan, 1909, as amended (?Act 279?), the City has the authority to issue
bonds for any purpose within the scope of its powers; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the City should borrow money in an
amount not to exceed Two Hundred Fifty Million Dollars and issue general
obligation unlimited tax bonds of the City, in such amount for the purpose of paying all or part of
the cost of the Project; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that a proposal to issue bonds for the
Project (the ?Bond Proposal?) shall be submitted to the quali?ed electors of the City at the
primary election to be held in the City on Tuesday, March 10, 2020 (the ?Election Date?); and

WHEREAS, it is the determination of the City Council that, in the event a majority of the
quali?ed electors of the City voting approve the Bond Proposal, unlimited tax general obligation
bonds in the principal amount of not to exceed Two Hundred Fifty Million Dollars
($250,000,000) shall be issued pursuant to the City Charter, Act 279, and Act 34, Public Acts of
Michigan, 2001, as amended (?Act and pursuant to this Resolution for the purpose of
paying all or part of the costs of the Project; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to negotiate the sale of the Bonds to one or more
underwriters or purchasers within the parameters established by this Resolution.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1. Approval of Bond Proposal. The Bond Proposal attached hereto as Exhibit A is
hereby approved and shall be submitted to a vote of the quali?ed electors of the City on the
Election Date.

2. Certi?cation of Bond Proposal; Submission to County Clerk. The ballot wording
of the Bond Proposal is hereby certi?ed to the City Clerk and the County Clerk of the Charter

County of Wayne (the ?County Clerk?) for submission to the City?s electors on the Election
Date. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to ?le this Resolution and/or complete
any such forms, certi?cates or documents as may be required by the County Clerk to evidence
the foregoing certi?cation and/or submission by no later than 4:00 pm. on Tuesday, December
17, 2019.

3. Publication of Notice: Preparation of Ballots. The City Clerk and the County
Clerk are hereby directed to post and publish notice of last day of registration and notice of
election as required by the Michigan Election Law; and have prepared and printed, as
provided by the Michigan Election Law, ballots for submitting the Bond Proposal at the election,
which ballots shall contain the Bond Proposal, or the proposition shall be stated as a proposal on
the voting machines, which ballots may include other matters presented to the electorate on the
same date.

4. Estimated Millage. The estimated millage rate in the ?rst year and simple
average annual millage rate set forth in the Bond Proposal, which have been prepared for the
City by Public Resources Advisory Group, Inc., municipal ?nancial advisors to the City, are
reasonable estimates of such millage rates based on current assumptions.

5. Reimbursement Declarations. The City makes the following declarations for the
purpose of complying with the reimbursement rules of Treas. Reg. 1.150-2 pursuant to the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ?Code?):

If the Bond Proposal is approved by the electors, the City reasonably expects to
reimburse itself with proceeds of the Bonds for certain costs of the Project which
were paid or will be paid from the general funds of the City subsequent to sixty
(60) days prior to today.

The maximum principal amount of debt expected to be issued for the Project,
including issuance costs, is $250,000,000.

A reimbursement allocation of the capital expenditures described above with the
proceeds of the Bonds will occur not later than 18 months after the later of the
date on which the expenditure is paid, or (ii) the date the Project is placed in
service or abandoned, but in no event more than three (3) years after the original
expenditure is paid. A reimbursement allocation is an allocation in writing that
evidences the City?s use of the proceeds of the Bonds to reimburse the City for a
capital expenditure made pursuant to this resolution.

6. Authorization of Bonds: Bond erms. Pending the approval of the Bond Proposal
by more than the required majority of quali?ed electors of the City voting thereon, bonds of the
City designated Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds (the ?Bonds?) are authorized to be
issued, in one or more series, in the aggregate principal sum of not to exceed Two Hundred Fifty
Million Dollars for the purpose of paying part of the cost of the Project,
including the costs incidental to the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds. For each series of
the Bonds, the above designation will be modi?ed to indicate the year of issuance of such series
and such additional information as may be necessary to designate multiple series or sub-series

within a single year, and in the case of delivery of any series of the Bonds delivered pursuant to a
HUD Program (as de?ned herein), such designation may be modi?ed to conform to HUD
Program requirements (including but not limited to a designation of such series of Bonds as
?notes?). Each issue shall consist of bonds in fully-registered form of the denomination of
$5,000, or multiples thereof not exceeding for each maturity the maximum principal amount of
that maturity, numbered consecutively in order of registration, dated as of the date of delivery.

The Bonds will mature on the dates in the years and amounts determined by the Chief
Financial Of?cer or the Chief Financial Of?cer?s designee (the ?Authorized Of?cer?) at the time
of sale, and be subject to redemption prior to maturity in the manner and at the times and prices
as determined by the Authorized Of?cer at the time of sale.

The Bonds shall bear interest at a rate or rates on a ?xed and tax-exempt or taxable basis
to be determined upon negotiated sale thereof. Interest on the Bonds shall be payable on the
dates and in the years as determined by the Authorized Of?cer at the time of sale. The record
date of determination of registered owner for purposes of payment of interest as provided in this
paragraph may be changed by the City to conform to market practice in the future. Interest shall
be payable to the registered owner of record as of the 15th day of the month preceding the
payment date for each interest payment. The principal of the Bonds shall be payable at the
corporate trust of?ce of such bank or trust company as may be selected by the Authorized
Of?cer at the time of sale of the Bonds to serve as transfer agent therefor (the ?Transfer Agent?);
provided, that in connection with Bonds delivered pursuant to a HUD Program, the Transfer
Agent may be an entity designated as ?scal agent, trustee or the equivalent under the applicable
HUD Program, subject to the laws of the State of Michigan (the ?State?).

The Bonds may be issued in book?entry only form through The Depository Trust
Company in New York, New York and the Authorized Of?cer is authorized to execute
such custodial or other agreement with DTC as may be necessary to accomplish the issuance of
the Bonds in book-entry only form and to make such changes in the Bond form within the
parameters of this resolution as may be required to accomplish the foregoing.

7. Tax Exempt Bonds: Taxable Bonds. The Authorized Of?cer is hereby
authorized and directed to determine whether all or any portion of the Bonds shall be sold as: 
bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes
(?Tax-Exempt Bonds?), or (ii) bonds the interest on which is included in gross income for
federal income tax purposes under the Code, or any combination thereof.

8. Execution of Bonds. The Bonds of this issue shall be executed in the name of the
City with the manual or facsimile signatures of the Mayor and Finance Director and shall have
the seal of the City, or a facsimile thereof, printed or impressed on the Bonds. No Bond shall be
valid until authenticated by an authorized of?cer or representative of the Transfer Agent. The
Bonds shall be delivered to the Transfer Agent for authentication and be delivered by the
Transfer Agent to the purchaser or other person in accordance with instructions from the Finance
Director upon payment of the purchase price for the Bonds in accordance with the bid therefor
when accepted.

 

9. Transfer of Bonds. The Transfer Agent shall keep the books of registration for

this issue on behalf of the City. Any Bond may be transferred upon such registration books by
the registered owner of record, in person or by the registered owner?s duly authorized attorney,
upon surrender of the Bond for cancellation, accompanied by delivery of a duly executed written
instrument of transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Bond or Bonds
shall be surrendered for transfer, the City shall execute and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate
and deliver a new Bond or Bonds for like aggregate principal amount. The Transfer Agent shall
require the payment by the bondholder requesting the transfer of any tax or other governmental
charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer. For any series of Bonds issued pursuant
to a HUD Program, transfer of such Bonds shall be made in accordance with HUD Program
requirements, subject to the laws of the State.

10. Debt Retirement Fund; Unlimited Tax Pledge; Defeasance of Bonds; Early
Optional Redemption. For each series of Bonds, the City Treasurer is authorized and directed to
open a depositary account with a bank or trust company designated by the Authorized Of?cer, to
be designated OF UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
DEBT RETIREMENT FUND (the ?Debt Retirement Fund?), the moneys to be deposited into
the Debt Retirement Fund to be speci?cally earmarked and used solely for the purpose of paying
principal of and interest on the Bonds as they mature. The City hereby pledges its unlimited tax
full faith and credit for the prompt payment of the Bonds. All proceeds from taxes levied for
deposit into the Debt Retirement Fund shall be deposited as collected. Commencing with the
year 2020 (or such other year as shall be necessary to ?rst levy taxes to pay debt service on the
Bonds), there shall be levied upon the tax rolls of the City for the purpose of the Debt Retirement
Fund each year, in the manner required by the provisions of Act 34, an amount suf?cient so that
the estimated collection therefrom will be suf?cient to pay, when due, the principal of
and interest on the Bonds becoming due prior to the next annual tax levy; provided, however,
that if at the time of making any such annual tax levy there shall be other funds available or
surplus moneys on hand in the Debt Retirement Fund for the payment of principal of and interest
on the Bonds, then credit therefor may be taken against such annual levy for the Debt Retirement
Fund.

 

In the event cash or direct obligations of the United States or obligations the principal of
and interest on which are guaranteed by the United States, or a combination thereof, the principal
of and interest on which, without reinvestment, come due at times and in amounts suf?cient to
pay at maturity or irrevocable call for earlier optional redemption, the principal of, premium, if
any, and interest on the Bonds, shall be deposited in trust, this resolution shall be defeased and
the owners of the Bonds shall have no further rights under this resolution except to receive
payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds from the cash or
securities deposited in trust and the interest and gains thereon and to transfer and exchange
Bonds as provided herein.

Unless waived by any registered owner of Bonds to be redeemed, of?cial notice of
redemption shall be given by the Transfer Agent on behalf of the City. Such notice shall be
dated and shall contain at a minimum the following information: original issue date; maturity
dates; interest rates; CUSIP numbers, if any; the place where the Bonds called for redemption are
to be surrendered for payment; and that interest on the Bonds or portions thereof called for
redemption shall cease to accrue from and after the redemption date. Any notice of optional
redemption may provide that such redemption is conditioned upon the occurrence of any event

speci?ed in the notice of redemption. If such conditional notice of redemption has been given,
and on the scheduled redemption date the event speci?ed in the notice of redemption as a
condition to the redemption has not occurred, then Bonds for which conditional notice of
redemption was given shall not be redeemed on the scheduled redemption date and shall remain
outstanding for all purposes of this resolution.

In addition, further notice shall be given by the Transfer Agent in such manner as may be
required or suggested by regulations or market practice at the applicable time, but no defect in
such further notice nor any failure to give all or any portion of such further notice shall in any
manner defeat the effectiveness of a call for redemption if notice thereof is given as prescribed
herein.

11. Project Fund; Proceeds of Bond Sale; Appropriation. The City Treasurer is
authorized and directed to open a separate depositary account with a bank or trust company
designated by the City Council, to be designated UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION
BONDS PROJECT FUND (the ?Project Fund?) and deposit into said Project Fund the proceeds
of the Bonds less accrued interest, if any, which shall be deposited into the Debt Retirement
Fund. The moneys in the Project Fund shall be used solely to pay the costs of the Project,
capitalized interest, if any, and the costs of issuance of the Bonds.

The proceeds of the Bonds are hereby appropriated, upon receipt, to appropriation 21003
UTGO Blight Bonds for the purpose of paying all or part of the cost of the Project, capitalized
interest, if any, and the costs of issuance of the Bonds.

The City Treasurer is further authorized to open such account or accounts as may be
required for the deposit or transfer of proceeds in connection with the issuance of any Series of
Bonds issued pursuant to a HUD Program, provided such accounts and any deposits made
therein are consistent with the laws of the State and this resolution.

12. Bond Form. Any Bonds not delivered pursuant to a HUD Program shall be in
substantially the following form. Any series of Bonds delivered pursuant to a HUD Program
shall be in such form as shall be necessary to conform to HUD Program requirements, subject to
the laws of the State.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
COUNTY OF WAYNE

CITY OF DETROIT

UNLIMITED TAX GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND, SERIES 20_

Interest Maturity Date of
Rate Date Original Issue CUSIP
1. 20m

Registered Owner:

Principal Amount: Dollars

The CITY OF DETROIT, County of Wayne, State of Michigan (the "City"),

acknowledges itself to owe and for value received hereby promises to pay to the Registered
Owner speci?ed above, or registered assigns, the Principal Amount speci?ed above, in lawful
money of the United States of America, on the Maturity Date speci?ed above, unless prepaid
prior thereto as hereinafter provided, with interest thereon (computed on the basis of a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months) from the Date of Original Issue speci?ed above or
such later date to which interest has been paid, until paid, at the Interest Rate per annum
speci?ed above, ?rst payable on 1, 20_ and semiannually thereafter. Principal of
this bond 13 payable at the corporate trust of?ce of 
.or such other transfer agent as the City may hereafter designate by notice
mailed to the registered owner not less than sixty (60) days prior to any interest payment date
(the ?Transfer Agent?). Interest on this bond is payable to the registered owner of record as of
the ?fteenth (15th) day of the month preceding the interest payment date as shown on the
registration books of the City kept by the Transfer Agent by check or draft mailed to the
registered owner of record at the registered address. For prompt payment of this bond, both
principal and interest, the full faith, credit and resources of the City are hereby irrevocably
pledged.

 

This bond is one of a series of bonds aggregating the principal sum of 
constituting the series of bonds of a total authorization of issued for the

purpose of paying the cost of eliminating blight in the City through demolition and other blight
remediation activities[, paying capitalized interest] and paying costs incidental to the issuance of
the bonds in pursuance of a vote of the quali?ed electors of the City voting thereon at a certain
election duly held on March 10, 2020.

Bonds of this issue maturing in the years 20_ to 20_, inclusive, shall not be subject to
redemption prior to maturity. Bonds or portions of bonds of this issue in multiples of $5,000

maturing in the year and thereafter shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity, at the
option of the City, in any order of maturity and by lot within any maturity, on any date on or
after 1, at par and accrued interest to the date ?xed for redemption.

 

[Insert any mandatory sinking fund redemption/term bond provisions, if applicable]

In case less than the full amount of an outstanding bond is called for redemption, the
Transfer Agent, upon presentation of the bond called in part for redemption, shall register,
authenticate and deliver to the registered owner of record a new bond in the principal amount of
the portion of the original bond not called for redemption.

Notice of redemption shall be given to the registered owner of any bond or portion
thereof called for redemption by mailing of such notice not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
date ?xed for redemption to the registered address of the registered owner of record. A bond or
portion thereof so called for redemption shall not bear interest after the date ?xed for redemption
provided funds are on hand with the Transfer Agent to redeem said bond or portion thereof.

This bond is transferable only upon the registration books of the City kept by the Transfer
Agent by the registered owner of record in person, or by the registered owner?s attorney duly
authorized in writing, upon the surrender of this bond together with a written instrument of
transfer satisfactory to the Transfer Agent duly executed by the registered owner or the registered
owner?s attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon a new registered bond or bonds in the
same aggregate principal amount and of the same maturity shall be issued to the transferee in
exchange therefor as provided in the resolution authorizing this bond and upon the payment of
the charges, if any, therein prescribed. Neither the City nor the Transfer Agent shall be required
to transfer or exchange this bond during the period ?fteen (15) days immediately preceding the
date of mailing any notice of redemption or (except as to the unredeemed portion, if any, of this
bond) after this bond or any portion of this bond has been selected for redemption.

This bond, including the interest thereon, is payable out of the City?s Debt Retirement
Fund for this issue and the City is required to levy ad valorem taxes on all taxable property in the
City for the payment thereof, without limitation as to rate or amount.

It is hereby certi?ed and recited that all acts, conditions and things required by law to be
done, precedent to and in the issuance of this bond and the series of bonds of which this is one,
exist and have been done and performed in regular and due form and time as required by law,
and that the total indebtedness of the City, including this bond, does not exceed any
constitutional, statutory or charter debt limitation.

This bond is not valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Transfer Agent?s Certi?cate
of Authentication on this bond has been executed by the Transfer Agent.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Detroit by authority of its City Council, has
caused this bond to be signed for and on its behalf and in its name by the manual or facsimile
signature of the Mayor of the City and the manual or facsimile signature of its Finance Director
and the of?cial seal of the City to be impressed hereon, all as of the Date of Original Issue.

CITY OF DETROIT
County of Wayne
State of Michigan

By

 

Its Mayor

(SEAL)

 

Its Finance Director

Certi?cate of Authentication

This bond is one of the bonds described in the within-mentioned resolution.

 

. Michigan

 

Transfer Agent

 

By
Its: Authorized Signature

Date of Authentication: 20_

13. Useful Life of Project. The estimated period of usefulness of the Project is hereby
declared to be not less than thirty (30) years.

 

14. Negotiated Sale. The City Council has considered the option of selling the Bonds
through a competitive sale and a negotiated sale and, pursuant to the requirements of Act 34,
based on the advice it its ?nancial advisor, determines that a negotiated sale of the Bonds will
result in the most ef?cient and expeditious means of selling the Bonds to best achieve the most
advantageous interest rates and costs to the City and will provide the City with greater ?exibility
in structuring bond maturities and adjusting terms for the Bonds.

15. Tax Covenant. The City shall, to the extent permitted by law, take all actions
within its control necessary to maintain the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds issued as Tax-
Exempt Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes under the Code, including, but
not limited to, actions relating to any required rebate of arbitrage earnings and the expenditures
and investment of Bond proceeds and moneys deemed to be Bond proceeds.

16. Sale of Bonds; Bond Purchase Agreement: Sale Order; Adjustment of Bond
Details. The Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to select one or more ?nancial
institutions to serve as underwriter or underwriters for any series of Bonds or (ii) purchase any
series of Bonds directly or take all actions necessary to participate in a ?nancing program
under the authority of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
such program being a Program?), in connection with which one or more series
of Bonds may be delivered. The Authorized Of?cer is, subject to the parameters set forth in this
Resolution, further authorized to approve the sale of any series of the Bonds to an underwriter
pursuant to a bond purchase agreement, a direct purchaser pursuant to a direct purchase
agreement or the equivalent thereof or HUD or a registered holder, agent or trustee
designated to purchase or take delivery of Bonds delivered in connection with a HUD Program.

The Authorized Of?cer is authorized to execute a sale order approving the ?nal terms of
each series of the Bonds (the ?Sale Order?), adjust the ?nal bond details set forth herein to the
extent necessary or convenient to complete the transactions authorized herein, and in pursuance
of the foregoing is authorized to exercise the authority and make the determinations authorized
pursuant to Section 315(1)(d) of Act 34, including but not limited to determinations regarding
interest rates, prices, discounts, maturities, principal amounts, denominations, dates of issuance,
interest payment dates, redemption rights, the place of delivery and payment, designation of
series and other matters; provided, that the interest rate on each series of the Bonds shall not
exceed the maximum rate of interest permitted by law; the ?nal maturity of each series of Bonds
shall be not later than thirty (30) years from the date of delivery thereof; each series of the Bonds
shall be sold at a price not less than 100% of the par amount thereof; and the underwriter?s
discount on the Bonds shall not exceed 0.75% of the principal amount of that series of the
Bonds.

17. Of?cial Statement; Quali?cation for Insurance; Ratings. The Authorized Of?cer
is hereby authorized and directed to if and as applicable to a series of the Bonds, approve the
circulation of a preliminary of?cial statement describing that series of the Bonds and to deem the
preliminary of?cial statement ??nal? for purposes of Rule 1502-12 of the SEC (the ?Rule?); 
solicit bids for and approve the purchase of a municipal bond insurance policy for any series of

10

the Bonds, if deemed economically advantageous to the City; apply for ratings on any series
of the Bonds; and, do all other acts and take all other necessary procedures required to
effectuate the sale, issuance and delivery of each series of the Bonds.

18. Approval of Other Documents and Actions; Treasury Approval. The Authorized
Of?cer and any other of?cers, agents or employees of the City are hereby authorized and
directed on behalf of the City to take any and all other actions, perform any and all acts and
execute any and all documents that shall be required, necessary or desirable to implement this
Resolution.

The Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to ?le applications with and to pay the
related fees, if any, to the Michigan Department of Treasury under Act 34 for an order or orders
of approval, or qualifying statements necessary to issue all or a portion of the Bonds, to enter
into any supplement to or amendment of that certain Debt Millage Deposit Escrow Agreement
between itself and U.S. Bank National Association, as escrow trustee, dated August 11, 2016, as
amended, and to enter into one or more remarketing agreements, indentures, letters of credit and
reimbursement agreements, and such waivers, including, speci?cally an application to waive the
investment grade rating requirement, or other Treasury approvals as necessary to implement the
sale, delivery and security for the Bonds, and as required by the Michigan Department of
Treasury and Act 34. The Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized and directed to pay any post
closing ?ling fees required by Act 34 to the Michigan Department of Treasury or other speci?ed
agency, as a cost of issuance or from other legally available funds.

19. Continuing Disclosure. The City shall enter into a continuing disclosure
undertaking pursuant to the Rule for the bene?t of the holders and bene?cial owners of any
series Bonds as to which the Rule is applicable, as more speci?cally set forth in Exhibit hereto
(the ?Undertaking?); provided, however, that the terms of the Undertaking are subject to
completion and modi?cation prior to delivery of the Bonds to such extent as the Authorized
Of?cer shall deem necessary to comply with law or market requirements of an underwriter of the
Bonds. The Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Undertaking after
completion and modi?cation as provided in this Resolution and the Sale Order.

 

20. Appointment of Bond Counsel; Engagement oFOther Parties. The appointment
of the law ?rm of Miller, Can?eld, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C. of Detroit, Michigan, as initial
Bond Counsel for the Bonds is hereby rati?ed and con?rmed, notwithstanding the periodic
representation by Miller, Can?eld, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C., in unrelated matters of other
parties and potential parties to the issuance of the Bonds. The fees and expenses of Miller,
Can?eld, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C. as Bond Counsel and other accumulated bond related fees
and expenses shall be payable as a cost of issuance from proceeds of the Bonds or other
available funds in accordance with the letter of such ?rm on ?le with the City.

The Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to engage other consultants, ?nancial
advisors, or other parties as he or she deems necessary and appropriate in connection with the
sale, issuance and delivery of the Bonds and to pay the fees and expenses thereof from the
proceeds of the Bonds or other available funds.

21. Financial Advisor. The City hereby appoints Public Resources Advisory

ll

Group, Inc. as initial ?nancial adviser with respect to the Bonds.

22. No Recourse Under Resolution. All covenants, agreements and obligations of the
City contained in this Resolution shall be deemed to be the covenants, agreements and
obligations of the City and not of any councilperson, member, of?cer or employee of the City in
his or her individual capacity, and no recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or
interest on the Bonds or for any claim based thereon or on this Resolution against any
councilperson, member, of?cer or employee of the City or any person executing the Bonds in his
or her of?cial individual capacity.

23. Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption by
the Council.

24. Rescission. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they con?ict with
the provisions of this resolution be and the same hereby are rescinded.

l2

Exhibit A
BOND PROPOSAL

Shall the City of Detroit issue bonds in an amount of not more than $250,000,000
for the purpose of paying the cost of eliminating blight in the City through
demolition and other blight remediation activities? The bonds will be payable
from taxes the City is allowed to levy in addition to state statutory and City
Charter limits.

Yes 
No 

The total debt millage required to retire this proposed bond issue and all voted
bonds of the City is estimated to remain at or below the debt millage levied by the
City in 2019. If approved, the estimated millage to be levied in 2020 for the
proposed bonds is 2.986 mills ($2.986 per $1,000 of taxable value) and the
estimated simple average annual millage rate required to retire the proposed
bonds is 2.553 mills ($2.553 per $1,000 of taxable value). Each series of the
bonds shall be payable in not more than 30 years from its date of issuance.

A-l

Exhibit 
FORM OF CONTINUING DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING

This Continuing Disclosure Undertaking (the ?Undertaking?) is executed and delivered
by the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan (the ?City?) in connection with the
issuance of its Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds, Series 20_ (the ?Bonds?). The City
covenants and agrees for the bene?t of the Bondholders, as hereinafter de?ned, as follows:

De?nitions. The following terms used herein shall have the following meanings:

?Audited Financial Statements? means the City?s audited ?nancial statements prepared
by an individual or ?rm of independent certi?ed public accountants as required by Act 2, Public
Acts of Michigan, 1968, as amended, which presently requires preparation in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.

?Bondholders? shall mean the registered owner of any Bond or any person with the
power, directly or indirectly, to vote or consent with respect to, or to dispose of ownership of,
any Bond (including any person holding a Bond through a nominee, depository or other
intermediary) or treated as the owner of any Bond for federal income tax purposes.

?City? means the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan.

?Disclosure Representative? means the CFO of the City or his designee, or such other
of?cer, employee, or agent as the City shall designate from time to time in writing.

shall mean the Electronic Municipal Market Access System.

?Financial Obligation? means ??nancial obligation? as such term is de?ned in the Rule.
means the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.

?Rule? means Rule 1502-12 promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, as in effect on the date of this undertaking, including any of?ciation
interpretations thereof issued either before or after the date of this undertaking which are
applicable to this undertaking.

means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.

?Unaudited Financial Statements? means the same as Audited Financial Statements,
except that they shall not have been audited by an individual or ?rm of independent certi?ed
public accountants.

Continuing Disclosure. The City hereby agrees, in accordance with the
provisions of the Rule, to provide or cause to be provided to the MSRB through EMMA, on
or before the last day of the ninth (9th) month following the end of the ?scal year of the City,
commencing with the ?scal year ended June 30, 2020, in an electronic format as prescribed
by the MSRB:

B-l

(1) Certain annual ?nancial information and operating data reasonably
available to the City in form and substance similar to the information
appearing in the sections or tables in Appendix A of the Of?cial
Statement relating to the Bonds as described below:

Revenues and Expenditures of the General Fund;

Municipal Income Tax Revenues;

Property Tax Revenues;

Distributable State Aid (State Revenue Sharing);

Annual City Contributions to the Retirement Systems;

City of Detroit State Equalized Valuations and Taxable Valuations;
Tax Rates;

Tax Levies and Collections;

Ten Largest Property Taxpayers;

Legal Debt Margins Subject to State Limitations;

Statement of Direct Tax?Supported and Revenue Indebtedness; and
Direct and Overlapping Debt.



(2) The Audited Financial Statements. Provided, however, that if the Audited
Financial Statements are not available by the date speci?ed above, they shall
be provided when available and unaudited ?nancial statements will be ?led
by such date and the Audited Financial Statements will be ?led as soon as
available.

(3) Such additional ?nancial information or operating data as may be
determined by the City and its advisors as desirable or necessary to comply
with the Rule.

Such annual ?nancial information and operating data described above are expected to be
provided directly by the City or by speci?c reference to other documents available to the public
through EMMA or ?led with the SEC, including of?cial statements of debt issues of the City or
related public entities.

If the ?scal year of the City is changed, the City shall send notice of such change to the
MSRB through EMMA prior to the earlier of the ending date of the ?scal year prior to such
change or the ending date of the ?scal year as changed.

Notice of Failure to Disclose. The City agrees to provide or cause to be provided,
in a timely manner, to the MSRB through EMMA, notice of a failure by the City to provide the
Annual Financial Information with respect to the City described in subsection above on or
prior to the dates set forth in subsection above.

Occurrence of Events. The City agrees to provide or cause to be provided to the
MSRB through EMMA, in an electronic format as prescribed by the MSRB, in a timely manner
not in excess of ten business days after the occurrence of the event, notice of the occurrence of
any of the following events listed in paragraph of the Rule with respect to the Bonds
(each a ?Material Event?):

(1) principal and interest payment delinquencies;

B-2

(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)

(13)

(14)
(15)

(16)

dd

non-payment related defaults;

unscheduled draws on debt service reserves re?ecting ?nancial dif?culties;
unscheduled draws on credit enhancements re?ecting ?nancial dif?culties;
substitution of credit or liquidity providers, or their failure to perform;

adverse tax opinions or events affecting the tax-exempt status of the Bonds;
modi?cations to rights of holders of the Bonds;

Bond calls;

defeasances;

release, substitution, or sale of property securing repayment of the Bonds;

rating changes;

bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar event of the Issuer, which is
considered to occur when any of the following occur: the appointment of a
receiver, ?scal agent or similar of?cer for the Issuer in a proceeding under the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code or in any other proceeding under state or federal law in
which a court or governmental authority has assumed jurisdiction over
substantially all of the assets or business of the Issuer, or if such jurisdiction has
been assumed by leaving the existing governing body and of?cials or of?cers in
possession but subject to the supervision and orders of a court or governmental
authority, or the entry of an order con?rming a plan of reorganization,
arrangement or liquidation by a court or governmental authority having
supervision or jurisdiction over substantially all of the assets or business of the
Issuer;

the consummation of a merger, consolidation, or acquisition involving the Issuer
or the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, other than in the
ordinary course of business, the entry into a de?nitive agreement to undertake
such an action or the termination of a de?nitive agreement relating to any such
actions, other than pursuant to its terms, if material;

appointment of a successor or additional trustee or the change of name of a
trustee, if material;

incurrence of a Financial Obligation of the Issuer, if material, or agreement to
covenants, events of default, remedies, priority rights, or other similar terms of a
Financial Obligation of the Issuer, any of which affect security holders, if
material; or

default, event of acceleration, termination event, modi?cation of terms, or other
similar events under the terms of a Financial Obligation of the Issuer, any of
which re?ect ?nancial dif?culties.

Materiality Determined Under Federal Securities Laws. The City agrees that its

determination of whether any event listed in subsection is material shall be made in
accordance with federal securities laws.

09

Termination of Reporting Obligation. The obligation of the City to provide

Annual Financial Information and notices of Material Events, as set forth above, shall be
terminated if and when the City no longer remains an ?obligated person? with respect to the
Bonds within the meaning of the Rule, including upon legal defeasance of all Bonds.

13-3

 Identijjzing Information. All documents provided to the MSRB through EMMA
shall be accompanied by the identifying information prescribed by the MSRB.

01) Bene?t of Bondholders. The City agrees that its undertaking pursuant to the Rule
set forth in this Section is intended to be for the bene?t of the Bondholders and shall be
enforceable by any Bondholder; provided that, the right to enforce the provisions of this
Undertaking shall be limited to a right to obtain speci?c enforcement of the City?s obligations
hereunder and any failure by the City to comply with the provisions of this Undertaking shall not
constitute a default or an event of default with respect to the Bonds or under the Resolution.

Amendments to the Undertaking. Amendments may be made in the speci?c types
of information provided or the format of the presentation of such information to the extent
deemed necessary or appropriate in the judgment of the Disclosure Representative on behalf of
the City, provided that the City agrees that any such amendment will be adopted procedurally
and substantively in a manner consistent with the Rule, including, any interpretations thereof by
the SEC, which, to the extent applicable, are incorporated herein by reference. Such
interpretations currently include the requirements that the amendment may only be made in
connection with a change in circumstances that arises from a change in legal requirements,
change in law, or change in the identity, nature, or status of the City or the type of activities
conducted thereby, the undertaking, as amended, would have complied with the requirements
of the Rule at the time of the primary offering of the Bonds, after taking into account any
amendments or interpretations of the Rule, as well as any change in circumstances, and the
amendment does not materially impair the interests of Bondholders, as determined by parties
unaf?liated with the City (such as independent legal counsel), but such interpretations may be
changed in the future. If the accounting principles to be followed by the City in preparing the
Audited Financial Statements are modi?ed, the Annual Financial Information for the year in
which the change is made shall present a comparison between the ?nancial statements as
prepared on the prior basis and the statements as prepared on the new basis, and otherwise shall
comply with the requirements of the Rule, in order to provide information to investors to enable
them to evaluate the ability of the City to meet its obligations. A notice of the change in
accounting principles shall be sent to the MSRB through EMMA.

(1) Additional Information. Nothing in this Undertaking shall be deemed to prevent
the City from disseminating any other information, using the means of dissemination set forth in
this Undertaking or any other means of communication, or including any other information in
any Annual Financial Information or notice of occurrence of a Material Event, in addition to that
which is required by this Undertaking.

Governing Law. This Undertaking shall be construed and interpreted in
accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan (the ?State?), and any suits and actions arising
out of this Undertaking shall be instituted in a court of competent jurisdiction in the State;
provided, that to the extent this Undertaking addresses matters of federal securities laws,
including the Rule, this Undertaking shall be construed in accordance with such federal securities
laws and of?cial interpretations thereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City has caused this Undertaking to be executed by its
authorized of?cer.

13?4

Dated:



., 20_

CITY OF DETROIT
County of Wayne
State of Michigan

By

 

Its

 

