 2% 



TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

In Memoriam -

Allison Faye Bradley
January 5, 1986 October 4, 2019

WHEREAS On January 5, 1986 in Detroit, MI, Allison Faye Bradley was gifted to this world where
she would go on to become a loving, sel?ess daughter, sister, niece, aunt, cousin and
friend; and

WHEREAS Allison attended many schools growing up, including Focus Hope, Eaton Academy,
Pasteur Elementary and Haley Middle School. She went on to South?eld High School
and then matriculated to Jardon Vocational School, all after being diagnosed with
special needs very early In her life. Despite many challenges, she always overcame
them like a true champion, and

WHEREAS Allison was a dedicated worker at Royal Oak Beaumont for over twelve years where
she served as a volunteer in both the gift shop and the ?ower shop. Her faithful and
tireless work didn?t go unnoticed for she was described by everyone alike as the
?friendliest person to walk the halls of the hospital?; and

WHEREAS Allison recently received accommodations from the hospital and random gifts from
strangers for her high level of performance on the job. And although her journey was
often painful, instead of complaining, she celebrated each day lmowing that her work
mattered to those she blessed with her presence, for giving joy was truly her heart 5
desire and life? work; and

WHEREAS Allison had a love of great cuisine and enjoyed being her mom?s sous chef. She was an
avid traveler and always championed for family vacations. She was a huge football fan
and had a great love for life, her family and ?'iends; and

WHEREAS God in his in?nite wisdom, has seen ?t to move Allison Faye Bradley from our midst,
we pay our respects to the memory of one whose life was full of love and now was
called to join him in heaven; THEREFORE, LET IT BE

RESOLVED That Councilwoman Jane? L. Ayers and the entire Detroit City Council express
heartfelt sympathy and extends condolences to his family. ?If I go and prepare a place
for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there ye may
be also. John I 4:3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

