Executive Committee Minutes
Tuesday, October 15th, 2019 - 8:35am-10:50am
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce - 1414 N. Ashland Ave.
In attendance: David Ginople (Commission Chair), Rebecca Dohe (Vice Chair), Wayne Janik
(Treasurer), Marcy Huttas (Secretary)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager), Pamela Maass
(WPBCC Executive Director)
1. Wicker Park Fountain Restoration – additional funding for CSOS restoration
a. The committee would like to discuss this further with Chicago Park District and
Wicker Park Advisory Council before approving anymore funding for the
restoration or ongoing upkeep
Motion 1: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $1,140.00 from
line item 5.05 (General Safety & Security Programs) for Wicker Park Advisory Council’s hired
security in Wicker Park during Wicker Park Fest 2019. (19-1007)
RD motions. WJ seconds. All in favor. MOTION PASSES.
Motion 2: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $18,000.00 from
line item 1.09 (PR/Media Relations) to extend Silverman Group’s PR contract for 2020 (shared
contract with Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce). (19-1008)
RD motions. WJ seconds. All in favor. MOTION PASSES.
2. Online Rebate Forms
a. The committee was asked to review a draft of the new online forms for Façade,
Safety and Security Rebates prior to the meeting
b. The committee discussed policy changes before it is published online.
c. Staff will apply their recommendations and take it back to Guide Development
Committee to be discussed in November.
3. 2020 Calendaring / Committee Schedules
a. GK presented a draft for the 2020 committee schedules and minor committee
realignment based on previous discussions with commissioners
b. In this proposed draft, Guide Development and Promote Committee would swap
some responsibilities and become “marketing” and “grants $ rebates” subcommittees.
4. National Association of Realtors – Placemaking sponsorship opportunity
a. Approached WPBCC & SSA #33 about potentially sponsoring a placemaking
initiatives
b. The committee brainstormed potential ideas

 