STATE STREET COMMISSION
State Street Commission Meeting
Tuesday, July 16, 2019
2:00 PM
ABC7
190 North State Street, 10th Floor
MINUTES
ATTENDANCE

I.

AFFILIATION

Commission Members Present
Commissioner Mark Anderson
Commissioner Greg Cameron
Commissioner Mark Kelly
Commissioner LaVerne Morris
Commissioner Andrea Schwartz
Commissioner Ryan Segal
Commissioner Eric Finnegan
Commissioner John Idler
Commissioner Dean Lane
Commissioner John Tully
Commissioner -Elect Kristen Duncan

Hines
Joffrey Ballet
DCASE
20 North State Street Condos
Macy’s
Acadia
CIM Group
ABC7
Palmer House
Department of Streets & Sanitation
Renaissance Hotel

Commission Members Absent
Acting Commissioner Tom Carney
Acting Commissioner Eleanor Gorski

CDOT
Department of Planning & Development (DPD)

Others Present
Abel Rodriguez
Kalindi Parikh
Kiana DiStasi
Laura Jones (via phone)
James Turner
David Broz
Laura Graves
Anthony Ciaravino
Jake Alderden
Paul Reise
David Seglin
Robert Kearney
Katherine Branch

Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA)
CIBC/CLA Board Chair
Gensler/CLA Board Vice Chair
ABC7/CLA Board Treasurer
Chicago Police Department - 001
Chicago Police Department - 001
Department of Planning & Development
Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT)
Office of Alderman Reilly, 42nd Ward
Chicago Transit Authority

Call to Order

SSA#1-2015 Chairman John Idler welcomed everyone and called the meeting to order at 2:00 PM. Introductions were made
around the table.
II.

Public Comment

No comments were made by the public.
III.

Approval of Minutes

A motion to accept the June 18, 2019 meeting minutes as presented was made by Commissioner Lane and seconded by
Commissioner Cameron. The motion passed unanimously.
IV.

Financial Statements as of June 30, 2019

Abel Rodriguez presented the SSA 1-2015 financial statements as of June 30, 2019. Rodriguez clarified that this report was
presented in the Chicago Loop Alliance format in order to include more detailed budget breakdowns. The first column of the
report describes the allotted budget for 2019, and the second column describes the 2019 totals to date.

 Before getting into other budget matters, Chairman Idler then took the agenda out of order, jumping to the nominations subpoint
listed under the Sole Service Provider Report to replace Commissioner Anne Voshel. He asked for a motion to confirm Kristen
Duncan’s nomination to the Commission. Commissioner Cameron motioned; Commissioner Anderson seconded. The motion
passed unanimously, and the Commission welcomed Commissioner-Elect Duncan, who will now undergo vetting at City Hall and
then receive a subsequent mayoral confirmation letter .
V.

Sole Service Provider Report
1. Sole Service Provider 2019 Second Quarter Performance & Budget Assessment:
Abel Rodriguez presented the Second Quarter Performance and Budget Assessment to the Commission. Rodriguez
clarified that this version of the report was in the Department of Planning and Development format which includes the
metrics report. The commission had been emailed the report in advance and had no questions. Commissioner Cameron
motioned to approve the Second Quarter Performance and Budget Assessment. Commissioner Schwartz seconded the
motion. The motion passed unanimously.
2. SSA 2020 Budget Amendments:
Chairman Idler presented the proposed 2020 SSA budget amendments. He noted two specific changes to the budget,
including an increase of $100,000 for the safety patrol program and the inclusion of $25,000 for a project in Pritzker Park.
Commissioner Idler noted the recent increase in the EAV and shared that a maintenance of the current SSA tax rate would
result in a budget increase of over $400,000, but that the rate could change to lower the budget. Commissioner Lane
motioned to approve the budget amendments. Commissioner Cameron seconded. The motion passed unanimously.
3. 2020 SSA Program and Budget Due Now to City:
Chairman Idler presented the budget to be approved by the commission. He noted the following budget categories:
Public way aesthetics – Chairman Idler noted an increase in the budget for planter signs. Laura Jones commented that
this increase was the result of a follow-up on DPD’s concern about the content of these signs and the requirement for
compliance with the State Street Signage overlay code. Abel Rodriguez added that the addition of funds in this category
would likely go to branding the SSA similarly to the CTA kiosks to help the businesses on State Street. James Turner
injected that these could brand the street and drive traffic to businesses. Commissioner Cameron inquired whether the use
of planter signs was a revenue source for CLA, and Rodriguez affirmed that this was true, and that the SSA only pays for
a portion of the costs of banners and signs. Chairman Idler warned of a potential loss of revenue if additional approvals
prevented CLA from engaging with outside partners for the planter signs.
Economic Development - Chairman Idler noted the decision to continue to invest in the Springboard pedestrian counters.
Abel Rodriguez clarified that we are not locked into a contract with Springboard, but rather have the yearly opportunity to
renew. Chairman Idler said that it could be worth thinking about other places to spend that money in the future.
Safety – Chairman Idler noted the increase in budget for the security patrol program and inquired how the First District
felt about the program. Jake Alderden from the First District responded by saying that the majority of crimes they address
in the area are robberies, and although any number of them is too high, there has been a 38% reduction this year. He
expressed positivity about the security patrol program and expressed a desire for greater coordination of strategies. Laura
Jones added that the HLSA security program provides a level of comfort for the stakeholders and maintains a steady
presence on the street.
EAV Increase - Chairman Idler noted the 5.16% increase in the budget and asked Paul Reise from DPD if that would
require a community meeting. Reise responded that he was not sure and that he would double check with the law
department. Chairman Idler then noted that the increase in EAV would generate over $400,000 in additional revenue if
the rate was to remain the same. He mentioned that this could be an opportunity to accomplish large-scale projects for
State Street, but that it was not a conversation that needed to happen for the 2020 budget, but instead for future budgets.
Homeless Outreach - Commissioner Morris asked why the budget for homeless outreach decreased. Abel Rodriguez
explained that the cost of producing the homeless outreach pocket guide was low now that it had already been designed
and only needed additional printing.

Commissioner Cameron moved to accept the program and budget for SSA 1-2015 for 2020. Commissioner Lane seconded. The
motion passed unanimously.

 Commissioner Schwartz then motioned to accept CLA as the Sole Service Provider for 2020. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Cameron and passed unanimously.
4. Nominations to replace Anne Voshel Vacancies
Chairman Idler noted that the commission had already voted to fill Anne Voshel’s vacant seat with Kristin
Duncan. However, Voshel also held the seat of Vice Chair of the Commission which now needed to be filled. He
presented the following nominations for a new officers:
- Office of Vice Chair – Greg Cameron
- Office of Treasurer – Ryan Segal
- Office of Secretary – Lavern Morris
Commissioner Kelly motioned to approve the appointments. Commissioner Lane seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously, and the commission welcomed the new officers.
VI.

Status Reports/Outstanding Issues
1. Security
Jake Alderden from CPD asserted that robberies remain the main issue on State Street, though there has been much
progress. He mentioned that parking garages were particularly challenging and that groups of kids broke into 60 vehicles
north of the river in one night looking for key fobs and guns. The kids were arrested and charged with criminal trespass.
Alderden noted however, that CPD cannot police private properties., some of which do not have security cameras.
Consumers need to remain vigilant.
2. DCASE
Commissioner Mark Kelly shared details about a successful Taste of Chicago. He said that 30% of the 1.5 million
participants came from outside the metropolitan area and 42% came from Chicago, making it an event for locals and
tourists alike. He mentioned that he’s heard positive commentary about food and that only 2 arrests were made during the
event. Commissioner Kelly thanked all city agencies for coming together to produce and manage the event. He
recommended that the huge audience needs to be tied to economic activity on State Street in the future. The commission
congratulated Commissioner Kelly on his successful event.
3. Streets & Sanitation
Commissioner Tully shared that his team was engaging in nighttime sweeping and that they have replaced the trash
receptacles on State Street. He described how his team provides support and barricades at festivals, and that his team has
been able to remove graffiti with a four-day turnaround time.
4. CTA
Katherine Branch from CTA had nothing to report.
5. CDOT
CDOT’s David Seglin explained that the State and Lake CTA station is still in the procurement stage. Chairman Idler
suggested that the Commission needs to be a voice in this process since the station is a gateway to the Loop. Seglin said
they would communicate the Commission’s desire to be involved in planning to those managing the project.
6. DPD
Paul Reise from DPD had no development updates to share. He shared a departmental update about Aldermanic
Prerogative, explaining that Commissioner applications and budgets no longer require the aldermanic approval, but that
DPD strongly encourages keeping aldermen involved in the processes anyway.

VII.

Other Business
1.

Next Commission Meeting Date:

Tuesday, October 15, 2019 at 2:00 PM; the agenda includes a voting on the Third Quarter Performance and Budget
Assessment

 2.

New Business (EAV Discussion):

Having completed the main tasks of today’s meeting, Chairman Idler returned to the topic of the increased EAV and reminded the
commission that if the rate stayed the same, the SSA would generate over $400,000 in new funds. He asked the sole service
provider, CLA, to think about what capital projects going forward would be a good use of that money and bring them to the
Commission for their consideration.
CLA Chairman James Turner reminded the commission that the CLA Board is very cognizant of change in EAV and high tax
burdens. He said he challenged the CLA Board to only recommend spending money that would add value to the SSA and not to
take increased budgets lightly. Turner suggested that there was the opportunity to do capital improvements on State Street and
create visual change that draws traffic, noting the pressure on the Loop to keep up as Fulton Market succeeds in pulling companies
away from Loop. He asked the commission what the Loop is doing to compete against other major developments.
Gensler’s David Broz (also past Chair of CLA) presented some specific ideas to get the commission thinking. He encouraged the
commission to remember great ideas CLA executed in the past including Looptopia, the EYE sculpture, and the big walls mural
campaign. Some of the ideas Broz suggested include the following:
 Produce a map of public art like Melbourne.
 Create a new median on State Street by the Chicago Theatre so people are not taking pictures in traffic.
 Art installations like the bird cages in Sydney, Australia could inspire surprises in theater alleys.
 University of Chicago’s double halo in the quad could be replicated to celebrate the zero-zero addresses at State
and Madison
 String lights across the street.
 Emulate Cleveland’s chandelier in center of street.
Commissioner Kelly reminded the commission that the point of Looptopia was to get people downtown and encouraged the
commission to think of what to do with them now that they are downtown. He suggested that there is not enough synergy between
the street and the Riverwalk, and that State Street could be a nexus. He also mentioned that historic architecture is
underappreciated and easy to ignore at night when the street goes dark. He suggested that the Arts in the Dark parade lends
authenticity to State Street, and that the street needs to rise to meet it. He asserted that streetscape alone doesn’t keep the street
alive past 8 pm.
David Broz commented that State Street’s current lighting is utilitarian, but that advances in modern lighting can make it magical.
Commissioner-Elect Duncan noted that the gateway is an opportunity and that lighting could make a difference.
James Turner said that the CLA would use the year to come up with specific ideas and bring them back to the SSA. Chairman Idler
expressed a desire to continue these discussions during commission meetings, and/or and include some Commissioners in the
CLA’s creative process.
3. Other Upcoming Events:
The next CLA Downtown Future Series will be held on Wednesday, July 31, 2019, at AceBounce beginning at 7:30 AM.

VIII.

Adjournment

Chairman Idler asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Commissioner Cameron so moved. Commissioner Schwartz seconded
the motion. The motion passed unanimously.
Respectfully submitted,

LaVerne Morris
Secretary

 