Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Tuesday, October 22, 2019

9:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0413
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 01/22/2019
19-0345
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

1-12-1: - BOTTLED WATER BAN

Page 1 of 2

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 22, 2019

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that

Title 1 - Administrative, Chapter 12 - Bottled Water Ban of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Code of Ordinances is hereby amended as Follows:
1-12-1: - BOTTLED WATER BAN.
Prohibitions. No Forest Preserve District department or agency shall purchase single-serving bottles of
water using District funds, unless an employee contract specifies usage, and that this prohibition will apply
to District contractors and District funded and/or sponsored events.
The Purchasing Agent and the Department of Maintenance shall, within 90 days of passage, work
with all District departments to conduct a water audit to assess their current water usage, availability of
fresh tap water, and the feasibility and cost of installing water purification systems. Such audit shall
include the quality of water available at all of our preserves and nature centers. Such audit shall determine
the viability of switching all bottled water dispensers to bottle-less water dispensers. In order to
discourage the use of plastic water bottles in the preserves, such audit shall also determine the viability of
turning on all currently disconnected drinking water fountains and/or water pumps; and
No District department shall purchase bottled water dispensers or bottled water refills beginning February
1, 2008, and the District shall install bottle-less water dispensers where appropriate. No District
department shall enter into a bottled water contract.that extends beyond February 1, 2008. The prohibition
These prohibitions will apply to District contractors and District funded and/or sponsored events.
Exceptions. The above-described prohibitions shall not apply toin the following instances:
1. Bottled water bottles sold to the general public at the Chicago Botanic Garden and the
Brookfield Zoo;
2. Supplemental bottled water purchased for the health and safety of District patrons and/or
employees.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

9/24/19 -

FPD Board of Commissioners

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Britton
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 2 of 2

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovern

 