Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Business and Economic Development Committee
Wednesday, October 23, 2019

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-6250
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 09/25/2019
19-5324
Sponsored by: DONNA MILLER and DEBORAH SIMS, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TO

AMEND

THE

CURRENT

CAL

SAG

ENTERPRISE

ENTERPRISE ZONE ACT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Page 1 of 12

ZONE

SUBJECT

TO

THE

 Business and Economic
Development Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

WHEREAS, the State of Illinois Enterprise Zone Act (20 ILCS 655/1 et seq) provides for the creation of
enterprise zones to encourage private sector investments in economically distressed areas throughout the
State; and
WHEREAS, The Village of Alsip, The City of Blue Island, The Village of Calumet Park, The City of
Country Club Hills, The Village of Dixmoor, The Village of East Hazel Crest, The Village of Homewood,
The City of Harvey, The Village of Hazel Crest, The City of Markham, The Village of Merrionette Park,
The Village of Midlothian, The City of Oak Forest, The Village of Phoenix, The Village of Robbins, The
Village of Worth, and the County of Cook (“the County”), a body Politic and Corporate of the State of
Illinois, are organized and existing under the laws of the State of Illinois. Each have areas within their
respective legal boundaries that are economically distressed and would benefit from private sector
investments under the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act; and
WHEREAS, the aforesaid Municipalities and the County have joined in the collective pursuit of a joint
Enterprise Zone, subject to approval of their respective governing bodies; and
WHEREAS, the Municipalities and the County have declared and established an Enterprise Zone
pursuant to the authority granted by the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act, as amended, subject to the approval
by the Illinois Enterprise Zone Board and certification by the Illinois Department of Commerce and
Economic Opportunity. This Enterprise Zone is named and designated as the "Cal Sag" Enterprise Zone;
and
WHEREAS, the Cal Sag Enterprise Zone was duly approved by the Illinois Enterprise Zone Board,
certified by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity and currently exists; and
WHEREAS, it is determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the County and Municipalities
to amend the current Cal Sag Enterprise Zone to change its boundaries by deleting certain territories from
the existing Cal Sag Enterprise Zone and include additional territories to the proposed amended Cal Sag
Enterprise Zone, as well as to encourage private sector investments within said proposed amended
Enterprise Zone; and
WHEREAS, prior to filing of an application for approval of the designation of an amended Enterprise
Zone, under the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act, it is required that the County and Municipalities respectively
adopt Ordinances designating the proposed amended Enterprise Zone; and
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 14 - Community
Development, Article III-Cal-Sag Enterprise Zone, Section 14-29 through Section 14-38 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
ARTICLE III. - CAL- SAG ENTERPRISE ZONE

Page 2 of 12

 Business and Economic
Development Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

Sec. 14-29. Amendment to existing enterprise zone.

In accordance with the Enterprise Zone Act (20 ILCS 655/1 et seq.), the Board of
Commissioners hereby amends the existing Cal- Sag Enterprise Zone in cooperation with the Village of
Alsip, the City of Blue Island, the Village of Calumet Park, the City of Country Club Hills, the Village of
Dixmoor, the Village of East Hazel Crest, the Village of Homewood, the City of Harvey, the Village of
Hazel Crest, the City of Markham, the Village of Merrionette Park, the City of Oak Forest, the Village of
Phoenix, the Village of Robbins, the Village of Worth, the Village of Midlothian and the County of Cook.
Each has areas within their respective legal boundaries that are economically distressed and would benefit
from private sector investments under the Enterprise Zone Act. This Enterprise Zone is hereby declared
and established as an amendment to the current existing Cal Sag Enterprise Zone pursuant to authority
granted by the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act, as amended. The amended Enterprise Zone is named and
designated as the Cal-Sag Enterprise Zone; said amended Enterprise Zone is further subject and
contingent on approval by the Illinois Enterprise Zone Board and certification by the Illinois Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
Sec 14-30.- Term.
The term of the amended Enterprise Zone is the same as the current Cal Sag Enterprise Zone,
subject to the effective date of certification of the amended Enterprise Zone and the potential ten-year
renewal prescribed under the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act. The current Cal Sag Enterprise Zone is
scheduled to expire on December 31, 2030, subject to the 10 year renewal prescribed under the Illinois
Enterprise Zone Act.
Sec. 14-31. - Description of zone.

The area of the designated amended Enterprise Zone is outlined in the map in Exhibit A and the
Zone's boundaries are delineated in Exhibit B which exhibits are attached to the Ordinance [codified in
this Article] and incorporated herein by reference.
Sec. 14-32. - Qualifications.

The County and the Municipalities hereby declare and affirm that the amended Zone Area is qualified
for designation as an Enterprise Zone in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Enterprise Zone
Act, and it is declared herein:
(a) The amended Zone Area is a contiguous area;
(b) The amended Zone Area comprises an area larger than one-half square mile and not more than
15 square miles in total area;
(c) The amended Zone Area is a depressed area;

Page 3 of 12

 Business and Economic
Development Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

(d) The amended Zone Area addresses a reasonable need to encompass portions of more than one
Municipality and adjacent unincorporated areas of the County;
(e) The amended Zone Area exceeds the minimum requirement of meeting three of the ten criteria
specified in the Illinois Enterprise Act (20 ILCS 655/4 (f));
(f) On the 18th day of July, 2019, a public hearing was conducted pursuant to a Notice duly published
in a newspaper of general circulation, within the Cal Sag Enterprise Zone Area and within the proposed
amended Zone Area, not more than 20 days nor less than five days before the hearing date; and
(g) The amended Zone Area satisfies any additional criteria stated in the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act
or established by the Rules of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
All of the above stated findings are supported, sustained and consistent with the substantive materials
contained in Exhibit C, attached here to, and incorporated herein by reference.
Sec. 14-33. - Incentives.

The State of Illinois, Countiesy and Municipalities offer incentives designed to encourage businesses
in the private sector to locate or expand within an Enterprise Zone, subject to terms, conditions, rules and
legal limitations in the law:
(a) State Incentives.

(1) Sales Tax Exemption. A 6.25 -percent state sales tax exemption is permitted on building
materials to be used in an Enterprise Zone. Materials must be permanently affixed to the property
and must be purchased from a qualified retailer.

(2) Enterprise

Zone Machinery and Equipment Consumables/Pollution Control Facilities Sales
Tax Exemption. A 6.25 -percent state sales tax exemption on purchases of tangible personal
property to be used in the manufacturing or assembly process or in the operation of a pollution
control facility within an Enterprise Zone is available. Eligibility is based on a business making an
investment in an Enterprise Zone of at least $5,000,000.00 in qualified property that creates a
minimum of 200 full-time-equivalent jobs, a business investing at least $40,000,000.00 in a zone
and retaining at least 2,000 jobs, or a business investing at least $40,000,000.00 in a zone which
causes the retention of at least 80 percent of the jobs existing on the date it is certified to receive
the exemption.

(3) Enterprise Zone Utility Tax Exemption. A state utility tax exemption on gas, electricity and the
Illinois Commerce Commission's administrative charge and telecommunication excise tax is
available to businesses located in Enterprise Zones. Eligible businesses must make an investment
of at least $5,000,000.00 in qualified property that creates a minimum of 200 full-time equivalent

Page 4 of 12

 Business and Economic
Development Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

jobs in Illinois, an investment of $20,000,000.00 that retains at least 1,000 full-time-equivalent jobs,
or an investment of $175,000,000.00 that creates 150 full-time equivalent jobs in Illinois. The
majority of the jobs created must be located in the Enterprise Zone where the investment occurs.

(4) Enterprise Zone Investment Tax Credit. A state investment tax credit of one-half of one
percent is allowed a taxpayer who invests in qualified
includes machinery, equipment and buildings. The credit
years. This credit is in addition to the regular one-half
available throughout the state, and up to one-half of one
over the previous year.

property in a Zone. Qualified property
may be carried forward for up to five
percent Investment tax credit, which is
percent credit for increased employment

(5) Contribution Deduction. Businesses may deduct double the value of a cash or in-kind
contribution to an approved project of a Designated Zone Organization from taxable income.
(b) Local incentives and fees. Local governments, through the assistance and coordination of the
Enterprise Zone Administrators, may provide a variety of local incentives to further encourage economic
growth and investment within enterprise zones. The incentives offered are determined by counties and
municipalities. The following local Enterprise Zone incentives are hereby offered:
(1) Abatement of 50 percent of the municipal portion of property taxes on new improvements for the
first five years following the completion of these improvements for industrial or commercial
properties, or for residential properties of 12 or more housing units, so long as the residential
property remains under one ownership. This benefit will not be applicable if the project investor is
also the recipient of tax relief under the terms of a tax increment finance (TIF) agreement or
other substantial property tax abatement provided by a unit of local government.
(2) Waiver of 50 percent of building permit or zoning application fees for industrial or commercial
properties, or for residential properties of 12 or more housing units.
(3) The Enterprise Zone will provide officials of municipalities that are signatories to the
Intergovernmental Agreement, which is Attachment D to this Ordinance, with certain written
documentation and materials relative to additional incentives, including public or not for profit
financing and workforce development programs, which municipal officials may make available to
the project developer, and other interested individuals. There is no representation that the
available documents and materials include all incentives and program available to the project.
The Zone Administrator shall file a copy of the Enterprise Zone's fee schedule with the Department
of Commerce and Economic Opportunity by April 1 of each year. The Zone Administrator may charge up
to one half of one percent of the cost of building materials of the project associated with the Enterprise
Zone, provided that a maximum fee of no more than $50,000.00 is permitted (20 ILCS 655/8.2 (c)) as to
each project.

Page 5 of 12

 Business and Economic
Development Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

Sec. 14-34. - Zone administrator.

The Zone Administrator is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the Enterprise Zone including:
(a) Supervise the implementation of the provisions of the Cal Sag Intergovernmental Agreement
under the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act.
(b) Act as a liaison between the County, Municipalities, the Illinois Department of Commerce
Economic Opportunity, Designated Zone Organizations, and other State, Federal and local agencies,
whether public or private.
(c) Conduct an ongoing evaluation of the Enterprise Zone programs and submit evaluative reports, at
least annually, to the Enterprise Zone Governing Council (“the Council”).
(d) Promote the coordination of other relevant programs, including, but not limited to, housing,
community and economic development, small business, financial assistance and employment training
within the amended Enterprise Zone.
(e) Recommend qualified Designated Zone Organizations to the Council of the amended Enterprise
Zone.
(f) Have other such duties as specified by the Council, including the appointment of authorized
personnel as appropriate, to assure the smooth operation of the amended Cal Sag Enterprise Zone.
Sec. 14-35. - Intergovernmental agreement.

The amended Enterprise Zone shall be governed, managed and operated in accordance with the
Intergovernmental Agreement between the County and Municipalities as set forth in Exhibit D, which is
attached hereto and incorporated into this Ordinance, by reference. The attached Intergovernmental
Agreement (Exhibit D) was presented to the legislative body of Cook County and its attorney for review.
The President is hereby authorized to execute this Agreement, on behalf of the County of Cook. Further,
the President or his or her designee is authorized to sign all documents reasonably necessary in the
furtherance of the Joint Application for said amended Enterprise Zone, to be filed with the Illinois
Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
Sec. 14-36- Continuation of management.

Section 4, Zone Management, including Subsections (a), (b) and (c)
Intergovernmental Agreement (Exhibit D) is identical to the likewise enumerated
Intergovernmental Agreement of the current existing Cal Sag Enterprise Zone.
continuity between the existing and amended Cal Sag Enterprise Zone, the prior zone
of the Parties and the Joint Enterprise Zone Governing Council are hereby adopted for

Page 6 of 12

of the Amended
provisions in the
So as to provide
management actions
the purposes of the

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Business and Economic
Development Committee

October 23, 2019

amended Cal Sag Enterprise Zone.
The adopted management actions include the appointment of
representatives of the Parties to the Council, the adoption of rules and procedures by the Council and the
appointment of a Zone Administrator, if any. This provision does not limit the Parties or the Council from
duly implementing changes in zone management to the amended Cal Sag Enterprise Zone.
Sec. 14-37. - Severability.

This Ordinance [Article] and every provision thereof shall be considered severable and the
invalidity of any section clause, paragraph, sentence or provision of this Ordinance [Article] will not affect
the validity of any other portion of this Ordinance [Article].
Sec. 14-38. - Publication and effective date.

Cook County is hereby authorized to publish this Ordinance [No. 19-5324] in pamphlet form. This
Ordinance [Article] shall be in full force and effect from after its passage, approval and publication as
required by law.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

9/26/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Business and Economic Develop

19-5331
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and DONNA MILLER, Cook County Board of

PROPOSED PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM AMENDMENT
Department: Planning and Development
Request: Amend resolution from Class 6b to Class 8
Item Number: 18-3263
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Account(s): N/A
Original Text of Item:
le
VALERIE RIETVELD/KEN-RICH
INCENTIVE REQUEST

CONCRETE

LIFTING

Page 7 of 12

LLC

6b

8

PROPERTY

TAX

 Business and Economic
Development Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received
Property Assessment Classification 6b 8 application containing the following information:

October 23, 2019

and reviewed a Real

Applicant: Valerie Rietveld/Ken-Rich Concrete Lifting LLC
Address: 15510 Wentworth Avenue, South Holland, Illinois 60473
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: South Holland
Cook County District: 6
Permanent Index Number: (1) PIN: 29-16-205-165-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of South Holland Resolution approved June 5, 2017, amended
resolution approved May 6, 2019
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 15 months at time of initial application to Assessor
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 3 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 7 full-time, 2 part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 7 full-time, 2 part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 10
Proposed use of property: Industrial
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the

Page 8 of 12

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Business and Economic
Development Committee

October 23, 2019

municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b 8 is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from
the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy.
Properties receiving Class 6b 8 will be assessed at 10% of
the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
Legislative History :

9/26/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Business and Economic Develop

19-5627
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Kensington LLC, Northbrook, Illinois
Request:

Respectfully, the Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic

Development submits the loan recommendation of $1,800,000.00 in HOME Investment Partnership Funds

Page 9 of 12

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Business and Economic
Development Committee

October 23, 2019

for the 24 month construction period and thirty year permanent period with a 1% permanent loan rate.
Total Development Cost: $20,730,892.00
Project Loan Amount: $1,800,000.00
Fiscal Impact: $1,800,000.00
Account(s): 1013-10757
Summary:

development

The loan will fund the new construction of a 74-unit, fully HOME-assisted, affordable housing
targeting

seniors 62 and

older.

The

total

development

cost (TDC)

is

projected

at

$20,730,892. The requested HOME funds account for slightly less than nine percent (8.63%) of the TDC.
Additional funding sources include Illinois Housing Development Authority Affordable Housing Tax
Credits, Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC), Red Stone Capital LIHTC equity syndication and
Bank of America Mortgage funding.
The borrower will be Kensington LLC, a sole purpose entity for the subject investment, under Kensington
Perlmark, LLC a for-profit development firm owned and controlled by James Perlman (100%).
Legislative History :

9/26/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Business and Economic Develop

19-5632
Presented by: XOCHITL FLORES, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
BUILT COOK LOAN PROGRAM (HUD SECTION 108 LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM)
Department: Planning And Development
Municipality: Housing Authority of Cook County
Request:
Approval of the project and authority to execute documents for a Broadening Urban
Investment to Leverage Transportation (BUILT) in Cook project loan.
Purpose:
Cook County’s Department of Planning and Development staff within the Bureau of
Economic Development recommends the investment of $4,000,000.00 in Community Development Block
Grant Section 108 Funds for permanent financing with a 20 year maturity, 20 year amortization schedule,
4.0% fixed interest rate.

The subject loans supports the long term redevelopment of two HACC developments consisting of two

Page 10 of 12

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Business and Economic
Development Committee

October 23, 2019

high rise properties, comprising 226 units of affordable Senior housing in the Village of Wheeling and City
of Niles, Illinois.
Township: Wheeling, Niles
District: 9, 14
Location: (1) 200 North Milwaukee in Wheeling, Illinois (2) 9201 North Maryland Street, Niles, Illinois
Loan Amount: $4,000,000
Loan Term: twenty years
Loan Amortization: twenty years
Interest Rate: 4.0%
Application Fee: $0.00 (refinance)
Commitment Fee: 2% of loan amount
Estimated Total Project Costs: $30,700,000
Estimated Jobs Created: 60 Construction jobs
Estimated Jobs Retained: 24 (Affordable Housing)
Other Approvals:
Chicago Office

Housing

&

Urban

Development

(HUD)

108 Office,

Washington,

D.C.,

HUD

Fiscal Impact: $4,000,000
Account(s): N/A
Summary:
Cook County’s Department of Planning and Development staff within the Bureau of
Economic Development recommends the investment of $4,000,000.00 in Community Development Block
Grant Section 108 Funds for permanent financing with a 20 year maturity, 20 year amortization schedule,
4.0% fixed interest rate.

The subject loans supports the long term redevelopment of two HACC developments consisting of two
high rise properties, comprising 226 units of affordable Senior housing in the Village of Wheeling and City
of Niles, Illinois. Maintaining and extending the life of existing public housing stock in suburban Cook
County, particularly in areas of opportunity meets the established goals within both the Section 108

Page 11 of 12

 Business and Economic
Development Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

Program and the Consolidated Plan established within Cook County.
Cook County’s HOME program within the Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau
of Economic Development previously received approval and closed an investment of
$7,087,317.00 in
HOME Investment Partnership Funds for the construction period of the subject development with a two
year construction period, thirty year permanent loan period and 1% permanent interest rate.
Construction started in July 2017 and is currently substantially complete, less additional scope to fully
rehabilitate the elevator system, including controllers and cabins and roofing certifications. The property
has maintained an 78% occupancy rate across the construction period and is advancing to full (97%+)
occupancy by December 2019.
Legislative History :

9/26/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Business and Economic Develop

Secretary
Chairman:
Gainer
Vice-Chairman: Anaya
Members:
Britton, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Moore, K. Morrison and S. Morrison

Page 12 of 12

 