POLICE BOARD
CITY OF CHICAGO
REPORT OF COMMUNITY INPUT RECEIVED
AT THE PUBLIC MEETING ON SEPTEMBER 19, 2019
Thirteen members of the public spoke during the public comments portion of the meeting. See
the transcript of the meeting, posted on the Board’s website, for a complete report of each
speaker’s remarks.
The Chicago Police Department responded to the remarks made by Michael LaFargue, Alonzo
Anderson, Jennifer Edwards, Matthew Brandon, Octavia Mitchell, and John Catanzara (see
below).
The Civilian Office of Police Accountability responded to the remarks made by Jamie Frazier,
Virginia White, Sarah Lusche, and Flora Suttle (see below).
The Office of the Police Board determined that the remarks made by Queen Sister, David Dewar,
and Robert More did not require a response in addition to that provided at the meeting.

  

Lori E. Lightfoot Department of Police City of Chicago Eddie T. Johnson
Mayor 3510 S. Michigan Avenue - Chicago, Illinois 60653 Superintendent of Police

 

October 16, 2019
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL

Max A. Caproni

Executive Director

Chicago Police Board 
30 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1220
Chicago, IL 60602
Max.caproni@cilvofchicagoom

Re: Response to Communit?nput Received at the September 19, 2019 Police Board Meeting
Dear Mr. Caproni,

The Chicago Police Department thanks the Board for the opportunity to respond to speakers from last month's
Police Board meeting. These speakers give their time to speak before the Board about important issues and the
Department responds to the remarks by Michael argue, Alonzo Anderson, Jennifer Edwards and Matt Brandon;
Octavia Mitchell; and John Cantanzara each separately below.

Michael LaFargua, Alonzo Anderson, Jennifer Edwards and Matt Brandon spoke jointly about a proposed
ordinance fostering good business neighbor agreements similar to those created by the West Chester?eld Community.
This ordinance would focus on business which agree to actively participate in the community, keep their businesses well
lit, attend CAPS meetings, discourage loitering and sponsoring events which'bene?t local programs. The Department
supports this initiative of good neighborhood business and to that end have recently re?introduced business liaison of?cers
into each of the districts across the city. The Department looks forward to working with community groups like
Communities Organized to Win to determine how to work together more effectively and united in an effort to improve
every community across the city.

Octavia Mitchell spoke about inventoried items and testing completed by the Illinois State Police related to her
son's death. I have prepared a separate correspondence to Ms. Mitchell explaining the chain of custody of the DNA swab
collected by the Evidence Technicians and attaching the chain of custody logs demonstrating that these swabs were held
by the Department until they were released in May of this year to the Illinois State Police.

Of?cer John Catanzara spoke about the upcoming promotional exam for Sergeant and requested that the
Superintendent waive the college requirement for all of those of?cers hired before college was required. While the
Department understands the point raised by Of?cer Catanzara this education requirement has been in place since the early
2000's and for most, if not all, of this time of?cers have been able to receive tuition reimbursement for college education.
Because of?cers have had this time and ?nancial support to continue their education the Superintendent is not inclined to
waive the requirement.

Sincerely,

Owed/5%

Dana M. O'Malley
General Counsel
Of?ce of the Superintendent

 

Emergency and TTY: 9-1-1 - Non Emergency and TTY: (within city limits) 3-1-1 - Non Emergency and TTY: (outside city limits) (3l2) 746-6000

E-mail: police@cityofchicago.org - Website: 

COPA Remarks Regarding Citizen Comments
Chicago Police Board Meeting
October 17, 2019
During the September 19, 2019 Chicago Police Board meeting the speakers listed below made
statements related to COPA investigations or matters under its jurisdiction. Below is a summary of
COPA’s follow-up with each person based upon those statements.
I.

Ms. Flora Suttle requested guidelines for requesting a case be re-opened.
- August 22, 2019:
Immediately following the Board Meeting, COPA Public Information Officer (PIO) Ephraim
Eaddy provided Ms. Suttle his email address and asked her to direct her request and any
additional relevant information to him to ensure for prompt attention.
- September 6, 2019:
COPA received an email from Ms. Suttle to which she attached a letter requesting the
investigation be re-opened. The email is forwarded to COPA’s General Counsel, who advises
COPA’s First Deputy of the request. COPA Legal and Investigation Divisions began to
coordinate their review of Ms. Suttle’s request and the information provided.
- September 17, 2019:
Mr. Eaddy received a message from Ms. Suttle attaching copies of her prior correspondence.
Mr. Eaddy confirmed receipt of the email with Ms. Suttle and followed - up with COPA’s
General Counsel regarding status of the review.
-

September 18, 2019
Ms. Suttle acknowledged receipt of a letter from COPA stating it had received her request and
is pending review to determine if the case will be re-opened.

II. Remarks by Jamie Frazier, Virginia White, and Sarah Lusche regarding CR No. 1066452
-

Investigation by IPRA closed June 23, 2015

-

Command Channel Review began June 26, 2015

-

Sustained 60-day suspension on July 24, 2015 based Violation of Rule 9, Rule 8 and Rule 2.

-

The officer elected to file a grievance. We are not clear of the outcome of the grievance as it
is currently with Management & Labor Affairs. The Chicago Police Department is best
positioned to provide an update regarding this matter.

1615 WEST CHICAGO AVENUE, 4TH FLOOR, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60622
312.743.COPA (COMPLAINT LINE)   312.746.3609 (MAIN LINE)   312.745.3598 (TTY)   WWW.CHICAGOCOPA.ORG

 