Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, October 23, 2019

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-6254
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 09/25/2019
19-6198
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of
Proceedings of the Special Meeting Presentation of the FY 2020 President’s Executive Budget
Recommendation held on 9/5/2019.

Page 1 of 7

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

19-6199
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the regular Consent Calendar meeting held on 9/25/2019 .
19-6200
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the regular meeting held on 9/26/2019 .
19-4770
Presented by: N. KEITH CHAMBERS, Executive Director, Department of Human Rights and Ethics
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 19-4770
(Rules Committee 9/25/2019)

SUGGESTED MODIFICATIONS TO PUBLIC FACING RULES AND REGULATIONS
Department: Cook County Department of Human Rights and Ethics

Summary:

PART 700

Section 700.100

JUST HOUSING AMENDMENT INTERPRETIVE RULES
Prohibition of Discrimination

Article II of the Cook County Human Rights Ordinance (“Ordinance”) prohibits unlawful discrimination,
as defined in §42-31, against a person because of any of the following: race, color, sex, age, religion,
disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge,
source of income, gender identity or housing status.
Additionally, any written or unwritten housing policy or practice that discriminates against applicants based
on their criminal history, as defined in § 42-38(a) of the Ordinance, is a violation of the Ordinance. Any
written or unwritten housing policy or practice which discriminates against applicants based on their
convictions, as defined in § 42-38(a) of the Ordinance, prior to the completion of an individualized
assessment violates the Ordinance.

Page 2 of 7

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting a housing provider from denying housing to an
applicant based on their criminal conviction history when required by federal or state law.

SUBPART 710

AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY

Section 710.100

Authority

These rules are adopted in accordance with the authority vested in the Cook County Commission on
Human Rights, pursuant to § 42-34(e)(5) and §42-38(c)(5)(c) of the Ordinance, to adopt rules and
regulations necessary to implement the Commission’s powers.
Section 710.110

Applicability

These rules shall go into effect on the effective date of the Just Housing Amendment (No. 19-2394) to
the Ordinance and shall only apply to claims that arise out of actions that occur on or after the effective
date of the amendments.

SUBPART 720

DEFINITIONS

Section 720.100

Business Day

“Business Day” means any day except any Saturday, Sunday, or any day which is a federal or State of
Illinois legal holiday.

Section 720.110

Criminal Background Check

“Criminal background check,” as referenced in § 42-38(e)(2)(a), includes any report containing
information about an individual’s criminal background, including but not limited to those produced by
federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies, federal and state courts or consumer reporting
agencies.
Section 720.120

Demonstrable Risk

“Demonstrable risk,” as referenced in § 42-38(c)(5)(c), refers to the likelihood of harm to other residents’
personal safety and/or likelihood of serious damage to property.
Criminal convictions that are five (5) years old or older do not represent a demonstrable risk to personal
safety or property, except in the following circumstances:

Page 3 of 7

 Rules and Administration
Committee

(A)

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

A current sex offender registration requirement pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act
(or similar law in another jurisdiction).

(B) A current child sex offender residency restriction.
(C) A conviction or conviction history that, when analyzed by the housing provider in an
Individualized Assessment, warrants denial of occupancy or continued occupancy.

Section 720.130

Individualized Assessment

“Individualized Assessment,” as referenced in § 42-38(a) means a process by which a person considers
all factors relevant to an individual’s conviction history and whether that history negatively impacts the
individual’s ability to fulfill the responsibility of tenancy. Factors that may be considered in performing the
Individualized Assessment include, but are not limited to:
(1) The nature and severity of the criminal offense and how recently it occurred;
(2) The nature of the sentencing;
(3) The number of the applicant’s criminal convictions;
(4) The length of time that has passed since the applicant’s most recent conviction;
(5) The age of the individual at the time the criminal offense occurred;
(6) Evidence of rehabilitation;
(7) The individual history as a tenant before and/or after the conviction.

Section 720.140

Relevance

“Relevance,” as referenced in § 42-38(e)(2), refers to the degree to which an individual’s conviction
history makes it likely that the applicant poses a demonstrable risk to the personal safety and/or property
of others.

Section 720.150

Tenant Selection Criteria

“Tenant selection criteria,” as referenced in § 42-38(e)(2)(a), means the criteria, standards and/or policies
used to evaluate whether an applicant qualifies for admission to occupancy or continued residency. The
criteria, standards and/or policies concerning the applicant’s conviction history shall apply only after a
housing applicant has been pre-qualified. The criteria must explain how applicants’ criminal conviction
history will be evaluated to determine whether their conviction history poses a demonstrable risk to
personal safety or property.

SUBPART 730

TENANT SCREENING PROCESS

Page 4 of 7

 Rules and Administration
Committee

Section 730.100

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

Notice of Tenant Selection Criteria and Screening Process

Before accepting an application fee, a housing provider must disclose to the applicant the following
information:
(A)

The tenant selection criteria, which describes how an applicant will be evaluated to
determine whether to rent or lease to the applicant;

(B)

The applicant’s right to provide evidence demonstrating inaccuracies within the
applicant’s conviction history, or evidence of rehabilitation and other mitigating factors as
described in §740.100(B) below; and

(C)

A copy of the Cook County Commission on Human Rights (“Commission”)
interpretative rules, or a link to the Commission’s website, with the address and phone
number of the Commission.

Section 730.110

Pre-Qualification

The housing provider must first determine that the applicant is qualified for admission to housing or
continued occupancy.
Section 730.120

Notice of Pre-Qualification

Once a housing provider determines an applicant has satisfied the pre-qualification standards for housing,
the housing provider shall notify the applicant that the first step of the screening procedure has been
satisfied and notify the applicant that a criminal background check will be performed or solicited.
Section 730.130

Criminal Background Check

After a housing provider sends the notice of prequalification required by Section 730.120, a housing
provider may consider information from a criminal background check on the pre-qualified applicant.
SUBPART 740
Section 740.100

CONVICTION DISPUTE PROCEDURES
General

When denying admission or continued occupancy based on criminal conviction history, a housing provider
must provide the housing applicant or resident with:
(A) A copy of any criminal background check and other screening material relied upon; and
(B) A statement of the Individualized Assessment performed by the housing provider to

Page 5 of 7

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

determine that denial of admission or continued occupancy is necessary to protect against a
demonstrable risk to the personal safety and/or property of others.

(C)

Notice of the applicant’s right to dispute the accuracy or relevance of any conviction(s) in
accordance with Section 740.110 of these rules; and

(D)

A copy of these rules, or a link to the Human Right’s Commission website, with the
address and phone number of the Commission.

Section 740.110

Opportunity to Dispute the Accuracy and Relevance of Convictions

(A)

Once the housing provider has advised the applicant they are being denied occupancy and
has delivered a copy of the denial and a copy of the criminal background check,
individualized assessment and other information required by Sec. 740.100, the applicant shall
have two (2) business days from the postal or electronic mail date stamp to notify the
housing provider in writing of the applicant’s intent to dispute the accuracy or the relevance
of the information.

(B)

The applicant shall have an additional five (5) business days to produce evidence that
disputes the accuracy or relevance of information contained within the criminal background
check and/or individualized assessment.

Section 740.120

Dispute Procedures and Other Applicants

If a pre-qualified applicant provides notice of intent to dispute the accuracy or relevance of criminal
conviction history in accordance with §740.110, the housing provider must complete the dispute process of
§740.110 before extending housing to another applicant.
If a housing applicant does not provide notice of intent to dispute the accuracy or relevance of the criminal
conviction history within two (2) business days, and the housing provider determines that the applicant
poses a demonstrable risk, the housing provider can extend housing to another pre-qualified applicant.

SUBPART 760
Section 760.100

NOTICE OF FINAL DECISION
Decision Deadline

A housing provider must either approve or deny an individual’s housing application within two (2) business
days of receipt of information from the applicant rebutting the information contained in the criminal
background check and/or individualized assessment.

Page 6 of 7

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

Section 760.110
Written Notice of Denial
(A)
Any denial of admission or continued occupancy based on a conviction must be in writing and
must provide the applicant an explanation of why denial based on criminal conviction is
necessary to protect against a demonstrable risk of harm to personal safety and/or property.
(B)

The written denial must also contain a statement informing the housing applicant of their right to
file a complaint with the Human Rights Commission of Cook County.

Section 760.120

Confidentiality

The housing provider must limit the use and distribution of information obtained in performing the
applicant’s criminal background check.
The housing provider must keep any information gathered
confidential and in keeping with the requirements of the Ordinance.
Legislative History :

7/25/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Rules and Administration Commi

Legislative History :

9/4/19 - Rules and Administration Committee - recommend for deferral

Legislative History :

9/25/19 - Rules and Administration Committee - accept as substituted

Legislative History :

9/25/19 -

Rules and Administration Committee

-

recommend for approval as subs

Legislative History :

9/25/19 -

Rules and Administration Committee

-

refer to the Cook County Commi

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Degnen
Members:
Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims

Page 7 of 7

 