TO:

Examining Board Council Members

FROM:

Justin DeWitt, Chief, General Engineering Section

DATE:

January 30, 2019

SUBJECT:

Meeting Minutes-January 29, 2019

Attendance and Meeting Location
The meeting began at 1:32 p.m. on January 29, 2019 at the Springfield Plumbers
& Steamfitters Training Association, 2880 East Cook Street, Springfield, Illinois.
The following were in attendance:
IDPH Staff
Brian Cox, Program Manager, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Frank W. Shimkus, Plumbing Consultant, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Darrah Dunlap, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Rhonda K. Hawkins-Jackson, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Tina Cordova, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Pete Prehn, State Plumbing Inspector
Andrew Thiesse, State Plumbing Inspector
Gary Howard, State Plumbing Inspector
Examining Board Members
Timothy Atkisson
James Brinkman
Robert Dennison
Thad Ellet
Doug Pursell
Phil Roknich
Robert Schafer
Guests
Andy Fuchs – Springfield Plumbers & Steamfitters

 Welcome and Introductions
Robert Schafer introduced himself and welcomed everyone. A roll call was performed
and quorum established.
Motions


A motion was made by James Brinkman to approve the January 29, 2019
meeting agenda and seconded by Thad Ellet.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.



A motion was made by Robert Dennison to approve the October 23, 2018
meeting minutes and seconded by Thad Ellet.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.



A motion was made by Thad Ellet to hold a second exam session on March 26,
2019 and move board meeting date to March 27, 2019; seconded by Robert
Dennison.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.

Discussion Items


Robert Schafer opened the floor for public comment; however, there was none.



Exam board members discussed no shows due to inclement weather conditions
and adding a second exam session on March 26, 2019.



Board inquired about a letter being produced to sponsors detailing their
responsibilities to their apprentice. Department stated a draft will be provided
at the next board meeting.



A new approved project will be used in future exams.



Updating the supply list from: One 2” DWV cap (Flat cap ONLY) to One 2” DWV
cap (Flat cap recommended).

Meeting Adjourned
Philip Roknich motioned to adjourn, seconded by Robert Dennison. Meeting was
adjourned by voice vote at 2:07 p.m.

2

 