Examining Board Council Meeting Minutes - Page 1

DATE:

August 7, 2019

TO:

Illinois State Board of Plumbing Examiners

FROM:

Brian W. Cox, P.E., Manager, Plumbing & Water Quality Program

SUBJECT:

Illinois State Board of Plumbing Examiners Meeting Minutes – August 6, 2019

Attendance and Meeting Location
The meeting began at 1:33 p.m. on August 7, 2019 at the Springfield Plumbers &
Steamfitters Training Association, 2880 East Cook Street, Springfield, Illinois.
The following were in attendance:
IDPH Staff
Frank Shimkus, Plumbing Consultant, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Rhonda Hawkins-Jackson, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Darrah Dunlap, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Tina Cordova, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Richard Hughes, State Plumbing Inspector
John Prichard, State Plumbing Inspector
Wendell Stevens, State Plumbing Inspector
Examining Board Members
Robert Schafer, Chairman
Timothy Atkisson
James Brinkman
Robert Dennison
Thad Ellet
Doug Pursell
Phil Roknich
Guests
Andy Fuchs – Springfield Plumbers & Steamfitters
Welcome and Introductions
Robert Schafer introduced himself and welcomed everyone. A roll call was performed,
and quorum established.
Motions
 A motion was made by Timothy Atkisson to approve the August 6, 2019 meeting
agenda and seconded by James Brinkman.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.

 Examining Board Council Meeting Minutes - Page 2


A motion was made by Phil Roknich to approve the June 11, 2019 meeting
minutes and seconded by Robert Dennison.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.



A motion was made by Robert Dennison to approve no hub cast iron fittings be
supplied by IDPH for the January 2020 exam and seconded by Doug Pursell.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.



A motion was made by Phil Roknich to approve the 2020 exam dates of January
14 and 15, March 24 and 25, June 9 and 10, August 4 and 5, October 27 and
28 and seconded by Thad Ellet.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.

Discussion Items
 Robert Schafer opened the floor for public comment; no public comment.


Four previous examinees (apprentices) and their sponsors are meeting with the
Board after the meeting to discuss failure of previous exams.



Exam results and statistics for retakes of individuals whom have met with the
board were discussed. Discussed if the capacity of facility spacing was
sufficient, all agreed 55 examinees was the maximum number to still be
functional.



Discussed IDPH supplying the no hub cast iron fittings for examinees. Board
discussed concerns of time management and notification of supplies.
Determined that IDPH will provide a procedural flow for examinees to acquire
supplied fittings at the October 22, 2019 board meeting and begin supplying the
fittings for the January 2020 exam.



Multiple dates were discussed for the 2020 exams. Availability of dates with
facility and board members were determined and the dates were set as listed
below:
o January 14 & 15
o March 24 & 25
o June 9 & 10
o August 4 & 5
o October 27 & 28

Meeting Adjourned
Timothy Atkisson motioned to adjourn, seconded by Phil Roknich. Meeting was
adjourned by voice vote at 2:13 p.m.

 