SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes
August 22, 2019

PRESENT

ABSENT

Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Dorothy Hudson
Laurentino Ramirez

Angela Hurlock
Albert Garcia
Alex J. Alemis

SERVICE PROVIDER
Tom Schell
Dave Price
Diane Abbott
GUESTS
Danielle Richards, Alliance of the Southeast

There was not a quorum for the meeting. Since no items could be voted on, Dave Price
asked if he could present his Manager’s Report and reschedule the meeting to have a
quorum for the items that need commissioner approval.

1. Program Manager Report
Dave Price reviewed the façade rebate application for the Gonzalez building and
presented photos of the work that was completed on the façade. Dave Price said
the work completed was exactly what the commissioners had requested and
came out beautifully. The commissioners will need to approve the payment of the
façade rebate checks. Dave Price presented two other properties that are
requesting security rebates and both require commissioner approval to proceed
forward.
Dave Price discussed the meeting minutes from the Security Committee.
Service Provider: South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc.

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

August 22, 2019

Dave Price stated that the security committee feels that Sophia is the top security
issue and efforts to seek the proper care and placement of her are in the works.
Dave Price said that the committee has a pilot project they want to try in October
“Lots to Do”, a neighborhood clean-up project.
Dave Price presented information regarding an incubator idea for the SSA 5.
Dave Price distributed handouts that he received at a training and would like to
use to begin the incubator in the SSA 5. Dave Price stated that he wants to
create partnerships with multiple organizations to make this happen. The first
incubator will involve helping entrepreneurs get their businesses started. Dave
Stated he would like to also have an artisan incubator in the future where goods
can be made and sold.
Dave Price shared that Commercial Liquors is selling the business. The SSA 5
and the 4th District would like to put stipulations on the liquor license owner to
help deter crime at this location. Dave Price distributed a letter with the
stipulations listed.
Dave Price stated that he Mexican Patriotic Club requested support for their
Independence Day parade. Last year, the SSA 5 sponsored the parade at
$1,000.00 and this year the Mexican Patriotic Club is requesting a donation of
$2,000.00.
Dave Price reported that the last 3rd Thursday event had a larger crowd and that
offering food may be the reason. The event committee decided they want to
continue to hold these events for the next year. The next 3 rd Thursday event is
scheduled for September 19, 2019.
Dave Price stated that the event committee is looking to have a float in the
Mexican Independence Day Parade. The committee is also hoping to hold a
Halloween event (pumpkin decorating, trick or trunk, etc.) The event committee
wants to decorate the light poles before Halloween and keep up through
Thanksgiving. The committee is hoping to have businesses put lights in their
windows for Christmas as well as a tree decorating.

Adjournment
There being no additional business that could be discussed without a quorum,
the meeting ended. It was decided that the SSA 5 would tentatively schedule a
meeting for Wednesday, August 28, 2019 at 10:00 a.m. to review the remaining
agenda items that require Commissioner approval.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting – September 26, 2019 at 2:00 p.m.

Service Provider: South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc.

 