Examining Board Council Meeting Minutes - Page 1

DATE:

June 13, 2019

TO:

Examining Board Council Members

FROM:

Brian W. Cox, P.E., Manager, Plumbing & Water Quality Program

SUBJECT:

Meeting Minutes – June 11, 2019

Attendance and Meeting Location
The meeting began at 1:35 p.m. on June 11, 2019 at the Springfield Plumbers &
Steamfitters Training Association, 2880 East Cook Street, Springfield, Illinois.
The following were in attendance:
IDPH Staff
Brian W. Cox, P.E., Manager, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Frank Shimkus, Plumbing Consultant, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Rhonda Hawkins-Jackson, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Darrah Dunlap, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Tina Cordova, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Jeremiah Deakin, State Plumbing Inspector
Brad Leuck, State Plumbing Inspector
Larry Luka, State Plumbing Inspector
Examining Board Members
Robert Schafer, Chairman
Timothy Atkisson
Robert Dennison
Thad Ellet
Doug Pursell
Phil Roknich
Guests
Andy Fuchs – Springfield Plumbers & Steamfitters
Welcome and Introductions
Robert Schafer introduced himself and welcomed everyone. A roll call was performed,
and quorum established.
Motions
 A motion was made by Doug Pursell to approve the June 11, 2019 meeting
agenda and seconded by Thad Ellet.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.

 Examining Board Council Meeting Minutes - Page 2


A motion was made by Timothy Atkisson to approve the March 26, 2019 meeting
minutes and seconded by Robert Dennison.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.

Discussion Items
 Robert Schafer opened the floor for public comment; no public comment.


Two previous examinees (apprentices) and their sponsors are meeting with the
Board after the meeting to discuss failure of previous exams.



Exam results and statistics for retakes of individuals whom have met with the
board were discussed. Discussed the possibility of a model program which
would provide benchmarks and require proficiency certification throughout the
initial four years of apprenticeship.



It was suggested that Apprentices be required to take continuing education for
licensure. IDPH must confirm if statuary authority exists to require apprentices
to take continuing education.



Possibility of denying an individual the right to sponsor another apprentice in
the future due to failure to provide adequate supervision, education, and
training to apprentices.



Suggested Continuing Education requirements be established for sponsors of
apprentices.



Illinois SB1166 LICENSE-REMOVE CITIZENSHIP REQ as to date has passed
both houses and is awaiting signature of the Governor. With this bill the
Plumber’s License: Application for Examination and Examination Retake Form
will need to be modified to remove the statement regarding citizenship and its
requirements.
SB1166 SUMMARY: Amends the Civil Administrative Code of Illinois. Provides
that, except as otherwise provided by law, no department shall deny an
occupational or professional license based solely on the applicant's citizenship
status or immigration status. Amends the Illinois Explosives Act to allow a person
admitted for permanent residence to qualify for licensure. Amends the Illinois
Plumbing License Law, the Water Well and Pump Installation Contractor's License
Act, the Illinois Horse Meat Act, the Liquor Control Act of 1934, and the Safety
Deposit License Act to remove references to United States citizenship as a
prerequisite for licensure. Amends the Coal Mining Act to remove references to
United States citizenship as a prerequisite and references to the ability to speak
and understand the American Language. Makes other changes.



Multiple examinees did not bring materials as instructed on the material list
(Pre-cut pieces and sharing of materials and/or equipment are not allowed)
specifically the 60 inch length of 2” no-hub cast iron soil pipe. Instead they
are bringing pipe which is already cut. It was decided that for future exams
they will also be verbally instructed to have one continuous 60 inch piece of
cast iron soil pipe.

 Examining Board Council Meeting Minutes - Page 3


It was determined that the practical portion of the exam needed to have a
Scratch Sheet added to allow for determining calculated dimensions. Therefore,
a single sheet will be added and collected with the rest of the practical exam. It
will have the examination date and examinee’s identification number, likewise
with the remaining portions of the exam.

Meeting Adjourned
Timothy Atkisson motioned to adjourn, seconded by Robert Dennison. Meeting was
adjourned by voice vote at 2:21 p.m.

 