SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes
August 28, 2019

PRESENT

ABSENT

Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Albert Garcia
Angela Hurlock
Laurentino Ramirez

Dorothy Hudson
Alex J. Alemis

SERVICE PROVIDER
Tom Schell
Dave Price
Diane Abbott

Meeting was called to order at 11:00 a.m

1. Approval of the Agenda
A motion to approve the agenda was made by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond, seconded
by Laurentino Ramirez. Motion carried.
2. Approval of the Minutes
There being no corrections or additions to the minutes, a motion to approve the
June 30, 2019, meeting minutes was made by Laurentino Ramirez, seconded by
Bonnie Dinell-Dimond. Motion carried.
There being no corrections or additions to the minutes, a motion to approve the
July 11, 2019, Budget Meeting minutes was made by Albert Garcia, seconded by
Laurentino Ramirez. Motion carried.

Service Provider: South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc.

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

August 28, 2019

3. Financial Report
Financial Reports for the month ending June 30, 2019, were reviewed and
discussed. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
June. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to
approve the June 30, 2019 Financial Reports was made by Bonnie DinellDimond, seconded by Albert Garcia. Motion carried.
Financial Reports for the month ending July 31, 2019, were reviewed and
discussed. Mr. Schell reminded that a second patrolman/security was added in
this month. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
July. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to
approve the July 31, 2019 Financial Reports was made by Laurentino Ramirez,
seconded by Albert Garcia. Motion carried.

4. Cash Flow / Receivables
Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the June, 2019 bank
reconciliation. After a discussion, a motion to accept the June bank reconciliation
was made by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond, seconded by Albert Garcia. Motion carried.
Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the July, 2019 bank
reconciliation. After a discussion, a motion to accept the July bank reconciliation
was made by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond, seconded by Albert Garcia. Motion carried.

5. Items for Approval
Mr. Schell presented the July and August invoices for payment approval. After a
brief discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the July and August
invoices was made by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond, seconded by Laurentino Ramirez.
Motion carried.
6. Program Manager Report
The meeting on August 22, 2019, did not have a quorum but Dave Price did
review the Program Manager talking points from the agenda on that day.
Dave Price presented that the Mexican Patriotic Club has once again requested
support for the Mexican Independence Day Parade. A motion to offer the same
financial support that the SSA 5 offered last year of $1,000.00 was made by
Laurentino Ramirez, seconded by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond. Motion carried.

Service Provider: South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc.

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

August 28, 2019

Dave Price reviewed the façade rebate application for the Raul Gonzalez
building and presented photos of the work that was completed on the façade.
Dave Price said the work completed was exactly what the commissioners had
requested and came out beautifully. A motion to approve the payment for the
completed work (five rebates) totaling $ 69,287.24 was made by Bonnie DinellDimond, seconded by Albert Garcia. Motion carried.
Dave Price shared photos of the completed work from the security rebate
application submitted by Capri Pizza owner and QC Construction the owner of
the adjoining lots. The two owners fenced the 5 lots and secured the properties.
Dave Price stated there are pedestrian entrances and a swing gate, all of which
are locked. A motion to approve the payment of $3,375.00 for the completed
work was made by Laurentino Ramirez, seconded by Albert Garcia. Motion
carried.
Dave Price presented a security rebate application from the owner of a new
rehabilitation center. Dave Price stated the owner wants to install two steel doors
with deadbolts, a burglar alarm system that includes cameras, and motion sensor
cameras. The applicant had two vendors for each type of installation/work. A
motion to approve the security rebate application request for $7,462.95 was
made by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond, seconded by Albert Garcia. Motion carried.
Dave Price stated that he included the committee meeting minutes from each
committee. The commissioners stated they liked this addition to his report and
asked that he continue to do it.
Dave Price said the next third Thursday event is Thursday, September 19, 2019,
and will feature a rock and roll band as well as food items.
Dave Price stated that he met with Alberto Rincon and requested that he write a
proposal on how he would implement the incubator idea. Dave Price said he
would like to see if Alberto can work with the SSA 5 on several projected ideas.
Adjournment
There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 12:30
p.m. was made by Laurentino Ramirez, seconded by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond.
Motion carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting – September 26, 2019 at 2:00 p.m.

Service Provider: South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc.

 