Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, September 20, 2019 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference
Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Directors Hon. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC and David Ernesto
Munar (3)
Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Ada Mary Gugenheim

Absent:

Director Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, August 23, 2019
Director Munar, seconded by Director Deer, moved to accept the Minutes of the
Finance Committee Meeting of August 23, 2019. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
It was noted that seventeen (17) of the requests require review by Contract Compliance; review has been
completed on seven (7) of the requests, so there are currently ten (10) requests that are pending review by
Contract Compliance. Director Deer requested that the Committee be notified when the letters for the pending
requests are received from Contract Compliance reflecting compliance with the County’s Code on minority and
women-owned business enterprise (M/WBE) goals, and provide details associated with each of the letters.
Director Munar, seconded by Director Deer, moved the approval of request
numbers 1 through 19, subject to completion of review by Contract Compliance,
where appropriate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, September 20, 2019
Page 2

III. Action Items (continued)
C. Proposed Transfers of Funds (Attachment #2)
Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the proposed Transfer of Funds.
Committee reviewed and discussed the item.

The

During the discussion of the item, Chair Reiter inquired regarding what is necessitating the transfer to the
Managed Care accounts. Mr. Akpan responded that the Managed Care accounts have reached their appropriation
limit; this transfer will allow movement of appropriation authority from the CCH (provider) accounts to the
Managed Care accounts, so external claims can be paid from the Managed Care side. As a fund within the Health
Fund, based on Board approval, the administration is allowed to move appropriation authority within the Fund;
there is room on the provider side and that is being moved to the Managed Care side. The organization will
remain within its appropriation limits within the Health Fund.
Chair Reiter inquired whether this amount is sufficient to cover this, based on current projections. Dr. Shannon
responded affirmatively; he noted that another transfer may be needed before the end of the fiscal year.
Director Deer, seconded by Director Munar, moved the approval of the proposed
Transfers of Funds. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
At the Board of Directors Meeting on September 27, 2019, when considering the Minutes of the Finance
Committee Meeting of September 20, 2019, a substitute Transfer of Funds was accepted, considered and
approved by the Board.

D. Proposed Resolutions regarding CCH bank accounts (Attachment #3)
i. Proposed Resolution to open a new Cook County Health bank account at JP Morgan Chase Bank for Petty
Cash – Managed Care for John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
ii. Proposed Resolutions updating signatories for Cook County Health bank accounts held at JP Morgan Chase
Bank:
a. Accounts for John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
 Restricted Grant Funds Account
 Physician Services Account
 General Fund Account
 Petty Cash Account
 Patient Trust Fund
 Miscellaneous Refund Account
 Patient Refund Account
b. Accounts for Provident Hospital of Cook County
 Provident Hospital
 PHCC Petty Cash
c. Account for Oak Forest Health Center
 Depository Account
Mr. Akpan provided an overview of the proposed Resolutions regarding CCH bank accounts. The Committee
reviewed and discussed the items.
Director Munar, seconded by Director Deer, moved the approval of the proposed
Resolutions regarding CCH bank accounts. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
E. Any items listed under Section III

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, September 20, 2019
Page 3

IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer (Attachment #4)
A. Report on Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise (M/WBE) Participation
B. 3rd Quarter FY2019 Report of Purchases made under the authority of the Chief Executive Officer
C. Report of emergency purchases
Mr. Jones provided an overview of the two (2) reports presented for the Committee’s information. The Committee
reviewed and discussed the information.
There were no emergency purchases reported.

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #5)



Metrics
Financials: July 2019

Mr. Akpan provided an overview of the metrics and Financials through July 2019. The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
The Committee discussed the FY2020 Preliminary Budget and Impact 2023 Financial Forecast, which was
approved by the CCH Board on September 13th and is expected to be presented to the Cook County Board for
their approval on September 26th. Once approved, it will be incorporated into the President’s proposed FY2020
Budget, which is then presented to the Cook County Board for approval, following departmental and public
hearings.
Chair Reiter requested that staff provide a detailed breakdown of the preliminary budget that goes a couple of
levels deeper than what was included in the presentation that the CCH Board received on September 13th. He
would like this information to be circulated to the Finance Committee. He noted that, as staff and Directors go
through working with the Commissioners on getting to a final budget, there may be adjustments made along the
way; he recommended that the Directors be informed if that happens, so the Board can see how things are
trending or changing.
During the discussion of revenue sources, Director Gugenheim mentioned the recent payment from the State for
medical education; she inquired whether this is the only new revenue source that the organization has received in
a long time. Mr. Akpan responded affirmatively, but added that the only question is, are those additional
dollars? Essentially, it is a straight pass-through, but there is an adjustment to the CountyCare rate. He noted
that there is some benefit to having a straight payment to the organization, but there is certainly an impact on the
CountyCare rates.
Director Deer asked how much the State currently owes CCH. Mr. Akpan estimated that they owe CCH
approximately $200 million; he will provide the exact amount after the meeting.
During the discussion of slide 20 of the presentation, regarding CountyCare-Observations and CCH
Reimbursement Rates, Mr. Akpan stated that $97 million comes to CCH as a provider from CountyCare. It is
important to note that the administration is moving CCH reimbursement rates to 100% of Medicaid rates, so this
is the same rate that would be paid to any other provider. Those changes have been reflected in the current
financial statements. Going forward, CountyCare will adjust its reimbursement rates anytime that the State
changes per-member per-month rates for CountyCare.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, September 20, 2019
Page 4

VI.

Adjourn
Chair Reiter noted that the meeting time for the remaining Committee Meetings in 2019 is changing; the
meetings in October, November and December will be held at 9:00 A.M., instead of 8:30 A.M.
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Reiter declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Follow-up / Requests:
Request:

Request made that the Committee be notified when the letters for the pending contractual requests
are received from Contract Compliance reflecting compliance with the County’s Code on
M/WBE goals, and provide details associated with each of the letters. Page 1

Request:

Request made for a detailed breakdown of the preliminary budget that goes a couple of levels
deeper than what was included in the presentation that the CCH Board received on September
13th. Page 3

Follow-up:

Information to be provided regarding the exact amount that the State currently owes CCH. Page 3

 