TO:

Examining Board Council Members

FROM:

Justin DeWitt, Chief, General Engineering Section

DATE:
SUBJECT:

March 29, 2019
Meeting Minutes-March 26, 2019

Attendance and Meeting Location
The meeting began at 1:42 p.m. on March 26, 2019 at the Springfield Plumbers &
Steamfitters Training Association, 2880 East Cook Street, Springfield, Illinois.
The following were in attendance:
IDPH Staff
Justin DeWitt, Chief, General Engineering Section
Frank W. Shimkus, Plumbing Consultant, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Darrah Dunlap, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Rhonda K. Hawkins-Jackson, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Tina Cordova, Plumbing & Water Quality Program
Greg Hunt, State Plumbing Inspector
Matt Popov, State Plumbing Inspector
Examining Board Members
Timothy Atkisson
Robert Dennison
Thad Ellet
Doug Pursell
Phil Roknich
Robert Schafer
Guests
Andy Fuchs – Springfield Plumbers & Steamfitters

 Welcome and Introductions
Robert Schafer introduced himself and welcomed everyone. A roll call was performed,
and quorum established.
Motions


A motion was made by Timothy Atkisson to approve the March 26, 2019
meeting agenda and seconded by Thad Ellet.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.



A motion was made by Timothy Atkisson to approve the January 29, 2019
meeting minutes and seconded by Thad Ellet.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.



A motion was made by Timothy Atkisson that future agendas move the modify
exam elements from action items to discussion items; seconded by Thad Ellet.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.



A motion was made by Thad Ellet to use the new approved project from the
March 26, 2019 exam again on the March 27, 2019 exam; seconded by Timothy
Atkisson.
The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.

Discussion Items


Robert Schafer opened the floor for public comment; Andy Fuchs made a
comment.



Andy Fuchs inquired of the lack of examination dates and location being
included with the examination application form as states in 750.300(a)(3).



Board discussed requiring Continuing Education for all apprentices who have
completed four years (48 months). The class would be hosted by the State and
would consist of elements which would further prepare them for the Illinois
Plumbing Exam.



Department decided there was no need to hold a second exam session on March
26, 2019. Due to inclement weather conditions, the nineteen no shows form the
October 23 & 24, 2019 exams were placed in the January 26, 2019 exam.
Therefore, the board meeting remained as previously scheduled on March 26,
2019.

 

Darrah Dunlap presented a draft of the letters to new sponsors and apprentices
detailing the sponsor’s responsibilities to their apprentice. The board had no
additional comments or revisions. These letters will be added to the license
production of new sponsors and apprentices.



Board discussed the new approved project that was used in the March 26, 2019
exam for the first time and determined the same project would also be used for
the March 27, 2019 exam.



Discussions on the amount of materials/tools/toolbox examinees were bring
with them to the practical portion of the exam due to spacing. It was determined
to monitor and instruct the examinees that any abundance of these items be
returned to their vehicle.

Meeting Adjourned
Timothy Atkisson motioned to adjourn, seconded by Philip Roknich. Meeting was
adjourned by voice vote at 2:24 p.m.
2

 