Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Homeland Security and Emergency Management Committee
Wednesday, October 23, 2019

11:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-6288
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 9/25/2019
19-4277
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN and ALMA E. ANAYA, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPOSED
ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT
RENAMING
THE
COOK
COUNTY
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AS
THE COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC
SAFETY

Page 1 of 8

 Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES, ARTICLE II. - COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY SERVICES, Sec. 26-31 - 26-43 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES
ARTICLE
II.
COOK
COUNTY
DEPARTMENT
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY

OF

HOMELAND

SECURITY

AND

Sec. 26-31. - Establishment.

(a) There is hereby created the Cook County Department of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management (DHSEM DEMPS) to coordinate the efforts of the County to develop, plan, analyze,
conduct, provide, implement and maintain programs for disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and
recovery within the County and with private organizations, other political subdivisions, the State and
federal governments, established pursuant to Section 10 of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
(IEMA) Act (20 ILCS 3305/10).
(b)
DHSEM DEMPS shall consist of the Executive Director, who shall serve as emergency
coordinator of the County's emergency management programs pursuant to the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act, and such additional employees as may be selected by the President or
Executive Director per the County's hiring rules.
Sec. 26-32. - Executive Director.

(a) The Executive Director of the DHSEM DEMPS shall be appointed by the President of the
County Board of Commissioners and shall serve until removed by the President.
(b) The Executive Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration,
training and operation of the DHSEM DEMPS, subject to the direction and control of the President and
the Chief of the Bureau of Administration, including the preparation by the DHSEM DEMPS of an
emergency operations plan consistent with the National Incident Management System (NIMS), as
adopted by Resolution No. 05-R-464.
(c) The Executive Director shall possess all powers and duties set forth for the Executive Director
by statute and in this Ordinance, including the authority to designate emergency vehicles as provided in the
Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-215.
(d) In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve as the Executive Director, the

Page 2 of 8

 Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

President or any person designated by him or her shall be and act as Executive Director until a new
appointment is made as provided in this article.
Sec. 26-33. - Functions.

(a) The DHSEM DEMPS shall perform such functions within the County as shall be prescribed in
and by the County's Emergency Operations Plan and the State Emergency Operations Plan and
emergency management program prepared by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA), and
such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by IEMA and the Governor.
(b) As used herein, the terms "emergency management agency" and "emergency services and
disaster agency" are equivalent. The DHSEM DEMPS shall serve as the mandated emergency
management agency for all political subdivisions within the County except those areas served by
emergency management agencies which have been accredited by IEMA. All political subdivisions served
by the DHSEM DEMPS shall be responsible for engaging in emergency preparedness and response
activities within their jurisdictions. Political subdivisions which maintain a nonmandated emergency
services and disaster agency not accredited by the IEMA may apply to DHSEM DEMPS for
certification, in which case each such political subdivision shall biennially submit an emergency operations
plan to DHSEM DEMPS as provided in Title 29 of the Illinois Administrative Code, Part 301, Political
Subdivision Emergency and Disaster Service Agencies. Each municipality that does not maintain an
emergency services and disaster agency shall designate a liaison officer to facilitate the cooperation and
protection of that municipal corporation with DHSEM DEMPS, in accordance with Section 10 of the
IEMA Act (20 ILCS 3305/10).
(c) The DHSEM DEMPS shall perform or coordinate the performance of such duties as may be
required of the County pursuant to any Mutual Aid agreement with any other political subdivision,
municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as provided in Section 13 of the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/13).
(d) In accordance with Chapter 34, Section 34-141 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, the
Executive Director, in consultation with the Chief Procurement Officer and utilizing a competitive
procurement process approved by the County's Code when practicable, shall be authorized to request the
Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contracts for the availability of emergency
equipment or supplies which may be required in the event of an emergency or disaster. Except as
approved by the Board, such contracts shall not commit the County to make payment in excess of $25,000
unless such equipment or supplies are purchased under the emergency purchase authority set forth in
Section 26-39 of this Ordinance.
Sec. 26-34. - Service as mobile support team.

(a) All or any members of DHSEM DEMPS may be designated as members of a Mobile Support

Page 3 of 8

 Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

Team created by the Director of the IEMA as provided by Section 8 of the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/8).
(b) Any member of a Mobile Support Team who is a County employee or officer while serving on
call to duty by the Governor or the Director of IEMA shall receive the compensation and have the
powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not
a paid officer or employee of the County, while so serving, shall receive from the State reasonable
compensation as provided by law.
Sec. 26-35. - Agreements with other political subdivisions and nongovernmental organizations.

(a) Mutual Aid, Intergovernmental or Interagency Agreements. The Executive Director of the
Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management (DHSEM DEMPS) may negotiate
Mutual Aid Agreements and Intergovernmental or Interagency Agreements with other political
subdivisions and taxing districts of the State as well as with nongovernmental organizations, provided such
agreements are consistent with the State Emergency Operations Plan and Emergency Management
Program.
Negotiated
Mutual
Aid
Agreements,
Intergovernmental
Agreements
or
Interagency
Agreements shall be approved by the County Board in advance of execution by the Executive Director.
Where applicable, said agreements shall adhere to applicable procurement rules under the County's Code
of Ordinances or the procurement standards required under the funding grant agreement, whichever
standards are more restrictive.
(b) Agreements and/or Memoranda of Understanding Related to Training and Curriculum
Development. The Executive Director or his/her designee is authorized to negotiate and execute
agreements or Memoranda of Understanding ("MOU") with other political subdivisions or governmental
units, nonprofit entities, volunteer groups, and private parties for the purpose of procuring and providing
training and curriculum development for first responder agencies and other stakeholders throughout Cook
County, as appropriated, and including provisions providing indemnification. Where applicable, said
agreements or MOUs shall adhere to applicable procurement rules under the County's Code of
Ordinances or the procurement standards required under the funding grant agreement, whichever
standards are more restrictive. Said agreements or MOUs shall not require additional authorization from
the County Board when limited to the purpose of procuring and/or providing training and/or curriculum
development for first responder agencies and other stakeholders unless said agreement or MOU is
greater than $150,000.00.
(c) Agreements and/or Memoranda of Understanding to Advance Additional Partnership
Opportunities. In order to facilitate and advance additional partnership opportunities to effectuate
effective and efficient emergency response and coordination activities, the Executive Director shall be
authorized to negotiate and execute MOUs or agreements with other political subdivisions, governmental
units, nonprofit entities, volunteer groups and private parties, setting forth the agreed roles of the parties
thereto with respect to preparedness and response activities within Cook County, without further approval

Page 4 of 8

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

October 23, 2019

by the County Board. These agreements or MOUs shall not bind Cook County to indemnification
provisions, nor shall such MOUs obligate Cook County to make any direct payments to a third party from
County corporate or grant funds. Said agreements or MOUs may not require a separate Mutual Aid
Agreement, Intergovernmental Agreement or Interagency Agreements; however, should the agreement
or MOU require the County to indemnify the other party, County Board authorization will be required in
advance of execution.
(d) [Records to be maintained.] The Executive Director shall further maintain a record of all
agreements or MOUs entered into pursuant to the authority afforded in subsection (b) and (c) and make
available to the President or the Cook County Board of Commissioners a quarterly report listing the
various agreements or MOUs entered into pursuant to this authority at their request.
Sec. 26-36. - Emergency action.

(a) If the Governor proclaims that a disaster exists in the event of an emergency created by an
occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or loss of life or property resulting from any
natural or technological cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage,
epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation,
critical shortages of essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, hostile military or paramilitary action, public
health emergencies, or acts of domestic terrorism, and such disaster affects the County, it shall be the
duty of the DHSEM DEMPS to activate its Emergency Operations Plan and to cooperate fully with the
IEMA and with the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(b) If the President declares a local disaster exists in the event of an emergency as set forth in
subsection (a), it shall be the duty of the DHSEM DEMPS to activate its Emergency Operations Plan and
to cooperate fully with the President in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. The
declaration of a local disaster shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days,
without consent of the Board.
Sec. 26-37. - Compensation.

Members of the DHSEM DEMPS who are paid employees or officers of the County, if called for
training by the Director of IEMA, shall receive for the time spent in such training the same rate of pay as
is attached to the position held. Members who are not such County employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the County Board.
Sec. 26-38.
donation.

-

Reimbursement

by

state;

funds

received

from

federal

government

and

private

The County Treasurer shall establish a DHSEM DEMPS fund within the general corporate fund for

Page 5 of 8

 Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

emergency and disaster services purposes and shall make such funds available to the Executive Director
for use in accordance with the proper purposes of the DHSEM DEMPS as established in this article. The
County Treasurer shall receive and allocate to the DHSEM DEMPS fund:
(a) Any reimbursement by the State or Federal governments to the County for expenses incident to
training members of the DHSEM DEMPS as prescribed by the Director of IEMA;
(b) Compensation for services and expenses of members of a Mobile Support Team which service is
outside the County in response to a call by the Governor or Director of IEMA, as provided by law;
(c) Any other reimbursement made by the State or Federal government or private donations for
sponsoring and reimbursing the DHSEM DEMPS emergency management activities and costs.
Sec. 26-39. - Emergency powers of President and Executive Director.

(a) In the event of the occurrence of a disaster as set forth in Section 26-36 of this article, and upon
proclamation by the Governor that a disaster exists or proclamation by the President that a local disaster
exists, the President may exercise the following emergency powers during such disaster:
(1) To utilize all available resources of the County, including facilities, equipment, and personnel, as
reasonably necessary to cope with the disaster, and to transfer the direction, personnel or
functions of County departments and agencies for the purpose of performing or facilitating
disaster response and recovery programs.
(2) To suspend some or all of the provisions of any regulatory ordinance or the orders, rules and
regulations of any County agency, and to suspend the enforcement thereof, if strict compliance
with the provisions of any ordinance, order, rule or regulation would in any way prevent, hinder
or delay necessary action, including emergency purchases, by DHSEM DEMPS, in coping with
the disaster.
(3) To enter into contracts and incur obligations, on recommendation of the Executive Director,
necessary to place the County in a position to respond and recover from a disaster.
(b) In the event of declared disaster, the Executive Director of DHSEM DEMPS is authorized on
behalf of the County to procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for
such purposes in view of the exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law and County ordinance pertaining to County contracts, obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, and the appropriation, expenditure, and disposition of public funds and property, as
provided in Section 10(j) of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/10(j)).
Sec. 26-40. - Oath.

Page 6 of 8

 Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

October 23, 2019

Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the DHSEM DEMPS organization shall, before
entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following oath, which shall be filed with the Executive Director:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance
to the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic;
that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will
well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by
force or violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Cook County Department of
Homeland Security and Emergency Management, I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or
of this State by force or violence."
Sec. 26-41. - Designation of space.

The President is authorized to designate space in a County building, or elsewhere, as may be
provided for by the Board for DHSEM DEMPS for the performance of its operations and for the
performance of emergency preparedness and response activities.
Sec. 26-42. - Duty to cooperate.

All Departments and Officers of the County shall cooperate in developing, planning, analyzing,
conducting, providing, exercising, implementing and maintaining programs for disaster mitigation,
preparedness, response and recovery as requested by the Executive Director. In the event a disaster is
declared affecting Cook County, all Departments and Officers of the County shall implement their
emergency plans as applicable as requested by the Executive Director. Every County Officer, including
elected officials, shall designate a minimum of three emergency interim successors pursuant to the
Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act, 5 ILCS 275/1 et seq., and obtain their oaths in the manner
set forth in said Act. Such designations and oaths shall be maintained on file by the DHSEM DEMPS,
which shall supply sample forms to County officers, as defined in the Emergency Interim Executive
Succession Act, 5 ILCS 275/1 et seq., to facilitate such designations.
Sec. 26-43. - Construction.

This Ordinance shall be broadly construed to enable the President, the Executive Director and the
DHSEM DEMPS to perform any task necessary to protect the health and safety of the residents of Cook
County. This Ordinance is not intended to abrogate or limit any immunity or other protection available by
state or federal statute or common law to the County, to any municipality, or to any person participating in

Page 7 of 8

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
Committee

October 23, 2019

an emergency preparedness or response activity.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

6/27/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Homeland Security and Emergen

Secretary
Chairman:
Tobolski
Vice-Chairman: Lowry
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 8 of 8

 