Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Tuesday, August 20, 2019 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1950 W. Polk Street, in
Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Richardson-Lowry called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Mary B. Richardson-Lowry and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Sidney A.
Thomas, MSW (3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex officio) and Director Ada Mary Gugenheim

Absent:

Director Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Michael Alebich, DO – John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Beena Peters, DNP, MS, RN, FACHE – Chief
Nursing Officer

II.

Carrie Pramuk-Volk – CCH Employment Plan
Officer
Barbara Pryor –Chief Human Resources Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Richardson-Lowry asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of June 18, 2019
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Thomas, moved to accept the minutes of the
meeting of the Human Resources Committee of June 18, 2019. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Any items listed under Sections III and VI

IV.

Report from Employment Plan Officer (Attachment #1)
Carrie Pramuk-Volk, CCH Employment Plan Officer (EPO), reviewed her presentation on the 10th EPO SemiAnnual Report, which included information on the following subjects:




Employment Plan Updates
Monitoring and Investigations
Employment Activity

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, August 20, 2019
Page 2

V.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer (Attachment #2)
Barbara Pryor, Chief Human Resources Officer, reviewed her report, which included information on the
following subjects:





House Staff 2019
- Cook County Health (CCH) Clinical Participants
- Medical Education at Cook County Hospital (now John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County)
- Unique Opportunities in Training
- Quality of Care
- Retention of Graduates
Workforce Development
- Cook County Health Fellows and Externship
- Connecting Adolescents Resources Education Employment (C.A.R.E)
Metrics:
- Important Performance Data
- HR Activity Report through 7/31/19
- Separations by Classification through 7/31/19
- Open Vacancies
- Hiring Snapshot through 7/31/19
- Appendix – Nursing and Finance Hiring Snapshot through 7/31/19

Ms. Pryor and Dr. Michael Alebich, Attending Physician VIII at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County, reviewed the information relating to House Staff 2019.
With regard to slide 8 of the presentation, it was noted that the Department of Radiology should reflect 27%
retention of graduates, not 3%.
With regard to the subject of retention of graduates, Board Chair Hammock asked how long these staff
remain at CCH once hired. Dr. Alebich responded that he can provide that information to the Committee
through the Chair. Dr. Shannon indicated that, historically, they would remain for the bulk of their career,
but when the pension arrangement changed for new hires, it made it more challenging to recruit and retain
these staff. He stated that the administration will need to consider different incentives and/or salary
structures for this group.
Chair Richardson-Lowry requested that information be provided to the Committee through the Chair on the
diversity of the House Staff.
During the discussion of the information regarding Workforce Development, Director Driscoll inquired
whether the Cook County Department of Public Health (CCDPH) has fellowships. Ms. Pryor stated that the
information provided in this report is for non-clinical fellowships; CCDPH has a number of clinical
fellowships, and she will provide information on those.

VI.

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, August 20, 2019
Page 3

VI.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Director Thomas, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to recess the open meeting
and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific
employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including
hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or
against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and
its employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules
for one or more classes of employees,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding
“litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the
public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for
the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a roll
call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chair Richardson-Lowry and Directors Driscoll and Thomas (3)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Director Prendergast (1)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee convened into a
closed meeting.
Chair Richardson-Lowry declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

The

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Richardson-Lowry declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry, Chair

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, August 20, 2019
Page 4

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Requests/Follow-up:
Request:

Request made for information on how long House Staff remain at CCH, once hired. Page 2

Request:

Request made for information on the diversity of the House Staff. Page 2

Request:

Request made for information on CCDPH fellowships. Page 2

 