 2w 



TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Resolved,

I
.3

I A: 
Dry?r - 
("If


I ILEMB

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
. . 4 C- ?j .
To due-soutitan,-
SHAR, Inc.

50?? Jubilee Anniversary Celebration

Since its inception in 1969, Self-Help Addiction Rehabilitation, Inc. (SHAR) has provided
high-quality behavioral healthcare services to individuals in the Greater-Detroit area. Founded by Father
Dan Kuchars and two recovering individuals, Seymour Feiner and Jerry Stephens, in the basement of St.
Agnes Church in Detroit, Michigan, SHAR has grown and evolved from a small therapeutic community
to a multi-million dollar human service agency serving approximately 6,000 individuals annually; and

mission is to assist socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and to promote
lifestyle enhancement. Regardless of whether the challenge the person faces is alcohol or other drug
addictions, being a veteran or homeless, battling with mental or physical health issues, struggling
women with children, or any number of other issues, SHAR has consistently developed innovative
programming and services aimed at alleviating the pain of the individual; and

The late Allen Bray, served as the Executive DirectoriCEO of SHAR from August 1983 to June 2006.
Since 2003, SEAR has been operating under the leadership of Dwight Vaughter. Initially, he was faced
with the challenge of revitalizing an agency that was on the verge of closing its doors. He aggressively,
strategically and prudently tackled the various operational and funding challenges, while continuing to
expand service delivery. This resulted in SHAR acquiring two additional sites, SHAR Macomb and
SHAR Academy; and

Today, SHAR has four facilities: SHAR Main, SHAR Academy, Maybury Grand and SHAR
Macomh. service delivery ranges from detoxification for males and females to male~speci?c
residential substance abuse treatment, outpatient programs, transitional housing, to recovery support and
prevention services. SHAR has specialty programs for men, employed persons, individuals under
correctional supervision, and individuals with co?occurring disorders. SHAR also offers on-site
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) and Narcotics Anonymous (NA) support meetings; and

focus always has been aimed at stopping substance use and providing relief to the individuals
and their families who are so adversely impacted. SHAR has provided the necessary and ever-growing
list of wrap-around services to help thousands of people change their lives. SHAR's operation is
inspired by Dr. Booker T. Washington?s quote: is to be measured nor so much by the
position reached in We as by the obsrocies overcome while trying to succeed. NOW, THEREFORE
BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and office of Council President Brenda Jones recognize SHAR, Inc.
on this momentous occasion celebrating its 50th Jubilee Anniversary.

.0, ?1

ll COUNCIL - DENT



 


COUNCIL . Fl

.1

all
1-1. 494*

 

 

 

Octob 11,20 

DATE

 

