Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ, Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH,Executive Director

Board of Electioo Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
August 27, 2019, 9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Opal Walls, Purchasing Agent
Paulina Mysliwiec, Acting Community Services Manager
Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Sarita Villarreal, Consultant
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Trish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
George Blakemore
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All Board members were present.

III.
Consideration of Agenda: Executive Director Gough requested that agenda item VI I "New
Business {B)-Agreement between the Board and MCl Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a
Verizon Business Services" be deferred. Commissioner Kresse moved to defer the item.

Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The Board voted 3:0 to approve the motion and
defer the agenda item to another meeting.
IV.

Approval of Minutes:

A.

Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of July 9, 2019. Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of July 9, 2019.
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 312-269-7900• TTY 312-269-0027
chicagoelectlons.com •cboe@chicagoelections.net• @ChicagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting - August 27, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion and the Minutes were

approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

B.

Executive Director's Report
Executive Director Lance Gough reported as follows:

• On August
Mr. Gough attended the signing of Senate Bill 2090 {SB2090)
and House Bill 2541 (HB2541), legislation regarding pre-trial detainees and
voter's rights education for inmates upon release.
o

We are scheduling meetings with the Sheriff's Office and we have a

meeting scheduled with the Shriver Center for the 10^*^, to discuss
House Bill 2541(HB2541) which is the education piece. We've worked
on pamphlets and these meetings will be on distributing those.
o The Chair said that the signing of this legislation got very favorable
media coverage and was happy to see Mr. Gough at the press
conference. Mr. Gough stated that it took 2 years to get it passed, but
it finally did pass.

• General Counsel Adam Lasker will report later on the Community Safety
Oversight Board. Mr. Gough, Adam Lasker and Communications Director Jim
Allen met with City officials multiple times on this matter. There are some

issues that they did not understand regarding elections to select the Oversight
Board.

• We received last evening a draft contract from Dominion. We have not yet
had an opportunity to review it. On September 11th we are meeting with the
City regarding the budget and this needs to be ready by then.
o

A new Dominion representative will be at each of our future Board
meetings.

o Commissioner Swain asked for clarification on funding. Mr. Gough
explained that the City pays for all voting equipment, the County only
pays certain election costs.

C.

Assistant Executive Director's Report

Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday reported as follows:
• Board staff is excited about the new equipment rollout. The roll out team has
been assembled.

• The Dominion project manager has us moving in the right direction.
D.

Communications Director's Report
Communications Director Jim Allen reported as follows:

• Mr. Allen will separately brief the Board members regarding the DefCon
conference in Las Vegas that he attended. He found it highly informative and
is looking forward to attending it in the future. Homeland Security and the

Page 2 of5

 Regular Board Meeting - August 27,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Coast Guard participated. Commissioner Kresse asked Mr. Allen to describe
DefCon. Mr. Allen explained:
o The convention is of all kinds of hackers. There are about 20,000

individuals spread over about 4 venues and Voting is just one small
section of their activities there.

o The Voting section of DefCon is a small but concentrated area.

o It appears that most of the hackers are strongly opposed to online
voting. It was nearly unanimously opposed.

• General Counsel Adam Lasker will discuss later a meeting they had regarding a
pending ordinance regarding elected offices
• We got the proofs of the canvass notices from the printer, and the email
solicitation webpage is ready to go. The mailing will go out as soon as we get
the postage, hopefully in the next 4 days.
V.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: Already discussed.

B.

Electronic Poll Books: Mr. Holiday reported that we are in the discussion phase of
the cost of putting the ADA form on the e-poll book. We are waiting for the
vendors to come back to us with their cost estimates.

VI.

C.

Voting Equipment: Previously discussed.

D.

Legislation: Mr. Lasker stated that there is nothing new to report.

New Business

A.

Approval of the Chicago Board of Elections' 2020 Election Calendar for the 2020
primary and general elections.
Mr. Lasker reported that the Illinois State Board released their Candidate and

Finance Calendar last week. So we are ready to go forward with ours. Our

calendar is built on the same model that we have used in the past.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the 2020 Election Calendar for the 2020
primary and general elections. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The
motion was passed and the calendar approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

B.

Agreement between the Board and MCl Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a
Verizon Business Services: This item has already been deferred.

C.

Approval of Motion to Withdraw a request for reconsideration of the removal of a
Judge of Election.

Mr. Lasker reported on this matter. The Board removed a Judge of Election on
April 2"^. This Judge of Election filed a request for reconsideration. June Brown
served as the Hearing Officer and conducted a day of hearings. The hearing was
to be continued, but in the interim the Judge of Election submitted a request to
withdraw the request for reconsideration. The hearing officer submitted her
Page 3 of 5

 Regular Board Meeting - August 27,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

recommendation granting the motion to withdraw the request for
reconsideration thereby leaving in place the Board's Order of Removal.
The Chair stated that she had reviewed the material and asked if the other

members had any questions or comments. There were none. The Chair
reiterated:

The Board received a request for reconsideration from Judge of Election Ora
Delores Milsap whom the Board had removed from office of Judge of Election

from the 11th precinct of the 3'"'^ Ward on Election Day of April 1, 2019.
Subsequently the Board has received a request from that Judge of Election
seeking to withdraw the request for reconsideration. The Board has reviewed the
report and the recommendation of the Hearing Officer suggesting that the
motion to withdraw be granted.
Commissioner Swain made a motion to grant the withdrawal and dismiss the
reconsideration hearing regarding Ora Delores Milsap. Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion. The motion passed by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
VII.

Legal Report
General Counsel Adam Lasker reported as follows:
Mr. Lasker and the Board are members of the Association of Election

Commissioners of Illinois (AECOl) and together with AECOl we have crafted a
pamphlet titled "What Election Commissions Are". These pamphlets are available
at our office.

We have heard that there is a proposed ordinance to create a Police Accountability Commission.
We have a meeting with the City about this. We received a draft of the ordinance about two
weeks ago. There are many City Departments working on this. We have also met with the
Corporation Counsel's office.

There are some items in the draft proposed ordinance that has us concerned:

• The proposal would have the election during the November election of
general election years. That is our "partisan election cycle" a non-partisan
election in a partisan election cycle may be unworkable. The Municipal
Election cycle in the odd numbered years might work more smoothly,
except that the draft ordinance is proposing 2-year terms whereas all of
our city offices are 4-year terms. It would cost 10-12 million dollars to hold
an election in a year that we may not otherwise.
There may be additional concerns because of Article 7 Section 6F of the

Illinois Constitution regarding Home Rule.
Mr. Lasker also has concerns about police districts serving as election
districts. And that the draft ordinance does not address ballot access or

signature requirements.

Page 4 of 5

 Regular Board Meeting - August 27, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

VIII.

Financial Report

A.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the City of Chicago - 2019 Appropriation
19-04 dated August 27, 2019 in the amount of $1,586,712.86
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the Balance Sheet and Voucher Listing
19-04. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous vote of the Board.

IX.

Public Comment

Mr. George Blakemore made public comments regarding signature revocations,
public accountability and public meeting participation.
X.

Executive Session: None

XI.

Adjournment: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn until the next Board meeting of

September 10^^ or upon the call of the Chair. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The
motion passed by unanimous vote of the Board. The meeting adjourned at 9:58 a.m.

Submitted,

CommlssI

Secretary

Page 5 of 5

il lam J. Kresse

 