Illinois Board of Examiners (ILBOE) Meeting
Board Minutes-July 24, 2019-10:00 AM
1120 E Diehl Road, Room 165
Naperville, IL 60563
Members Present:

Sara Mikuta, Chair, CPA; Simon Petravick, Vice-Chair, CPA;
Bradley Danton, JD; Jeannie Folk, CPA; Thomas Homer, JD
(participated by phone); James Kelley, CPA; Rhonda Kodjayan,
CPA (participated by phone); Annette O’Conner, CPA; Kent
Reeves, CPA (participated by phone); Brian Whitlock, CPA, JD
and Larry Wojcik, CPA, JD

Guests:

Mr. Daniel Dustin, CPA, VP, State Board Relations, the National
Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA);
Mr. Marty Green, VP of Government Affairs, Illinois CPA Society
(ICPAS)

Staff:

Russ Friedewald, Executive Director
Mary E. Fitzgerald, Business Manager
Tia Marie France, Assistant Director of Certification
Carla Ratchford, Assistant Director of Evaluation Services

Call to Order-First Meeting
Chairperson Mikuta called the meeting to order at 10:03 AM.

1. Approval of April 24, 2019 Minutes
ACTION

Mr. Kelley motioned to accept the April 24, 2019 board meeting minutes. Mr.
Whitlock seconded the motion. Motion passed on unanimous voice vote.

2. Report of the Chair-Ms. Sara Mikuta
a. Chairperson Mikuta and the Board discussed the Eastern and Western
Regional NASBA meetings’ topics.
b.

Chairperson Mikuta discussed the Board members’ term expirations in
addition to new member applications and recommendations submitted for
appointments in accordance with the State of Illinois statute.

c.

Chairperson Mikuta reminded the Board of NASBA’s Annual Meeting
dates-October 27-30, 2019 and expected Board member attendance was
discussed. Members were also reminded of the travel approval process.

 3. Report of the Executive Director-Mr. Russ Friedewald
ACTION

a. Mr. Friedewald presented Chairperson Mikuta and the Board with the 19Q2
scores for approval. Motion to approve was made and carried unanimously. Mr.
Friedewald and the Board compared the 19Q2 and 18Q2 data.
b. Mr. Friedewald stated that the Administrative Rules edits have been initiated
and various ILBOE staff members have reviewed them. A draft is forthcoming.
c.

Mr. Friedewald stated that the new website is live.

d. Mr. Friedewald, Ms. France and Ms. Ratchford updated the Board on high
school presentations and events for accounting as a career and the ILBOE’s
NASBA webcast on diversity and inclusion. The Board expressed its
appreciation for the outreach work being done.
e. Mr. Friedewald stated that the ILBOE is in compliance with all previous audit
findings and that consent will be placed for review by the Auditor General’s
office.
f. Mr. Friedewald stated that Northern Illinois University (NIU) submitted
information in relation to their penetration test results.
4. State Relations Update- Mr. Daniel Dustin
a. Mr. Dustin discussed the following updates as they relate to NASBA:
additional NASBA meetings, new member orientation, tools and services for state
boards, diversity, anti-regulatory and criminal legislation, the Alliance for
Responsible Professional Licensing (a coalition of national associations that
represents highly complex, technical professions and their national licensing
boards), the Uniform Accountancy Act (UAA) Committee (international pathway,
updated language, revised continuing professional education (CPE) standards and
model rules, peer review exposure draft (comments due June 30, 2019) and
Noncompliance with Laws and Regulations (NOCLAR) Task Force, report
signing and education).
b. Mr. Dustin updated the Board on the Evolution of the CPA Exam: Guiding
Principles’ recommendations by The Working Group, which include having one
exam substantially modified and rapidly updated in order to assess and confirm
candidates’ ability to use technology and analytics to perform core services
without increasing the exam hours.
The five Guiding Principles for the recommendations were summed up as the
following: a quick adaption to technology and continuous evolution, recognition
that technological and analytical expertise is essential, rethinking initial licensure
requirements, redesign of the profession and licensure for attraction of individuals
with technological and analytical expertise and that changes must be rapid,

 transformational and substantive without negative impact to the current pipeline.
The next steps in the CPA evolution were also mentioned.
c. Mr. Dustin, the Board and ILBOE staff discussed in detail the 150 vs 120
Task Force issues and concerns, which include, the Certified Public Accountant
(CPA) as a profession, lack of specificity for the additional 30 hours, barriers to
entry and requirements to sit for the exam.
The following recommendations came out of the discussion: Maintain and
support 150-hour education model; better articulation in regard to the profession’s
benefits; education of state boards about inconsistencies with the UAA (focus on
content rather than specific coursework); consider additional content, such as
technology; refocus students on career enhancing coursework; encourage
NASBA-funded research projects focused on incoming students; assist state
boards in understanding risks and educate all stakeholders on the 150 hour model
benefits. Ms. Ratchford stated that it would be useful to the candidates if the
additional 30 hours were shaped around the tasks performed on the job in order to
help propel them towards positions above entry level.

d. Mr. Dustin updated the Board regarding increased exam attendance in a
specific jurisdiction when a particular university revised its accounting
coursework. Mr. Dustin and Mr. Danton discussed non-accounting graduates with
accounting experience vs. graduates with an accounting degree in regard to
experience in the work place. Ms. Folk stated that the publishers incorporating
technology into the course books is key for graduates’ success with the exam and
the work place.
Vice-Chair Dr. Petravick, Mr. Wojcik and Ms. O’Connor discussed analytics and
how it is conveyed and used by definition. Mr. Dustin and Mr. Friedewald
discussed the fact that more people with experience are being hired with
technology backgrounds and the efficiency of audits due to the implementation of
bots.
Language for the response to NASBA’s request for Legislative Affairs and the
Illinois CPA Evolution was discussed. Mr. Dustin, various board members and
Ms. Ratchford commented on the responses. The replies to the response are due
August 9, 2019. Chairperson Mikuta asked for volunteers to be part of an ad-hoc
group (Vice-Chair Petravick, Mr. Whitlock and Mr. Wojcik) in order to generate
and submit the replies to the ILBOE Board for submission to NASBA. The adhoc group’s draft is due to the Board on August 2, 2019.

5. Legislative Update-Mr. Marty Green

 Mr. Green updated the Board on the State of Illinois’ Transformational Agenda;
graduated income tax, property tax relief, capital infrastructure, a balanced
budget, marijuana legalization and gaming and sports betting.
Mr. Green stated that the ICPAS’ areas of focus are local government audit,
arbitration, local government recapture, Cook County Assessor data reporting and
state vendor-contractor monitoring software (spyware).
Mr. Green and the Board discussed several issues including pending vacancies on
the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation’s (IDFPR)
Board and various open positions as well as CPA license renewal numbers. Also
discussed were the newly-inaugurated Chicago Mayor Ms. Lori Lightfoot, the
value-added tax (VAT), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’
(AICPA) Spring Council Hill visits, the political organization of the Illinois’
House and Senate, the Pritzker administration’s Graduated Income Tax Trajectory
(flat rate to graduated rate), the constitutional amendment, approval for ballot
question breakdown and the 2020 general election (voter approval breakdown and
the 2021 effective date).

ILBOE COMMITTEE AND TASK FORCE REPORTS
6. Administrative Committee-Mr. Larry Wojcik
No Report
7. Candidacy Committee-Ms. Jeannie Folk
Ms. Folk gave an overview of the current appeals received.
8. Education Advisory Task Force-Dr. Simon Petravick
Vice-Chair Petravick updated the Board on the fact that the 150 credit hours
required to sit for the CPA examination is written into the statute and any change
would have go through the legislature. The current accounting legislation will
sunset in 2024.
Vice-Chair Petravick also stated that in regard to first time pass rates, those
related to sitting at 150 credit hours are higher than rates related to sitting with
120 credit hours; however, the retakes at 120 are approximately identical for those
at 150 in the two groups from which the samples were taken. Mr. Green stated to
proceed with caution if contemplating opening up the act because of possible
future edits and changes. Chairperson Mikuta, Vice-Chair Petravick and Mr.
Green compared neighboring states’ data in regards to 120 vs 150.
Vice-Chair Petravick and various board members discussed additional changes to
the administrative rules, in particular, the “degree conferred” wording,
requirements in general, NASBA Guiding Principles and the UAA.
9. Finance Committee- Ms. Sara Mikuta

 Chairperson Mikuta, Ms. Fitzgerald and the Board discussed the current financial
statements, minus the forthcoming June 2019 report, and the fiscal year 2020
(FY20) budget in detail.
Ms. Fitzgerald and Mr. Friedewald will provide a guide by the next meeting in
order to better understand the NIU finance department’s rules and regulations in
relation to the ILBOE and the budget.
ACTION

Mr. Whitlock motioned to approve the FY20 budget. Ms. Folk seconded the
motion. Motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

10. Strategic Planning-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
No Report

AICPA/NASBA COMMITTEE REPORTS
11. Bylaws Committee-Mr. Thomas Homer
No Report
12. CBT Administration Committee-Mr. Russ Friedewald
No Report
13. Diversity Committee-Ms. Rhonda Kodjayan
Ms. Kodjayan discussed the details of the committee’s recent call on May 1,
2019, which highlighted the jurisdictions lacking most in diversity in relation to
their Board members and the ILBOE’s diversity and inclusion webcast with
NASBA.
14. Education Committee-Dr. Simon Petravick
No Report
15. Ethics Committee-Mr. Jim Kelley and Mr. Larry Wojcik
Mr. Wojcik and various members discussed potential issues related to firm
employees acting as temporary staff for firm clients in order to complete certain
tasks.
16. Professional Ethics Executive Committee- Mr. Larry Wojcik
No Report
17. Regulatory Response Committee-Ms. Sara Mikuta
Chairperson Mikuta stated that a United States Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) proposal response has been submitted.

ACTION

Executive Session

 Board members went into executive session to discuss the details of Mr.
Friedewald’s cost of living increase. The members came out of executive session
and voted to approve the increase.
18. Unfinished BusinessNo Report.
19. New BusinessMr. Kelley suggested that the ILBOE make the NASBA Candidate Forum on
Facebook known to candidates.
Mr. Friedewald recognized Mr. Kent Reeves, Ms. Jeannie Folk and Ms. Sara
Mikuta for their service to the Board and the CPA profession. Mr. Friedewald
also presented Ms. Mikuta with a gavel plaque in recognition for service to the
Board as Chair during fiscal year 2019.
ACTION Chairperson Mikuta adjourned the first meeting at 1:17 PM.

SECOND MEETING- Presentation of Nominees for 2019-2020
Call to Order-Second Meeting
Chairperson Mikuta called the second meeting to order at 1:22 PM.

1.

Presentation of Nominees for 2019-2020 Chair and Vice Chair
Chairperson Mikuta nominated Dr. Simon Petravick as Chair and Mr. Larry
Wojcik as Vice-Chair. No other candidates for Chair or Vice Chair were
nominated.

ACTION

2.

Election of the Chair and Vice-Chair
Mr. Wojcik made a motion to elect Dr. Simon Petravick as Chair and Mr.
Whitlock seconded the motion. Dr. Petravick was elected Chair by unanimous
voice vote. Mr. Kelley made a motion to elect Mr. Wojcik as Vice-Chair and the
motion was seconded by Dr. Petravick. Mr. Wojcik was elected Vice-Chair by
unanimous voice vote.

3.

Fiscal Year 2020 Meeting Dates
The Board members discussed a proposed date for the upcoming Educators
Conference in addition to setting the board meetings-October 23rd, January 8th,
April 23rd and July 22nd.

 Chairperson Mikuta adjourned the meeting at 1:40 PM.

 