COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 25, 2019

 

Employee Recognition

Becoming a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) requires a nurse to complete extensive training. It is
only after a nurse completes 40 hours of didactic training and a year of clinicals that they can submit an
application to the Illinois Attorney General to be certified as a SANE nurse. Recently, Cook County Health
had its first two nurses, Tracey Ross and Nicole Mattes, receive their SANE certification.

Recently, The Joint Commission certi?ed John H. Stroger, Jr., Hospital of Cook County as an Advanced
Primary Stroke Center. Congratulations to the CCH neurology and regulatory teams, including Dr. Lakshmi
Warrior, Chair of Neurology; Sonya Watkins, Director of Regulatory Affairs and Accreditation; and
attending physician Dr. Peter Egofske for all your hard work on this achievement, reflecting the high-

quality care CCH provides.

CCH has been awarded $750,000 by the Office for Victims of Crime to help combat child abuse and neglect.
In Cook County alone, 25,918 cases of child abuse and neglect were reported for ?scal year 2019. Thank
you to Dr. Marjorie Fujara, Chair of Child and Family Wellness for CCH, and Margo Chavez-Easley, a child
and family wellness social worker, for recognizing the urgency of this issue and leading this grant effort.

Dr. Gail Floyd, Program Director for CCH's family medicine residency program, was one of four honored
with the Illinois Academy of Family Physicians 2019 President?s Award, their highest honor, on October
19. The award is given at the discretion of the president to honor individuals or organizations that have
contributed to the mission of the IAFP of promoting the value of the specialty of Family Medicine and
improving health for all through advocacy, education and action.

The American College of Physicians has announced Dr. Franklin Saksena, a voluntary attending physician
at CCH, as the winner of their Outstanding Volunteer Clinical Teacher Award. During his time at CCH, Dr.
Saksena served as an attending on the medical wards and cardiology clinical services and taught students,
residents and fellows from 1973 to 2005; he also authored several cardiology textbooks and papers. Since
his retirement, Dr. Saksena has diligently spent every week at CCH to teach and lecture medical students,
residents and fellows on his experience in cardiology and relevant case studies over the course of several

decades in medicine.
CCH trauma program coordinator Justin Mis has been selected as the 2020 Nurse Fellow for Society of

Trauma Nurses (STN) and the Eastern Association for the Surgery of Trauma (EAST). Justin was nominated
by his one of his peers for his work at CCH and will be acknowledged at a reception on January 16, 2020.

Congratulations to Tony Leung, assistant director of pharmacy for CCH, and his pharmacy students
Stefanie Colyer and Svetozara Zehireva, on their manuscript titled "An Outcome Study on Naloxone
Education Dispensing Program for Departure Patients" that has been accepted for publication in the
Journal of Correctional Health Care. The manuscript is tentatively scheduled to appear in the Journal?s July
2021 publication and details the study?s positive outcomes with dispensing naloxone to patients upon
release from the Cook County Jail.

CCH is expanding their efforts to reduce the cycle of incarceration for individuals with mental illness or
substance use disorder in Cook County through Category 3 funding for the Justice and Mental Health
Collaborative grant. CCH and its partners propose an evaluation and strategic expansion of the
misdemeanor diversion court program to other branch courts, thereby safely diverting more people from
unnecessary incarceration and enhancing linkage to services at these critical intercepts. To assist with this
initiative, the Department of Justice has awarded CCH $750,000 for three years. Thank you to Office of
Programmatic Services and Innovation Team of Leticia Reyes-Nash, Whitney Towey and Kelsey Moore,
as well as Dr. Diane Washington, executive director of behavioral health.

Activities and Announcements

The Illinois Health Facilities Services Review Board officially and unanimously approved Cook County
Health?s Certificate of Need application for a new inpatient and outpatient facility to modernize
Provident Hospital. The new facility will include a smaller replacement hospital with 42 medical/surgical
beds and 6 ICU beds; 8 operating suites as well as 70 outpatient exam rooms for the provision of
comprehensive outpatient primary and specialty care, laboratory, diagnostic, dental, behavioral health
and pharmacy services. A comprehensive emergency department with 18 bays is also planned. We expect
that the new facility will reduce the number of Provident patients having to travel to the Stroger campus
for services not currently provided at Provident. CCH hopes to open the new hospital in 2023.

MoreCare, a new Medicare Advantage health plan, has partnered with CCH to bring more coordinated,
individualized care to Medicare?eligible persons in Cook County. With more than 14,000 patients aging
into Medicare each year, CCH will be the provider of a continuum of care to patients, like those currently
served by CountyCare, looking for Medicare coverage. MoreCare brings a unique, coordinated approach
to healthcare, making it easier for Medicare?eligible patients to get the quality, whole person care they
deserve. The new Medicare Advantage health plan will offer four products including a traditional
Medicare Advantage Plan with Prescription Drugs, 3 chronic condition special needs (C-SNP) plan for
Medicare-eligible Cook County residents with a positive diagnosis of HIV (HIV-SNP) and an institutional
special needs plan (I-SNP) for Cook County residents living in a long term care facility. The MoreCare HIV-
SNP will be the first HIV-specific C-SNP offered in Cook County. MoreCare began enrolling members on
October 15 for coverage starting January 1, 2020.

Recently, the American Heart Association awarded CCH with the 2019 Mission Lifeline Silver Receiving
and the 2019 Get with the Guidelines? Heart Failure Bronze quality achievement awards. The Mission
Lifeline Silver Receiving quality achievement is awarded for implementing specific quality improvement
measures outlined by the American Heart Association for the treatment of patients who suffer severe
heart attacks. To earn the award, CCH met specific criteria and standards of performance for quick and
appropriate treatment through emergency procedures to re-establish blood flow to blocked arteries in
heart attack patients coming into the hospital directly or by transfer from another facility. The Get with

2 Page

the Guidelines? Heart Failure Bronze award recognizes commitment to ensuring heart failure
patients receive the most appropriate treatment according to nationally recognized, research-based
guidelines. The goal is to speed up recovery and reduce hospital readmissions for heart failure patients.
As we continue to advance the care at CCH, our Cardiology Team is an integral part of this mission to
ensuring high quality cardiac care for all of Cook County.

The National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) released their 2019-2020 Health insurance Plan
Ratings, ranking Cook County Health?s Medicaid managed care plan, CountyCare, as one of the top-rated
Medicaid plans in Illinois. Plans are scored on a scale of to 5, with ratings measuring quality of care and
patient satisfaction. Overall, CountyCare tied for the top rating in Illinois, with a score of 3.5. CountyCare
also scored the highest in the state for preventive care and treatment and tied for second for consumer

experience.

On October 16 and 24, CCH hosted Community Forums on Trauma and Stop the Bleed Trainings to
showcase the work done by the system?s Trauma Unit and provide training to members of the community.
The Trauma Unit, which is one of the busiest in the nation, has been caring for the residents of Cook
County for more than 50 years. The Stop the Bleed course, held by CCH clinical staff, teaches people how
to control bleeding until emergency services arrive. This training provides participants with tools that can
make the difference between life and death. The Forums on Trauma offer members of the community the
chance to learn more about what our trauma team does both inside and outside the hospital, including

groundbreaking research.

CCH hosted its 12th Annual Breast Cancer Survivor Gala on October 18. Survivors and patients currently
undergoing treatment gathered together for music, dance and educational panels. Altogether, more than

150 people attended.

Upcoming Events

Dr. Jay Shannon, CEO of CCH, will speak at the Civic Federation on Friday, October 25. The Civic Federation
is an independent, non-partisan government research organization that provides analysis and
recommendations on government finance issues for the Chicago region and State of Illinois.

On Monday, October 28, Dr. Jay Shannon will speak at the City Club of Chicago. The City Club of Chicago
is a non?pro?t, non?partisan organization, whose goal is to provide a forum for the discussion of civic and
public affairs in Chicago, the metropolitan area and the State of Illinois.

The Cook County Health Foundation Associate Board is holding A Night Out for County Health on Friday,
November 8, 6-9pm at 955 W. Chicago Ave., Chicago. All proceeds benefit The Cook County Health
Foundation?s work to address the social determinants of health around healthy food access.

3 Page

Legislative Update

Local

Through October 14, Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has
resulted in 217 visits to 13 CCH health centers Arlington Heights, Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center,
Cottage Grove, Englewood, Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Provident/Sengstacke, Prieto, Robbins,
and Woodlawn.

State

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and
vegetables to 28,716 individuals, representing 95,504 household members, totaling more than
580,000 pounds of fresh produce. Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck
screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health center visit.

The Fresh Market schedule is listed below, note updated dates and times:
0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm
0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am-3pm
0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm

Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonprofit that seeks to create a just, holistic,
and local food system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to healthy, affordable
foods. CCH partners with Experimental Station?s Link Up Illinois Link Match program to offer SNAP
users a match on all purchases at CCH Fresh Markets, up to $20/market/week.

On October 23 the Cook County Health Hospitals Committee met to consider Impact 2023,
strategic plan. Dr. Shannon provided an overview of the plan and responded to questions
from Commissioners. The plan was approved unanimously.

The Cook County Finance Committee has scheduled Departmental Review Hearings on the fiscal
year 2020 Executive Budget Recommendation beginning the week of October 28. CCH is
scheduled to appear before the committee on October 29.

The Illinois General Assembly is scheduled to return to Springfield October 28-30 and November
12-14 for the Fall Veto Session. Legislation related to ethelyne oxide along with cleanup/trailer
bills concerning adult use cannabis and gaming are expected to be debated.

The schedule for the 2020 Spring Session legislative session has yet to be announced, but will
likely start in mid?January 2020 and run through May 31.

The Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) announced that they would be
delaying the start of mandatory Medicaid managed care enrollment for Illinois Department of
Children and Family Services (DCFS) youth in care and former youth in care, as well as CORE
children managed by the Division of Specialized Care for Children (DSCC), until February 1, 2020
(from the original start date of November 1, 2019).

Current DCFS youth in care will be auto-assigned to IlliniCare with no other managed care plan
option; former DCFS youth in care will be auto-assigned to IlliniCare, but will be allowed to choose

4 Page

Federal

another plan if they want to switch; and DSCC CORE children will be provided with a choice period
and then auto-assigned to a plan if they do not make a choice.

Continuing Resolution - Before going out on a two-week recess at the end of September,
Congress passed a short?term continuing resolution (CR) to fund the government after the
beginning of the new federal ?scal year (FY) on October 1. The CR expires November 21 at
midnight. The CR includes a short-term delay of the statutory Medicaid DSH cuts, which were
scheduled to begin October 1.

Congressional leaders and appropriators are currently working to negotiate a path forward for
the 12 appropriations bills, including the Labor-HHS?Education bill, which is considered one ofthe

most controversial.

Prescription Drug Pricing On October 17, HR 3, the Lower Drug Costs Now Act, developed by
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) was passed out ofthe Energy and Commerce and Education
and Labor committees on party line votes. The bill would allow Medicare to negotiate the prices
of at least 25 of the most expensive drugs with drug makers. Before going to markup committee
leaders introduced an amended version that struck a provision that could have limited the ability
of 3403 covered entities to get 3403 discounts for negotiated drugs and rejected efforts to add
restrictions during the markup. The House Ways and Means Committee also plans to markup the
bill and leadership plans to take it to the floor for consideration before the end of October.

The Senate Finance Committee has approved a narrower bipartisan package which focuses on
capping Medicare costs for seniors. While the Senate will not take up HR 3, House leaders? goal is
to put down a marker in the event that the Senate does pass its bill.

Meanwhile, a bipartisan group of House moderates met with Administration officials as well as a
handful of Senate moderates to discuss drug pricing legislation, with a view to finding
compromise. House leadership staff have suggested that the savings from this bill which the
Congressional Budget Office estimates could be more than $300 billion over ten years could be
used as an offset for health care priorities, including the Medicaid DSH cut delay.

Texas, et al. v. Azar As the US Appeals Court for the Fifth Circuit deliberates on the appeal of
Texas, et al. v. Azar, the White House signaled that it is no longer planning to roll out a major
replacement plan, prior to the November elections. Health Human Services (HHS) Secretary
Azar has said that instead, the department will focus on promoting alternative policies that they
have already rolled out, including short-term plans. Meanwhile the conservative House
Republican Study Committee has announced that it plans to publish a detailed health plan on
October 22 that House conservatives can promote on the campaign trail. With a divided Congress
and the lawsuit winding its way towards the Supreme Court, nothing is likely to change until after

the 2020 elections.

Public Charge To date, five federal courts have issued decisions that blocked the new public
charge rule from taking effect on October 15, 2019. This includes a lawsuit filed in the Northern
District of Illinois where Cook County participated as a plaintiff. The Illinois Coalition for Immigrant
and Refugee Rights was also part of this lawsuit, which was represented by the Cook County
State?s Attorney Office, the Shriver Center on Poverty Law, Legal Council for Health Justice, and
several firms sewing in a pro bono capacity. The Trump Administration is expected to appeal these

5 Page

decisions and the court orders could be overturned at a future date. The issue is ultimately likely
to be decided by the US. Supreme Court.

CCH hosted two public charge trainings for our staff delivered by attorneys from the Shriver
Center on Poverty Law and Legal Council for Health Justice. A total of 118 CCH staff participated
in the trainings. A one-page flyer for patients, available in English and Spanish, is posted to the
CCH website and a one-page info sheet for staff is posted on the CCH Intranet.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for CCH at both the State and Federal level.

Community Outreach

November 1 CountyCa re promotion at Riveredge Hospital's 13th Annual Resource Fair, which
takes place at the hospital located at 8311 Roosevelt Rd. in Forest Park.

November 2 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Chicago Heights Public
Library?s Annual Day of the Dead Celebration which takes place at the library
located at 25 W. 15th St. in Chicago Heights.

November 2 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Metropolitan Chicago
Breast Cancer Task Force?s Beyond October Future Forward which takes place at
Illinois Institute of Technology located at 3214 5. Federal St. in Chicago.

November 5 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Malcolm College Free
Service Days, which is hosted by its Wellness Center and takes place in the college
located at 1900 W. Jackson in Chicago.

November 9 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Sisters Working It Out's
5th Annual Day of Beauty which takes place at Liberty Temple Full Gospel Church
located at 2233 W. 79th St. in Chicago. The 5th Annual Day of Beauty celebrates
cancer survivors and will have seminars that discuss financial resources,
strategies on how to speak with health care providers about what?s important to
them in treatment and other topics.

November 23 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Community Health and
Information Fair hosted by Cook County Commissioner Bridget Degnen,
Alderman Rossana Rodriguez-Sanchez, Alderman Samantha Nugent, Alderman
Andre Vazquez, and State Representative Jaime Andrade which takes place at
Northside College Prep located at 5501 N. Kedzie Ave. in Chicago.

November 23 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the BCBS Community Care Fair
which takes place at the Blue Door Neighborhood Center located at 756 111th
St. in Chicago.

The quarterly Advisory Council meetings for the following health centers will take place this month:
a November 19 Robbins Health Center- 13450 S. Kedzie Ave., Robbins, IL 60472

6 Page

0 November 20 Arlington Heights Health Center 3250 N. Arlington Heights Rd., Suite 300,
Arlignton Heights, IL 60004

The GCFD Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of November include the following ACHN Health Centers.
0 November 7 Prieto Health Center 2424 S. Pulaski Rd., Chicago, IL 60623

Novem ber 12 Provident Hospital/Sengstacke Health Center 500 W. 51St St., Chicago, IL 60615

November 19 -- Woodlawn Health Center 6337 S. Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago, IL 60634

November 15 - CORE Center 2020 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612

November 21 Arlington Heights Health Center 3250 N. Arlington Heights Rd., Arlington

Heights, IL 50004

November 22 Oak Forest Health Center - 15900 S. Cicero Ave. Oak Forest, IL 60452

0 November 26 Logan Square Health Center - 2840 W. Fullerton Avenue, Chicago, IL 60647

Cook County is holding public hearings on the fiscal year 2020 Executive Budget Recommendation. Cook
County Health and CountyCare partners usually attend these hearings to provide testimonials in support
of the System?s budget.
0 October 28, 2019 (Evening)
Location: Second District Courthouse, 5600 Old Orchard Rd., Skokie, IL 60077
When: 6:30pm
0 October 30, 2019 (Evening)
Location: Fourth District Courthouse, 1500 S. Maybrook Dr., Maywood, IL 60602
When: 6:30pm
0 November 4, 2019 (Morning)
Location: 118 N. Clark St., County Board Room - Rm 569, Chicago, IL 60602
When: 10:30am
0 November 4, 2019 (Evening)
Location: Sixth District Courthouse, 16501 S. Kedzie Ave., Markham, IL 60428
When: 6:30pm

7 Page

