gm 

EaFgw/um,

\6?29 

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

Zlo

    
 

R??"3"Iati?" Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
um- epar me" 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

October 15, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Resolution Amending an Approved Industrial Facilities Exemption Certi?cate
Amendment, in the area of 7000 Georgia Detroit, Michigan, in Accordance with
Public Act 198 of 1974 on behalf of Flex-N-Gate (Petition #1185)

Honorable City Council:

On October 12, 2017, a public hearing regarding amending an Industrial Facilities Exemption
Certi?cate (IF EC) request for the above-captioned property was held before your Honorable Body. All
interested persons and organizations were given an opportunity to be heard. No impediments to the
approval of this certi?cate were presented during the hearing.

Prior to the requested amendment, the original IFEC for lex-N -Gate Detroit, LLC was approved on
October 11, 2016. Then in 2017, as required by State Tax Commission (STC) rule number 54, which
states, ?if the ?nal costs of a project are greater than the original application amount by more than 10%,
then the certi?cate holder shall request that the local governmental until approve the additional costs?;
Flex-N-Gate Detroit, LLC requested an amendment to IFEC #2016-158 to update their real and
personal property costs from $95,075,000.00 to $160,000,000. The IFEC amendment was of?cially
approved by the COuncil of the Whole on October 17, 2017.

However, upon submitting the approved amendment to the STC it was discovered that the original
IFEC was only approved for the real property component and that the personal property component
was abated under the Eligible Manufacturing Personal Property Tax Exemption program. As such the
originally approved amendment should have only amended the real property costs from $40,000,000
to $100,000,000.

Therefore, we request your Honorable Body?s approval of the attached resolution, authorizing an
amendment to the formally Amended Industrial Facilities Tax Exemption Certi?cate approval to
re?ect the ?nal real property costs of $100,000,000.

Upon approval of the corrected amendment updating the only the ?nal real property costs, the STC
shall issue a revised certi?cate to Flex-N-Gate Detroit, LLC.

   

onald Rancher
Director

Housingand Raultallmlon
Department

I

DETROIT

 

DR/vf

cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
M. Cox, PDD
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908
Detroit, Michigan 48226

?Phone: 313.224.6380
Fax: 313.224.1629


 

Swim?z?t? Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
mar 8P 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

 

By Council Member

WHEREAS, Flex-N-Gate Detroit, LLC is requesting an amendment to its ?nal real property costs
from $40,000,000 to $100,000,000 for Certi?cate 2016?158.

WHEREAS, Flex-N-Gate Detroit, LLC has ?led with the City Clerk an Application for an Industrial
Facilities Tax Exemption Certi?cate, under Public Act 198 of 1974 (?the Act?) in City of Detroit, in
the manner and form prescribed by the Michigan State Tax Commission; and

WHEREAS, This City Council is a Quali?ed Local Governmental Unit as de?ned by the Act; and

WHEREAS, this City Council established by Resolution an Industrial Development Rehabilitation
District in the vicinity of 7000 Georgia, Detroit, Michigan, on July 14, 2016, after a Public Hearing
held in accordance with the Act; and

WHEREAS, the Applicant is not delinquent in any taxes related to the facility; and

WHEREAS, commencement of the of the subject project did not occur before the establishment of
the Plant Rehabilitation District; and

WHEREAS, the Application relates to a program that when completed constitutes a project within the
meaning of the Act and which is situated within the aforesaid City of Detroit Industrial Development
Rehabilitation District; and

WHEREAS, completion of the project is calculated to, and will at the time the Certi?cate is issued,
have the reasonable likelihood of increasing and/or retaining employment, increasing commercial
activity, revitalizing an urban area, or increasing the number of residents in the community in which
the facility is located; and

WHEREAS, the project includes improvements aggregating 10% or more of the true cash value of
the property at the commencement of the project as provided by the Act; and

WHEREAS, this City Council has granted until the end of December 31, 2018 for the completion of
the improvements; and 

WHEREAS, notice was given by certi?ed mail to the Detroit Board of Education, the City of Detroit
Board of Assessors, the Wayne County Board of Commissioners, Wayne County Community College,
the Wayne County Intermediate School District, the Huron-Clinton Metropolitan Authority, the
Applicant, and by publication to the general public, informing them of the receipt of the Application,
the date and location of the Public Hearing, and the opportunity to be heard;

 

and Rev'ta'izatm? Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380

Department 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

WHEREAS, the aggregate SEV of real and personal property exempt from ad valorem taxes within
the City of Detroit, after granting this certi?cate, will not exceed 5% of an amount equal the unit, plus the SEV of personal and real property thus exempted.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That it is hereby found and determined that the granting of the Industrial Facilities Tax
Exemption Certi?cates, will not have the effect of substantially impeding the operation of the local
governmental unit or impairing the ?nancial soundness of any other taxing unit which levies an ad
valorem property tax with the City of Detroit; and be it further

RESOLVED, That it is hereby found and determined that the Applicant has complied with the
requirements of the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the application of FIex?N-Gate Detroit, LLC for an Industrial Facilities Tax
Exemption Certi?cate in the area of 7000 Georgia, Detroit, Michigan is hereby approved for a
period of twelve (12) years in accordance with the provisions of the Act, expiring no later than
December 30, 2028; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, That the City Clerk shall forward said Application to the Michigan State Tax
Commission as provided by the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the improvements shall be completed no later than the end of July, 2015, unless
an extension of that time period is granted by this City Council, which extension shall be granted if
this City Council determines that the project is proceeding in good faith and the proposed extension is
reasonable; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, That the City of Detroit's Planning and Development Department and City Assessor's
Of?ce are hereby authorized to enter into, substantially in the form attached hereto, an Industrial
Facilities Exemption Certi?cate Agreement.

5102 (Rev. 04-16)

 

l-

STATE OF MICHIGAN I
RICK SNYDER DEPARTMENT TREASURY NICKA. KHOURI
GOVERNOR LANSING STATE TREASURER
December 22; 2016 
William Beistline
'Flex-N-Gate Detroit, LLC
5663 East Nine Mile Road . . 1
Warren, MI 48091 
Dear Sir/Madam:

Pursuant to the requirements of Public Act 198 of 1974, as amended, the State Tax Commission (Commission)
has issued an Industrial Facility Exemption Certi?cate numbered 2016458, to Flex?N?Gate Detroit, LLC, located
in the City of Detroit, Wayne County. This certi?cate was issued at the December 13, _2016 meeting of the
Commission and the investment amounts approved are as follows: 

Real Property: $40,000,000
'Personal Property: 
The State Education Tax to be levied for this certi?cate is 6 mills. . 

.In accordance with MCL 24.304, the local unit of government or applicant has siirty days from the date of this
letter to request a hearing to correct an error contained in the enclosed certi?cate. .

Noti?cation of completion of this project shall be ?led with the Commission within 3 0 days of proj ect completion.
Within 90 days of project completion, a report of ?nal costs shall be ?led with the assessing of?cer of the local

unit and the Commission.

If you have further questions regarding the issuance of this industrial facility exemption certi?cate, please call
517-373-3302.

Heather S. Prick, Executive Director
State Tax Commission

Enclosure
cc: Lisa Ann Hobart, Assessor, City of Detroit

P.0. Box 30471 . LANSING. MICHIGAN 48909
. 517-335-3429

 

 
 
 

  

Michigan Department of Treasury
4468 (Rev. 10-15)

     
 

., industrial Facilities Exemption Certificate
4ij Certi?cate No 2016158

     
 

Pursuant to the provisions of Public? Act 198 of 1974 as amended, the State Tax Commission
hereby finds that the industrial property. as described in the approved application hereafter
referred to as the industrial facility, o'wned or leased by Flex-N?Gate Detroit, LLC, and located
at 7000 Georgia Street, City of Detroit County of Wayne Michigan. within a Plant Rehabilitation
or industrial Development District. is intended for the constructionlinstaliation of new industrial
property or for the purpose of restoration or replacement of Obsolete industrial property. and
complies with Section 9 and other provisions of the act.

 
 
    
   
   
      
 

Therefore, as provided by MCL 207.551 to 207.572, inclusive, the State Tax Commission hereby
certi?es this industrial facility as a new facility.

  
 
 


This certificate provides the authority for the assessor to exempt the industrial facility for which
this Industrial Facilities Exemption Certi?cate is in effect, but not the land on which the facility is
located?. from ad valorem taxation. This certi?cate further provides the authority to levy a specific
tax known as the industrial Facilities Tax.

 
 
   
   
   
 

This certificatejunl?ess revoked by order of the'State Tax Commission as provided by Public Act
198 of 1974, as amended. shall remain in force for a period of 12 year(s) for real property and 0

year(s) for personal property;

 
   
     
 

   

Real property component:
Beginning December 31. 2016, and ending December 30! 2028.

  
    

The State Education Tax to be levied for the real property'component of this certificate is
5 I

    
 

This industrial Facilities Exemption Certificate is issued ?on December 13, 2016.

  
     



Douglas B. Roberts, Chairperson
State Tax Commission

    

 3 
917 13?? 9103 V3 A3313 r? it

limit to mentolTr-eerury
terrier-rm a?i'u. Pegoi err
Application for Industrial Facilities Tax Exemption Certifioate . .

lulled under el Pubic? reset 1914. as amended. Hing ll modem

File the original and two copies of this term and the required attachments {three cornplele ?ts) with the clerk of the
tenet government unit The State Tax Commission requires two complete sets (one original and One copy). One copyle retained
hythe cleric If you have any questions regarding the completion of this form. cell (517) are-3302.

I

?l

 

T6 tie oo'rhpieled by derit or Local. Bitter-netted Unit

3 49/24/19?

I 

elelallmNuntber I "?90 (5463; heart-meters Diglzl} 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPLICANT INFORMATION . a
:3 All boxes must be completed. - -
to Name ?enticement halite dime [entity] It industrial Clauil'lcalimtaiC] Code - See. Hill} era Digtt Code)
Flex-N-Gete Detroit. LLC 336370
to FedlildereeI (City. State. ZIP Code: (reel andtor national location) td tindeete whidt) to. County
7000 Georgia Street Detroit MI 40211 ., Detroit . Wayne
Um ammo Requested - en. Belted Dietriet mm toe-tee i an. sew coat 
new (See. .- master Detroit City 02010 
Speculative Building (Bee. stall Rehabilitation (See. ?Wye-re molested tor-emetic: it-t: Yum
Research and Development (Soc. aunt] heroesornmen drnenl 12 
?j 1PM ?arm 5. the erratum eheltennulnor bu ea: or. genorel dew-l1 oi the ledearu egenerelelutriethrl oi the married tree nine lee-lily. the 
i' ?ag! F??m mint-Den. replacement. uoeneeodtee lobe omen-ten. tr d?c?pm tier the moment that wit on panel the notary Attach "new it
.4 in
If? Appx 350 000 so loot new build on 30 sores speci?cally to manulaoture sleet stamped automotive components as well
on light Machinery required but not limited to ?mulliple steel presses and dies. welding machines. iorlrlifls.-
Er computer and oi?oe equipment. .
i' 4- 
ea. Cost of land and building irnprouemeniti (?door-g corn or land) .. 40.000300
:1 Attach list at [tournaments and associated male. Reel Property Costs
3 Also attach I copy at building pennlt it protect has already begun 55 03.5 000 
0b. Cost of machinery. equipment furniture and More: . .. 
Attach Itemized listing with month dew and rural beginning at installation. ptur tolel Writ 303'?
- ac. Total Project .. .. .- .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. 95 

Round Costs to ?gamut Dollar . Total olReei Ferroml Cort:

or
Writing at inllelieliee. Preteen level be completed hell-In a two year outdo! lheelledlue date the
E01911: .
Personal Property 12,01,2016 1210112013 Owned Leased

u-n

tr?

e. Are our: Edueellen Tem reamed or reeled lathe Hirdtiuln Eeonarrtle Deveiartrnenl Corporation il yer. aperture nturl attach alerted rteec Letter of
Commitment to receive this mention. El ?r?ee No

 

 

I 9. Noel wellington It the will be retained er I mull eltitlr meet. I to.rte. or neutrinos at true rewritten-mil to create eithln 2 terrier mention
0 400 . 1

ll. annihilation eppduilomodr .mtriele e. and I: laden Yuri muel etileh the am ?:11de ll let the attire plant m?ummd Ind
absentee-tom mrnenl tor properly. The ?nite Value (Till dete below meet be no oi December-at elthe peer peer to the 

..wurnut Property 
. .. ..
or! ?e we. 1n- are. ourrue-err!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 in Check them of the locatedln:
indullrlei Development 
lib. Dale dialed we: erletetrhed tapioca! mull unit {cooled unit] 131:- il ?oatation it! trill-"Iii" WM [901'- 

 

 

 

tittiti who Elm In.

 

 

1012. Pogo: all

I
5.

APPLICANT complete all boxeo. 
'nio oilihorhod oinoor oi tho oonipany melting this application oarti?oo that. to the host oi Harbor hnowloduo. no infant-ration contain all
horoin or in tho attach monu- horoto to [also in any my and that all am truly doouiplh'o oi tho industrial tor enrich thin aopttoalionhoolno 

Iuhmilitid. . 

it to lurthor nor-tilled that the undominnod to Mitt the pro?t-loos oi PJL l??ot 1974.1: Imondod. brainy 201.51 ?1201.92 inclusion
oi tho Compilod Liv-o: and to the bolt of rind ballot. [olho has complied or will he ohlo to comply will: all of tho .

- motion-tom: thorool which are promqutlilo to tho tho application by the tonal unit oi uovanlmont ond tho toouanoo at on Industrial Facilities
Elohiplion Col??oolo by tho Stein Tor: Commission. 

 

 

 

 

lilo. Propo?r?l?lth,? 15.7mm um: - Fm: tin-um 'itld. 
Mollissa? Kendall 905-5?2-1470 . mkandallQiloxngoto. corn
m. Homo ol Caitlin Parlon 4b. Toioohmo Hun-oar 14o?? Number E-nuil Meir-u 
Kendall 905-592-1470 mkendoli?ilomgalo.oom

 

it 15.. Norris at company Aunt-nixed mutt}
Bill - -

nam- - cinema. aroma} - intramural Hut-our .. .
5683 East Nine Mile Warren MI 48091 . {558) 759-9553 hbolsitino?iloxnoale~mt :3

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION 8- CERTIFICATION- complain all boxas.
This section must be oomptolod by tho cleric oi tho locoi governing unit bolero submitting to tho Stole Till! Commission. Chocttloms on tile
at tho Local Unit and than indudod with tho 

    

 

 


?Ink" .

   

 

     



 

 

 

 

I .-

 


I I?nonunion: Approved for Yr: Root (l.lat._ Ya Pm (1-12) Check or indlaoto NM it Not Appllublo 
54E Altar Completion 1. Original Application plus. and am complete odpy
:17! . 2. Resolution establishing district
1 Doniod itnoiudo Resolution Outlying) lb- 3. 'med'm ?Imago"
4. Lotlor oiAgloomonl (Signed lay loco! unit and applicant}
rm: imam nta uirodt be lit withthoLoalIJdt L--
of chunk": insignia mg. Hanoi .Appiicobio . 5. WM 0? Fm (5?90? 
L7 1. Nation to tho public prior to hearing establishing dloirtot. ti. Building Pomtlt for real improvement: ll project has atrocity begun
:33 2. Noilco to toting outtroritioo of opportunity [or a homing. 7 With dates 01' with?? 0' 
55$ 3. List of lasting authorities tor district and application action. 5- Fm 3322 
.L Leno Annulment allowing applicants to: ?sum. 9. Sputum building rosoluuon and af?davits {If applicable)
22;: 16c. LUCI cm . too. am God- 
jg; . .3 53.105 3?15) 
11'. Humor nit-ml Emmott! Bud-f i 13. to all! nutrition Waylon WI Application
0m o-F "och?on Elan liar r7 
it; Attoohod herein to an original application and all doom-north lioiod in 16b. 1 oloo codify that all documents listed in 16o are on lilo at 910 local
ll? unit for inspection at any little. and that only loo-Ia Ihow Iuillolont to: liability.
if to: Slant-n urn-rt: a oictm 1Bc. squirm
. 09111ch mwmi??r Simml?d?fol?r?u
'l H: ml" trial. . 
ND Woodman; om? 14? zoo "Dal?rout Ml ?ZWub: . .
in. Tolophono ill-moor 19!. For Humour . -
{3111) ?Brit 3070 (3.3) 1.sz 414w . .
Sioto Tax Commission Rule Numbor 51". Complete applications approved by tho local unit and mottled by the limo Tax Commission byOclobor 31
oech year will ho aolod upon by reamed oilor Dolotror 31 may ho acted upon in the following your.
Local Unit: Moll ono original and can copy of tho oompiotod application and all raquirod attachments to: . 
Michigan Dopa rtmant ol Treasury 
atoto Torr Cummlaolon 4
PO Boot 30471
Lnnolnu. Mi 46909
(For guaranteed receipt by the STD. it is recommended that applications on soul by certi?ed mail. -.
i1~ .15; (FBI?cwtia??bmirLUGiC-odo" ommnm Fountain Pm: TEndDoto an! i Milli-90ml



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Michigan Department of Treasuty
1012 (Rev. 04-14). Page 1 OH

Application for Industrial Facilities Tax Exemption Certificate

Issued under authority of Public Act 198 at 1974. as amended. Filing IS mandatory.

INSTRUCTIONS: File the original and two copies of this form and the required attachments (three complete sets) with the clerk of the
local goVernment unit. The State Tax Commission (STC) requires two complete sets (one original and one copy) One copy is retained
by the clerk. If you have any questions regarding the completion of this form call (517) 373- 3302

 

{ff??To be completed by Cleric of Local Government .UrIIltf} 5: 53.55 

Date Received by Local Unit

   

 

 

 

.. . . .. I. are _lee o?tyit?: 
Application Number Date Received by STC

   

 

 

 

 

 

APPLICANT INFORMATION
All boxes must be completed. .

 

 

 

 

 

1a. Company Name (Applicant must be the occupanlloperatorol the facility) i 10. Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code - Sec. 2(10) (4 or 6 Digit Code)
Flex?N-Gate Detroit LLC 336370
1c. Facility Address (City. State. ZIP Code) (real andlor personal property location) to. CitleownshipNillage (indicate which) to. County
7000 Georgia Street Detroit MI 48211 Detroit Wayne
2. Type of Approval Requested 33. School District where lacilityis located 3b. School Code
New (See. Trawler Detroit City 82010
Speculative Building (Sec. Rehabilitation (Sec. 4. Amount of years requested lorexemplion (1-12 Years)
Research and Development (Sec. 2(10)) Increase/Amendment 12

 

 

5 Per section 5. the application shall cpnlaln or be accompanied by a general deacriplion of the facility and a general description of the proposed use of the facility. the general
nature and extent of the restoration. replacement. or construction to be undertaken. a descriptive list of the equipment that will be part of the facility. Attach additional pagets) if

more room is needed
Appx 450. 000 sq foot new building on 30 acres specifically to manufacture steel stamped automotive components as
well as light assembly.



 

Ba. Cost of land and building improvements (excluding cost ofland100.000.000
Attach list of improvements and associated costs. Real propeny Costs
Also attach a copy of building permit if project has already begun

6b Cost of machinery. equmenl furniture and ?xtures 60'000'000
Attach itemized listing with month. day and year of beginning of installation? plus total

 

 

Personal Property Costs
160 .000.000
. Total of Real 8. Personal Costs

 

60. Total Project Costs .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. . ., . . 
Round Costs to Nearest Dollar 

7. indicate the time schedule for start and finish of construction and equipment installation. Projects must be completed within a two year period of the effective date of the

certi?cate unless othenNise approved by the STC

 

 

 

 

 

?g?gin Dale (WON) End Date 
Real Property Improvements 06/01/2017 06/01/2018 Owned E) Leased
Personal Property Improvements 06/01/2017 06,01,2019 Cl Leased

 

8. Are State Education Taxes reduced or abated by the Michigan Economic Development Corporation ll yes. applicant must attach a signed MEDC Letter of
Commitment to receive this exemption. Yes No

 

9. No. at existing jobs at this facility that will be retained as a result of this project. 10. No. at new jobs at this facility expected to create within 2 years of completion.

0 446

11. Rehabilitation applications only: Complete a. and of this section. You must attach the assessors statement at SEV tor the entire plant rehabilitation district and
obsoleSCence statement for property. The Taxable Value (TV) data below must he as of December 31 of the year prior to the rehabIlilalion.

 

 

 

olReal Property(excludinglandolPersonal Properly (excluding inventoryTotal TV . 
12a. Check the type of District the facility is located in:
IndUstrial Development District C) Plant Rehabilitation 0?51"?
12b. Date district was established by local government unit (contact local unit) 12c. Is this application for a speculative building (Sec. 

CI Yes No

 

 

 

 

 14a. Name of Contact Person

1012. Page 2 014

APPLICANT CERTIFICATION - complete all boxes?. .

The undersigned, authorized of?cer of the company making this application certi?es that. to the best of his/her knowledge. no information contained
herein or in the attachments hereto is false in any way and that all are truly descriptive of the industrial property for which this application is being

submitted.

It is further certified that the undersigned is familiar with the provisions of P. A 198 of 1974. as amended. being Sections 207. 551 to 207. 572. Inclusive,
of the Michigan Compried Laws: and to the best of hisiher knowledge and belief. (sine has complied or will be able to comply with all of the
requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the approval of the application by the local unit of government and the issuance of an Industrial 

Exemption Certi?cate by the State Tax Commission.

 

13b. Telephone Number 
905-592-1470

133. Preparer Name
Mellissa Kendall

13d. E-maii Address


13c. Fax Number

 

14b. Telephone Number
Mellissa Kendall 905?592-1470

 

 

14d. E-mail Address

14c. Fax Number


 

 

 
 

15a Name of Company Of?cer (No Authorized Agents) 
Wi iam Beistline

-v 1-

 

15d. pate 
June 6. 2017

15c. Fax Number

 



Free. Mailing Address (Street. woily. State. ZIP Code)
9663East Nine Mile Warren MI 48091

 

 

159. E-mail Address


15f. Telephone Number .
586-759-9553

 

 

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION GI CERTIFICATION- complete all boxes.

This section must be completed by the clerk of the local governing unit before submitting application to the State Tax Commission. Check items on ?le

at the Local Unit and those Included with the submittal.

1.

 

16. Action taken by local government unit
Abatement Approved for Real (1-12). ?Pers (1?12)
After Completion DYes ElNo

 

Denied (include Resolution Denying)

 

16a. Documents Required to be on tile with the Local Unit
Check or Indicate NIA If Not Applicable
1. Notice to the public prior to hearing establishing a district.

2. Notice to taxing authorities of opportunity for a hearing.

4. Lease Agreement showing applicants tax liability.

3. List of taxing authorities noti?ed for district and application action.

16b. The State Tax Commission Requires the following documents be ?led for an
administratively complete application:

Check or Indicate If Not Applicable

. Original Application plus attachments. and one complete copy

. Resolution establishing district I

. Resolution approving/denying application.

. Letter of Agreement (Signed by local unit and applicant)

. Af?davit of Fees (Signed by local unit and applicant)

. Building Pennlt for real improvements if project has already begun
. Equipment List with dates of beginning of installation

. Form 3222 (if applicable)

. Speculative building resolution and af?davits (if applicable) 1:





a

 

 

(D

 

163. LUCI Code

16d. School Code

 

17. Name of Local Government Body

 

 

18. Date of Resolution ApprovingiDenying this Application?
i

 



Attached hereto is an original application and all documents listed In 16b. I also certify that all documents listed In 163 are on ?le at the local
unit for Inspection at anytime. and that any leases show sufficient tax liability.

 

19a. Signature of Clark 19b. Name of Clerk

 

190. E-mall Address

 

 

19d Clerk's Mailing Address (Street. City. State. ZIP Code)

 

198. Telephone Number

 

191. Fax Number

 

 

State Tax Commission Rule Number 57: Complete applications approved by the local unit and received by the State Tax Commission by Octobe'r 31
each year will be acted upon by December 31. Applications received after October 31 may be acted upon in the following year.

Local Unit: Mail one original and one copy of the'c0mpleted application and all required attachments to:

Michigan Department of Treasury
State Tax CommissIOn

PO Box 30471

Lansing. Nit-18909

i .

(For guaranteed receipt by the STC, it is recommended that applications are sent by certified mail.)

 

. . -. -- .-.. H. 
.x .II. 
:g-I I.- ..

vs'rc use 

..-. .

. .- LUCI Code Begin Data Real

 

 

 

Begin Date Personal

End Data Real End Date Personal

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1012. Pages ol4

Instruction for Completing Form 1012,

Industrial Facilities Tax Exemption (IFT) Application

The completed original application form 1012 and all
required attachments, MUST be ?led with the clerk of
the local unit 'of government where the facility is or will
be located. Complete applications must'be received by
the State Tax Commission by October 3] to ensure
processing and certi?cation for the following tax year.
Applications received after the October 31 deadline
will be processed as expeditiously as possible.

Please note that attachments listed on the application
in number l6a are to be retained by the local unit of
government, and attachments listed In number 16b are
to be included with the application when forwarding
to the State Tax Commission (STC).

(Before commencement of a project the local unit of
government must establish a district, or the applicant
must request in writing a district be 'established, in
order to qualify for an IFT abatement. Applications
and attachments must be received by the local unit of
government within six months of commencement of
project.)

The following information is required on separate
documents attached to form 1012 by the applicant
and provided to the local unit of government (city,

township or village). (Providing an accurate school

 

1. Legal description of the real property on which the .
facility is or will be located. Also provide preperty
identi?cation number ifavailable.

2. Personal Property Requirements: Complete list of
new machinery, equipment, furnitui'e and'?xtures
which will be used in the facility. The list should
include description, beginning date of installatio'n
or expected installation by month/day/year, and
costs or expected costs (see sample). Detail listing
of machinery and equipment must match amount
shown on question 6b of the application. Personal
property applications must have attached a certi?ed
statement/af?davit as proof of the beginning date
of installation (see sample).

3. Real Property Requirements: Proof of date the
construction started (groundbreaking). Applicant
must include one of the following if the project has
already begun; building permit, footings inspection
report, or certi?ed statement/af?davit from
contractor indicating exact date of commencement.

 

4. Complete copy of lease agreement as execute'd, if
applicable, verifying lessee (applicant) has direct ad
valorem real arid/or personal property tax liability.
The applicant must have real and/or personal 
preperty tax liability to qualify for an abatement
on leased property. If applying for a real property
tax exemption on leased property, the lease? must run
the full length of time the abatement is granted by
the local unit of government. Tax liability for leased
property should be ?determined before sending to the 
STC.

The following information is required of the local unit 
of government: [Please note that only items 2, 4, 5, 6,

7 below are forwarded to the State Tax

Commission with the application, along with items 2

3 from above. The original is required by the STC.
The remaining items are to be retained at the local unit
of govemment for future reference. 

must vgri?: that the school district listed on all 

applications is 

l. A copy of the notice to the general public and the
certi?ed notice to the property owners concerning
the establishment of the district,

2. Certi?ed copy of the resolution establishing the
Industrial Development District (IDD) or Plant
Rehabilitation District (PRD), which includes
a legal description of the district (see sample). .
If the district was not established prior to the
commencement of construction, the local unit
shall include a certi?ed copy or date stamped
copy of the written request to establish the
district.

3. Copy of the notice and the certi?ed letters to the,
taxing authorities regarding the hearing to approve
the application.

4. Certi?ed copy of the resolution approving the
application. The resolution must include the
number of years the local unifis granting the
abatement and the statement ?the granting of
the Industrial Facilities Exemption Certi?cate
shall not have the effect of substantially
impeding the operation of (governmental unit),
or impairing the ?nancial soundness of a taxing
unit which levies ad valorem property taxes in
(governmental unit see sample).

1012, P3964 old

5. Letter of Agreement (signed by the local unit of
government and the applicant per P. A. 334 of 1993 (see
sample).

6. Af?davit of Fees (signed by the Ideal unit of
government and th? applicant), (Bulletin 3, January
16, 1998). This statement may be?incorporated into the
Letter of Agreement (see sample).

7. Treasury 3222 (if applicable - Fiscal Statement
for Tax Abatement Request.

The following information is required for
rehabilitation applications in addition to the above
requirements:

1 . A listing of existing machinery, equipment; fumiture and
?xtures which will be replaced or renovated. This listing
should include description, beginning date of installation
or expected installation by month/day/year, and costs or
expected costs.

2. A rehabilitation application must include a statement from
the Assessor showing the taxable valuation of the plant
rehabilitation district, separately stated for real p'ropei?ty
(EXCLUDING LAND) and personal property Attach a
statement from the assessor indicating the
obsolescence of the property being rehabilitated.

The following information is required for speciilative
building applications in addition to the above
requirements; 1

I. A certi?ed copy of the resolution to establish a speculative
building:

2. A statement of non?occupancy from the owner and the
assessor. Please refer to the following Web site for RA.
198 of 1974:

Please refer to the following Web site for PA. 198 of

1974: For more information and -

Frequently Asked Questions, visit our Web site at



For guaranteed receipt by the State Tax Commission, it is
recommended that applications and attachments are sent
by certi?ed mail.

.3.

 

By Council Member QM

WHEREAS, Flex-N-Gate Detroit,?tLC property)
u. 221. .6. 53)

WHEREAS, Fleu- ill-Gate Detroit, l.l.c has filed with the City Clerk an Application for an industrial Facilities
Tax Exemption Certificate, under Public Act 193 of 1974 ("the Act"! in City of Detroit, in the manner and
form prescribed by the Michigan State Tax Commission; and -

WHEREAS, This City Council is a Qualified Local Governmental Unit as de?ned by the ?Act; and

WHEREAS, this City Council has on July 14, 2010 established by Resolution an Industrial Development
Rehabilitation District in the vicinity of 7000 Georgia, Detroit, Michigan, alter a Public Hearing held in
accordance with the Act; and

WHEREAS, the Applicant Is not delinquent in any taxes related to the facility; and

WHEREAS, commencement of the of the subject project did not o?ccui' before the'establishment of the
Plant Rehabilitation District; and -

WHEREAS, the Application relates to a program that when completed constitutes a project within the
meaning of the Act and which is situated within the aforesaid City of Detroit industrial Development
Rehabilitation District; and

WHEREAS, completion of the project is calculated to, and will at the time the Certi?cate is issued. have
the reasonable likelihood of increasing and/or retaining empioyrnent? increasing commercial activity.
revitalizing an urban area or intreaslng the number of residents in the community? In which the facility' Is
'located; and .

WHEREAS, the proiectincludes improvements aggregating 1096 or more of the true cash value of the
property at the commencement of the project as provided by the Act: and

WHEREAS, this City Council has granted until the end of December 31, 2018 for the completion of the
improvements; and

WHEREAS, notice was given by certified mail to the Detroit Boa rd of Education, the City of Detroit Board
of Assessors, the Wayne County Board of Commissioners, Wayne County Community'Coiiege, the Wayne
County intermediate School District. the Huron-Clinton Metropolitan?Authority, the Applicant, and by
publication to the general public, informing them at the receipt oi the Application, the date and location
oi the Public Hearing, and the opportunity to be heard;

WHEREAS, the aggregate SW of real and personal prOperty exempt from ad valorem taxes within the City
of Detroit, after granting this certificate, will not exceed 5% of an amount equal to the sum oithe SEV oi
the unit, plus the SEV of personal and real property thus exempted.

 

NOW THEREFORE BE IT- 

RESOLVED. That it is hereby found. and determined that the granting of the Industrial Facilities Tax
Exemption Certificates will not have the effect of substantially impeding the operation of the local
governmental unit or impairing the financial soundness of any other taxing unit which levies an ad valorem
property tax with the City of Detroit; and be it further .

RESOLVED. That it is hereby found and determined that the Applicant has complied with the requirements
of the Act; and be it further

1 

RESOLVED. That the application of Hamill-Gate Detroit. LLC formats Industrial Facilities Tax Exemption
Certificate in the area of 7000 Georgia, Detroit, Michigan is hereby approved [or a period at twalve (12)
years in accordance with the provisions of the Act, expiring no later than December 30 2028; and be it
?nally .,

That the City Clerk shall iorward said Application to the Michigan State Tax Commission as;

provided by the Act; and be it further


RESOLVED. That the improvements shall be completed no later than the end o?i December 31, 2018.
unless an extension of that time period is granted by this City Council which extension shall be granted if
this City Council determines that the project is proceeding in good faith and the proposed extension ls
reasonable; and be it finally

RESDLYED, That the City of Detroit?s Planning and Development Department and City Assessor?s Dilice
are hereby authorized to enter into, substantially in the form attached hereto, an industrial Facilities
Exemption Certificate Agreement.

ADOPTED As FOLLOWS
COUNCIL MEMBERS

 

   
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
   

Jan?. 

Scott SENSON

 

 

Raquel 

 

 

*George CUSHINGBERRY, JR.

 

Gabe LELAND

 

 

Mary SHEFFIELD 

 

 

Andre SPIVEY

 

'ltlA?l'IE

 

 

Brenda WERESIDENT JONES

 

 

 

PRO TEM

  

 



 

 

 

(No. 
Per motions of adjournment.

 

.r u-r- up??a -- -5. nan-h.- 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310


PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

   
 

October 18, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: 1904 Superior
Transfer to the Detroit Land Bank Authority

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit approved the sale of 1904 Superior (?Property?) to Corrine Davis on
November 22, 2004. The sale was cancelled on April 6, 2005. The City?s internal tax records,
however, continued to re?ect Corrine Davis as the owner of record in error. The Wayne County
Treasurer foreclosed against Corrine Davis based on the erroneous tax information. The Property
has since been conveyed by Wayne County to the Detroit Land Bank Authority 

The Property consists of a vacant lot measuring approximately 2900 square feet and zoned R-3
(Low Density Residential). Authorization is being requested to transfer title to the DLBA,
removing the City?s interest in the Property so that the DLBA may complete its title review and
secure clear title. This would serve to mitigate any ongoing title issues.

We, therefore, respectfully request that your Honorable Body approve the transfer and adopt the
attached resolution, authorizing the Flaming and Development Department Director, or his or
her authorized designee, to issue a quit claim deed to the Property, as more particularly described
in the attached Exhibit A, and such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate the
transfer of the Property, from the City of Detroit to the DLBA for the consideration of One and

00/100 Dollar 

Respectfully Submitted,



Katharine G. Trudeau
Deputy Director

KT/ajrir;
cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

.?11
.J

RESOLUTION

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, The Detroit Land Bank Authority was created to assemble and
dispose of publicly owned properties in a coordinated manner to further the development of that
property and to provide economic growth in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, The City of Detroit approved the sale of 1904 Superior (?PrOperty?) to
Corrine Davis on November 22, 2004. The sale was subsequently cancelled. The City?s internal
tax records, however, continued to re?ect Corrine Davis as the owner of record. The Wayne
County Treasurer foreclosed against Corrine Davis based on the erroneous tax information. The
Property has since been conveyed by Wayne County to the Detroit Land Bank Authority

and

WHEREAS, Authorization is being requested to transfer title to the DLBA, removing
the City?s interest in the Property so that the DLBA may complete its title review and mitigate

any ongoing title issues.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That in accordance with the foregoing
communication, the Planning and Development Department Director, or his or her authorized
designee, be and is hereby authorized, to issue a quit claim deed to the Property, 1904 Superior,
as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A, and such other documents as may be
necessary to effectuate the transfer of the Property, from the City of Detroit to the Detroit Land
Bank Authority, a Michigan public body corporate for the consideration of One and 00/100

Dollar and

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his
authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to execute any required instruments to make or
incorporate technical amendments or changes to the deed and such other documents as may be
necessary to effectuate the transfer (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations
of legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that
changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen
circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Properties,
provided that the changes do no materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer; and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed
when executed by the Director, or his or her, authorized designee, and approved by the
Corporation Counsel to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

A WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED.

EXHIBIT A

LAND IN THE CITY OF DETROIT, COUNTY OF WAYNE AND STATE OF MICHIGAN BEING:

SUPERIOR LOT 10 JEROME DALYS SUB L12 P63 PLATS 9/64 29.32 100

DESCRIPTION CORRECT

BY
ENGINEER OF SURVEYS

 

1904 SUPERIOR
WARD 09 ITEM 002109

2?

MEMORANDUM
TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
City of Detroit
CC: Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk
FROM: Council President Brenda Jones 59/
DATE: October 22, 2019
RE: Social Equity Cannabis License Requirements

 

Cannabis criminalization and its enforcement has had long-term, adverse impacts to the City of
Detroit, particularly for low income and minority Detroit residents. Jurisdictions throughout the
United States are attempting to address the impacts of past cannabis policies and their
inequalities by developing and implementing cannabis policies that seek to center equity in
cannabis policy reform.

Social equity policy is one tool that is used to acknowledge and repair the harm caused by the
War on Drugs and the disparate enforcement of cannabis prohibition. The goal of the Social
Equity policy is, "to promote equitable ownership and employment opportunities in the cannabis
industry in order to decrease disparities in life outcomes for marginalized communities, and to
address the disproportionate impacts of the War on Drugs in those communities."

After conducting thorough research on social equity best practices throughout the nation, I am
requesting the Law Department to draft an ordinance or amend any current ordinance draft to
include the below social equity definitions and requirements related to cannabis business
licensing:

Definitions:

Social equity applicant- An individual that was convicted of a cannabis offense or has a parent,
sibling, or child who was arrested for or convicted of the sale, possession, use, manufacture, or
cultivation of cannabis. Also an individual that is a resident of a disproportionately impacted area
for at least 5 years.

Disproportionately impacted area? An area with high rates of arrest, conviction, and incarceration
related to cannabis-related offenses, along with at least one of the following: Experiences a
poverty rate of at least 20%; At least 75% of the children in the area participate in the federal

free lunch program,- At least 20% of the households in the area receive assistance under the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program; or the area has an average unemployment rate over
120% the national unemployment average.

Licensing:

30% of all cannabis licenses set aside for social equity applicants that meet one (1) of the
following requirements:

. At least 51 percent ownership and control by one or more individuals who have lived at
least five years in a disproportionately impacted area.

0 Applicants with the minimum of 10 full-time employees must have at least 51 percent of
employees who currently reside in a disproportionately impacted area or have been
affected by cannabis-related offenses.

Must have a household income below 80% of the average median income (AMI).

Establishment of the Cannabis Business Development Fund

- Allocation of 20% of all Cannabis Business Revenue for the following:

0 Investment into Cannabis businesses owned, partially?owned or operations by
social equity applications. Fund will provide financial resources for business start-
ups, which can be used to offset licensing fees or used for low-interest loans.

0 Investment into drug prevention and treatment

Louise Jones

From: Jasmine Barnes

Sent: Tuesday, October 22, 2019 5:39 PM

To: Louise Jones; Deonte Agee

Cc: Ray Duncan; Lawrence Garcia; Tonja Long; Deandree Watson
Subject: Cannabis Business License Law Memopdf

Attachments: Cannabis Business License Law Memo.pdf

Greetings!

Please refer to the Planning and Economic Development Standing Committee on the 10.29.19 Formal Session Main
Agenda.

Warm Wishes,

Jasmine D. Barnes

Legislative Operations and Digital Media Manager/Community Relations Liaison
Office of Detroit City Council President Brenda Jones

313.224.8034

 

