Board of Education
City of Chicago

 

Estela G. Beltran Of?ce of the Board Susan J. Narrajos
SECRETARY 1 North Dearborn Street, Suite 950, Chicago, Illinois 60602 ASSISTANT SECRETARY
(773) 553?1600 Fax (773) 553-1601

March 25, 2019

Frank M. Clark President, and
Members of the Board of Education

Mark F. Furlong

Alejandra Garza

Austan D. Goolsbee

Jaime Guzman

Dr. Mahalia A. Hines

Gail D. Ward

Enclosed is a copy of the Agenda for the Board of Education meeting to be held on Wednesday,
March 27, 2019. The meeting will be held at CPS Loop Office, 42 West Madison Street, Garden Level, Board Room.
The Board Meeting will begin at 10:30 am.

Public Participation Guidelines are available on o'r by calling (773) 553?1600.

For the March 27, 2019 Board Meeting, advance registration to speak and observe will be available
beginning Monday, March 25th at 10:30 am. and will close on Tuesday, March 26th at 5:00 pm, or until all slots ?lled.
Advance registration during this period is available by the following methods:

0 Online: (recOmmended)
0 Phone: (773) 553-1600
0 In Person: 1 North Dearborn Street, Suite 950

To ensure equity of access to address the Board, an individual may not speak at two (2) consecutive Board
Meetings. In the event an individual registers to speak at a consecutive Board Meeting, the individual will not be
called to address the Board.

Although Advance Registration is recommended, you can also register to observe a meeting on the day of
a Board Meeting via;

. Same Day In Person Observer Registration: 42 W. Madison Street lobby
. Registration Time: Opens at 10:15 am. and will remain open for the duration of the Board Meeting

Same Day, ln-Person Observer Registrations are taken on a ?rst come, ?rst serve basis as seats become
available.

The Public Participation segment of the meeting will begin immediately following the CEO Report and
proceed for no more than 60 registered speakers for the two hours. 

The complete, ?nal Agenda of Actions from the February 27, 2019 Board meeting is on our website:


Sincerely,

Mam

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

EGB
Enclosures

 

CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION
BOARD MEETING

 

 

 

 

AGENDA
March 27, 2019

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
CALL TO ORDER

ROLL CALL

HONORING EXCELLENCE

C1 2019 CPS Citywide Spelling Bee Champion

:1 2019 Chicago Debates Inaugural Coach of the Year: Conor Cameron, Solorio Academy
High School

a Lake View High School Girls Tennis Team - All State Class A Tennis Team Singles
Champions

:1 Marshall High School Girls Basketball Team Class 2A State Championship Winner

:1 Orr High School Boys Basketball Team Class 2A State Championship Winner

CEO REPORT
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
DISCUSSION OF PUBLIC AGENDA ITEMS

CLOSED SESSION

Litigation

Counsel Retention
Warning Resolutions
Terminations

Personnel

Collective Bargaining
Real Estate

Security

Closed Session Minutes
Individual Student Matters
Other Reports



MOTION

19-0327-MO1 Motion to Hold a Closed Session

NON-DELEGABLE BOARD REPORTS THAT REQUIRE MEMBER ACTION

RESOLUTION

19-0327-RS1 Resolution Authorize Appointment of Members to Local School Councils to Fill
Vacancies

POLICY
19-0327-PO1 Adopt a Traffic Injury Prevention Education Policy
RULE

19-0327-RU1 Rescind Current Chapter VII of the Board Rules and Adopt New Chapter VII
Concerning Procurement and Contract Rules

COMMUNICATION

- 19-0327-001 Communication Re: Location of Board Meeting of April 24, 2019 
CPS Loop Office, 42 W. Madison, Garden Level, Board Room, Chicago, IL 60602

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Transfer of Funds

19-0327-EX2 Amend Board Report 17-0524-EX2 Approve Entering Into an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS)

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EDUCATION OFFICER

19-0327-ED1 Amend Board Report 18-0124-ED1 Adopt Academic Calendarfor 2018-19
School Year

19-0327-MS1 Authorize the Renaming of Schools (Thomas Kelly High School as the Thomas
Kelly College Preparatory and Logandale Middle School as the Avondale 
Logandale Elementary School)

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

19-0327-PR1 Authorize the Second and Final Renewal Agreement with Hobsons, Inc. for a
College and Career Planning Enterprise System for District-Wide Use

Amend Board Report 16-0928-PR1 Approve Entering Into an Agreement with
Sonova USA, Inc. Formerly Known as Phonak, LLC for the Purchase of Hearing
Assistive Technology (HAT) and Frequency Modulation (FM) Equipment

19-0327-PR3 Authorize a New Agreement with National Louis University for Class
Professional Development for Pre-K Services

19-0327-PR4 Authorize a New Agreement with SAGA Innovation, Inc. for In-Class Math
Tutoring Services

19-0327-PR5 Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Illinois Action for Children to
Provide Support through the Universal Application Hotline

19-0327-PR6 Authorize the Second and Final Renewal Agreements with Various Vendors to
Provide Online Database Resource Subscription Services

19-0327-PR7 Report on the Award of Construction Contracts and Changes to Construction
Contracts for the Board of Education's Capital Improvement Program

2

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER (CONTINUED)

19-0327-PR8

19-0327-PR9

19-0327-PR10

19-0327-PR11

19-0327-PR12

3

19-0327-PR14

Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Various Vendors for Custom Print
Services

Authorize the Pre-Qualification Status of and New Agreements with Various
Vendors to Provide Rental Equipment and Related Services for School Based
Events

Authorize the First and Second Renewal Agreements with SCR Medical
Transportation and Reliant Transportation for Para-Transit and Alternate
Modes of Student Transportation Services

Authorize the First and Second Renewal Agreements with AT and Mobility
National Accounts, LLC for Cellular Services, Applications, Equipment,
Accessories, and Support

Authorize the First and Second Renewal Agreements with Mitel Networks
Incorporated for Wiring, Cabling, Voice Maintenance, and Support Services

Authorize the Extension of the Agreement with Oracle America, Inc. for the
Purchase of a Human Capital Management System and Hosting Services

Authorize the Extension of the Agreement with Oracle America, Inc. to Provide
Talent Acquisition and On-Boarding Implementation Services

DELEGABLE REPORTS

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

19-0327-EX3

19-0327-EX4

Report on Principal Contracts (New)

Report on Principal Contracts (Renewals)

REPORT FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL

19-0327-AR1

NEW BUSINESS

ADJOURN

Report on Board Report Rescissions

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(5)

(8)


March 27, 2019

MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION

I MOVE that the Board hold a closed session to consider the following subjects:

information, regarding appointment, employment, compensation discipline, performance,
or dismissal of employees or legal counsel for the public body pursuant to Section 
of the Open Meetings Act;

collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of
employees pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

the purchase or lease of real property for the use of the Board pursuant to Section 
of the Open Meetings Act;

the setting of a price for the sale or lease of real property owned by the Board pursuant to
Section of the Open Meetings Act;

security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond to an actual, a
threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students, staff,
the public, or public property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;
matters relating to individual students pursuant to Section 2(c)(10) of the Open Meetings
Act;

pending litigation and litigation which is probable or imminent involving the Board pursuant
to Section 2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act; and

discussion of closed session minutes pursuant to Section 2(c)(21) of the Open Meetings

Act.

 . March 27, 2019

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZE APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS
TO LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCILS TO FILL VACANCIES

WHEREAS, the Illinois School Code, 105 ILCS authorizes the Board of Education of the
City of Chicago ('Board?) to appoint the teacher, non-teacher staff and high school student members of
local school councils of regular attendance centers to ?ll mid-term vacancies after considering the
preferences of the schools? staffs or students as appropriate, for candidates for appointment as
ascertained through non- b-inding advisory polls;

WHEREAS, the Governance of Alternative and Small Schools Policy, B. R. 07-0124-P02
(?Governance Policy"), authorizes the Board to appoint all members of the appointed local school councils
and boards of governors of alternative and small schools (including military academy high schools) to ?ll
mid- term vacancies after considering candidates for appointment selected by the following methods and
the Chief Executive Of?cer's recommendations of those or other candidates.

7 Membership Categom Method of Candidate Selection
Parent Recommendation by serVing LSC or Board
Community Recommendation by serving LSC or Board
Advocate Recommendation by serving LSC or Board
Teacher Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll
Non-Teacher Staff Member Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll
JROTC Instructor Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll (military academy high
. schools only)
Student Non-binding Advisory Student Poll or Student Serving

as Cadet Battalion Commander or Senior Cadet
(military academy high schools)

WHEREAS, the established methods of selection of candidates for Board appointment to ?ll mid-
term vacancies on local school councils,'appointed local school councils and/or boards of governors were
employed at the schools identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A and the candidates selected thereby and any
other candidates recommended by the Chief Executive Of?cer have been submitted to the Board for
consideration for appointment' In the exercise of its absolute discretion;

WHEREAS, the Illinois School Code and the Governance Policy authorize the Board to exercise
absolute discretion' In the appointment process;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF
CHICAGO:

1. The individuals identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A are hereby appointed to serve in the'speci?ed
categories on the local school councils, appointed local schools and/or boards of governors of the
identi?ed schools for the remainder of the current term of their respective of?ces.

2. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon adoption.

19-0327LR51

PARENT MEMBER
Tinessa Moss

TEACHER MEMBER
Monica Vickorrie
Antonio Moore
Shana Robinson

. Jessica Denst
Luzelena Hernandez
Miguel Fragoso

Joe Dickinson

Rose Arzu

Annette Booczko
Faye Stevens

NON-TEACHER
Herbert House
Margo Regalado
Ladarius Martin
Demetrius Young

Exhibit A

NEW APPOINTED LSC MEMBERS

REPLACING

Vacancy

REPLACING

Alma Grimaldo
Jamesetta Scott

Gloria Redding

Adebajo Amusa

Claudia Torres-Vazquez
Gustavo Barrios de Leon
Laura Wipf?Brown
James McIntosh
Vacancy

Arthur Grif?n

REPLACING
Gary Bell
Vacancy
Vacancy
Candice Johnson

SCHOOL
Rickover HS

SCHOOL
Daley ES
Dett ES

Dett ES
Graham HS
Holden ES
Madero MS
New Field ES
Roosevelt HS
Waters ES
Westinghouse HS

SCHOOL

Bogan HS

Decatur Classical ES
Dett ES

Marquette ES

19-0327-PO1

March 27, 2019
ADOPT A TRAFFIC INJURY PREVENTION EDUCATION POLICY
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:
That the Board adopt a Traf?c Injury Prevention Education Policy.
PURPOSE: This policy will ensure compliance with Public Act 100- 1056 which requires the district to adopt
a policy to provide education on effective methods of preventing and avoiding traffic injuries related to

walking and bicycling to students In grades Kindergarten through 8.

TEXT:

Beginning with the 2018-2019 School Year, CPS elementary schools shall annually provide education to
students in grades Kindergarten through 8 on safe walking and biking and the prevention and avoidance of 
traffic injuries.

The Chief Education Of?cer or designee is authorized to establish educational strategies, activities and
best practices to ensure the effective delivery of traf?c injury prevention education by CPS Elementary
Schools.

LEGAL REFERENCES: 105 ILCS 5127-2311



Approved for Consideration:

arm-Q page?

 

.L?aTanya-D. Mc?bade
Chief Education Officer

 

Approved:

mr/?ei
Ja ice .Jac on, Edix' 
iefE cutiv Officer

19-0327-RU1

March 27, 2019

RESCIND CURRENT CHAPTER VII OF THE BOARD RULES AND ADOPT
NEW CHAPTER VII CONCERNING PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACT RULES

THE GENERAL COUNSEL RECOMMENDS:

That the Board rescind current Chapter VII of the Board Rules and adopt new Chapter VII concerning
Procurement and Contract Rules. Upon adoption of the attached Rules, any references to the prior Board
Rule section number in Board rules, policies, guidelines or procedures shall be deemed to constitute
reference to the new Board Rule section number as described in the disposition table below.

 

Current Section

New Section

Description of RevisionIDisposition

 

7-1. Purchasing Limitations.

7-1. Purchasing and Contracting for
Supplies, Materials and Work.

New Rule 7-1 describes/de?nes purpose of the
rules, their statutory foundation, limitation on
purchasing authority, ineligible vendors and the
Chief Purchasing Of?cer's authority to issue
Guidelines (incorporating existing provisions in
Rule 7-2.8, 7-11, 7-12 and 7?13).

 

7-2. Procurement Policy for
Biddable and Non-Biddable
Items; Requests for
Information, Request for
Proposals and/or
Quali?cations, and Bid
Solicitations.

7?2. Competitive Solicitations for
Biddable Items.

New Rule 7-2 revises existing Rule 7-2 and
incorporates provisions of the Illinois School
Code with respect to competitive bid
procedures, the de?nition of contracts that must
be bid and those that are exempt from bidding.
Revisions sets a Board approval threshold at
$150,001.

 

7-2.1. Expenditures of $25,000
and Under Which are not
Required to be Awarded
Through a Competitive Bid
Solicitation Process.

7-3. Competitive Solicitations for
Non-biddable Items.

New Rule 7?3 Incorporates provisions from
existing Rules 7-2(b) and 7-2.1.

 

7-2.2. Regulated Education-
Related Expenditures Which
are not Subject to Section 7-2
Procurement Requirements.

7-4. Substitute Competitive
Solicitations for Certain Purchases
and Sole/Single Source
Contracts for Certain Educational
Purchases.

New Rule 7-4 and 7?6(d) Incorporates
provisions from existing 7-2.3,
7.2.4, 7-2.6 and 7-2.7.

 

7-2.3. Non-Biddable
Education-Related
Expenditures and
Engagements Which are not
Subject to Section 7-2
Procurement Requirements.

7-4. Substitute Competitive
Solicitations for Certain Purchases
and Sole/Single Source
Contracts for Certain Educational
Purchases.

New Rule 7-4 and 7-6(d) Incorporates
provisions from existing Rules 7-2.2, 7-2.3,
7.2.4, 7-2.6 and 7-2.7.

 

 

7-2.4. Purchase of Non-
Biddable and Biddable Items
Through Federal, State,
County, City and Sister City
Agency Contracts Which are
not Subject to Section 7?2
Procurement Requirements.

 

7?4 Substitute Competitive
Solicitations for Certain Purchases.

 

New Rule 7-4 Incorporates provisions from
existing Rules 7-2.2, 7?2.3, 7.2.4, 7?2.6 and 7-
2.7.

 

 



 

Current Section

New Section

Description of Revision/Disposition

 

7-2.5. Restricted Gift
Purchases Which are not
Subject to Section 7-2
Procurement Requirements.

7-6. Single and Sole Source
Contracts and Purchases.

New Rule 7-6(c) revises and incorporates
existing Rule 7?2.5.

 

7-2.6. Purchases of Textbooks
and Instructional Materials
Which Are Not Subject to
Section 7-2 Procurement
Requirements.

7-4. Substitute Competitive
Solicitations for Certain Purchases.

New Rule 7-4 incorporates provisions from
existing Rules 7-2.2, 7-2.3, 7.2.4, 7-2.6 and 7-
2.7.

 

7-2.7. Purchase of Non?
Biddable and Biddable Items
Through The School
Purchasing Network or a
Government Purchasing
Cooperative Contracts are not
Subject to Section 7-2
Procurement Requirements.

7-4. Substitute Competitive
Solicitations for Certain Purchases.

New Rule 7-4 incorporates provisions from
existing Rules 7-2.2, 7-2.3, 7.2.4, 7-2.6 and 7-
2.7.

 

7-2.8. Procurement
Guidelines.

7-1. Purchasing and Contracting for
Supplies, materials, Work and
Services.

New Rule 7-1 incorporates existing Rule 7-2.8.

 

7?3. Procedure for Bid
Solicitations.

7-2. Competitive Solicitations for
Biddable Items.

New Rule 7-2 incorporates provisions from
existing Rules 7-3. 

 

7-4. Posting of Bid Responses.

7-2. Competitive Solicitations for
Biddable Items.

New Rule 7-2 incorporates provisions from
existing Rules 7-3.

 

7-5. Emergency Expenditures.

7-5. Emergency Expenditures.

No Change.

 

7-6. Deposits, Bid Bonds,
Performance and Payment
Bonds.

7-8. Deposits, Bid Bonds,
Performance and Payment Bonds.

New Rule 7-8 incorporates existing Rule 7-6.

 

7-7. Rejection of
Bids/Proposals.

7-9. No obligation to Award
Contract.

New Rule 7-9 incorporates and revises existing
Rule 7-7. Revision clari?es that the CPO or
Board can cancel solicitation or decide not to
award contract.

 

7-8. Expenditures - Pre-
Quali?ed Vendors.

7-10. Expenditures - Pre-Quali?ed
Vendors.

New Rule 7-10 renumbers and incorporates
existing Rule 7-8.

 

 

7-9. Strategic Sourcing.

 

7-11. Strategic Sourcing.

 

New Rule 7-11 renumbers and revises existing
Rule 7-9 to make clear that schools and
departments mustjustify and CPO must
approve efforts to elect not to use strategically
sourced vendors.

 

 

19-0327-RU1

 

Current Section

New Section

Description of RevisionIDisposition

 

7-10. Sole Sourcing.

and Sole Source
Contracts and Purchases.

New Rule 7?6 renumbers and revises existing
Rule 7-10. Revisions incorporate single source
contracts and require committee
recommendations on sole source or single
source requests. Revisions also establish
criteria for determining sole or single source
vendors and procedures for challenging
determination.

 

7-11. Contract Ineligibility.

7-1. Purchasing Limitations.

New rule 7-1 incorporates existing Rule 7-11 is

incorporated in New Rule 7-1(c) 

 

7-12. Prohibition Against
Stringing.

7?1. Purchasing Limitations.

New Rule 7-1 incorporates existing Rule 7-12 in
New rule 7-1(c) 

 

7-13. Written Contracts and
Purchase Orders Required.

7?1. Purchasing Limitations.
7-7. Purchase Order Limitations

New Rule 7-1 incorporates existing Rule 7?13 in
new Rule 7-1(b) to require a writing to
memorialize purchases and contracts.

New Rule 7-7 incorporates existing Rule 7-13 to
permit purchases by purchase orders up to
$75,000 provided they do not involve real
estate interests or intergovernmental
agreements

 

7-14. President and Secretary
to Execute Contracts and
Leases.

7-12 President and Secretary to
Execute Contracts and Leases.

New Rule 7-12 incorporates and renumbers
existing Rule 7-14.

 

 

7-15. Delegation of Authority
to Act.

 

7-13. Delegation of Authority to Act.

 

New Rule 7-13 incorporates, renumbers and
revises existing Rule 7-15. New Rule
increases delegation amount to $150,000
except for sole/single source contracts and
requires CPO report to Board on its
public agenda all contracts and purchases
made pursuant to this authority in the prior
reporting month.

 

Respectfully mitt .:

General - nsel

   

  
 
 
   
 

 

19-0327-RU1

Sec. 7-1.



(0)

CHAPTER VII
PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACT RULES

Purchasinq and Contractinq for Supplies, Materials. Work and Services

Generally. This Chapter sets forth the rules and procedures for purchasing of supplies,
materials and work for the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the ?Board"), including
all departments, of?ces and schools. It is derived from the requirements of the 
School Code and other applicable statutes and regulations. it sets forth required
competitive and non-competitive purchasing procedures and the required forms of contract
with vendors, contractors and suppliers.

Purchasing Limitations. No purchases, including purchases made using school internal
accounts, shall be made except as provided in these Rules. Only of?cers or employees
expressly authorized by these Rules shall make purchases on behalf of the Board or enter
into any contract of purchase, verbal or written, including a purchase order, for any
apparatus, equipment, supplies, service, repairs, goods, wares or merchandise of any kind
or description, or accept any of them on approval or otherwise. During a ?scal year, no
of?cer or employee of the Board shall expend or contract to be expended any money, or
incur any liability, or enter into any contract without an appropriation therefor, or in excess
of: the amount appropriated in the budget; the amount authorized in a Board Report;
the amount authorized by an Of?cer pursuant to the exercise of their delegated
authority; or the compensation amount stated in the contract. Except as otherwise
provided in these Rules, all purchases for any dollar amount require a Purchase Order
obtained consistent with these Rules and applicable law. The Purchase Order must be
issued prior to order or receipt of goods or services. Any contract, verbal or written, made
in violation of this section is void as to the Board.

Ineligible Vendors, Contractors or Suppliers.

No person or business entity shall be awarded a contract if that person or business
entity:

(1) has been convicted of bribery or attempting to bribe a public of?cer or
employee of the Board, the State or any other public entity, in
that of?cer or employee?s of?cial capacity;

(2) has been convicted of agreement or collusion among bidders or
prospective bidders in restraint of freedom of competition by agreement to
bid a ?xed price or otherwise;

(3) has made an admission of guilt of such conduct described above which is
a matter of record but has not been prosecuted for such conduct;

(4) has engaged in Bid Stringing (as de?ned in 720 ILCS which
also includes any knowing attempt to divide or plan procurements to avoid
the use of competitive procedures;

(5) has engaged in Bid Rigging (as de?ned in 720 ILCS 

(6) has engaged in Bid Rotating (as de?ned in 720 ILCS or

(7) has been debarred by consent or involuntarily by the Board or by another
public agency.

(ii) For purposes of this section, where an of?cial, agent or employee of a business
entity has committed such conduct described above on behalf of such an entity
and pursuant to the direction or authorization of a responsible of?cial thereof, the
business entity shall be chargeable with the conduct. Bid Stringing, Bid Rigging

and Bid Rotating are prohibited.

under section through (6) shall continue for three years

following such conviction, admission of guilt or determination that the person has
engaged in bid stringing, rigging or rotating.





Purchasing Guidelines. The Chief Procurement Officer is authorized to establish
procurement guidelines to ensure the effective implementation of the procurement rules
contained in this Chapter VII. The Guidelines shall be published on the Board's public
facing web-site.

Sec. 7-2. Competitive Solicitations for Biddable Items.

(8)



(0)

Contracts and purchases that must be made pursuant to a competitive bid solicitation
(?Biddable Items?). Except as provided under sections 7-2(c) (Non-Biddable Items), 7-3
(Competitive Solicitation for Non-Biddable Items), 7-4 (Substitute Competitive Solicitations
for Certain Purchases) and 7-5 (Emergency Expenditures), all contracts for the purchases
of supplies, materials or work in excess of $25,000 shall be awarded to the lowest,
responsive and responsible bidder who has conformed to advertised Speci?cations, terms
of delivery, quality and serviceability, after due advertisement, which includes at minimum,
one public notice published in a newspaper of the district at least ten (10) days before the
due date of the bid.

Competitive bid solicitation procedures.

All competitive bids for contracts in excess of $25,000 must be sealed by the bidder
and must be opened by a member or employee of the Board at a public bid opening
at which the contents of the bids must be announced. The CPO may provide for
an electronic process for accepting and opening competitive bids in accordance
with the Illinois School Code. Each bidder shall receive at least three (3) days'
notice of the time and place of the bid opening. If the stated bid opening day falls
upon a holiday as established by the Rules of the Board, the time for receipt and
opening of bids shall automatically be continued to the next business day at the
same hour.

(ii) Whenever the bids are opened and announced, a copy of the aggregate bid prices
by category proposed by each bidder shall be publicly posted by the CPO not later
than four days following the day on which bids are opened.

Bid solicitations for contracts and contracts and purchases based on bids between
$25,001 and $150,000 must be approved by the CPO. All contracts and purchases
of Biddable Items in excess of $150,000 must be approved by the Board.

Contracts and purchases that are exempt from competitive bid solicitations ("Non-biddable
Items?). In accordance with 105 5/10-20-21, the following contracts and purchases
do not require bidding and are not subject to the bidding procedures in section 7-2(b) (and
any additional contracts in the event 105 5/10-20-21 is amended) 

contracts costing $25, 000 or less;

(ii) contracts for the services of individuals possessing a high degree of professional
skill where the ability or ?tness of the individual plays an important part;

contracts for the printing of ?nance committee reports and departmental reports;

(iv) contracts for the printing and engraving of bonds, tax warrants and other evidences
of indebtedness;

contracts for the purchase of perishable foods and perishable beverages;

(vi) contracts for the purchases of materials and work that have been awarded to the
lowest responsible bidder after advertisement, but due to unforeseen revisions, not
due to the fault of the contractor for materials and work, must be revised causing
expenditures not in excess of 10% of the contract price;

(vii) contracts for the maintenance or servicing of, or provision of repair parts for,

equipment, where such contracts are made with the manufacturer or authorized
service agent of that equipment, and the provision of parts, maintenance or
servicing can best be performed by the manufacturer or authorized service agent;

2




(X)
(Xi)
(xii)



(xiv)

(XV)


(xvii)

purchases and contracts for the use, purchase, delivery, movement or installation
of data processing equipment, software or services and telecommunications and
interconnect equipment, software and services;

contracts for duplicating machines and supplies;

contracts for the purchase of natural gas when the cost is less than that offered by
a public utility;

purchases of equipment owned by some entity other than the district itself;
contracts for repair and maintenance, remodeling, renovation or construction or a
single project involving an expenditure not to exceed $50,000 and not involving a
change or increase in the size, type or extent of an existing facility;

contracts for goods or services procured from another governmental agency;
contracts for goods or services which are economically procurable from only one
sources, such as for the purchase of magazines, books, periodicals, pamphlets
and reports and for utility services such as water, light, heat, telephone or
telegraph;

where funds are expended in an emergency and such emergency expenditure is
approved by 3/4 of the members of the board;

State master contracts authorized under 105 ILCS et seq; and

contracts providing for the transportation of pupils, which contracts must be
advertised.

Sec. 7-3. Competitive Solicitations for Non-Biddable ltems.

Non?biddable ltems costing $25,000 or less do not require a competitive solicitation.

Except as provided in sections 7-4 (Substitute Competitive Solicitations for Certain
Purchases), 7?5 (Emergency Expenditures) and 7-6 (Single and Sole Source Contracts
and Purchases), all Non-biddable Items with a cost in excess of $25,000 shall be
purchased or contracted after a competitive procurement process as follows:



(ii)



Level One: All purchases of Non-biddable Items between $25,001 and $150,000
shall be awarded pursuant to a procurement process whereby at least three (3)
written price quotations are submitted to and evaluated by the CPO and awarded
by the CPO to the most responsible and responsive proposer(s) with competitive
pricing or any other form of competitive solicitation that is issued by the CPO in
accordance with federal or state laws and/or regulations. Good faith competitive
solicitations that do not yield three (3) legitimate price quotations may be deemed
to satisfy the procurement process requirements of this section at the discretion of
the 

Level Two: All purchases of Non?biddable Items between $150,001 and $250,000
must be approved by the Board and awarded pursuant to a procurement process
whereby at least three (3) written proposals with price quotes are submitted to and
evaluated by the CPO and are awarded to the most responsible and responsive
proposer(s) with competitive pricing, or any other form of competitive solicitation
that is issued by the CPO in accordance with federal or state laws and/or
regulations. Good faith competitive solicitations that do not yield three (3)
legitimate price quotations may be deemed to satisfy the procurement process
requirements of this section at the discretion of the and

Level Three: All purchases of Non-biddable items costing $250,001 and above

must be approved by the Board and awarded pursuant to a duly advertised request
for proposals/quali?cations issued by the CPO or any other form of competitive
solicitation that is issued by the CPO in accordance with federal or state laws
and/or regulations.

19-O327-RU1

Sec. 7-4. Substitute Competitive Solicitations for Certain Purchases.





(C)



Charter and Contract School Solicitations. Charter School and Contract School charters
and contracts shall be made only after an annual competitive process determined by the
Chief Executive Of?cer. Charter School and Contract School renewals shall be determined
in accordance with processes determined by the Chief Executive Of?cer.

Piggy-back On Other Public Entity Procurements. The CPO is authorized to approve the
purchase of Non-biddable Items and Biddable Items based on contracts between another
governmental entity and its respective vendors (the ?Reference Contract?), subject to the
following conditions:

The procurement process used to form the Reference Contract shall substantially
comply with the competitive procurement requirements of these Rules and shall
comply with all legal obligations applicable to the Board.

(ii) A separate contract between the Board and the governmental entity?s vendor that
includes all of the material terms in the Reference Contract shall be executed prior
to any purchases. The contract entered into between the Board and the vendor
may contain: 

(1) pricing or compensation terms equivalent to, or more favorable to the
Board than those contained in the Reference Contract;

(2) a period of duration or term which may vary from the term of the Reference
Contract;

(3) a remedial program for minority and women-owned business enterprise
participation in goods and service terms equivalent or more favorable to
the Board than those contained in the Reference Contract;

(4) such additional provisions as the CPO determines to be in the best
interests of the Board; or

(5) such insertions to or deletions from the Reference Contract as are required
by law or regulation applicable to the Board.

All purchases pursuant to this subsection must be approved by the CPO and
require a contract, and those purchases over $150,000 require Board approval.
The contract between the Board and the governmental entity?s vendor is subject
to the review and approval of the General Counsel.

Other Education-related Procurement Processes Mandated by Statute or Regulation.
Other education-related expenditures subject to statutory or regulatory procurement
procedures outside the scope of these Rules shall be made in accordance with those
procedures, including, but not limited to engagement of Illinois State Board of Education
certi?ed special education providers who are providing specialized services as mandated
by the Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act.

Textbooks and Instructional Materials with Favored Pricing. Purchases of textbooks and
instructional materials are subject to the favored pricing obligations set out in 105 ILCS
5128-1, et seq., and therefore the procurement rules set out in Section 7-2 or 7-3 shall not
apply to such purchases. Suppliers of textbooks and instructional materials shall ?le a
sworn statement annually with the CPO attesting that prices charged to the Board for
textbooks and instructional materials are the lowest net prices for such materials as
charged elsewhere in Illinois and in the United States. Suppliers charging higher prices in
violation of their sworn statements are subject to penalties which include, but are not limited
to, rebates for pricing overages. The Chief Education Of?cer may establish lists of
recommended textbooks and instructional materials and provide guidelines for the

selection and purchase of textbooks and instructional materials.

19-0327-RU1

Purchases of Non-Biddable and Biddable Items through the Illinois School Purchasing
Network or Government Purchasing Cooperative Contracts. The CPO is authorized to
approve the purchase of Non-biddable Items and Biddable Items through contracts 
authorized under the Illinois School Purchasing Network in accordance with Article 28A of
the Illinois School Code, or procured from another governmental agency and offered
by or through a government purchasing cooperative in which the contracts were entered
into in accordance with the purchasing laws and regulations of the procuring government
entity. Any expenditure over $150,000 further requires Board approval. For all such
purchases, the CPO and the General Counsel shall also identify the method of purchase
and contract requirements pertinent to the transaction. The contract between the Board
and the Illinois School Purchasing Network, the government purchasing cooperative or
their authorized vendor is subject to the review and approval of the General Counsel.

Sec. 7-5. Emergency Expenditures.
An emergency shall be determined when, in the judgment of the CPO:
it is necessary to make repairs and alterations, and purchase equipment, services
or supplies (collectively, ?Emergency Expenditures?);
(ii) The Emergency Expenditures are necessary as a result of circumstances which
call for immediate action (the "Conditions Precedent"); and
the Conditions Precedent are a result of ?re, accident, threat to the health, safety,
security of individuals or other conditions, and such action is necessary to prevent
material loss or damage to property, bodily injury or loss of life of the occupants of
the Board's buildings and third parties who may be present in its buildings or on
its premises, to prevent interference with school sessions or to protect the health,
safety, security or well-being of students, staff or third parties (?Emergency


In order to obtain approval of an Emergency Expenditure, the following steps must be
taken:

obtain the verbal or written approval of the Chief Executive Of?cer, Chief Education
Of?cer, Chief Administrative Of?cer, Chief Operations Of?cer or such other chief
of?cer charged with authority over the Conditions Precedent;

(ii) obtain the verbal or written approval of the 

after the work has been completed, the purchases have been made or the services
have been rendered to the satisfaction of the appropriate Department, complete a
Request to Approve Emergency Expenditure on a form approved by the CPO (the
?Emergency Request Form");

(iv) obtain the veri?cation of the appropriate chief of?cer on the Emergency Request
Form; and

have the Emergency Request Form signed by the CPO.

If an Emergency Condition occurs after business hours, on a weekend, on a holiday or at
any other time when the appropriate chief of?cer and the CPO cannot be contacted, each
other appropriate Chief Of?cer of the Board, or their designee, has the authority to take the
necessary action at his/her own discretion. The foregoing authority is limited to the
minimum expenditure of funds necessary to stabilize an Emergency Condition and protect
persons and pr0perty from further harm. After the Emergency Request Form has been
completed, the CPO shall prepare a.Board Report and obtain approval of the Emergency
Expenditure by a vote of the Board.

Sec. 7-6. Single and Sole Source Contracts and Purchases.
Single and Sole Source Committee. The CPO shall form and maintain a sole and single

.source purchasing committee consisting of representatives from multiple departments (a
?Single/Sole Source Committee") to review and advise the CPO on whether requests to

5





(C)



make non-biddable contracts in excess of $25,000 from a sole source or single source
meet the criteria for single or sole source purchases. The General Counsel or his/her
designee shall advise the Committee. Sole source or single source agreements described
in subsection of this Rule do not require review by Single/Sole Source Committee.

CPO Authority. Sole and Single Source Contracts determined to meet the criteria for a
sole or single source contract may be approved by the CPO in amounts up to $75,000 or
by the Board in amounts in excess of $75,000, provided that the following process has
been followed:

The Single/Sole Source Committee has determined by a majority vote of its
members conducted by secret ballot that the requested contract or purchase
meets the criteria for a sole or single source purchase or contract;

(ii) The CPO determines that the requested contract meets the criteria for a sole or
single source purchase or contract;

A notice of an intent to enter a sole or single source contract or purchase has been
posted on the Board?s public-facing website for a period of at least three (3)
calendar weeks prior to approval; and

(iv) No vendor or supplier has presented a valid claim, as determined by the
Single/Sole Source Committee, that it has provided a similar scope of services,
work, supplies or materials in the past and has the capacity to do so now. If a
valid claim has been submitted, as determined by the Single/Sole Source
Committee, then the CPO shall require that the competitive process commence to
award the contract for the work.

Criteria forAwarding a Sole or Single Source Contract. A sole or single source contract or
purchase may be approved by the CPO after the Single/Sole Source Committee
determines that it meets one or more of the following criteria:

The contractor, supplier or vendor has unique quali?cations or expertise that match
the Board's needs;

(ii) Only one contractor, supplier or vendor within the geographic area can meet the
unique needs of the Board given nature of the services and/or goods and
merchandise;

The contractor(s), supplier(s) or vendor(s) is required by the US Department of
Education, the Illinois State Board of Education, or other federal, state or local
governmental agency to provide services under a grant oreducational service
program administered by the governmental agency, including payments of
proportionate share federal education funds for the purchase of goods and
services for private school students under various federal title programs, etc.;

(iv) The contractor(s), supplier(s) or vendor(s) is required by a grantor in order for the
Board to successfully meet the terms of the grant;

The contractor(s), supplier(s) or vendor(s) is required by the terms of a restricted
grant, gift, donation or legacy to the Board including those described in 105 
5/16-1;

(vi) The use of the contractor, supplier or vendor is required due to copyright or other
intellectual property restrictions;

(vii) The cost of replacing the existing vendor or product exceeds economic bene?t; or

The contract continuation is required for original business case to be met.

Sole/Single Source Contracts for Certain Educational Purchases. Sole or single source
purchases described in subsections or do not require approval of the
Sole/Single Source Committee and may be approved and executed by the Chief Executive
Of?cer, Chief Education Of?cer, CPO, Chief Operations Of?cer or General Counsel in
amounts up to $150,000. Sole or single source purchases described in subsections 

(ii) or in excess of $150,000 require Board approval.

Payments of tuition to accredited institutions of higher education;

5

19-0327-RU1

Sec. 7-7.

(ii) Engagements with organizations or institutions providing internship, practicum or
other educational learning opportunities to students, including student stipend
programs; or

Payment of fees for membership in a professional association or organization
providing educational programs and resources to support the professional capacity
of Board employees, of?cers and members.

Purchase Order Limitations. Except for real estate transactions and intergovernmental

agreements, purchases of $75,000 or less may be made by purchase order charging appropriated funds.

Sec. 7-8.

Sec. 7-9.





(C)

Deposits, Bid Bonds, Performance and Payment Bonds.

When a bid deposit shall be required, whether by law or at the discretion of the CPO, it
shall be so stated in the solicitation of bids, and the deposit shall be in a reasonable amount
but not in excess of 5% of the total bid amount proposed. The bid deposit, when required,
may be in the form of a money order, certi?ed check drawn upon a banking institution in
good standing and made payable to the order of the Board, a speci?c bond or a letter of
credit. In lieu of submitting the bid deposit as herein above provided, a bidder may ?le with
the Board an annual bid'bond, the amount of which shall be determined by the 
provided, however, an annual bid bond shall not be accepted on bids for construction work,
alterations, repairs to buildings and grounds, and student transportation matters. Such
annual bid bond shall in no case be less than $10,000 and shall cover all bids submitted
by such bidder during the period of the bond. All bid bonds shall be signed by a responsible
surety company licensed to do business in the State of Illinois.

All bid deposits accompanying a bid solicitation, except that of the successful bidder, shall
be refunded or returned after the successful bidder has been determined and a contract
has been awarded by the Board. The bid deposit of the successful bidder shall be returned

'after the full execution of the contract and the tendering of any payment and/or

performance bond required under the contract. In case of a failure or refusal on the part
of the selected bidder to execute a contract and tender 3 payment and/or performance
bond, if required, within a reasonable period of time as determined by the CPO, the deposit
of the selected bidder so failing or refusing may be forfeited and retained by the Board as
liquidated damages and not as a penalty or, when a bid bond has been furnished in lieu of
a deposit, the Board may take action on the bond.

A payment and performance bond shall be required for all building construction and
building and grounds repair work, and student transportation matters. A payment and
performance bond may also be required on any other purchases or contracts when
speci?ed by the CPO. When a payment and performance bond is required, it shall be
stated in the solicitation of bids and requests for proposals and/or quali?cations, and the
bonds required shall be in an amount suf?cient to ensure the ful?llment of the contract of
the successful bidder/proposer. Such bonds shall be signed by a responsible surety
company licensed to do business in the State of Illinois.

No Obligation to Award Contract. The Board or the CPO shall have no obligation to

award a contract for any solicitations.

Sec. 7-10.

Expenditures - Pre-Quali?ed Vendors. The CPO shall submit a report to the Board each

quarter of all expenditures made to pre-quali?ed vendors. The report shall include a list of: all
expenditures made to each individual pre-quali?ed vendor; the total expenditures made to all pre?
quali?ed vendors in the applicable pool; and the balance remaining of the aggregate amount authorized
for each applicable pre?quali?ed pool of vendors.

19-0327-RU1

Sec. 7-11. Strategic Sourcing. The CPO or his/her designee shall prepare and make available to
local schools, administrative of?ces and central of?ce departments a list of strategic source vendors offering
goods and services. Schools, administrative of?ces and central of?ce departments requesting to use a
vendor other than a strategic sourcing vendor must provide information regarding the proposed
purchase such as the quality of the goods and/or services and pricing and obtain prior written approval
from the CPO or his/her designee to purchase from the non-strategic sourcing vendor.

Sec. 7-12. President and Secretary to Execute Contracts and Leases. Except as otherwise
provided in these Rules, the President and Secretary of the Board shall sign and execute all contracts duly
authorized by order, resolution or direction of the Board and shall sign and execute leases of school property
or property required for school purposes duly authorized by order, resolution or direction of the Board, in
each case, which have been approved as to legal form by the General Counsel. The President, with the
approval of the Board, may designate one or more persons who shall have proxy authority to af?x the
signature of the President to such contracts or leases. In the absence of the Secretary, the Assistant
Secretary shall sign such contracts or leases. The Board may, at its discretion, authorize and designate a
signatory for leases and contracts under certain speci?ed dollar amounts and for ancillary documents that
serve to administer or effectuate a contract or lease. In the event the President abstains from a contract or
lease matter, the Board-approved contract or lease may be executed by the Vice President. In the case of
abstention by the President and the absence, disability or abstention of the Vice President, the Board-
approved contract or lease may be executed by any member of the Board. When so signed, executed and
approved, such contracts and leases shall be deemed to be duly executed by the Board.

Sec. 7-13. Delegation of Authority to Act. in addition to the foregoing, the Board hereby delegates
the following speci?c authority to the following Of?cers or their respective designees with respect to making
and executing certain agreements, which authority may be exercised without prior Board action or approval.
This authority includes the authority to approve payments and ratify agreements within the scope of the
authority delegated in this section. All authority exercised by the Of?cers pursuant to this Rule shall be
reported to the Board on a basis.

The Chief Executive Of?cer has the authority to authorize and execute the following:

Any and all intergovernmental agreements and other miscellaneous types of
agreements that have no ?nancial impact on the Board, subject to approval as to
legal form by the General Counsel; and

(ii) Education-related agreements enumerated in section 7-4 (G) and and 7-6 
and (ii) up to $150,000 per provider/institution, subject to approval as to legal
form by the General Counsel.

The Chief Operations Of?cer has the authority to authorize and execute the following:

Any and all real property leases/licenses where-the Board is the landlordllicensor,
with a term of less than ten (10) years, regardless of the dollar amount, subject to
approval as to legal form by the General Counsel (except for leases/licenses with
Charter Schools, which require prior Board approval); provided, however that the
Chief Operations Of?cer may authorize and execute such leases/licenses with no
further approval from the General Counsel when using the form agreement
established by the Law Department with no modi?cations thereto other than to

include business terms. Further, the Chief Operations Of?cer has the authority to
authorize and execute all real property leases/licenses (including those with
indemni?cation provisions) where the Board is the tenant/licensee, the term is less
than ten (10) years and the dollar amount for the term of the lease/license is,
$75,000 or under, subject to approval as to legal form by the General Counsel.
Further, the Chief Operations Of?cer has the-authority to authorize and execute
any and all agreements and documents to grant the Board access or right of entry
to property including those with indemni?cation provisions.

8



(ii) All Change Orders related to construction. ?Change Order? means a change in a
contract term other than as speci?cally provided for in the contract which
authorizes or necessitates any increase or decrease in the cost of the contract or
the time to completion. The Chief Operations Of?cer shall establish construction
change order procedures for the submission and approval of Change Orders. The
Chief Operations Of?cer shall report all Change Orders to the Board on a 
basis. The report shall include a brief description of the change, the
original contract amount, the net change by previous Change Orders in dollar
amount and by percentage, the total contract amount prior to the current Change
Order being submitted, the net increase/decrease in contract amount with the
current Change Order in dollar amount and by percentage and the revised contract
amount. All Change Orders must be in compliance with the Public Works Contract
Change Order Act (50 525/1 et seq.).

Agreements or documents for the sale, disposition, transfer, donation or auctioning
of Board assets, subject to approval as to legal form by the General Counsel, and
provided that the compensation to be paid to a third party for these services shall
be payable or deductible from the proceeds. The Chief Operations Of?cer shall
also have the authority to approve the transfer of school assets to other schools
(including charter schools). Board assets mean those goods which are tangible,
non-real estate properties. The sale, disposition, transfer, donation and auctioning
of Board assets with an original purchase price or fair market value of $5,000 or
more that were purchased with funds from the Illinois State Board of Education
shall be subject to the approval of Corporate Accounting. The Chief Operations
Of?cer shall report to the Board on an annual basis all assets sold, transferred,
donated, or otherwise disposed under the delegation of authority herein.

The Chief Education Of?cer has the authority to authorize and execute the following

agreements and purchase orders:

Education-related agreements enumerated in section 7-4 up to $150,000 per
provider/institution, subject to approval as to legal form by the General Counsel.

(ii) No-fee education-related agreements, including internship agreements,
programmatic agreements and data sharing agreements, subject to approval as to
legal form by the General Counsel.

The Chief Financial Of?cer has the authority to: accept any and all grants, donations

and gifts of any dollar amount; and (ii) refund any unspent dollars from grants, donations
or gifts. The Chief Financial Of?cer has the authority to execute any and all grant, donation 
or gift acceptance agreements and amendments related thereto required by any such
grantor, donor or giftor, including agreements with obligations to cost-share using district
funds or to indemnify the grantor, donor or giftor. However, any grant, donation or gift
acceptance agreements and amendments related thereto with a total value of $250,000 or
more of both external funding and internal funding shall be subject to approval as to legal
form by the General Counsel. The Chief Financial Of?cer together with the head of the
department receiving the grant have the authority to provide such additional information,
assurances and certi?cations as are necessary in connection with such grant. For all
grants, gifts and donations and refunds of the same, the Chief Financial Of?cer shall report
to the Board on a basis all grants, gifts and donations received in excess of
$50,000, all related cost-sharing obligations contained in such grants, gifts or donations in
excess of $50,000, and all refunds of unspent grants, gifts or donations in excess of $5,000.

Expenditure of grant funds are subject to the procurement rules in this Chapter VII.

19-0327-RU1

The CPO has the authority to:



(ii)



Approve purchases up to $150,000, except sole or single source contracts, and to
authorize and execute any and all of the purchasing documents enumerated
below, subject to approval as to legal form by the General Counsel, when such
purchases are made in accordance with the Board Rules set forth in this Chapter
provided, however, that the CPO may authorize and execute such purchasing
documents with no further approval from the General Counsel when using the form
agreement established by the Law Department with no modi?cations thereto other
than to include business terms. If modifications are made to the form agreement,
then approval of the General Counsel as to legal form is required.

(1) Sole or single source agreements that do not exceed $75,000;

(2) All other agreements for Biddable Items and Non-biddable Items that do
not exceed $150,000;

(3) Options to renew and/or mutually-agreed?to extensions of agreements for
Biddable Items and Non-biddable Items that do not exceed $150,000; and

(4) Amendments to contracts for Biddable Items and Non-biddable Items
initially costing $150,000 and under which amendments do not increase
the total obligation to more than $150,000 or materially diminish the
obligations of the vendor.

Approve payments and ratify:

(1) Sole and single source agreements for the purchase of Non-biddable
Items up to $75,000;

(2) Agreements for the purchase of Non-biddable Items up to $150,000; and

(3) Agreements for Biddable Items between $10,001 and $25,000 when such
purchases are not made in accordance with the Board Rules set forth in
this Chapteerl.

Approve the amendments enumerated below to contracts for Biddable Items and
Non-biddable Items that exceed $150,000, subject to approval as to legal form by
the General Counsel, when such amendments do not increase the Board-
approved maximum expenditure amount or materially diminish the obligations of
the vendor.

(1) Amendments to effectuate a reduction in unit price negotiated by the 

(2) Amendments to effectuate an assignment and assumption of a Board
contract to another corporate entity due to the corporate reorganization of
a Board vendor;

(3) Amendments to effectuate a corporate name change of a Board vendor;

(4) Amendments to effectuate a contract extension; and 

(5) Amendments to effectuate administrative corrections or clari?cations.

The General Counsel has the authority to appoint outside counsel, retain experts and to
take all actions required to ful?ll the duties and obligations imposed upon the General
Counsel in Chapter of these Rules, subject to appropriation. The General Counsel also
has the authority to authorize and execute any and all agreements and documents
regarding the following:


(ii)

. 
(iV)

Access and right of entry to property which may include indemni?cation;
Indemni?cation related to agreements for the purchase, sale, use, occupancy,
license or lease of real estate; -

Zoning, taxes and other governmental petitions and requests;

Indemni?cation related to shrink-wrap and click-wrap agreements;

10

19-0327-RU1

Agreements with a nominal value of less than $5,000 granting non-exclusive rights
to use Board intellectual property and other agreements related to the grant of
intellectual property rights and permissions, including any indemni?cation of third
parties associated with said agreements; and

(vi) Other legal matters having no direct?nancial impact on the Board.

(9) The Communications Of?cer has the authority to execute access agreements to ?lm in
Board facilities and CPS schools, subject to approval as to legal form by the General
Counsel.

The Chief Administrative Of?cer or designee has the authority to execute no?fee
agreements regarding non-disclosure, con?dentiality and network access with no further
approval from the General Counsel when using an agreement approved by the Law
Department.

The CPO shall ?le a report with the Board by the last day of each month which lists all
contracts and purchase orders authorized and executed in the prior calendar month
pursuant to the delegations of authority in this Section and shall include the total cost and
type of solicitation used. The report shall be included on the Board?s public agenda for its
next regular public meeting and accepted by the Board at that meeting.

11

Board of Education
City of Chicago

 

Estela G. Beltran Of?ce of the Board Susan J. Narrajos
SECRETARY 1 North Dearborn Street, Suite 950, Chicago, Illinois 60602 ASSISTANT SECRETARY
(773) 553?1600 Fax (773) 553-1601

19-0327-C01 March 27, 2019

COMMUNICATION RE: LOCATION OF
BOARD MEETING OF APRIL 24, 2019

Frank M. Clark President, and
Members of the Board of Education

Mark F. Furlong

Alejandra Garza

Austan D. Goolsbee

Jaime Guzman

Dr. Mahalia A. Hines

Gail D. Ward

This is to advise that the Regular Meeting of the Board of Education scheduled for Wednesday,
April 24, 2019 will be held at:

CPS Loop Office
42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Board Room
Chicago, IL 60602

The Board Meeting will begin at 10:30 am.
Public Participation Guidelines are available on or by calling (773) 553-1600.

For the April 24, 2019 Board Meeting, advance registration to speak and observe will be available
beginning Monday, April 22nd at 10:30 am. and will close on Tuesday, April 23rd at 5:00 pm. or until all slots are
filled. You can advance register during the registration period by the following methods:

0 Online: (recommended)
. Phone: (773) 553-1600
0 In Person: 1 North Dearborn, Suite 950

To ensure equity of access to address the Board, an individual may not speak at two (2) consecutive
Board Meetings. In the event an individual registers to speak at a consecutive Board Meeting, the individual will
not be called to address the Board.

Although Advance Registration is recommended, you can also register to observe a meeting on the
day of a Board Meeting via:

0 Same Day In Person Observer Registration: 42 W. Madison Street lobby
0 Registration Time: Opens at 10:15 am. and will remain open for the duration of the Board
Meeting

Same Day, ln?Person Observer Registrations are taken on a ?rst come, ?rst serve basis as seats
become available.

The Public Participation segment of the meeting will begin as indicated in the meeting agenda and
proceed for no more than 60 registered speakers for the two hours.

Sincerely,

MAI. MW

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

March 27, 2019

19-0327-EX1

TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Various Units and Objects
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:
The various transfers of funds were requested by the Central Office Departments during the month of February.
All transfers are budget neutral. A brief explanation of each transfer is provided below:
1.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
Rationale:

Transfer to cover hosting cost for MS Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29411 Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,000

2.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
Rationale:

Transfer to cover cost of hosting costs for Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46611 Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,000

3.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Eric Solorio Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover cost of hosting costs for Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46101 Eric Solorio Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,000

4.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Chicago High School for Agricultural Sciences
Rationale:

Transfer to cover cost of hosting costs for Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value
Amount: $1,000

Transfer To:
47091 Chicago High School for Agricultural Sciences
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

 5.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Instructional Supports to Ole A Thorp Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Transfer to cover cost of hosting costs for Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29301 Ole A Thorp Elementary Scholastic Academy
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,000

6.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
Rationale:

Transfer to cover cost of hosting costs for Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46511 Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,000

7.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
Rationale:

Shifting funds to cover an expenditure swap from Title II

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
358 Title IV
54305 Tuition
221236
440044

Mathematics - Professional Development
Title Iv, Part A

Transfer To:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
358 Title IV
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221227 Curriculum Development
440044 Title Iv, Part A

Amount: $1,000

8.

Transfer from Roger C Sullivan High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

FY18 School payment for the purchase of ventra cards between 2/1/2018 - 6/30/2018

Transfer From:
46301 Roger C Sullivan High School
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
290003 Miscellaneous General Charges
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Amount: $1,000

2

 9.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice to Dr Martin Luther King Jr College Prep HS
Rationale:

Englewood Transition.

Transfer From:
26371 Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
46371 Dr Martin Luther King Jr College Prep HS
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $1,000

10.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St John De La Salle School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69156 St John De La Salle School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $1,000

11.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Early Childhood Development - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer to cover expenditure transfer to align grant budget.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
376648 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Extended Supports
Fy19

Transfer To:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
54520 Services - Printing
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
376669 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy19

Amount: $1,000

12.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Charles W Earle Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for snacks for STEM Scholars programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999
Amount: $1,000

3

Transfer To:
23031 Charles W Earle Elementary School
324
53205
119010
399928

Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
Commodities - Supplied Food
Other Instructional Programs
Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

 13.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Langston Hughes School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for snacks for STEM Scholars programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
26641 Langston Hughes School
324
53205
119010
399928

Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
Commodities - Supplied Food
Other Instructional Programs
Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $1,000

14.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Jesse Owens Community Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for snacks for STEM Scholars programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
31071 Jesse Owens Community Academy
324
53205
119010
399928

Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
Commodities - Supplied Food
Other Instructional Programs
Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $1,000

15.

Transfer from Langston Hughes School to Langston Hughes Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to correct unit number. Transfer for snacks for STEM Scholars programming.

Transfer From:
26641 Langston Hughes School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
22451 Langston Hughes Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $1,000

16.

Transfer from Jesse Owens Community Academy to Jesse Owens Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to correct unit number. Transfer for snacks for STEM Scholars programming.

Transfer From:
31071 Jesse Owens Community Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999
Amount: $1,000

4

Transfer To:
23351 Jesse Owens Elementary Community Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

 17.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs to Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to supplies.

Transfer From:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
358 Title IV
55005 Property - Equipment
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
440044 Title Iv, Part A

Transfer To:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
358 Title IV
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
440044 Title Iv, Part A

Amount: $1,029

18.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Orville T Bright Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to purchase iPads for 2 Preschool teachers.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
376648 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Extended Supports
Fy19

Transfer To:
22331 Orville T Bright Elementary School
362 Early Childhood Development
55005 Property - Equipment
119027 Prek Instruction
376669 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy19

Amount: $1,041

19.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $1,050

20.

Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Eric Solorio Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds to support the Service Learning Program

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
390003 Service Learning
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46101 Eric Solorio Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
390003 Service Learning
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,050

5

 21.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Network 8 to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
02481 Network 8
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,072

22.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation.-per Lisa Washington

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54210 Pupil Transportation
149005 Accounting
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19

Amount: $1,075

23.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to South Shore Intl College Prep High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation. - per Lisa Washington

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19

Transfer To:
46631 South Shore Intl College Prep High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54210 Pupil Transportation
149014 Product Marketing / Entrepreneurship
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19

Amount: $1,075

24.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Hillel Torah
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $1,087

6

Transfer To:
69595 Hillel Torah
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430223 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

 25.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from William H Brown Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-22351-BAS To Award# 2019-437-00-04 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,107

26.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Brown Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-22351-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56302 Capitalized Equipment
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,107

27.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Kelly High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-46181-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46181 Thomas Kelly High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56302 Capitalized Equipment
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,107

28.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-25921-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56302 Capitalized Equipment
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,107

29.

Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to Bronzeville Classical ES
Rationale:

Additional Funds to cover the Creative Group Invoices for Bronzeville

Transfer From:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Transfer To:
26181 Bronzeville Classical ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Amount: $1,183

7

 30.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Disney II Magnet School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

FY18 School payment for the purchase of ventra cards between 2/1/2018 - 6/30/2018

Transfer From:
26921 Disney II Magnet School
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
290003 Miscellaneous General Charges
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Amount: $1,184

31.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Hanna Sachs Bias Yaakov
Rationale:

High School Of Chicago

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332
57915
370004
430219

NCLB Title I Regular Fund
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69141 Hanna Sachs Bias Yaakov
High School Of
Chicago
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430223 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $1,200

32.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Heritage Leadership Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69605 Heritage Leadership Academy
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430221 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Christian

Amount: $1,200

33.

Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Back of the Yards IB HS
Rationale:

Funds to support the Service Learning Program

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
390003 Service Learning
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46551 Back of the Yards IB HS
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
390003 Service Learning
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,200

8

 34.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Office of Catholic Schools to Mt Carmel Academy Of East
Rationale:

Lakeview

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69226 Mt Carmel Academy Of East
Lakeview
358 Title IV
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $1,236

35.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to F Xavier School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69028 F Xavier School
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370011 Federal - Idea Nonpublic ( Independent)
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Amount: $1,260

36.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Whitney M Young Magnet High School
Rationale:

Purchase or Academic Decathlon Incentives for City Championship

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
150001 Academic Decathlon - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47101 Whitney M Young Magnet High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
150001 Academic Decathlon - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,300

37.

Transfer from Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice to Dr Martin Luther King Jr College Prep HS
Rationale:

Englewood Transition.

Transfer From:
26371 Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
119015 Reading
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
46371 Dr Martin Luther King Jr College Prep HS
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
119015 Reading
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $1,300

38.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-46511-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46511 Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,325

9

 39.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to clean up budget from funding switch from Title II to Title IV

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54215 Car Fare
221227 Curriculum Development
494066 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
353
57915
600002
041008

Title II - Teacher Quality
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Contingency For Project Expansion
Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,339

40.

Transfer from Office of Catholic Schools to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490940 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
410008 Contingency For Project Expan

Amount: $1,348

41.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title III programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Amount: $1,350

42.

Transfer from Office of Student Health & Wellness to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Transfer funds for hot spot and MiFi device for Olga Marroquin.

Transfer From:
14050 Office of Student Health & Wellness
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
213011 Health Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,350

10

 43.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Whitney M Young Magnet High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation.- per Lisa Washington

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19

Transfer To:
47101 Whitney M Young Magnet High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54210 Pupil Transportation
149014 Product Marketing / Entrepreneurship
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19

Amount: $1,350

44.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Angela School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69037 St Angela School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $1,376

45.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Edward School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69092 St Edward School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $1,376

46.

Transfer from Facility Opers & Maint - City Wide to Facility Opers & Maint - City Wide
Rationale:

Unspent funds for APPA Conference

Transfer From:
11880 Facility Opers & Maint - City Wide
230 Public Building Commission O & M
54205 Travel Expense
254101 Asset Management
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11880 Facility Opers & Maint - City Wide
230 Public Building Commission O & M
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
254039 Aramark Ifm
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,380

11

 47.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer for student transportation to Champagne, IL (University of IL Campus) for our CTE Arch students- per Lisa Washington

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
000389 Cte Programs

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
144601 Architectural Drafting
000389 Cte Programs

Amount: $1,390

48.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Morgan Park High School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of hosting Debate tournament

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
150008 Debate - High School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46251 Morgan Park High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,400

49.

Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Walter Payton College Preparatory High School
Rationale:

Funds to support the Service Learning Program

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
390003 Service Learning
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
70020 Walter Payton College Preparatory High School
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
390003 Service Learning
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,400

50.

Transfer from Network 9 to Network 9
Rationale:

transferring funds for supplies for Professional Development

Transfer From:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,428

12

 51.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Talent Office to Jose De Diego Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
31261 Jose De Diego Elementary Community Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Amount: $1,432

52.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Providence-St Mel High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69395 Providence-St Mel High School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
131001 Evening School Programs
430220 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Independ.

Amount: $1,439

53.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to New Field Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-485-00-13 To Project# 2019-22071-RPT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253540 Cost Estimating
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22071 New Field Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,454

54.

Transfer from Network 16 to Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
Rationale:

transfer monies for conference - presenter with Chief Hougard

Transfer From:
02661 Network 16
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
115 General Education Fund
54555 Meals, Lodging, & Travel - Other
212041 Guidance
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,462

13

 55.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Instructional Supports to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover cost of hosting costs for Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,500

56.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to GFP/Other Private Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69103 GFP/Other Private Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370007 Nonpublic Homeschool/Other
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $1,500

57.

Transfer from Chicago Military Academy High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

FY18 School payment for the purchase of ventra cards between 2/1/2018 - 6/30/2018

Transfer From:
70070 Chicago Military Academy High School
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
290003 Miscellaneous General Charges
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Amount: $1,500

58.

Transfer from South Shore Intl College Prep High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

FY18 School payment for the purchase of ventra cards between 2/1/2018 - 6/30/2018

Transfer From:
46631 South Shore Intl College Prep High School
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
290003 Miscellaneous General Charges
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Amount: $1,500

59.

Transfer from Diverse Learner Quality Instruction to Diverse Learner Quality Instruction
Rationale:

Transfer funds to cover costs of food supplies for parent/family workshops

Transfer From:
11674 Diverse Learner Quality Instruction
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300004 Special Ed - Community Service
460526 Preschool Discretionary (Starnet) Fy19
Amount: $1,500

14

Transfer To:
11674 Diverse Learner Quality Instruction
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
300004 Special Ed - Community Service
460526 Preschool Discretionary (Starnet) Fy19

 60.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice to Dr Martin Luther King Jr College Prep HS
Rationale:

Englewood Transition.

Transfer From:
26371 Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
46371 Dr Martin Luther King Jr College Prep HS
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $1,500

61.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Hanson Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to cover expenditure swap needed to align grant budget.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
376648 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Extended Supports
Fy19

Transfer To:
24461 Hanson Park Elementary School
362 Early Childhood Development
54210 Pupil Transportation
255052 General Transportation Services
376648 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Extended Supports
Fy19

Amount: $1,500

62.

Transfer from Chicago High School for Agricultural Sciences to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

RITM0157307 budget transfer request for a new phone for the new assistant principal.

Transfer From:
47091 Chicago High School for Agricultural Sciences
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,500

63.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Instructional Supports
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for consultant services.

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999
Amount: $1,520

15

Transfer To:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

 64.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Mt Carmel Academy Of East
Rationale:

Lakeview

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69226 Mt Carmel Academy Of East
Lakeview
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $1,545

65.

Transfer from Edward N Hurley Elementary School to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

RITM0152688 budget transfer request to Install new voice jack in Room 212 A ( School Counselor). SOW#8226 for
Ticket#REQ0114516

Transfer From:
23911 Edward N Hurley Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,572

66.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $1,600

67.

Transfer from Horace Greeley Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Contract ended, funds need to be returned.

Transfer From:
22661 Horace Greeley Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
254905 Grants - Rental Of School Buildings/Grounds
000400 School Parking Lot Rental
Amount: $1,600

16

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
150900 Grants - Supplemental

 68.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Muhammad Univ
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69550 Muhammad Univ
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
131001 Evening School Programs
430220 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Independ.

Amount: $1,610

69.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to George Westinghouse College Prep
Rationale:

CTE Medical Health Career Academy Program Supplies

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
53071 George Westinghouse College Prep
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
148002 Medical Health Career Academy
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $1,621

70.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Roberto Clemente Community Academy High School
Rationale:

CTE Allied Health Program Supplies

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
51091 Roberto Clemente Community Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
148001 Allied Health
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $1,623

71.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Roald Amundsen High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-46031-OEM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46031 Roald Amundsen High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,662

72.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

For: CTE Culinary Arts Program Supplies- per Nicole S.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19
Amount: $1,680

17

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140505 Culinary Arts
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

 73.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Dodge Renaissance Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-22981-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22981 Dodge Renaissance Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,700

74.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Bronzeville Classical ES
Rationale:

Bronzeville Classical K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26181 Bronzeville Classical ES
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $1,712

75.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
Rationale:

Sor Juana K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23521 Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $1,712

76.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer for meals , lodging, & travel and other. - per Lisa Washington

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19
Amount: $1,716

18

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54555 Meals, Lodging, & Travel - Other
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19

 77.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Logandale Middle School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-41091-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41091 Logandale Middle School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,740

78.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to New Field Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-22071-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22071 New Field Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,745

79.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed to purchase JROTC T-Shirts.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,788

80.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $1,800

81.

Transfer from Joseph Brennemann Elementary School to LaSalle Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Parking Lot Rental Check # 217433

Transfer From:
25991 Joseph Brennemann Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
254905 Grants - Rental Of School Buildings/Grounds
000400 School Parking Lot Rental
Amount: $1,802

19

Transfer To:
29161 LaSalle Elementary Language Academy
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
254905 Grants - Rental Of School Buildings/Grounds
000400 School Parking Lot Rental

 82.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Shifting available funds to pointer line to increase bucket allocation.

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
52130 Career Service Salaries - Extended Day
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,805

83.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Brother Rice High School B
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69357 Brother Rice High School B
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
131001 Evening School Programs
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $1,820

84.

Transfer from Language and Cultural Education to Language and Cultural Education
Rationale:

Funds will be used to cover Bilingual Advisory Committee meetings throughout the district.

Transfer From:
11510 Language and Cultural Education
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300008 Community/Parent Involvement
300110 Ebf - Bilingual Programs

Transfer To:
11510 Language and Cultural Education
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
300008 Community/Parent Involvement
300110 Ebf - Bilingual Programs

Amount: $1,840

85.

Transfer from School Safety and Security Office to School Safety and Security Office
Rationale:

Chip based photo ID card.

Transfer From:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54215 Car Fare
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
53405 Commodities - Supplies
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,856

86.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100101 Out-Of-School-Time Awards
Amount: $1,900

20

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 87.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from School Safety and Security Office to School Safety and Security Office
Rationale:

Manuals for security training.

Transfer From:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54215 Car Fare
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
53405 Commodities - Supplies
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,926

88.

Transfer from Chief Equity Office to Chief Equity Office
Rationale:

Supplied food.

Transfer From:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,000

89.

Transfer from Chief Equity Office to Chief Equity Office
Rationale:

For commodities supplies.

Transfer From:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,000

90.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Justification: Transfer funds to seminar, subscriptions and fees.- per Lisa W.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54205 Travel Expense
221011
474566

Improvement Of Instruction
Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $2,000

21

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

 91.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Department of JROTC to Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
Rationale:

Additional funds needed for MPC extended day bucket.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41111 Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,000

92.

Transfer from Diverse Learner Supports & Services to Diverse Learner Supports & Services
Rationale:

Transfer for purchase of supplies for district representatives and special education administrators

Transfer From:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
54520 Services - Printing
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,000

93.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising to Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
Rationale:

Space rental for the Dream Fund Scholarship Fundraiser

Transfer From:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54205 Travel Expense
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57705 Services - Space Rental
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $2,000

94.

Transfer from Innovation and Incubation to Innovation and Incubation
Rationale:

I&I transfer request.

Transfer From:
13610 Innovation and Incubation
115 General Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
267983 Research & Evaluation Support Services
000000 Default Value
Amount: $2,000

22

Transfer To:
13610 Innovation and Incubation
114 Special Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
251006 Ons Business Services
000000 Default Value

 95.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Innovation and Incubation to Innovation and Incubation
Rationale:

Correction to prior erroneous transfer request.
(Transfer Number: 20190056930)

Transfer From:
13610 Innovation and Incubation
114 Special Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
251006 Ons Business Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
13610 Innovation and Incubation
115 General Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
267983 Research & Evaluation Support Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,000

96.

Transfer from Innovation and Incubation to Innovation and Incubation
Rationale:

Travel fund transfer request from I&I Emily Abarca.

Transfer From:
13610 Innovation and Incubation
115 General Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
267983 Research & Evaluation Support Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
13610 Innovation and Incubation
115 General Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
251006 Ons Business Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,000

97.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $2,000

98.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Christian Affiliate Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $2,000

23

Transfer To:
69237 Christian Affiliate Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228952 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Christian)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

 99.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $2,000

100.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation.- per Lisa Washington

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54210 Pupil Transportation
140008 Cte - Partnership Development
322023 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy19

Amount: $2,000

101.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $2,000

102.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Associated Talmud Torah Of
Rationale:

Chicago

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.
Amount: $2,000

24

Transfer To:
69530 Associated Talmud Torah Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228953 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Jewish)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

 103.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $2,000

104.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to ICC Full Time School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69537 ICC Full Time School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430220 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Independ.

Amount: $2,026

105.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc
000389 Cte Programs

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc
000389 Cte Programs

Amount: $2,040

106.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-03 To Project# 2018-26191-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District
Amount: $2,067

25

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

 107.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-03 To Project# 2018-31101-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Transfer To:
31101 Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Amount: $2,067

108.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-04 To Project# 2018-26191-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Amount: $2,067

109.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-04 To Project# 2018-31101-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Transfer To:
31101 Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Amount: $2,067

110.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2018-26191-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,067

111.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2018-31101-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31101 Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,067

26

 112.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Marquette Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to 4 purchase iPads for Pre-K classrooms

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
119027 Prek Instruction
376648 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Extended Supports
Fy19

Transfer To:
24341 Marquette Elementary School
362 Early Childhood Development
55005 Property - Equipment
119027
376669

Prek Instruction
State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy19

Amount: $2,082

113.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title III programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Amount: $2,100

114.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Christian Affiliate Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69237 Christian Affiliate Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228952 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Christian)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $2,100

115.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Chicago Westside Christian
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $2,132

27

Transfer To:
69238 Chicago Westside Christian
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430221 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Christian

 116.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for printing services.- per Lisa Washington

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc
000389 Cte Programs

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
54520 Services - Printing
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc
000389 Cte Programs

Amount: $2,140

117.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Chicago High School for Agricultural Sciences
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2019-47091-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47091 Chicago High School for Agricultural Sciences
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,158

118.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Joseph Warren Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-25761-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25761 Joseph Warren Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,160

119.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry H Nash Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-03 To Project# 2018-24641-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Transfer To:
24641 Henry H Nash Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Amount: $2,167

120.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel Webster Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-03 To Project# 2018-25791-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District
Amount: $2,167

28

Transfer To:
25791 Daniel Webster Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

 121.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry H Nash Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-04 To Project# 2018-24641-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Transfer To:
24641 Henry H Nash Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Amount: $2,167

122.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel Webster Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-04 To Project# 2018-25791-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Transfer To:
25791 Daniel Webster Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Amount: $2,167

123.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry H Nash Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2018-24641-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24641 Henry H Nash Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,167

124.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel Webster Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2018-25791-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25791 Daniel Webster Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,167

125.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Nicholas Senn High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-47061-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47061 Nicholas Senn High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,200

29

 126.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Robert Nathaniel Dett Elementary School
Rationale:

Dett K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26031 Robert Nathaniel Dett Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

127.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Edgar Allan Poe Elementary Classical School
Rationale:

Poe K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29261 Edgar Allan Poe Elementary Classical School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

128.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Mount Vernon Elementary School
Rationale:

Mount Vernon K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24601 Mount Vernon Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

129.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Kate S Kellogg Elementary School
Rationale:

Kellogg K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23971 Kate S Kellogg Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

130.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
Rationale:

Lindblom K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46511 Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

30

 131.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
Rationale:

Caldwell K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22511 Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

132.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Our Lady Of Guadalupe School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69220 Our Lady Of Guadalupe School
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $2,249

133.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for cadet transportation to archery events and drill meets.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,250

134.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed to purchase JROTC supplies.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,250

135.

Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Walt Disney Magnet Elementary School
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29401 Walt Disney Magnet Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,250

31

 136.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Mark Skinner Elementary School
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29281 Mark Skinner Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,250

137.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

For: CTE Culinary Arts Program Supplies- per Nicole S.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
55005 Property - Equipment
140505 Culinary Arts
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $2,280

138.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-53101-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56302 Capitalized Equipment
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,282

139.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Hillel Torah
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69595 Hillel Torah
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430223 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $2,304

140.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Bais Yaakov High School Of
Rationale:

Chicago

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic
Amount: $2,400

32

Transfer To:
69553 Bais Yaakov High School Of
Chicago
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370013 Federal - Idea Nonpublic (Jewish)
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

 141.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wendell Smith Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-23641-OEM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23641 Wendell Smith Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,413

142.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to German School International Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title III programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69536 German School International Chicago
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Amount: $2,421

143.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

CTE HVAC Program Equimpent

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
55005 Property - Equipment
140630 Heating, Air Conditioning, & Refrigeration Mechanic
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $2,475

144.

Transfer from Talent Office to Ira F Aldridge Elementary School
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18
Amount: $2,500

33

Transfer To:
22641 Ira F Aldridge Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

 145.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Talent Office to South Shore Fine Arts Academy
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
22251 South Shore Fine Arts Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Amount: $2,500

146.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ralph H Metcalfe Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-31061-ORR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31061 Ralph H Metcalfe Elementary Community Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,500

147.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54130 Services - Non Professional
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $2,500

148.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of transportation for Chess students to attend Chess Nationals in Shaumburg, Illinois

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150013 Chess Program
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29091 Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
150013 Chess Program
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,500

34

 149.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Network 9 to Network 9
Rationale:

transferring funds to teacher extended day bucket

Transfer From:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,500

150.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-26191-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,502

151.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2019-46641-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46641 Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,511

152.

Transfer from Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City Wide to Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
Rationale:

to complete purchase of basketball materials for CPS SCORE! from the appropriate budget line.

Transfer From:
13737 Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
150006 Elementary Sports
000397
Elementary School Sports Program
Amount: $2,526

35

Transfer To:
13737 Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
150006 Elementary Sports
000397
Elementary School Sports Program

 153.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Ailbe
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69029 St Ailbe
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $2,537

154.

Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Jonathan Burr Elementary School
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22471 Jonathan Burr Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,550

155.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Deneen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-22931-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22931 Charles S Deneen Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,587

156.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-41051-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,600

157.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Ashe K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

36

 158.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Avalon Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Avalon Park K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22101 Avalon Park Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

159.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Ronald Brown Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Brown R K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24631 Ronald Brown Elementary Community Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

160.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Michael Faraday Elementary School
Rationale:

Faraday K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24371 Michael Faraday Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

161.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Thomas J Higgins Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Higgins K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31251 Thomas J Higgins Elementary Community Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

162.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Morton School of Excellence
Rationale:

Morton K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26091 Morton School of Excellence
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

37

 163.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Jane A Neil Elementary School
Rationale:

Neil K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24651 Jane A Neil Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

164.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to John T Pirie Fine Arts & Academic Center ES
Rationale:

Pirie K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24971 John T Pirie Fine Arts & Academic Center ES
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

165.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Rueben Salazar Elementary Bilingual Center
Rationale:

Salazar K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30101 Rueben Salazar Elementary Bilingual Center
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

166.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Sherwood K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25351 Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

167.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Henry O Tanner Elementary School
Rationale:

Tanner K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26281 Henry O Tanner Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

38

 168.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to George W Tilton Elementary School
Rationale:

Tilton K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25621 George W Tilton Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

169.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Albany Park Multicultural Academy
Rationale:

Albany Park K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
32011 Albany Park Multicultural Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

170.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Johnnie Colemon Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Coleman K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26751 Johnnie Colemon Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,641

171.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

CTE HVAC Program Supplies

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140630 Heating, Air Conditioning, & Refrigeration Mechanic
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $2,643

172.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Hawthorne Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-29131-OFR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29131 Hawthorne Elementary Scholastic Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,655

39

 173.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2019-46421-ICR-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,696

174.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward Tilden Career Community Academy HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-53121-OPI2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53121 Edward Tilden Career Community Academy HS
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,766

175.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Whitney M Young Magnet High School
Rationale:

transfer to cover hosting cost for Chess Tournament on January 12

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150013 Chess Program
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47101 Whitney M Young Magnet High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150013 Chess Program
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,800

176.

Transfer from Network 5 to Network 5
Rationale:

To purchase items that showcase N5

Transfer From:
02451 Network 5
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02451 Network 5
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,800

177.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Akiba Jewish Day School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $2,816

40

Transfer To:
69343 Akiba Jewish Day School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430223 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

 178.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Jensen Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Jensen K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29341 Jensen Elementary Scholastic Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,836

179.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Luke O'Toole Elementary School
Rationale:

O'Toole K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24801 Luke O'Toole Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,836

180.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide to Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
Rationale:

Shifting funds from underutilized line within grant budget, to transportation to cover pending expenditure swaps.

Transfer From:
10855 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
212017 Other Govt Fnded Prjts-Guidnce
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57705 Services - Space Rental
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $2,892

181.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Josefa Ortiz De Dominguez Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23411-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23411 Josefa Ortiz De Dominguez Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,894

182.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to LaSalle II Magnet Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-29101-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29101 LaSalle II Magnet Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,952

41

 183.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William T Sherman Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-25341-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25341 William T Sherman Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,971

184.

Transfer from John Palmer Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-24821-MCR To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
24821 John Palmer Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,992

185.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $3,000

186.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Southside Occupational Academy High School
Rationale:

For: CTE Carpentry Supplies- per Nicole S.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
144606 Carpentry
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $3,000

187.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Whitney M Young Magnet High School
Rationale:

transfer to cover hosting cost of lodging and meals for Chess students to attends Nationals in Shaumburg

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54555 Meals, Lodging, & Travel - Other
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999
Amount: $3,000

42

Transfer To:
47101 Whitney M Young Magnet High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54555 Meals, Lodging, & Travel - Other
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

 188.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54130 Services - Non Professional
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $3,000

189.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Instructional Supports
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of photography for Academic Decathlon Competitions

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
150001 Academic Decathlon - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
150001 Academic Decathlon - Hs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

190.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $3,000

191.

Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Augustus H Burley Elementary School
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22421 Augustus H Burley Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

192.

Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Disney II Magnet School
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26921 Disney II Magnet School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

43

 193.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Alexander Hamilton Elementary School
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23501 Alexander Hamilton Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

194.

Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Ravenswood Elementary School
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25061 Ravenswood Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

195.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Supplies and materials to support CTE's Architecture program at Juarez HS- per Tish McGee.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
148002 Medical Health Career Academy
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $3,000

196.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title III programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54130 Services - Non Professional
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Amount: $3,010

197.

Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to John J Audubon Elementary School
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22091 John J Audubon Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,150

44

 198.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Ellen Mitchell Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2017-24511-ROF-1 To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
24511 Ellen Mitchell Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,300

199.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Frederic Chopin Elementary School
Rationale:

Chopin K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22721 Frederic Chopin Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

200.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Washington Irving Elementary School
Rationale:

Irving K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24881 Washington Irving Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

201.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to John D Shoop Math-Science Technical Academy ES
Rationale:

Shoop K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25381 John D Shoop Math-Science Technical Academy ES
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

202.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Clara Barton Elementary School
Rationale:

Barton K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22151 Clara Barton Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

45

 203.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Perkins Bass Elementary School
Rationale:

Bass K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22161 Perkins Bass Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

204.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Franklin Elementary Fine Arts Center
Rationale:

Franklin K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29081 Franklin Elementary Fine Arts Center
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

205.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Alexander Graham Elementary School
Rationale:

Graham K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23391 Alexander Graham Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

206.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Mildred I Lavizzo Elementary School
Rationale:

Lavizzo K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25671 Mildred I Lavizzo Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

207.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to William H Prescott Elementary School
Rationale:

Prescott K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25021 William H Prescott Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

46

 208.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Douglas Taylor Elementary School
Rationale:

Taylor K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25591 Douglas Taylor Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

209.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Washington Irving Elementary School
Rationale:

Irving W K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24881 Washington Irving Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

210.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to George Leland Elementary School
Rationale:

Leland K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26391 George Leland Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,374

211.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $3,400

212.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Orozco Fine Arts & Sciences Elementary School
Rationale:

Orozco K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31281 Orozco Fine Arts & Sciences Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,423

47

 213.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Hawthorne Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Hawthorne K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29131 Hawthorne Elementary Scholastic Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,423

214.

Transfer from Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-23611-OEM To Award# 2019-437-00-19 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
23611 Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,491

215.

Transfer from Arts to Wells Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
51071 Wells Community Academy High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $3,525

216.

Transfer from Arts to Kelvyn Park High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program
Amount: $3,525

48

Transfer To:
46191 Kelvyn Park High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

 217.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to Bronzeville Classical ES
Rationale:

Funds were allocated to Bronzeville Classical school to cover the cost of Printing Services from FullLine- New School Package:
business cards, letterhead, envelopes, presentation folders, note cards, banner stands, etc.

Transfer From:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Transfer To:
26181 Bronzeville Classical ES
115 General Education Fund
54520 Services - Printing
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Amount: $3,572

218.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Dewey Elementary Academy of Fine Arts
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-22951-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22951 Dewey Elementary Academy of Fine Arts
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,595

219.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Jerome School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69151 St Jerome School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $3,602

220.

Transfer from St Jerome School to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
69151 St Jerome School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $3,602

49

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

 221.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Zenos Colman School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-22781-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22781 Zenos Colman School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,650

222.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Salmon P Chase Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22701-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22701 Salmon P Chase Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

223.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles R Darwin Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22881-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22881 Charles R Darwin Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

224.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frederick Funston Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23291-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23291 Frederick Funston Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

225.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wolfgang A Mozart Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24611-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24611 Wolfgang A Mozart Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

50

 226.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Bernhard Moos Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24551-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24551 Bernhard Moos Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

227.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Joseph Lovett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24241-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24241 Joseph Lovett Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

228.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harriet E Sayre Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-29271-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29271 Harriet E Sayre Elementary Language Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

229.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Pablo Casals Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24011-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24011 Pablo Casals Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

230.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25521-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25521 Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

51

 231.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mancel Talcott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25581-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25581 Mancel Talcott Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

232.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to West Park Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24721-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24721 West Park Elementary Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,655

233.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Leslie Lewis Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24151-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24151 Leslie Lewis Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,665

234.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Julia Ward Howe Elementary School of Excellence
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23851-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23851 Julia Ward Howe Elementary School of Excellence
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,665

235.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wolfgang A Mozart Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-24611-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24611 Wolfgang A Mozart Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,700

52

 236.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from John Hancock College Preparatory High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

FY18 School payment for the purchase of ventra cards between 2/1/2018 - 6/30/2018

Transfer From:
46021 John Hancock College Preparatory High School
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
290003 Miscellaneous General Charges
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Amount: $3,725

237.

Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
Rationale:

Printing Services - New School Package (business cards, letterhead, envelopes, folders, note cards, banner stands, etc.)

Transfer From:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Transfer To:
23521 Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
115 General Education Fund
54520 Services - Printing
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Amount: $3,733

238.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John C Burroughs Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-485-00-13 To Project# 2019-22481-RPT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253540 Cost Estimating
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22481 John C Burroughs Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009522 Cip Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,750

239.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Clara Barton Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-22151-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22151 Clara Barton Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,775

240.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Oscar F Mayer Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-24401-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24401 Oscar F Mayer Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,789

53

 241.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Robert Fulton Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-23281-DOR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23281 Robert Fulton Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,817

242.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide to Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
Rationale:

Shifting funds from underutilized line within grant budget, to transportation to cover pending expenditure swaps.

Transfer From:
10855 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
212017 Other Govt Fnded Prjts-Guidnce
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54520 Services - Printing
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $3,820

243.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ellen H Richards Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-53051-ORR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53051 Ellen H Richards Career Academy High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,850

244.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-26381-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26381 Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,860

245.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-63142-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
63142 Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
486 CIT Bond Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,867

54

 246.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Supplies for CTE's Early Childhood program- per Tish McGee.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140005 Cte - Childcare Worker
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $3,900

247.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to William J Onahan Elementary School
Rationale:

Onahan K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24761 William J Onahan Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $3,912

248.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Friedrich L. Jahn Elementary of the Fine Arts
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2019-23921-SIT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23921 Friedrich L. Jahn Elementary of the Fine Arts
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,933

249.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $3,964

250.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John A Walsh Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-25731-ODR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25731 John A Walsh Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,982

55

 251.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Network 8 to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
02481 Network 8
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $4,000

252.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57705 Services - Space Rental
300008 Community/Parent Involvement
490939 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
410008 Contingency For Project Expan

Amount: $4,000

253.

Transfer from Diverse Learner Quality Instruction to Diverse Learner Quality Instruction
Rationale:

Transfer funds from space rental to cover cost of travel tor Starnet staff and consultants to workshops, conferences, meetings and
events.

Transfer From:
11674 Diverse Learner Quality Instruction
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57705 Services - Space Rental
300004 Special Ed - Community Service
460526 Preschool Discretionary (Starnet) Fy19

Transfer To:
11674 Diverse Learner Quality Instruction
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54205 Travel Expense
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
460526 Preschool Discretionary (Starnet) Fy19

Amount: $4,000

254.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Sharon Christa McAuliffe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-23551-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23551 Sharon Christa McAuliffe Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,049

56

 255.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William Rainey Harper High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-46151-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46151 William Rainey Harper High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,065

256.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Alexander Graham Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2018-23391-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23391 Alexander Graham Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,110

257.

Transfer from Office of Catholic Schools to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490940 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
410008 Contingency For Project Expan

Amount: $4,181

258.

Transfer from Office of Catholic Schools to St Juliana School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69168 St Juliana School
358 Title IV
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $4,200

259.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Washington D Smyser Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-25401-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25401 Washington D Smyser Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,475

57

 260.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Hiram H Belding Elementary School
Rationale:

Belding K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22221 Hiram H Belding Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

261.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Lazaro Cardenas Elementary School
Rationale:

Cardenas K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24051 Lazaro Cardenas Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

262.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to John H Hamline Elementary School
Rationale:

Hamline K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23511 John H Hamline Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

263.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Rufus M Hitch Elementary School
Rationale:

Hitch K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23811 Rufus M Hitch Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

264.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Andrew Jackson Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Jackson K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29171 Andrew Jackson Elementary Language Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

58

 265.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to James Ward Elementary School
Rationale:

Ward J K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25751 James Ward Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

266.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Leif Ericson Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Ericson K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29051 Leif Ericson Elementary Scholastic Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

267.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to John J Audubon Elementary School
Rationale:

Audubon K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22091 John J Audubon Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

268.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Augustus H Burley Elementary School
Rationale:

Burley K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22421 Augustus H Burley Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

269.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Burnham Elementary Inclusive Academy
Rationale:

Burnham K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22431 Burnham Elementary Inclusive Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

59

 270.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Fairfield Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Fairfield K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26701 Fairfield Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

271.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to James Otis Elementary School
Rationale:

Otis K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24791 James Otis Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

272.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Mark Sheridan Math & Science Academy
Rationale:

Sheridan K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29201 Mark Sheridan Math & Science Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

273.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Leland Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-26391-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26391 George Leland Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,517

274.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Hoyne Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-23871-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23871 Thomas Hoyne Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,569

60

 275.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Southeast Area Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2019-22631-EXT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22631 Southeast Area Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,682

276.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490939 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
410008 Contingency For Project Expan

Amount: $4,695

277.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Network 5
Rationale:

Funds to account for negative incurred due to benefit change

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
51100 Teacher Salaries - Regular
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02451 Network 5
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,739

278.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-22671-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22671 Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,760

279.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Bruno School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $4,783

61

Transfer To:
69064 St Bruno School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

 280.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Pilsen Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-31141-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31141 Pilsen Elementary Community Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,790

281.

Transfer from Principal Quality to John H Hamline Elementary School
Rationale:

Leverage Leadership Institute - registration via Innovation Stipend (Executive Principals)

Transfer From:
02541 Principal Quality
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090
070901

Transfer To:
23511 John H Hamline Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
070901 Executive Principals Program

Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
Executive Principals Program

Amount: $4,800

282.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2018-31101-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31101 Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,956

283.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2019-26381-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26381 Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009522 Cip Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,959

62

 284.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frank W Reilly Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25101-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25101 Frank W Reilly Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,000

285.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to GFP/Other Private Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69103 GFP/Other Private Schools
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370007 Nonpublic Homeschool/Other
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Amount: $5,000

286.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising to Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
Rationale:

hotel rooms for student college trips

Transfer From:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
212023 Post Secondary Education
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54555 Meals, Lodging, & Travel - Other
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $5,000

287.

Transfer from Carl Schurz High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-46281-PLS To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,046

288.

Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22041 Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,100

63

 289.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur A Libby Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-24171-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24171 Arthur A Libby Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,150

290.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
439606 Critical Mass Year 6

Transfer To:
46611 Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54210 Pupil Transportation
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
439606 Critical Mass Year 6

Amount: $5,150

291.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Annual National CACFP Sponsors Association membership fee ($150) and conference registration fee for the National Child Nutrition
Conference in April 2019 ($725 x 7 Nutrition Support Services staff members).

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
314 Lunchroom - Lighthouse
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
256015
000000

Nss - After-School Program: Supper & Snacks
Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
314 Lunchroom - Lighthouse
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
256015 Nss - After-School Program: Supper & Snacks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,225

292.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Horace Mann Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-24331-ODR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24331 Horace Mann Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,252

64

 293.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Information & Technology Services to Office of Student Health & Wellness
Rationale:

Portion of annual renewal cost of Qualtrics license.

Transfer From:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
267983 Research & Evaluation Support Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
14050 Office of Student Health & Wellness
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
213011 Health Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,257

294.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Henry Clay Elementary School
Rationale:

Clay K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22731 Henry Clay Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $5,281

295.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to National Teachers Elementary Academy
Rationale:

National Teachers Academy K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
32031 National Teachers Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $5,281

296.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Ernst Prussing Elementary School
Rationale:

Prussing K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25031 Ernst Prussing Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $5,281

297.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to George B Swift Elementary Specialty School
Rationale:

Swift K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25571 George B Swift Elementary Specialty School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $5,281

65

 298.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Gerald Delgado Kanoon Elementary Magnet School
Rationale:

Kanoon K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29071 Gerald Delgado Kanoon Elementary Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $5,281

299.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Wolfgang A Mozart Elementary School
Rationale:

Mozart K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24611 Wolfgang A Mozart Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $5,281

300.

Transfer from Southside Occupational Academy High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

To support Southside Occupational capital project

Transfer From:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
254002 Engineer Services
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253543 Parent Award
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,341

301.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Budget transfer for past due invoice for IT Certifications

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value
Amount: $5,390

66

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
54305 Tuition
256009
000000

Food Service
Default Value

 302.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John J Pershing Elementary Humanities Magnet
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-29251-OEM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29251 John J Pershing Elementary Humanities Magnet
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,394

303.

Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to Bronzeville Classical ES
Rationale:

Transferring Funds to cover the cost of the The Creative Group design and marketing services for Bronzeville Classical (Logo, Mascot
and Seal design).

Transfer From:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Transfer To:
26181 Bronzeville Classical ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Amount: $5,400

304.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Kelvyn Park High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-46191-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46191 Kelvyn Park High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,448

305.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mildred I Lavizzo Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25671-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25671 Mildred I Lavizzo Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,493

67

 306.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $5,500

307.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-06 To Project# 2017-23521-CSP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253526 Interior Renovation
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23521 Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,588

308.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22291-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22291 Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,595

309.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Whitney M Young Magnet High School
Rationale:

transfer to cover hosting cost for Elementary Chess Tournament on March 23 and March 30

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150013 Chess Program
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47101 Whitney M Young Magnet High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150013 Chess Program
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $5,600

68

 310.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Independent Schools Of Chicago to F Xavier School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69028 F Xavier School
358 Title IV
55005 Property - Equipment
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $5,668

311.

Transfer from Diverse Learner Supports & Services to Diverse Learner Supports & Services
Rationale:

Transfer for parking passes

Transfer From:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
54215 Car Fare
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,688

312.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23581-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23581 John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,691

313.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to South Shore Fine Arts Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22251-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22251 South Shore Fine Arts Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,691

314.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-31101-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31101 Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,691

69

 315.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James N Thorp Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25601-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25601 James N Thorp Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,691

316.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Adam Clayton Powell Paideia Community Academy ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-26291-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437
56310
251392
000000

Transfer To:
26291 Adam Clayton Powell Paideia Community Academy
ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

CIP Series 2018D
Capitalized Construction
Repairs & Improvements
Default Value

Amount: $5,691

317.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Foster Dulles Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-26141-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26141 John Foster Dulles Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,691

318.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry O Tanner Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-26281-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26281 Henry O Tanner Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,691

70

 319.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George W Curtis Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23061-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23061 George W Curtis Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,691

320.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Bret Harte Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-23561-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23561 Bret Harte Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,700

321.

Transfer from Arts to Dvorak Technology Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
26051 Dvorak Technology Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $5,740

322.

Transfer from Arts to Andrew Jackson Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29171 Andrew Jackson Elementary Language Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $5,750

323.

Transfer from Andrew Jackson Elementary Language Academy to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
29171 Andrew Jackson Elementary Language Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs
Amount: $5,750

71

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

 324.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Andrew Jackson Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29171 Andrew Jackson Elementary Language Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $5,750

325.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-26381-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26381 Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,751

326.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frank L Gillespie Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23321-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23321 Frank L Gillespie Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,751

327.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Burnside Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-29021-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29021 Burnside Elementary Scholastic Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,751

328.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.
Amount: $5,761

72

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

 329.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Infinity Math Science and Technology High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2018-55151-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
55151 Infinity Math Science and Technology High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,797

330.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Parkside Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-31201-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31201 Parkside Elementary Community Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,839

331.

Transfer from Language and Cultural Education to Language and Cultural Education
Rationale:

Funds will be used to cover cost of space rental for Seal of biliteracy ceremonies for 5, 8th and 12th grades in May and June 2019

Transfer From:
11510 Language and Cultural Education
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
221002 World Language Instructor Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11510 Language and Cultural Education
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
221002 World Language Instructor Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,883

332.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward N Hurley Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2018-23911-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23911 Edward N Hurley Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,886

333.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Anna R. Langford Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-487-00-01 To Project# 2018-22841-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
487 Series 2017 CIT
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22841 Anna R. Langford Community Academy
487 Series 2017 CIT
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,888

73

 334.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George W Tilton Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-25621-OII ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25621 George W Tilton Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,900

335.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to San Miguel School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69142 San Miguel School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $5,930

336.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Ryder Math & Science Specialty ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25191-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25191 William H Ryder Math & Science Specialty ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,995

337.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wendell Smith Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23641-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23641 Wendell Smith Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,995

338.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-26191-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,995

74

 339.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lenart Elementary Regional Gifted Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-29361-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29361 Lenart Elementary Regional Gifted Center
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,995

340.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Hoyne Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23871-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23871 Thomas Hoyne Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,995

341.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wendell E Green Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24131-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24131 Wendell E Green Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,995

342.

Transfer from Citywide Student Support and Engagement to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Moving funds to approved in grant supply line. Need to replenish funds on this line when allocation adjustment is loaded.

Transfer From:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430625 Delinquent Programs Fy19

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
53405 Commodities - Supplies
290025 Central Programs Support
430625 Delinquent Programs Fy19

Amount: $6,000

343.

Transfer from Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
Rationale:

Conscious Discipline travel and accommodations.

Transfer From:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
211010 Tier I Services
000000 Default Value
Amount: $6,000

75

Transfer To:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
211010 Tier I Services
000000 Default Value

 344.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to William P Nixon Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
24681 William P Nixon Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $6,000

345.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Franklin Elementary Fine Arts Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-10 To Project# 2018-29081-NPL ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29081 Franklin Elementary Fine Arts Center
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,014

346.

Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to Bronzeville Classical ES
Rationale:

These funds are being transferred to cover the design services for Bronzeville Classical (Mascot, Seal and Logo designs for the
school) with The Creative Group/Robert Half. The initial amount of 6582.7 was incorrect and additional funds need to be transferred to
the school).

Transfer From:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Transfer To:
26181 Bronzeville Classical ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Amount: $6,044

347.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arnold Mireles Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25331-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25331 Arnold Mireles Elementary Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,055

76

 348.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Noble - Noble College Prep
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66141 Noble - Noble College Prep
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $6,075

349.

Transfer from YCCS-West Town Acad Alternative HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Erroneous transfer.

Transfer From:
66627 YCCS-West Town Acad Alternative HS
115 General Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119004 Other General Charges
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $6,100

350.

Transfer from Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice to Dr Martin Luther King Jr College Prep HS
Rationale:

Correction of erroneous transfer.

Transfer From:
26371 Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
46371 Dr Martin Luther King Jr College Prep HS
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $6,100

351.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-23991-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23991 Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,120

352.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Deneen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22931-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22931 Charles S Deneen Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,139

77

 353.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Horace Mann Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24331-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24331 Horace Mann Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,139

354.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Isabelle C O'Keeffe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24751-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24751 Isabelle C O'Keeffe Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,259

355.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Amos Alonzo Stagg Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-26521-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26521 Amos Alonzo Stagg Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,259

356.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Walter Q Gresham Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23451-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23451 Walter Q Gresham Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,259

357.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22371-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22371 Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,335

78

 358.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title III programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Amount: $6,400

359.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Perkins Bass Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-22161-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22161 Perkins Bass Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,416

360.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54130 Services - Non Professional
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $6,500

361.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Associated Talmud Torah Of
Rationale:

Chicago

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69530 Associated Talmud Torah Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228953 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Jewish)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $6,500

362.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Martha Ruggles Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25181-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25181 Martha Ruggles Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253513 Playlots
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,579

79

 363.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to New School Development - City Wide
Rationale:

Printing Services for the new Englewood STEM HS

Transfer From:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Transfer To:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54520 Services - Printing
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Amount: $6,644

364.

Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to Innovation and Incubation
Rationale:

Transferring Funds from the New School Funding to support marketing for Englewood STEM HS Printing (Fullline).

Transfer From:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Transfer To:
13610 Innovation and Incubation
115 General Education Fund
54520 Services - Printing
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Amount: $6,644

365.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Pope John Paul II/Five Holy Martyrs
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title III programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69101 Pope John Paul II/Five Holy Martyrs
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Amount: $6,660

366.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Maria Saucedo Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-29151-PLS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29151 Maria Saucedo Elementary Scholastic Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,726

367.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Little Village Multiplex
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-49121-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49121 Little Village Multiplex
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,787

80

 368.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Brown Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-22351-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,800

369.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harold Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24921-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24921 Harold Washington Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,843

370.

Transfer from Harold Washington Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-24921-PKC To Award# 2019-437-00-07 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
24921 Harold Washington Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,843

371.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25771-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25771 George Washington Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,843

372.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Frank W Gunsaulus Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Gunsaulus K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29121 Frank W Gunsaulus Elementary Scholastic Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $6,846

81

 373.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to John Palmer Elementary School
Rationale:

Palmer K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24821 John Palmer Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $6,846

374.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to George Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Washington, G K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25771 George Washington Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $6,846

375.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to James Monroe Elementary School
Rationale:

Monroe K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24531 James Monroe Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $6,846

376.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to William P Nixon Elementary School
Rationale:

Nixon K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24681 William P Nixon Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $6,846

377.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Shields Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-25361-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25361 James Shields Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,875

82

 378.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54210 Pupil Transportation
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $6,885

379.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2018-26191-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,897

380.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John L Marsh Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24361-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24361 John L Marsh Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,901

381.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Hedges Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-23681-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23681 James Hedges Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,987

382.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-23611-OBI2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23611 Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,995

83

 383.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-23611-OBI2 To Award# 2019-437-00-16 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
23611 Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,995

384.

Transfer from Board of Trustees to Board of Trustees
Rationale:

Transfer funds to purchase licensing of software for archival database.

Transfer From:
10110 Board of Trustees
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10110 Board of Trustees
115 General Education Fund
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,000

385.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54130 Services - Non Professional
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $7,000

386.

Transfer from Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs to Bronzeville Scholastic Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for IB professional development.

Transfer From:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
115 General Education Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
000000 Default Value
Amount: $7,000

84

Transfer To:
55191 Bronzeville Scholastic Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
111084 International Baccalaureate
000265 International Baccalaureate Program

 387.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Friedrich W von Steuben Metropolitan Science HS
Rationale:

Supplies and materials to support CTE's Pre-Engineering program at Von Steuben HS- per Tish McGee

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
47081 Friedrich W von Steuben Metropolitan Science HS
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
141501 Cte - Project Lead The Way
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $7,000

388.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ernst Prussing Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2019-25031-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25031 Ernst Prussing Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,022

389.

Transfer from Consolidated Pointer Line Unit to Louis Nettelhorst Elementary School
Rationale:

Third tuition based supply allocation.

Transfer From:
12690 Consolidated Pointer Line Unit
117 Tuition Based Program
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24661 Louis Nettelhorst Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,050

390.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carroll-Rosenwald Specialty Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-22571-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22571 Carroll-Rosenwald Specialty Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,100

391.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Neal F Simeon Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2018-53061-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53061 Neal F Simeon Career Academy High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,172

85

 392.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Deneen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22931-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22931 Charles S Deneen Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,178

393.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to University of Chicago Laboratory Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69157 University of Chicago Laboratory Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
131001 Evening School Programs
430220 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Independ.

Amount: $7,194

394.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Manley Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-53111-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53111 Manley Career Academy High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,200

395.

Transfer from William Howard Taft High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-46311-UAF To Award# 2019-437-00-01 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46311 William Howard Taft High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,200

396.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Whitney M Young Magnet High School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of hosting Academic Decathlon

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
150001 Academic Decathlon - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47101 Whitney M Young Magnet High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150001 Academic Decathlon - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $7,200

86

 397.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2019-26381-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26381 Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009522 Cip Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,222

398.

Transfer from Talent Office to John H Hamline Elementary School
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
23511 John H Hamline Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Amount: $7,260

399.

Transfer from Oscar DePriest Elementary School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer to open PO for Security with LPA - Approved Budget Modification

Transfer From:
26631 Oscar DePriest Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
52130 Career Service Salaries - Extended Day
254612 Security Services
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
297920 Other Government Funded - Support Services
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $7,280

400.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helen Peirce International Studies ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2018-24891-UAF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24891 Helen Peirce International Studies ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,290

87

 401.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-25351-BLR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25351 Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,291

402.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-29091-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29091 Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,312

403.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Spry Elementary Community School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25451-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25451 John Spry Elementary Community School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,373

404.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $7,500

405.

Transfer from Arts to William W Carter Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22611 William W Carter Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $7,500

88

 406.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Theophilus Schmid Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-25391-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25391 Theophilus Schmid Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,500

407.

Transfer from William W Carter Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22611 William W Carter Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,500

408.

Transfer from Arts to William W Carter Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22611 William W Carter Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $7,500

409.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for seminar and fees.- per Lisa Washington

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140060
000389

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc
000389 Cte Programs

Police And Fire Training - Voc
Cte Programs

Amount: $7,500

89

 410.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Office of Catholic Schools to St. Monica School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69206 St. Monica School
358 Title IV
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $7,526

411.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William Rainey Harper High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-46151-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46151 William Rainey Harper High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,700

412.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Albert G Lane Technical High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-46221-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46221 Albert G Lane Technical High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,750

413.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Robert Nathaniel Dett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-26031-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26031 Robert Nathaniel Dett Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,789

414.

Transfer from Robert Nathaniel Dett Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-26031-OHI To Award# 2019-437-00-18 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
26031 Robert Nathaniel Dett Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value
Amount: $7,789

90

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

 415.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Robert Healy Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-23651-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23651 Robert Healy Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,789

416.

Transfer from Arts to William C Reavis Math & Science Specialty ES
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
25091 William C Reavis Math & Science Specialty ES
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $7,825

417.

Transfer from Arts to Hyde Park Academy High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
46171 Hyde Park Academy High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $7,900

418.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Leslie Lewis Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-24151-OEM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24151 Leslie Lewis Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,908

419.

Transfer from Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
Rationale:

shifting funds to travel line for out of state training/conference.

Transfer From:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
211010 Tier I Services
000000 Default Value
Amount: $8,000

91

Transfer To:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
211010 Tier I Services
000000 Default Value

 420.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Percy L Julian High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-46401-OFR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46401 Percy L Julian High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,000

421.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Cyrus H McCormick Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24431-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24431 Cyrus H McCormick Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,021

422.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Oscar DePriest Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-26631-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26631 Oscar DePriest Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,021

423.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward K Ellington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23101-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23101 Edward K Ellington Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,021

424.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Leland Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-26391-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26391 George Leland Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,021

92

 425.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Spry Elementary Community School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25451-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25451 John Spry Elementary Community School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,021

426.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Josefa Ortiz De Dominguez Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23411-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23411 Josefa Ortiz De Dominguez Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,021

427.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Orozco Fine Arts & Sciences Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-31281-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31281 Orozco Fine Arts & Sciences Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,021

428.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Walter Q Gresham Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23451-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23451 Walter Q Gresham Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,081

429.

Transfer from Arts to Daniel R Cameron Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22531 Daniel R Cameron Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $8,100

93

 430.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Daniel R Cameron Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22531 Daniel R Cameron Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,100

431.

Transfer from Family & Community Engagement Office to Family & Community Engagement Office
Rationale:

Translation equipment for Network 1, 2 and 4 Parent Universities.

Transfer From:
14060 Family & Community Engagement Office
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
259600 Equipment Leasing Program
430233 Title I - District Parent Involvement

Transfer To:
14060 Family & Community Engagement Office
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
300008 Community/Parent Involvement
430233 Title I - District Parent Involvement

Amount: $8,100

432.

Transfer from Arts to Daniel R Cameron Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22531 Daniel R Cameron Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $8,100

433.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-23991-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23991 Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,125

434.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edison Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-28081-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
28081 Edison Park Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,160

94

 435.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Clearing negative pointer line due to benefit cost changes.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
314 Lunchroom - Lighthouse
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
256015 Nss - After-School Program: Supper & Snacks
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
314 Lunchroom - Lighthouse
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,268

436.

Transfer from Arts to Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
24741 Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $8,275

437.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Alexander Graham Bell Elementary School
Rationale:

Bell K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22231 Alexander Graham Bell Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $8,313

438.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Luther Burbank Elementary School
Rationale:

Burbank K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22401 Luther Burbank Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $8,313

439.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Washington D Smyser Elementary School
Rationale:

Smyser K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25401 Washington D Smyser Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $8,313

95

 440.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Helen Peirce International Studies ES
Rationale:

Peirce K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24891 Helen Peirce International Studies ES
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $8,313

441.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Instructional Supports
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to realign Chess Healthy Communities budget.

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $8,450

442.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-53101-OEM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,462

443.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ray Graham Training Center High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-49101-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49101 Ray Graham Training Center High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,495

444.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Mt Carmel Academy Of East
Rationale:

Lakeview

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic
Amount: $8,500

96

Transfer To:
69226 Mt Carmel Academy Of East
Lakeview
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370015 Federal - Idea Nonpublic (Catholic)
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

 445.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Cheder Lubavitch
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69593 Cheder Lubavitch
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430223 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $8,500

446.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Laughlin Falconer Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-23151-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23151 Laughlin Falconer Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,504

447.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-46641-OLT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46641 Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,543

448.

Transfer from Office of Catholic Schools to St Ignatius College Prep
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69411 St Ignatius College Prep
358 Title IV
55005 Property - Equipment
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $8,567

449.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Milton Gregory Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-23441-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23441 John Milton Gregory Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,640

97

 450.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George W Curtis Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-23061-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23061 George W Curtis Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,700

451.

Transfer from Arts to Dewey Elementary Academy of Fine Arts
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
22951 Dewey Elementary Academy of Fine Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $8,700

452.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Assessment
Rationale:

To cover non-union COLA impact - Assessments Dept.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57105 Pensions - Employer, Teacher
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11210 Assessment
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,701

453.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

CTE Auto Tech Program Equipment

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
55005 Property - Equipment
144701 Automotive Mechanic
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $8,747

454.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur A Libby Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2018-24171-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24171 Arthur A Libby Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,760

98

 455.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James R Doolittle Jr Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-22991-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22991 James R Doolittle Jr Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,798

456.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $8,900

457.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Assessment
Rationale:

To cover non-union COLA impact - Assessments Dept.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57105 Pensions - Employer, Teacher
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11210 Assessment
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,964

458.

Transfer from Benito Juarez Community Academy High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

FY18 School payment for the purchase of ventra cards between 2/1/2018 - 6/30/2018

Transfer From:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
290003 Miscellaneous General Charges
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers
Amount: $8,995

99

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

 459.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $9,000

460.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Laura S Ward Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2013-476-00-01 To Project# 2019-24991-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
476 Modern Schools
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24991 Laura S Ward Elementary School
476 Modern Schools
56310 Capitalized Construction
009559 Boiler/Mechanical
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,000

461.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Kenwood Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-05 To Project# 2017-46361-UAF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253524 Playground Program
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46361 Kenwood Academy High School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,032

462.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds for supplies for STEM program.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
439606 Critical Mass Year 6

Transfer To:
46611 Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
439606 Critical Mass Year 6

Amount: $9,050

463.

Transfer from Arts to Lyman A Budlong Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
22391 Lyman A Budlong Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $9,075

100

 464.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to CICS - Longwood
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66061 CICS - Longwood
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $9,100

465.

Transfer from Arts to Stephen T Mather High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
46241 Stephen T Mather High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $9,109

466.

Transfer from Arts to James R Doolittle Jr Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
22991 James R Doolittle Jr Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $9,195

467.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Milton Brunson Math & Science Specialty ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-22491-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22491 Milton Brunson Math & Science Specialty ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,247

468.

Transfer from Arts to Jordan Elementary Community School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22811 Jordan Elementary Community School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $9,300

101

 469.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Jordan Elementary Community School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22811 Jordan Elementary Community School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,300

470.

Transfer from Arts to Jordan Elementary Community School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22811 Jordan Elementary Community School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $9,300

471.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Cyrus H McCormick Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24431-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24431 Cyrus H McCormick Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,406

472.

Transfer from Arts to Daniel Hale Williams Prep School of Medicine
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program
Amount: $9,475

102

Transfer To:
55161 Daniel Hale Williams Prep School of Medicine
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

 473.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Burnham Elementary Inclusive Academy
Rationale:

Transfer needed to support purchase of classroom items.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
376648 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Extended Supports
Fy19

Transfer To:
22431 Burnham Elementary Inclusive Academy
362 Early Childhood Development
55010 Property - Furniture
119027 Prek Instruction
376669 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy19

Amount: $9,481

474.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to George M Pullman Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer needed to support purchase of classroom items.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
54210 Pupil Transportation
300008 Community/Parent Involvement
376648 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Extended Supports
Fy19

Transfer To:
25041 George M Pullman Elementary School
362 Early Childhood Development
55010 Property - Furniture
119027 Prek Instruction
376669 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy19

Amount: $9,481

475.

Transfer from Arts to Great Lakes Academy Charter School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66951 Great Lakes Academy Charter School
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $9,484

476.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-23341-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23341 Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,500

103

 477.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Theophilus Schmid Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
25391 Theophilus Schmid Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $9,500

478.

Transfer from Office of Student Health & Wellness to Office of Student Health & Wellness
Rationale:

Transfer from Supplies to Equipment for purchase of laptops for Citywide Vision and Hearing Technicians, school based providers.

Transfer From:
14050 Office of Student Health & Wellness
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
213004 Vision Testing-City Wide
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
14050 Office of Student Health & Wellness
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
213004 Vision Testing-City Wide
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,500

479.

Transfer from Arts to Academy for Global Citizenship Charter School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
63011 Academy for Global Citizenship Charter School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $9,640

480.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Percy L Julian High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-46401-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46401 Percy L Julian High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,674

481.

Transfer from Arts to Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program
Amount: $9,700

104

Transfer To:
22291 Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

 482.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to The Montessori School of Englewood Charter
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-17 To Project# 2018-66591-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009551 Masonary/Windows
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66591 The Montessori School of Englewood Charter
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,710

483.

Transfer from The Montessori School of Englewood Charter to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-66591-STR To Award# 2017-486-00-17 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
66591 The Montessori School of Englewood Charter
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009551 Masonary/Windows
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,710

484.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-17 To Project# 2018-49161-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009551 Masonary/Windows
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49161 TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,710

485.

Transfer from Arts to University of Chicago - Donoghue
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66321 University of Chicago - Donoghue
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $9,750

486.

Transfer from University of Chicago - Donoghue to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
66321 University of Chicago - Donoghue
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,750

105

 487.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to University of Chicago - Donoghue
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66321 University of Chicago - Donoghue
115 General Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $9,750

488.

Transfer from Arts to Amos Alonzo Stagg Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
26521 Amos Alonzo Stagg Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $9,760

489.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to George Armstrong International Studies ES
Rationale:

Armstrong K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22081 George Armstrong International Studies ES
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $9,780

490.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to John F Eberhart Elementary School
Rationale:

Eberhart K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23041 John F Eberhart Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $9,780

491.

Transfer from Arts to James B McPherson Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24471 James B McPherson Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $9,850

106

 492.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from James B McPherson Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
24471 James B McPherson Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,850

493.

Transfer from Arts to Erie Elementary Charter School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66331 Erie Elementary Charter School
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $9,850

494.

Transfer from Arts to James B McPherson Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24471 James B McPherson Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $9,850

495.

Transfer from Arts to Avalon Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
22101 Avalon Park Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $9,850

496.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Prescott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-25021-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25021 William H Prescott Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,855

107

 497.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Roswell B Mason Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-24381-OLT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24381 Roswell B Mason Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,875

498.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Martha Ruggles Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-25181-FLR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25181 Martha Ruggles Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,880

499.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Esmond Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2018-23131-OIP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23131 Esmond Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,950

500.

Transfer from Arts to Mount Greenwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
24591 Mount Greenwood Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $9,950

501.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Roberto Clemente Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-51091-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
51091 Roberto Clemente Community Academy High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,965

108

 502.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Multicultural Academy of Scholarship
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
55181 Multicultural Academy of Scholarship
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $9,968

503.

Transfer from Arts to Noble - Baker College Prep
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66577 Noble - Baker College Prep
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $9,975

504.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Roberto Clemente Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-51091-oei ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
51091 Roberto Clemente Community Academy High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,985

505.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-22671-OLT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22671 Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,985

506.

Transfer from Arts to National Teachers Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
32031 National Teachers Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

109

 507.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Orr Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
28151 Orr Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

508.

Transfer from Arts to Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22671 Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

509.

Transfer from Arts to Wendell Phillips Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46261 Wendell Phillips Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

510.

Transfer from Arts to L.E.A.R.N. - Charles and Dorothy Campbell Campus
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66562 L.E.A.R.N. - Charles and Dorothy Campbell Campus
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

511.

Transfer from Arts to Legal Prep Charter Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66641 Legal Prep Charter Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

110

 512.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Noble - Muchin College Prep
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66573 Noble - Muchin College Prep
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

513.

Transfer from Arts to North Lawndale College Prep - Collins
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66092 North Lawndale College Prep - Collins
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

514.

Transfer from Arts to Perspectives - Math and Science Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66056 Perspectives - Math and Science Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

515.

Transfer from Arts to Providence Englewood Charter School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66471 Providence Englewood Charter School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

516.

Transfer from Arts to Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

111

 517.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Enrico Tonti Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25631 Enrico Tonti Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

518.

Transfer from Arts to Alessandro Volta Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25681 Alessandro Volta Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

519.

Transfer from Arts to Disney II Magnet School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26921 Disney II Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

520.

Transfer from Arts to Grover Cleveland Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22741 Grover Cleveland Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

521.

Transfer from Arts to Helge A Haugan Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23591 Helge A Haugan Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

112

 522.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22901 Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

523.

Transfer from Arts to Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29111 Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

524.

Transfer from Arts to Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26321 Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

525.

Transfer from Arts to Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23991 Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

526.

Transfer from Arts to Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24951 Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

113

 527.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29091 Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

528.

Transfer from Arts to Eliza Chappell Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22681 Eliza Chappell Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

529.

Transfer from Arts to Joyce Kilmer Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24021 Joyce Kilmer Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

530.

Transfer from Arts to George Rogers Clark Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22191 George Rogers Clark Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

531.

Transfer from Arts to George Manierre Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24311 George Manierre Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

114

 532.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23341 Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

533.

Transfer from Arts to John Barry Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22141 John Barry Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

534.

Transfer from Arts to Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31221 Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

535.

Transfer from Arts to Christopher Columbus Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22791 Christopher Columbus Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

536.

Transfer from Arts to George B McClellan Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24421 George B McClellan Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

115

 537.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to James Ward Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25751 James Ward Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

538.

Transfer from Arts to Francisco I Madero Middle School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41041 Francisco I Madero Middle School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

539.

Transfer from Arts to Bret Harte Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23561 Bret Harte Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

540.

Transfer from Arts to Pathways in Education- Brighton Park
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66801 Pathways in Education- Brighton Park
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

541.

Transfer from Arts to Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41111 Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

116

 542.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from National Teachers Elementary Academy to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
32031 National Teachers Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

543.

Transfer from Orr Academy High School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
28151 Orr Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

544.

Transfer from Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22671 Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

545.

Transfer from Wendell Phillips Academy High School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
46261 Wendell Phillips Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

546.

Transfer from L.E.A.R.N. - Charles and Dorothy Campbell Campus to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
66562 L.E.A.R.N. - Charles and Dorothy Campbell Campus
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs
Amount: $10,000

117

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

 547.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Legal Prep Charter Academy to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
66641 Legal Prep Charter Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

548.

Transfer from Noble - Muchin College Prep to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
66573 Noble - Muchin College Prep
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

549.

Transfer from North Lawndale College Prep - Collins to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
66092 North Lawndale College Prep - Collins
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

550.

Transfer from Perspectives - Math and Science Academy to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
66056 Perspectives - Math and Science Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

551.

Transfer from Providence Englewood Charter School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
66471 Providence Englewood Charter School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

118

 552.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Benito Juarez Community Academy High School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

553.

Transfer from Enrico Tonti Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
25631 Enrico Tonti Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

554.

Transfer from Alessandro Volta Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
25681 Alessandro Volta Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

555.

Transfer from Disney II Magnet School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
26921 Disney II Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

556.

Transfer from Grover Cleveland Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22741 Grover Cleveland Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

119

 557.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Helge A Haugan Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
23591 Helge A Haugan Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

558.

Transfer from Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22901 Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

559.

Transfer from Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
29111 Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

560.

Transfer from Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
26321 Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

561.

Transfer from Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
23991 Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

120

 562.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
24951 Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

563.

Transfer from Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
29091 Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

564.

Transfer from Eliza Chappell Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22681 Eliza Chappell Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

565.

Transfer from Joyce Kilmer Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
24021 Joyce Kilmer Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

566.

Transfer from George Rogers Clark Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22191 George Rogers Clark Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs
Amount: $10,000

121

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

 567.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from George Manierre Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
24311 George Manierre Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

568.

Transfer from Johann W von Goethe Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
23341 Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

569.

Transfer from John Barry Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22141 John Barry Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

570.

Transfer from Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
31221 Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

571.

Transfer from Christopher Columbus Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22791 Christopher Columbus Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs
Amount: $10,000

122

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

 572.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from George B McClellan Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
24421 George B McClellan Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

573.

Transfer from James Ward Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
25751 James Ward Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

574.

Transfer from Francisco I Madero Middle School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
41041 Francisco I Madero Middle School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

575.

Transfer from Bret Harte Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
23561 Bret Harte Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

576.

Transfer from Pathways in Education- Brighton Park to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
66801 Pathways in Education- Brighton Park
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

123

 577.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Marine Leadership Academy at Ames to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
41111 Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

578.

Transfer from Arts to Collins Academy High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
49131 Collins Academy High School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

579.

Transfer from Arts to James Weldon Johnson Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
26231 James Weldon Johnson Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

580.

Transfer from Arts to John Foster Dulles Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
26141 John Foster Dulles Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

581.

Transfer from Arts to Acero Charter Schools - Victoria Soto
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66137 Acero Charter Schools - Victoria Soto
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

124

 582.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Acero Charter Schools - Brighton Park
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66602 Acero Charter Schools - Brighton Park
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

583.

Transfer from Arts to Asian Human Services - Passages Charter School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66191 Asian Human Services - Passages Charter School
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

584.

Transfer from Arts to ASPIRA Charter School - Haugan Middle School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66351 ASPIRA Charter School - Haugan Middle School
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

585.

Transfer from Arts to CICS - Loomis Primary
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66075 CICS - Loomis Primary
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

586.

Transfer from Arts to KIPP Ascend Charter School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66261 KIPP Ascend Charter School
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

125

 587.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to KIPP Ascend Charter School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66261 KIPP Ascend Charter School
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

588.

Transfer from Arts to John H Kinzie Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
24071 John H Kinzie Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

589.

Transfer from Arts to Mary E McDowell Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
26421 Mary E McDowell Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

590.

Transfer from Arts to William Jones College Preparatory High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
47021 William Jones College Preparatory High School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

591.

Transfer from Arts to Newton Bateman Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
22171 Newton Bateman Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

126

 592.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Wildwood IB World Magnet School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
25881 Wildwood IB World Magnet School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

593.

Transfer from Arts to William J Onahan Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
24761 William J Onahan Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

594.

Transfer from Arts to Nathan Hale Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
23491 Nathan Hale Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

595.

Transfer from Arts to Rudyard Kipling Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
24081 Rudyard Kipling Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

596.

Transfer from Arts to Wendell E Green Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
24131 Wendell E Green Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

127

 597.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to William Rainey Harper High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
46151 William Rainey Harper High School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

598.

Transfer from Arts to William K New Sullivan Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
25541 William K New Sullivan Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

599.

Transfer from Arts to Wendell Smith Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
23641 Wendell Smith Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

600.

Transfer from Arts to Minnie Mars Jamieson Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
23931 Minnie Mars Jamieson Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

601.

Transfer from Arts to Philip Rogers Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
25141 Philip Rogers Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

128

 602.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Roald Amundsen High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
46031 Roald Amundsen High School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

603.

Transfer from Arts to Stephen K Hayt Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
23621 Stephen K Hayt Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

604.

Transfer from Arts to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

605.

Transfer from Arts to John J Audubon Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
22091 John J Audubon Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

606.

Transfer from Arts to Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
22041 Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

129

 607.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Salmon P Chase Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
22701 Salmon P Chase Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

608.

Transfer from Arts to Sharon Christa McAuliffe Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
23551 Sharon Christa McAuliffe Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

609.

Transfer from Arts to Genevieve Melody Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
26351 Genevieve Melody Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

610.

Transfer from Arts to Jacob Beidler Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
22211 Jacob Beidler Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

611.

Transfer from Arts to Willa Cather Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
26021 Willa Cather Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

130

 612.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Ray Graham Training Center High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
49101 Ray Graham Training Center High School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

613.

Transfer from Arts to William H Brown Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

614.

Transfer from Arts to William H Seward Communication Arts Academy ES
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
25301 William H Seward Communication Arts Academy ES
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

615.

Transfer from Arts to YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66107 YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

616.

Transfer from Arts to YCCS- Innovations HS of Arts Integration
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66617 YCCS- Innovations HS of Arts Integration
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

131

 617.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to National Teachers Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
32031 National Teachers Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

618.

Transfer from Arts to Orr Academy High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
28151 Orr Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

619.

Transfer from Arts to Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22671 Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

620.

Transfer from Arts to Wendell Phillips Academy High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46261 Wendell Phillips Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

621.

Transfer from Arts to L.E.A.R.N. - Charles and Dorothy Campbell Campus
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66562 L.E.A.R.N. - Charles and Dorothy Campbell Campus
115 General Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

132

 622.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Legal Prep Charter Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66641 Legal Prep Charter Academy
115 General Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

623.

Transfer from Arts to Noble - Muchin College Prep
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66573 Noble - Muchin College Prep
115 General Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

624.

Transfer from Arts to North Lawndale College Prep - Collins
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66092 North Lawndale College Prep - Collins
115 General Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

625.

Transfer from Arts to Perspectives - Math and Science Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66056 Perspectives - Math and Science Academy
115 General Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

626.

Transfer from Arts to Providence Englewood Charter School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66471 Providence Englewood Charter School
115 General Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

133

 627.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

628.

Transfer from Arts to Enrico Tonti Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25631 Enrico Tonti Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

629.

Transfer from Arts to Alessandro Volta Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25681 Alessandro Volta Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

630.

Transfer from Arts to Disney II Magnet School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26921 Disney II Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

631.

Transfer from Arts to Grover Cleveland Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22741 Grover Cleveland Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

134

 632.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Helge A Haugan Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23591 Helge A Haugan Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

633.

Transfer from Arts to Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22901 Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

634.

Transfer from Arts to Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29111 Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

635.

Transfer from Arts to Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26321 Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

636.

Transfer from Arts to Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23991 Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

135

 637.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24951 Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

638.

Transfer from Arts to Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29091 Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

639.

Transfer from Arts to Eliza Chappell Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22681 Eliza Chappell Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

640.

Transfer from Arts to Joyce Kilmer Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24021 Joyce Kilmer Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

641.

Transfer from Arts to George Rogers Clark Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22191 George Rogers Clark Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

136

 642.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to George Manierre Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24311 George Manierre Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

643.

Transfer from Arts to Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23341 Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

644.

Transfer from Arts to John Barry Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22141 John Barry Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

645.

Transfer from Arts to Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31221 Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

646.

Transfer from Arts to Christopher Columbus Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22791 Christopher Columbus Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

137

 647.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to George B McClellan Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24421 George B McClellan Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

648.

Transfer from Arts to James Ward Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25751 James Ward Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

649.

Transfer from Arts to Francisco I Madero Middle School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41041 Francisco I Madero Middle School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

650.

Transfer from Arts to Bret Harte Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23561 Bret Harte Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

651.

Transfer from Arts to Pathways in Education- Brighton Park
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66801 Pathways in Education- Brighton Park
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

138

 652.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41111 Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

653.

Transfer from Arts to Alexander Hamilton Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
23501 Alexander Hamilton Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

654.

Transfer from Arts to Chicago Academy High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
46481 Chicago Academy High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

655.

Transfer from Arts to Theodore Roosevelt High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
46271 Theodore Roosevelt High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

656.

Transfer from Arts to Esmond Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program
Amount: $10,000

139

Transfer To:
23131 Esmond Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

 657.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Mark Twain Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
25661 Mark Twain Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

658.

Transfer from Arts to Morgan Park High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
46251 Morgan Park High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

659.

Transfer from Arts to Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
46611 Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

660.

Transfer from Arts to Mahalia Jackson Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
26651 Mahalia Jackson Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

661.

Transfer from Arts to Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program
Amount: $10,000

140

Transfer To:
26381 Oliver S Westcott Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

 662.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Oliver Wendell Holmes Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
23831 Oliver Wendell Holmes Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

663.

Transfer from Arts to Southside Occupational Academy High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

664.

Transfer from Arts to Edward Coles Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
22771 Edward Coles Elementary Language Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

665.

Transfer from Arts to Park Manor Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
24841 Park Manor Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

666.

Transfer from Arts to Fernwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program
Amount: $10,000

141

Transfer To:
23201 Fernwood Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

 667.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Percy L Julian High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
46401 Percy L Julian High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

668.

Transfer from Arts to Eugene Field Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
23211 Eugene Field Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

669.

Transfer from Arts to George Leland Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
26391 George Leland Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

670.

Transfer from Arts to Daniel Webster Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
25791 Daniel Webster Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

671.

Transfer from Arts to George Westinghouse College Prep
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program
Amount: $10,000

142

Transfer To:
53071 George Westinghouse College Prep
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

 672.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Laura S Ward Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
24991 Laura S Ward Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

673.

Transfer from Arts to Richard Yates Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
25911 Richard Yates Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

674.

Transfer from Arts to James Otis Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
24791 James Otis Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

675.

Transfer from Arts to John A Walsh Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
25731 John A Walsh Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

676.

Transfer from Arts to Lazaro Cardenas Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program
Amount: $10,000

143

Transfer To:
24051 Lazaro Cardenas Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

 677.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Thomas Kelly High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
46181 Thomas Kelly High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

678.

Transfer from Arts to Walter S Christopher Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
30031 Walter S Christopher Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

679.

Transfer from Arts to Irvin C Mollison Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
26251 Irvin C Mollison Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

680.

Transfer from Arts to Jackie Robinson Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
26061 Jackie Robinson Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

681.

Transfer from Arts to Ombudsman Chicago- Northwest
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program
Amount: $10,000

144

Transfer To:
65013 Ombudsman Chicago- Northwest
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

 682.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to YCCS- Academy of Scholastic Achievement HS
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
66106 YCCS- Academy of Scholastic Achievement HS
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

683.

Transfer from Arts to YCCS-Austin Career Education Center HS
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
66611 YCCS-Austin Career Education Center HS
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

684.

Transfer from Arts to YCCS-CCA Academy HS
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
66612 YCCS-CCA Academy HS
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

685.

Transfer from Arts to Chicago Military Academy High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
70070 Chicago Military Academy High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $10,000

686.

Transfer from Daniel R Cameron Elementary School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Moving funds to LPA - Approve Budget Modification

Transfer From:
22531 Daniel R Cameron Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
52100 Career Service Salaries - Regular
300008 Community/Parent Involvement
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390008 Other Government Funded - Community Services
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $10,000

145

 687.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to KIPP One Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
66032 KIPP One Academy
124 School Special Income Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $10,000

688.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

To support PD for staff members and teachers to CSTA Conference.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
146001 Computer Education-Elementary
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
115 General Education Fund
54555 Meals, Lodging, & Travel - Other
221117 Computer Education
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

689.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Talent Office
Rationale:

Per Arielle Dixon. Increase salary for position number 580046, HR Functional Analyst from $80,000 to $105,000.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
51100 Teacher Salaries - Regular
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

690.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Talent Office
Rationale:

Per Arielle Dixon. Increase salary for position number 580046, HR Functional Analyst from $80,000 to $105,000.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

691.

Transfer from Network 11 to Arthur A Libby Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer funds Network 11 IMC grant funds to Libby ES for Elevate K-12

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
24171 Arthur A Libby Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $10,000

146

 692.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Network 11 to Foster Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer Network 11 IMC grant funds to Foster Park ES to support the development of a "highly effective" Instructional Leadership
Team.

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
23261 Foster Park Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $10,000

693.

Transfer from Network 11 to Wendell E Green Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer Network 11 IMC grant funds to Green ES to support supplemental instruction for primary, intermediate and middle school
students who are performing below grade level.

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
24131 Wendell E Green Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $10,000

694.

Transfer from Network 11 to Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
Rationale:

Transfer Network 11 IMC grant funds to King ES for employment of two parent workers to support the academic needs of at-risk
students.

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
26371 Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $10,000

695.

Transfer from Network 11 to Turner-Drew Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Transfer Network 11 IMC grant funds to Turner-Drew ES for the What I Need (WIN) Initiative, using Elevate K-12, an innovative,
interactive online intervention.

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
29041 Turner-Drew Elementary Language Academy
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $10,000

147

 696.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-23581-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23581 John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,117

697.

Transfer from Principal Quality to John H Hamline Elementary School
Rationale:

Leveraging Leadership Institute through the Innovation PD Stipend (Executive Principals)

Transfer From:
02541 Principal Quality
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
070901 Executive Principals Program

Transfer To:
23511 John H Hamline Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54205 Travel Expense
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
070901 Executive Principals Program

Amount: $10,200

698.

Transfer from Gurdon S Hubbard High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-46341-ROF To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46341 Gurdon S Hubbard High School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,226

699.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide to Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
Rationale:

hotel accommodation for student college trips

Transfer From:
10855 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
212017 Other Govt Fnded Prjts-Guidnce
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999
Amount: $10,250

148

Transfer To:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54555 Meals, Lodging, & Travel - Other
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

 700.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Southside Occupational Academy High School to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

RITM0152671 budget transfer request per CTE to the bucket position pointer line to open a bucket for a stipend to pay for support of
Namaan's work under the 3 Circles Grant.

Transfer From:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140070 Career Employment Preparation
000576 Supplemental Aid

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,491

701.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Otis Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-24791-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24791 James Otis Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,700

702.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-22511-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22511 Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,800

703.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Julia Ward Howe Elementary School of Excellence
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-23851-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23851 Julia Ward Howe Elementary School of Excellence
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,897

149

 704.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Inspector General to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Telecom (FAX and Phones) for IG office expansion

Transfer From:
10320 Inspector General
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,910

705.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Christo Rey High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69170 Christo Rey High School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
131001 Evening School Programs
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $10,934

706.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide to Family & Community Engagement Office
Rationale:

Innovative Bridge's Parent Program Marketing and Outreach

Transfer From:
10855 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
320520 Innovative Bridge & Transition Program

Transfer To:
14060 Family & Community Engagement Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
300008 Community/Parent Involvement
320520 Innovative Bridge & Transition Program

Amount: $11,000

707.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Peace and Education Coalition High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-67021-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
67021 Peace and Education Coalition High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,055

708.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Academy of St. Benedict the African  Laflin
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $11,400

150

Transfer To:
69257 Academy of St. Benedict the African  Laflin
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

 709.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Pilsen Elementary Community Academy to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
31141 Pilsen Elementary Community Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $11,438

710.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Joseph Lovett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24241-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24241 Joseph Lovett Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,475

711.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $11,600

712.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-63142-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
63142 Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,622

151

 713.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Christian Affiliate Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69237 Christian Affiliate Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430221 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Christian

Amount: $11,672

714.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Christian Affiliate Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69237 Christian Affiliate Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390014 Nonpublic Sup Counseling Services
430221 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Christian

Amount: $11,672

715.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Bernhard Moos Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-24551-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24551 Bernhard Moos Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,800

716.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward Everett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-23141-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23141 Edward Everett Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,875

717.

Transfer from Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

FY18 School payment for the purchase of ventra cards between 2/1/2018 - 6/30/2018

Transfer From:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
290003 Miscellaneous General Charges
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers
Amount: $11,955

152

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

 718.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Young Women's Leadership Charter School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-20 To Project# 2019-66171-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009513 Fs O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66171 Young Women's Leadership Charter School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009513 Fs O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,985

719.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arnold Mireles Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25331-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25331 Arnold Mireles Elementary Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,199

720.

Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
Rationale:

These funds are being transferred to support the new school marketing package (envelopes, letterhead, mascot design, etc.) for Sor
Juana Ines de la Cruz ES.

Transfer From:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Transfer To:
23521 Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Amount: $12,248

721.

Transfer from Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-25521-MCR To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
25521 Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009551 Masonary/Windows
000000 Default Value
Amount: $12,460

153

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

 722.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $12,500

723.

Transfer from Jose De Diego Elementary Community Academy to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
31261 Jose De Diego Elementary Community Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $12,500

724.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-31101-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31101 Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,567

725.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Martha Ruggles Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25181-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25181 Martha Ruggles Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253513 Playlots
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,703

154

 726.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

CTE Culinary Arts Program Supplies

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140505 Culinary Arts
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $12,900

727.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to South Shore Fine Arts Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22251-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22251 South Shore Fine Arts Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $13,039

728.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Isabelle C O'Keeffe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24751-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24751 Isabelle C O'Keeffe Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $13,417

729.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Lydia Home Association
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Neglected Programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430525 Neglected Programs Fy19

Transfer To:
69086 Lydia Home Association
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
54205 Travel Expense
221018 Ecia-Improv Of Instruc
430525 Neglected Programs Fy19

Amount: $13,715

730.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Avalon Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22101-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22101 Avalon Park Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $13,750

155

 731.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Brownell Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22361-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22361 Charles S Brownell Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $13,750

732.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Christian Ebinger Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-23051-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23051 Christian Ebinger Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $13,800

733.

Transfer from Office of Catholic Schools to St Ignatius College Prep
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69411 St Ignatius College Prep
358 Title IV
55005 Property - Equipment
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440045 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $13,811

734.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry R Clissold Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2018-22761-OII ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22761 Henry R Clissold Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $13,867

735.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Russell Lowell Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-24251-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24251 James Russell Lowell Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,190

156

 736.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George W Curtis Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2019-23061-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23061 George W Curtis Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,300

737.

Transfer from Arts to Rufus M Hitch Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
23811 Rufus M Hitch Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $14,650

738.

Transfer from Arts to Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23521 Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $14,750

739.

Transfer from Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
23521 Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,750

740.

Transfer from Arts to Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23521 Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $14,750

157

 741.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Instructional Supports to Instructional Supports
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for tournament transportation.

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54210 Pupil Transportation
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $14,750

742.

Transfer from Arts to George Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
25771 George Washington Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $14,963

743.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Stephen F Gale Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-31081-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31081 Stephen F Gale Elementary Community Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,964

744.

Transfer from Chief Equity Office to Chief Equity Office
Rationale:

Travel expense.

Transfer From:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

745.

Transfer from Arts to Leslie Lewis Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24151 Leslie Lewis Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

158

 746.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49081 Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

747.

Transfer from Arts to John H Vanderpoel Elementary Magnet School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29311 John H Vanderpoel Elementary Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

748.

Transfer from Arts to Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22371 Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

749.

Transfer from Arts to Frank W Reilly Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Arts providers

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25101 Frank W Reilly Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

159

 750.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
29111 Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $15,000

751.

Transfer from Leslie Lewis Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
24151 Leslie Lewis Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

752.

Transfer from Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
49081 Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

753.

Transfer from John H Vanderpoel Elementary Magnet School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
29311 John H Vanderpoel Elementary Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs
Amount: $15,000

160

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

 754.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
22371 Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

755.

Transfer from Frank W Reilly Elementary School to Arts
Rationale:

Return funds to Department

Transfer From:
25101 Frank W Reilly Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

756.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $15,000

757.

Transfer from Arts to Thomas J Higgins Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Transfer To:
31251 Thomas J Higgins Elementary Community Academy
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
071981 Ingenuity - Csf10

Amount: $15,000

161

 758.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Leslie Lewis Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24151 Leslie Lewis Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

759.

Transfer from Arts to Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49081 Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

760.

Transfer from Arts to John H Vanderpoel Elementary Magnet School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29311 John H Vanderpoel Elementary Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

761.

Transfer from Arts to Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22371 Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

762.

Transfer from Arts to Frank W Reilly Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25101 Frank W Reilly Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $15,000

162

 763.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Arts to Ernst Prussing Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
25031 Ernst Prussing Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $15,000

764.

Transfer from Arts to Carl von Linne Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
24201 Carl von Linne Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $15,000

765.

Transfer from Arts to Telpochcalli Elementary School
Rationale:

Creative School Grant Funds to support Arts Education

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Transfer To:
23231 Telpochcalli Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
125007 Ecia-Fine Arts
200021 Iga: Creative Schools Fund Program

Amount: $15,000

766.

Transfer from Pre-K - 12 Curriculum to Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for SOAR Support Specialist

Transfer From:
10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
115 General Education Fund
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
221220 Library Automation
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221220 Library Automation
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

767.

Transfer from Network 11 to Medgar Evers Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to Ever ES to purchase a class set (30) of Chromebooks and a charging cart.

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
26591 Medgar Evers Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $15,000

163

 768.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Talent Office to Talent Office
Rationale:

Per Arielle Dixon. Increase salary for position number 580046, HR Functional Analyst from $80,000 to $105,000.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
115 General Education Fund
52100 Career Service Salaries - Regular
264054 Absence & Disability Management
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

769.

Transfer from Chief Equity Office to Chief Equity Office
Rationale:

To cover travel expenses.

Transfer From:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

770.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494067

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494068 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $15,000

771.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James N Thorp Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25601-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25601 James N Thorp Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,003

164

 772.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lawndale Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-31161-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31161 Lawndale Elementary Community Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,075

773.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Austin College and Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-46621-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46621 Austin College and Career Academy High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,547

774.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-41051-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,547

775.

Transfer from Claremont Academy Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-31301-ICR To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
31301 Claremont Academy Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,746

776.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Sauganash Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-25211-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25211 Sauganash Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,800

165

 777.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22371-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22371 Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,179

778.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Ryder Math & Science Specialty ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-25191-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25191 William H Ryder Math & Science Specialty ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,683

779.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Roberto Clemente Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-51091-OEM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
51091 Roberto Clemente Community Academy High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,700

780.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Horace Mann Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24331-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24331 Horace Mann Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,882

781.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Polaris Charter Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-67081-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
67081 Polaris Charter Academy
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,994

166

 782.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Instructional Supports
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for classroom supplies for L. Secatore.

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
233031 Literacy Program
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11551 Instructional Supports
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119010 Other Instructional Programs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,000

783.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to ACE Technical Charter School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2019-66291-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66291 ACE Technical Charter School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,395

784.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Back of the Yards IB HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-46551-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46551 Back of the Yards IB HS
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,700

785.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas J Higgins Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2019-31251-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31251 Thomas J Higgins Elementary Community Academy
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,794

786.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mary E McDowell Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-26421-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26421 Mary E McDowell Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,000

167

 787.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Jose De Diego Elementary Community Academy to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
31261 Jose De Diego Elementary Community Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $18,000

788.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Lutheran Education Foundation
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69336 Lutheran Education Foundation
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390014 Nonpublic Sup Counseling Services
430222 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Lutheran

Amount: $18,000

789.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to GFP/Other Private Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69103 GFP/Other Private Schools
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370007 Nonpublic Homeschool/Other
462072 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Amount: $18,000

790.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Shifting funds to align with grant budget.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
548024 Track 2 Cs10k: Accelerate Ecs4all Fy19
Amount: $18,053

168

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54205 Travel Expense
221234
548024

Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
Track 2 Cs10k: Accelerate Ecs4all Fy19

 791.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry R Clissold Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-15 To Project# 2019-22761-ADA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22761 Henry R Clissold Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253530 American Disabilities Act/Ada
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,248

792.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Fiske Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2018-23221-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23221 John Fiske Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,811

793.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2019-46421-ICR-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,819

794.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Instructional Supports
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for space rental - facility fees.

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57705 Services - Space Rental
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $19,000

795.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward Everett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-23141-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23141 Edward Everett Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $19,369

169

 796.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Instructional Supports to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $19,459

797.

Transfer from Risk Management to Risk Management
Rationale:

CCMSI first Qtr invoice.

Transfer From:
12460 Risk Management
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54535 Services - Insurance - General Liability - Claims
119025 Physical Education - Athletic Claims
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12460 Risk Management
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
231111 Tort Claims - Admin Fee
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,000

798.

Transfer from Risk Management to Risk Management
Rationale:

for CCMSI invoice.

Transfer From:
12460 Risk Management
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54535 Services - Insurance - General Liability - Claims
231113 Tort Claims - Casualty
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12460 Risk Management
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
231111 Tort Claims - Admin Fee
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,000

799.

Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Social Science & Civic Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for vendor services per C. Salgado

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
51100 Teacher Salaries - Regular
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390003 Service Learning
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,000

170

 800.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William C. Goudy Technology Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-08 To Project# 2019-23371-OMA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Transfer To:
23371 William C. Goudy Technology Academy
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009551 Masonary/Windows
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Amount: $20,000

801.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helen Peirce International Studies ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-08 To Project# 2019-24891-OMA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Transfer To:
24891 Helen Peirce International Studies ES
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009551 Masonary/Windows
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Amount: $20,000

802.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William C. Goudy Technology Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-08 To Project# 2019-23371-OMA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Transfer To:
23371 William C. Goudy Technology Academy
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Amount: $20,000

803.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helen Peirce International Studies ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-08 To Project# 2019-24891-OMA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Transfer To:
24891 Helen Peirce International Studies ES
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Amount: $20,000

804.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William C. Goudy Technology Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-08 To Project# 2019-23371-NON ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Transfer To:
23371 William C. Goudy Technology Academy
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Amount: $20,000

171

 805.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helen Peirce International Studies ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-08 To Project# 2019-24891-NON ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Transfer To:
24891 Helen Peirce International Studies ES
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
050013 Aldermanic Menu Funds

Amount: $20,000

806.

Transfer from New School Development - City Wide to Innovation and Incubation
Rationale:

Transferring Funds from the New School Funding to support marketing for Englewood STEM HS (Creative Group/Robert Half).

Transfer From:
13615 New School Development - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Transfer To:
13610 Innovation and Incubation
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009546 School Transitions
005058 New And Expansion School Funding

Amount: $20,476

807.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to remove funding after switch from Title II to Title IV

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
51500 Teacher Salaries - Substitutes
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
494066 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
353
57915
600002
041008

Title II - Teacher Quality
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Contingency For Project Expansion
Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $20,640

808.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-46281-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,889

172

 809.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Joseph Jungman Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2018-23961-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23961 Joseph Jungman Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009522 Cip Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,760

810.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

transferring funds to facilitate opening spring internship bucket- per Tish McGee

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
000389 Cte Programs

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $22,000

811.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2019-46641-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46641 Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $22,554

812.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2018-46641-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46641 Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $22,554

813.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Theophilus Schmid Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-25391-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25391 Theophilus Schmid Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $22,560

173

 814.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Social Science & Civic Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to clear negative budget lines.

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
51100 Teacher Salaries - Regular
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $22,853

815.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide to Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
Rationale:

Transportation for student college trips

Transfer From:
10855 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
212017 Other Govt Fnded Prjts-Guidnce
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54210 Pupil Transportation
255015 Transportation-Special Prog
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $22,928

816.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Noble - John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-66148-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66148 Noble - John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $23,125

817.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward N Hurley Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2018-23911-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23911 Edward N Hurley Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $23,152

818.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-485-00-02 To Project# 2018-25521-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25521 Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $23,226

174

 819.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-25521-FAS To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
25521 Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Amount: $23,226

820.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Budget transfer for FY18 ISBE Breakfast Program overpayment.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
256014
000000

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
256014 Nss - Breakfast Program
000000 Default Value

Nss - Breakfast Program
Default Value

Amount: $23,276

821.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Instructional Supports
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for equipment.

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
55005 Property - Equipment
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $24,200

822.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Instructional Supports
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Renaissance Knights

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
55005 Property - Equipment
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999
Amount: $24,200

175

Transfer To:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

 823.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Luther Burbank Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-18 To Project# 2019-22401-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009516 Sodexo - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22401 Luther Burbank Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $24,580

824.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Englewood STEM HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-04 To Project# 2018-46691-NSC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009446 New School Openings Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46691 Englewood STEM HS
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009441 New School Openings
000000 Default Value

Amount: $24,600

825.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Salmon P Chase Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22701-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22701 Salmon P Chase Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $24,970

826.

Transfer from Office of School Quality Measurement to Office of School Quality Measurement
Rationale:

Funds owed from xfer completed beginning of budget season.

Transfer From:
10811 Office of School Quality Measurement
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10811 Office of School Quality Measurement
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
231124 Strategic Planning And Development: Administration
000000 Default Value

Amount: $25,000

827.

Transfer from Diverse Learner Supports & Services to Diverse Learner Supports & Services
Rationale:

Transfer for purchase of furniture, equipment for new cluster classrooms

Transfer From:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $25,000

176

 828.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Talent Office
Rationale:

Per Arielle Dixon. Increase salary for position number 580046, HR Functional Analyst from $80,000 to $105,000.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
115 General Education Fund
52100 Career Service Salaries - Regular
264054 Absence & Disability Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $25,000

829.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Early Childhood Development - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer to cover expenditure swapped to align grant budget.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
54510 Services - Equipment Rental
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
376669 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy19

Transfer To:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
55005 Property - Equipment
221001 School Instructional Support Services
376669 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy19

Amount: $25,000

830.

Transfer from Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs to Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for marketing purposes.

Transfer From:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
55005 Property - Equipment
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119010 Other Instructional Programs
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Amount: $25,071

831.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Theophilus Schmid Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-25391-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25391 Theophilus Schmid Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $25,328

177

 832.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Laura S Ward Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2013-476-00-01 To Project# 2019-24991-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
476 Modern Schools
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24991 Laura S Ward Elementary School
476 Modern Schools
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009559 Boiler/Mechanical
000000 Default Value

Amount: $25,772

833.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lawndale Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-31161-OFA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31161 Lawndale Elementary Community Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $26,800

834.

Transfer from Access and Enrollment to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Marketing Dept. funds needed in order to create requisition for go.cps.edu site development

Transfer From:
11201 Access and Enrollment
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221001 School Instructional Support Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $27,582

835.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Noble - UIC College Prep
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-66147-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66147 Noble - UIC College Prep
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $28,244

836.

Transfer from Uplift Community High School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer to LPA to hire RC - Approved budget transfer

Transfer From:
26861 Uplift Community High School
115 General Education Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
231001 Student Discipline
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
297920 Other Government Funded - Support Services
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $28,500

178

 837.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Ella Flagg Young Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-25921-MEP-1 To Award# 2019-488-00-01 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $29,295

838.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2018-25921-MEP-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $29,295

839.

Transfer from Ella Flagg Young Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-25921-MEP-1 To Award# 2019-488-00-01 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $29,295

840.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-08 To Project# 2019-25921-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $29,295

841.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-29411-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29411 Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $30,000

179

 842.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430220 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Independ.

Amount: $31,000

843.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Christ the King Jesuit (Catholic)
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69027 Christ the King Jesuit (Catholic)
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
131001 Evening School Programs
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $31,068

844.

Transfer from Access and Enrollment to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Funds needed in order to open purchase order for JS Technology - GoCPS web developer

Transfer From:
11201 Access and Enrollment
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221001 School Instructional Support Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $32,418

845.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William B Ogden Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-24731-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24731 William B Ogden Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $33,700

846.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Christian Affiliate Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $35,000

180

Transfer To:
69237 Christian Affiliate Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390014 Nonpublic Sup Counseling Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

 847.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Robert J. Richardson Middle School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2014-23381-NSC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23381 Robert J. Richardson Middle School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009441 New School Openings
000000 Default Value

Amount: $36,098

848.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494067 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $37,000

849.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-63142-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
63142 Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $37,095

850.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $37,820

851.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Young Women's Leadership Charter School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-20 To Project# 2019-66171-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009513 Fs O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66171 Young Women's Leadership Charter School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009513 Fs O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $38,460

181

 852.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Instituto - Justice Lozano to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Budget adjustment for supplemental SPED funding

Transfer From:
66921 Instituto - Justice Lozano
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

Amount: $38,830

853.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Bret Harte Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-23561-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23561 Bret Harte Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $39,000

854.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jensen Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-17 To Project# 2019-29341-ELV ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29341 Jensen Elementary Scholastic Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $39,818

855.

Transfer from Southside Occupational Academy High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

School based funding for capital project at southside

Transfer From:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
114 Special Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
254002 Engineer Services
000000 Default Value
Amount: $40,000

182

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
114 Special Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
253543 Parent Award
000000 Default Value

 856.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Southside Occupational Academy High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

School based funding for capital project at southside

Transfer From:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
114 Special Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
261006 Citywide Special Ed Projects
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
114 Special Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
253543 Parent Award
000000 Default Value

Amount: $40,000

857.

Transfer from Safety and Security - City Wide to Network 16
Rationale:

Transferring funds to increase bucket number 561904 - Talent requests a bucket for Principal Transition Coordinator for Harper HS

Transfer From:
10615 Safety and Security - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
254605 School Safety Services
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
02661 Network 16
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $40,000

858.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Brownell Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22361-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22361 Charles S Brownell Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $40,944

859.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title III programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
490943 Title Iii - Lmtd. Eng. Prf. - Nonpublic

Amount: $41,000

860.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward Everett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-23141-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23141 Edward Everett Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $41,603

183

 861.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Morgan Park High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2018-46251-LTG ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46251 Morgan Park High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $41,865

862.

Transfer from Roger C Sullivan High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-46301-SCI To Award# 2019-437-00-07 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46301 Roger C Sullivan High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $42,526

863.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Roger C Sullivan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-46301-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46301 Roger C Sullivan High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $42,526

864.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to offset negative budget line

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
358 Title IV
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
440044 Title Iv, Part A
Amount: $42,546

184

Transfer To:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
358 Title IV
51130 Teacher Salaries - Extended Day
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
440044 Title Iv, Part A

 865.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Avalon Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22101-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22101 Avalon Park Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $42,774

866.

Transfer from Avalon Park Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-22101-ACD To Award# 2017-486-00-11 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22101 Avalon Park Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $42,774

867.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Avalon Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22101-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22101 Avalon Park Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $42,774

868.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Chicago High School for Agricultural Sciences
Rationale:

CTE Ag Science Program Equipment

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Transfer To:
47091 Chicago High School for Agricultural Sciences
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
55005 Property - Equipment
140101 Agricultural Academy
474566 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy19

Amount: $43,095

869.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Emil G Hirsch Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-16 To Project# 2019-47031-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47031 Emil G Hirsch Metropolitan High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $43,150

185

 870.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $43,717

871.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390014 Nonpublic Sup Counseling Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $43,717

872.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Brownell Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22361-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22361 Charles S Brownell Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $44,129

873.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Instructional Supports
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for consultant services.

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Transfer To:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119010 Other Instructional Programs
399928 Healthy Communities Investments 17-3999

Amount: $46,450

874.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
490941 Title Iii - Iep
Amount: $47,177

186

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
410008 Contingency For Project Expan

 875.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-29411-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29411 Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $47,968

876.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100101 Out-Of-School-Time Awards

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $48,253

877.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Eric Solorio Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2018-46101-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46101 Eric Solorio Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $48,968

878.

Transfer from Office of School Quality Measurement to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Per SQM -- IT mini-bid renewal.

Transfer From:
10811 Office of School Quality Measurement
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
267983 Research & Evaluation Support Services
000000 Default Value
Amount: $52,500

187

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

 879.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Urban Prep Charter Academy for Young Men - West to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Budget adjustment for supplemental SPED funding

Transfer From:
63071 Urban Prep Charter Academy for Young Men - West
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

Amount: $53,466

880.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer of funds removed due to shift in funding to Title IV.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
51130 Teacher Salaries - Extended Day
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
494066 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
353
57915
600002
041008

Title II - Teacher Quality
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Contingency For Project Expansion
Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $53,722

881.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Salmon P Chase Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22701-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22701 Salmon P Chase Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $54,208

882.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Chicago Hope Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $56,131

188

Transfer To:
69012 Chicago Hope Academy
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430221 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Christian

 883.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-63142-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
63142 Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $58,088

884.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Noble - UIC College Prep
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-66147-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66147 Noble - UIC College Prep
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $59,320

885.

Transfer from Alex Haley Elementary Academy to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2017-22301-ROF To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22301 Alex Haley Elementary Academy
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Amount: $59,977

886.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Friedrich L. Jahn Elementary of the Fine Arts
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-07 To Project# 2019-23921-SIT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
188821 Open Spaces Impact Fees

Transfer To:
23921 Friedrich L. Jahn Elementary of the Fine Arts
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
188821 Open Spaces Impact Fees

Amount: $60,371

887.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Walter S Christopher Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2019-30031-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30031 Walter S Christopher Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $60,500

189

 888.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Avalon Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22101-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22101 Avalon Park Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $61,676

889.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Talent Office
Rationale:

Can you please transfer the following funds for outstanding invoices for the Children's background checks? We have around $66,000
in outstanding invoices for Addison Group that need to be paid.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
264209 Staffing Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $66,000

890.

Transfer from Instructional Supports to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11551 Instructional Supports
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $66,635

891.

Transfer from Southside Occupational Academy High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

School based funding for capital project at southside

Transfer From:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
254002 Engineer Services
000090 Specialty Schools Supports
Amount: $68,214

190

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253543 Parent Award
000000 Default Value

 892.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
Rationale:

Supplemental native language assessment materials

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54305 Tuition
410001 Payment To Other Government Units
490942 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
53405 Commodities - Supplies
211204 Assessment
490942 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $70,000

893.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Noble - John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-66148-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66148 Noble - John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $72,291

894.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Barbara Vick Early Childhood & Family Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-19 To Project# 2018-26731-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26731 Barbara Vick Early Childhood & Family Center
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $74,800

895.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Polaris Charter Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-67081-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
67081 Polaris Charter Academy
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $78,012

896.

Transfer from Roger C Sullivan High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-46301-SCI To Award# 2019-437-00-07 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46301 Roger C Sullivan High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $79,286

191

 897.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Northside College Preparatory High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2018-46061-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46061 Northside College Preparatory High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $79,800

898.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Polaris Charter Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-67081-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
67081 Polaris Charter Academy
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $81,110

899.

Transfer from Roger C Sullivan High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-46301-SCI To Award# 2019-437-00-07 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46301 Roger C Sullivan High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $85,000

900.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Roger C Sullivan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-46301-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46301 Roger C Sullivan High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $85,000

192

 901.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from EPIC Academy Charter High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Budget adjustment for supplemental SPED funding

Transfer From:
63081 EPIC Academy Charter High School
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

Amount: $89,855

902.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Noble - UIC College Prep
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-66147-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66147 Noble - UIC College Prep
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $90,686

903.

Transfer from Information & Technology Services to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Staff Augmentation for Service Now implementation

Transfer From:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
266417 Enterprise Architecture
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
266417 Enterprise Architecture
000000 Default Value

Amount: $92,400

904.

Transfer from Urban Prep Academy for Young Men - Englewood to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Budget adjustment for supplemental SPED funding

Transfer From:
66441 Urban Prep Academy for Young Men - Englewood
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value
Amount: $93,016

193

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

 905.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edwin G. Foreman College and Career Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-01 To Project# 2019-46131-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000017 Tif Capital

Transfer To:
46131 Edwin G. Foreman College and Career Academy
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000017 Tif Capital

Amount: $93,652

906.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-53101-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $95,247

907.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-53041-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $95,385

908.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to LaSalle Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-01 To Project# 2019-29161-SIT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29161 LaSalle Elementary Language Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $95,879

909.

Transfer from LaSalle Elementary Language Academy to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-29161-NPG To Award# 2019-437-00-01 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
29161 LaSalle Elementary Language Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value
Amount: $95,881

194

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

 910.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Kelly High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-46181-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46181 Thomas Kelly High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $97,354

911.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Salmon P Chase Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-22701-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22701 Salmon P Chase Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $97,979

912.

Transfer from Risk Management to Risk Management
Rationale:

CCMSI first Qtr invoice.

Transfer From:
12460 Risk Management
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54535 Services - Insurance - General Liability - Claims
231113 Tort Claims - Casualty
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12460 Risk Management
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
231111 Tort Claims - Admin Fee
000000 Default Value

Amount: $98,716

913.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-29411-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29411 Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $98,985

914.

Transfer from Information & Technology Services to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Staff Augmentation for Service Now implementaion

Transfer From:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
266417 Enterprise Architecture
000000 Default Value
Amount: $100,000

195

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
266417 Enterprise Architecture
000000 Default Value

 915.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Safety and Security - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Englewood school actions program support

Transfer From:
10615 Safety and Security - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
254605 School Safety Services
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119004 Other General Charges
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $100,000

916.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Additional funds for school support

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
51100 Teacher Salaries - Regular
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119004 Other General Charges
000000 Default Value

Amount: $100,000

917.

Transfer from Information & Technology Services to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Staff Augmentation extension for Service Now implementation

Transfer From:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
266417 Enterprise Architecture
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
266417 Enterprise Architecture
000000 Default Value

Amount: $100,000

918.

Transfer from Josiah Pickard Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-24961-STR To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
24961 Josiah Pickard Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Amount: $100,000

919.

Transfer from Walter S Christopher Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-30031-DOR To Award# 2017-485-00-02 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
30031 Walter S Christopher Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value
Amount: $100,000

196

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

 920.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Noble - John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-11 To Project# 2018-66148-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66148 Noble - John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $103,514

921.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles R Darwin Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-15 To Project# 2019-22881-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22881 Charles R Darwin Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $112,185

922.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marquette Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-17 To Project# 2018-24341-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009551 Masonary/Windows
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24341 Marquette Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $113,688

923.

Transfer from Young Women's Leadership Charter School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Budget adjustment for supplemental SPED funding

Transfer From:
66171 Young Women's Leadership Charter School
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value
Amount: $113,744

197

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

 924.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Perspectives - Math and Science Academy to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Budget adjustment for supplemental SPED funding

Transfer From:
66056 Perspectives - Math and Science Academy
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
114 Special Education Fund
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
111086 Special Education Teacher Assignments - Charter And
Contract
000000 Default Value

Amount: $113,997

925.

Transfer from Talent Office to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $117,300

926.

Transfer from School Transportation - City Wide to Disney II Magnet School
Rationale:

Disney II funds for reimbursement.

Transfer From:
11940 School Transportation - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
255021 Options Student Transportation
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26921 Disney II Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
255021 Options Student Transportation
000000 Default Value

Amount: $120,000

927.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-29091-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29091 Matthew Gallistel Elementary Language Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $124,286

198

 928.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Suder Montessori Magnet ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-08 To Project# 2019-26881-ELV ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26881 Suder Montessori Magnet ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $124,975

929.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry R Clissold Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-15 To Project# 2019-22761-ADA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22761 Henry R Clissold Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253530 American Disabilities Act/Ada
000000 Default Value

Amount: $135,518

930.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
490941 Title Iii - Iep

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
410008 Contingency For Project Expan

Amount: $148,000

931.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Kelly High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-46181-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46181 Thomas Kelly High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $155,512

932.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Brown Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-22351-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $167,994

199

 933.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from William H Brown Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-22351-BAS To Award# 2019-437-00-04 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $167,994

934.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Brown Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-22351-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $167,994

935.

Transfer from Southside Occupational Academy High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

School based funding for capital project at southside

Transfer From:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
254002 Engineer Services
000576 Supplemental Aid

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253543 Parent Award
000000 Default Value

Amount: $168,764

936.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funding to balance IEP budget.

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
180040 English Language Learner (Ell/Lep) Programs
490944 Title Iii - Iep

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
410008 Contingency For Project Expan

Amount: $171,199

937.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Kelly High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-46181-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46181 Thomas Kelly High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $171,419

200

 938.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
Rationale:

Consolidating redundant budget lines

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
410001 Payment To Other Government Units
490942 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54305 Tuition
221001 School Instructional Support Services
490942 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $179,080

939.

Transfer from Principal Quality to Network Support
Rationale:

Transferring funds from vacant positions in PQ to support PD in ONs

Transfer From:
02541 Principal Quality
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
494066 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Transfer To:
11110 Network Support
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
494066 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Amount: $200,000

940.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Early Childhood Development - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer to cover costs in 2300.500 per grant budget amendment

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
256015 Nss - After-School Program: Supper & Snacks
376669 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy19

Transfer To:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
55005 Property - Equipment
233019 Early Childhood - Prekg - Admin
376669 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy19

Amount: $200,000

941.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
490939 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
410008 Contingency For Project Expan

Amount: $205,197

942.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $206,000

201

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

 943.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-25921-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $222,600

944.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-04 To Project# 2019-25921-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $223,707

945.

Transfer from Ella Flagg Young Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-25921-BAS To Award# 2019-437-00-04 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $223,707

946.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $250,000

947.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Southside Occupational Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-15 To Project# 2018-49031-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $306,047

202

 948.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Southside Occupational Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-02 To Project# 2018-49031-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000041 School Funded Projects (Capital)

Transfer To:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000041 School Funded Projects (Capital)

Amount: $316,978

949.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Joyce Kilmer Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-08 To Project# 2019-24021-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24021 Joyce Kilmer Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $332,865

950.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2018-25921-MEP-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $375,615

951.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Manuel Perez Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-439-00-02 To Project# 2018-22861-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
439 Series 2018 CIT
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22861 Manuel Perez Elementary School
439 Series 2018 CIT
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $379,140

203

 952.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Talent Office to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542132 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity Schools (Dlos)
Fy18

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $407,458

953.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur E Canty Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2015-22541-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22541 Arthur E Canty Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253518 Annex
000000 Default Value

Amount: $432,554

954.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Urban Prep Academy for Young Men - Bronzeville
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-15 To Project# 2019-66442-LTG ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66442 Urban Prep Academy for Young Men - Bronzeville
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $521,593

955.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $560,000

204

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430219 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

 956.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George B Swift Elementary Specialty School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2018-25571-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25571 George B Swift Elementary Specialty School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $592,992

957.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED GRANT SWEEP - Transfer available funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
490939 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
410008 Contingency For Project Expan

Amount: $644,921

958.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Pilsen Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2019-31141-DEM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31141 Pilsen Elementary Community Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $741,879

959.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Minnie Mars Jamieson Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2015-23931-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23931 Minnie Mars Jamieson Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253518 Annex
000000 Default Value

Amount: $932,341

960.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lake View High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-02 To Project# 2017-46211-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46211 Lake View High School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,000,000

205

 961.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lincoln Park High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-02 To Project# 2017-46321-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46321 Lincoln Park High School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,000,000

962.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard Edwards Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-03 To Project# 2016-23081-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253545 Individual Accommodations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23081 Richard Edwards Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,154,796

963.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mark Skinner Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-10 To Project# 2017-29281-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009531 Additions
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29281 Mark Skinner Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253518 Annex
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,268,721

964.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Christian Ebinger Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-03 To Project# 2017-23051-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253545 Individual Accommodations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23051 Christian Ebinger Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253518 Annex
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,600,000

965.

Transfer from Facility Opers & Maint - City Wide to Facility Opers & Maint - City Wide
Rationale:

To fund additional costs for snow removal for Sodexo

Transfer From:
11880 Facility Opers & Maint - City Wide
230 Public Building Commission O & M
52100 Career Service Salaries - Regular
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11880 Facility Opers & Maint - City Wide
230 Public Building Commission O & M
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
254020 Snow Removal
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,600,546

206

 966.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wilma Rudolph Elementary Learning Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-15 To Project# 2019-30121-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30121 Wilma Rudolph Elementary Learning Center
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,274,097

967.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wendell E Green Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2018-24131-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24131 Wendell E Green Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,964,960

968.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-03 To Project# 2017-23611-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253545 Individual Accommodations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23611 Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253518 Annex
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000,000

969.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mark Skinner Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-10 To Project# 2017-29281-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009531 Additions
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29281 Mark Skinner Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253518 Annex
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000,000

970.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Prescott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-08 To Project# 2019-25021-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25021 William H Prescott Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,175,830

207

 971.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Peter A Reinberg Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2018-25111-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25111 Peter A Reinberg Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,346,230

972.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mount Greenwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-03 To Project# 2017-24591-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253545 Individual Accommodations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24591 Mount Greenwood Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009531 Additions
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,300,000

973.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Construction of a replacement high school for Hancock High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-02 To Project# 2019-46025-NSC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437
56310
009538
000000

Transfer To:
46025 Construction of a replacement high school for Hancock
High School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56205 Property - Sites
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

CIP Series 2018D
Capitalized Construction
Land Acquisition
Default Value

Amount: $4,358,442

974.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Gwendolyn Brooks College Preparatory Academy HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-23 To Project# 2019-47051-UAF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47051 Gwendolyn Brooks College Preparatory Academy HS
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,800,000

208

 975.

19-0327-EX1
Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Esmond Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-03 To Project# 2017-23131-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253545 Individual Accommodations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23131 Esmond Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253518 Annex
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,000,000

976.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ernst Prussing Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-03 To Project# 2017-25031-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253545 Individual Accommodations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25031 Ernst Prussing Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253518 Annex
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,000,000

977.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Hiram H Belding Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-22221-ADD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22221 Hiram H Belding Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009531 Additions
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,068,369

978.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to New Elementary School - South Loop ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-435-00-01 To Project# 2017-22961-NSC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
435 Local-South Loop School
56310 Capitalized Construction
009441 New School Openings
000098 South Loop Elementary School Project

Transfer To:
22961 New Elementary School - South Loop ES
435 Local-South Loop School
56310 Capitalized Construction
009441 New School Openings
000098 South Loop Elementary School Project

Amount: $12,000,000

979.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to New Neighborhood HS - Read Dunning (NW) Area
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-04 To Project# 2017-49171-NSC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009446 New School Openings Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49171 New Neighborhood HS - Read Dunning (NW) Area
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009567 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $29,000,000

209

 19-0327-EX1

980. Transfer from Cap'itallOperations - Citv Wide to Enqlewood STEM HS

Rationale: Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486?00?04 To Project# Change Reason NA

Transfer From:

12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide

486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Conistruction

009446 New School Openings Other

000000 Default Value

Amount: $38,000,000

Transfer To:
46691 Englewood STEM HS
486 Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009441 New School Openings
000000 Default Value

981. Transfer from CapitalIOperations City Wide to Construction of a replacement hiqh School for Hancock Hiqh School

Rationale: Funds Transfer From Award# 2019437-00-07 To Project# 2019-46025-NSC Change Reason NA

Transfer From:

12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide

437 CIP Series 2018B
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs Improvements
- 000000 Default Value

Amount: $60,000.000

Respec?u?ysubn??ed:

Ja son
Chie xecu Ive Of?

     
 
 

    

General Coun

.


210

Transfer To:

46025

437
55310
253508
000000

Construction of a replacement high school for Hancock

- High School 

CIP Series 20180
Capitalized Construction
Renovations

Default Value

19-0327-EX2
March 27, 2019

AMEND BOARD REPORT 17-0524-EX2
APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE ILLINOIS
DEPARTMENT OF CHILDREN AND FAMILY SERVICES (DCFS)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services (DCFS) to Obtain background history reports from DCFS on prospective and current CPS
employees, vendors and volunteers. A written agreement is currently being negotiated. NO services shall
be provided and no payment shall be made to DCFS prior to execution of the agreement. The authority
granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 120
days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

This March 2019 amendment is necessarv to increase the dollar amount by $1,265,000 (to a total of
$1,500,000) to reflect the implementation of expanded background checks for child abuse and/or neqlect
from DCFS. A written amendment to the IGA is required. The authority granted herein shall automatically
rescind in the event the amendment is not executed within 90 davs of the date of this amended Board

Repod.

AGENCY: Department of Children Family Services
406 E. Monroe St.
Spring?eld, IL 62701
Contact: Anmarie C. Brandenburg, Special Assistant General Counsel
Contact Phone: (847) 948-6777
Contact Address: 1755 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield, IL 60015

USER: Talent Of?ce
42 W. Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Matthew Lyons, Chief Talent Officer

DESCRIPTION: DCFS will provide indicated findings and investigative reports to CPS related to child
abuse and neglect allegations involving prospective and current CPS employees, vendors and
volunteers. After an internal investigation, CPS will make a determination about the eligibility of the
individual to be an employee, vendor or volunteer with CPS.

TERM: The term of this agreement shall commence on June 1, 2017 and shall end on June 30, 2022.
This agreement shall have three (3) Options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT: The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with thirty
(30) days written notice.

COMPENSATION: DCFS Shall be paid for each individual check requested and performed, as set forth in
the agreement. Estimated annual costs of the term are set forth below:

$75,000 FY18

$407000 ?360,000 FY19

$407000 $355,000 FY20

$407000 $355,000 FY21

W000 $55,000 FY22

19-0327- EXZ

SCOPE OF SERVICES: DCFS shall process all requests for background checks and notify CPS with the
results within the turnaround times agreed upon by the parties in the agreement. DCFS may provide
services to CPS related to the interpretation or translation of the background checks, when necessary.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the
written agreements and amendment, including terms requiring the Board to indemnify DCFS. Authorize
the President and Secretary to execute the agreements and amendment. Authorize the Chief Talent
Of?cer to execute all documents required to administer or effectuate the agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: Pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Remedial Program for Minority and Women
Owned Business Enterprise Participation in Goods and Services Contracts, provisions of the
Program do not apply to transactions where the vendor providing services operates as a Not-for?Pro?t
organization.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: Estimated annual costs are set forth below:
Talent Office, Unit 11010

$357000, $1,500,000 FY18-FY22
Local Funds (115) will be utilized. Funding is'based upon budget appropriation and approval.

GENERAL CONDITIONS: 

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of EduCation has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board' 5 Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26,1996 (96- -0626? -P03), as amended
from time to time shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics? The Board 3 Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11- 0-525 -P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgeKs)

19-0327-EX2

 

 

Approved:

- 
ic .Ja son 
ief ecuti eOfficer

Approvegia wl/rw

I 


    
 
 

    
 

 March 27, 2019

AMEND BOARD REPORT 18-0124-ED1
ADOPT ACADEMIC CALENDAR FOR 2018-19 SCHOOL YEAR

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:
Adopt the academic school year calendar for elementary and high schools for the year 2018-2019.

This March 2019 amendment requests that the Board of Education approve an amended 2018-2019
school calendar to re?ect that January 30. 2019 and Januarv 31. 2019 were days of nonattendance. To
replace these davs of nonattendance. June 19, 2019 and June 20, 2019 will be student attendance davs;
June 21. 2019 will be a School Improvement Dav and June 24, 2019 will be a Professional Development
Dav. The amended calendar is attached to this Board Report.

DESCRIPTION: The calendar indicates holidays, teacher institute days, school improvement days,
professional development days, and days when schools are closed for extended periods of time.

The effect of this action would be to establish a school year.

The 2018-2019 calendar includes 178 student attendance days, 4 Teacher Institute days, 4 School
Improvement days, 2 Parent?Teacher Conference Days (Report Card Pickup Days) and 2 Professional
Development days.

These are the speci?c chanqes:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12% Original New

gassi?cation Classi?cation
June 19 2019 School Improvement Student attendance

Day

June 20, 2019 Professional Student attendance

Development Day .
June 21, 2019 Emerqencv Dav - School Improvement Day
June 24, 2019 Emergency Day Professional Development

Day

 

LSC REVIEW: LSC review is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: None.
GENERAL CONDITIONS: Not applicable.

19-0327-501

Approved for Consideration:

WW

L?aIanya?MeDade? Anna M. Alvarado
Chief Officer of Teaching and Learning

Approved:

nIce .Jack on 
hief ecutive Officer

as to legal . m:

 

 

Chicago 19- 0327- ED1
)Public
Schoob

2018-2019 CPS CALENDAR
ELEMENTARY AND HIGH SCHOOLS

Dr. Janice K. Jackson

Chief Executive Officer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUGUST NOVEMBER FEBRUARY MAY
:1 I: 1.312 1Q 21: 1# 1 2 3
.516? .417 .316 12* 13 14E5PT 15HSPT (21) 22* 23SEPTEMBER DECEMBER JUNE
24* -.r.,26e7 $.28
27
OCTOBER JANUARY APRIL
54310ESPT 11HSPT 12 1'711 /15/ /15/ /17/ [18/ /19/ 31:18 .5119"?25 5-326
29 30 31 29 30
LEGEND
End of Quarter Schools closed?salary paid except as provided by budgetary action
Teacher Institute Days HSPT High School Parent-Teacher Conference Day (Report card pickup)
. School Improvement Days ESPT Elementary Parent-Teacher Conference Day (Report card pickup)
Holiday Emergency day-school in session if student days fall below state requirement
Day of non-attendance for students 9 Each school is provided 2 professional development days
Lu? Anticipated Window for Summer Programs -
Schools closed? no salary paid A School clerks begin working on Wednesday, August 22, 2018

September3 Labor Day January 21 M. King Day
October 8 Columbus Day February 18 President's Day 
November 12 Veteran's Day May 27 Memorial Day
November 22, 23 Thanksgiving Holiday
Please note: December 25 and January 1 are holidays for the district offices.
NOTES:

SCHOOL School clerks begin on August 22, 2018. Teachers and Chicago Teacher's Union (CTU) represented Paraprofessionals and School-Related Personnel'
begin on August 27, 2018.
Other school-based employees begin between August 27, 2018 and September 4, 2018.
Students begin classes on Tuesday, September 4,2018 and end on Thursday, June 20, 2019. Both days are full days of school for students.
QUARTERS- Each quarter ends on the following day: -
Q1 ends November 1,2018 Q3 ends April 4, 2019
Q2 ends January 31,2019 Q4 ends June 20, 2019
PROGRESS REPORT DISTRIBUTION Schools will distribute progress reports on the following dates:
Q1 on October 5,2018 Q3 on March 8,2019
Q2 on December 14,2018 Q4 on May 17, 2019
PARENT-TEACH ER CONFERENCE Parents are asked to pickup report cards and conference with teachers after the first and third quarters. Parent-Teacher
conference days are non- a-ttendance days for students. Elementary and high schools are expected to run a Parent- Teacher Conference Day:

Elementagy High School
Q1 on Wednesday, November 14, 2018 Q1 on Thursday, November 15,2018

QB on Wednesday, April 10,2019 Q3 on Thursday, April 11, 2019
REPORT CARD DISTRIBUTION Please note that report cards for the second and fourth quarters will be sent home:
0.2 on February 8,2019 Q4 on June 20, 2019
TEACHER INSTITUTE Teacher institute days are non- -attendance days for students. These days are approved by the State Superintendent of Instruction for teacher
professional development. Teacher institute days are principal- directed for August 28- 30, 2018; August 31, 2018 is teacher- directed. August 28, 2018 may be used
flexibly across the year.
Days Include: August 28, 2018; August 29, 2018,- August 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018.
SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT School Improvement Days are non-attendance days for students and are for teachers and staff to review student data, plan Instruction,
and engage in development aligned to school priorities. They are principal-directed, except April 5, 2019 and June 21, 2019, which are teacher-directed.
Daysinclude: November 2, 2018; February 1, 2019; April 5, 2019 and June 21, 2019.
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Each school is provided 2 Professional Development Days: August 27, 2018 and June 24, 2019. Professional development days
may be used flexibly across the year. They are principal directed.
are closed for the following breaks:
Winter vacation? Schools are closed from December 24, 2018 to January 4, 2019.
Spring vacation? Schools are closed from April,15, 2019 to April 19, 2019.
GRADUATION High school graduation ceremonies cannot be held prior to June 8, 2019. Elementary graduations ceremonies cannot be held prior to June 13, 2019.
ANTICIPATED SUMMER Anticipated Summer Programs include Summer Bridge, Bilingual Bridge, English Language Summer Support, Extended School Year, Summer
Acceleration and High School Summer Credit Recovery.

3.5.19 v1

 March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE RENAMING OF SCHOOLS 7
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Chicago Board of Education approve the renaming of (1) Thomas Kelly High School as the
Thomas Kelly College Preparatory, (2) Logandale Middle School as the Avondale Logandale
Elementary School.

DESCRIPTION:

Pursuant to the Policy on the Naming or Renaming of Schools, Board Report 03-0326-POO4:
I. With respect to the recommendation to rename Thomas Kelly High School as the Thomas Kelly
College Preparatory please note the following:

a. The Local School Council at Thomas Kelly High School:

1. Conducted school-community meetings on November 9, 2018 and November 15, 2018,
with proper notice, and received input on the proposed renaming of Kelly which was
overwhelmingly in favor of the renaming; and

2. Held 3 meeting on November 19, 2018, voting 7 to 0, with one abstaining, in favor of
renaming Thomas Kelly High School as the Thomas Kelly College Preparatory.

b. After the Local School Council meeting of November 19, 2018, the Principal and the
Chairperson of the Kelly Local School Council co?signed a letter to the Network 16 Network
Chief of Schools recommending the renaming of Thomas Kelly High School as the Thomas
Kelly College Preparatory.

c. The Network 16 Chief of Schools recommended this name change to the Chief Executive
Of?cer.

d. If approved, the Thomas Kelly College Preparatory will work collaboratively with the Of?ce of
College and Career Success to develop a curriculum that is consistent with the College
Preparatory designation.

ll. With reSpect to the recommendation to rename Logandale Middle School as the Avondale?
Logandale Elementary please note the following:

a. The Local School Council at Logandale Middle School:

1. Conducted school-community meetings on February 22, 2018 and February 7, 2019 with
proper notice, and received input on the proposed renaming of Logandale which was
ovenivhelmingly in favor of the renaming; and

2. Held a meeting on February 19, 2019, voting 8 to 0 in favor?of renaming Logandale
Middle School as the Avondale-Logandale Elementary.

b. After the Local School Council meeting of February 19, 2019, the Principal and the
Chairperson of the Logandale Local School Council co-signed a letter to the Network 4
Network Chief of Schools recommending the renaming of Logandale Middle School as the
Avondale-Logandale Elementary.

c. The Network 4 Chief of Schools recommended this name change to the Chief Executive
Of?cer. - -

FINANCIAL: Not applicable.

19-0327-M51

Approved for Consideration: 7 Respectfully Submitted:

    

 

     
   
 

oeth A. Kirby . I anice?lslinat kson
Chief School Strategy and Planning Officer hief tive Officer

Approve as to

General Cou el

 March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE SECOND AND FINAL RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH HOBSONS, INC. FOR A
COLLEGE AND CAREER PLANNING ENTERPRISE SYSTEM FOR DISTRICT-WIDE USE

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second and ?nal renewal agreement with Hobsons, Inc. to provide a College and Career
Planning Enterprise System for District-wide use at an estimated annual cost set forth in the
Compensation Section of this report. A written document exercising this option is currently being
negotiated. No payment shall be made to Hobsons, Inc. during the option period prior to execution of the
written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this
option is stated below.

Contract Administrator Wright, Mr. Thaddeus 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 16166
HOBSONS, INC.

50 E-Business Way Suite 300
Cincinnati, OH 45241

Phil Hartman

703 859-7323

Ownership: DMGT US, Inc. - 100%

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10850 - Counseling and Postsecondary Advising

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Hall, Mrs. Yvonne A.

773-553-2078

PM Contact:
10870 - College and Career Success Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Deuser, Mr. Michael K.

773-535-5100

19-0327-PR1

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 15-0422-PR1) in the amount of $2,700,000 was for
a term commencing July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2018, with the Board having two (2) options to
renew for one (1) year terms. The agreement was renewed (authorized by Board Report 
for a term beginning July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2019, in the amount of $950,000. The original
agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for 1 year commencing July 1, 2019 and ending June 30,
2020.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
The vendor will continue to provide end use functionalities and support service speci?cations that the
Board desires for the enterprise system. These speci?cations fall into seven categories:

1. College Planning

2. Career Planning

3. Academic Planning

4. Test Prep and Study Skills
5. Data Tracking and Reporting
6. Account Management

7. Technical Support

Ultimately, the aim of outlining these speci?cations was to acquire a system that enables students to
conduct comprehensive postsecondary planning, enables educators and administrators to collect,
analyze, and report on data associated with postsecondary preparation and it correspondent KPIs, and
that provides satisfactory technical support and information security.

DELIVERABLES: .

To meet the speci?cations of our scope of services, the vendor will continue to provide, among other
services, the following software products, some of which will be paid for centrally from the budget and
available to all schools free of charge, and some that schools can choose to opt into and pay for out of
their individual budgets:

Paid for centrally from budget:

. Naviance for High School

. Naviance for Middle School

. Naviance College and Career Readiness Curriculum
. Naviance Alumni Tracker

. Naviance eDocs

. Naviance Finder

. Naviance Career Interest Pro?ler

. Naviance Career Cluster Finder



Optional components:

1. Naviance Course Planner
2. PrepMe for ACT

3. PrepMe for SAT

4. Naviance AchieveWorks
5. Naviance Career Key

19-0327-PR1

In addition to the software products, vendor will provide training for end users and consulting services,
which will cover implementation support, system customizations, data transfer con?gurations, and project
management.

OUTCOMES:

The Naviance software system is the Districts one stop shop tool for ILP completion, college and career
planning, Learn.Plan.Succeed. (LPS), and reporting on the KPI data associated with these activities, such
as the percent of seniors submitting one application to a match postsecondary institution and
scholarships.

Naviance is designed as one place where students have the resources required to conduct highly
organized and effective postsecondary planning and educators and administrators have the tools to track
individual student and school progress in postsecondary preparation.

The data collection, analysis, and reporting function provided by the system will continue to allow
practitioners to go about their required reporting tasks more ef?ciently, it will drive improved
postsecondary outcomes for students by facilitating a more sophisticated analysis of the correlations
between student pro?les, postsecondary planning actions, and outcomes.

COMPENSATION: .

Vendor shall be paid during this option period as speci?ed in their renewal agreement. Estimated annual
costs for the one (1) year term are set forth below:

$900,000, FY20

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize the Chief of
College and Career Success to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this
option agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MNVBE Program), this contract is exempt as this agreement is
Proprietary Software.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115, Information and Technology Services, Unit #12510 (for core Naviance software functionality)
For supplemental add-on software: all schools and units.

$900,000, FY20

Not to exceed $900,000 for the one (1) year term. Future year funding is contingent upon budget
appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS: -

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-213 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

19-0327-PR1

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year

budget(s).

Approved for Consideration:

JONATHAN MAPLES
Chief Procurement Officer

Approved:


241165; I
L. .
JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Executive Officer

Approved 37%240m96?

JOSEPHT. Mp RIARTY

  


General ounsel

 March 27, 2019

AMEND BOARD REPORT 16-0928-PR1
APPROVE ENTERING INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH SONOVA USA INC. FORMERLY KNOWN AS
FOR THE PURCHASE OF HEARING ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY (HAT) AND
FREQUENCY MODULATION (FM) EQUIPMENT

 

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Approve entering into an agreement with Phonak, merged with another entity and is now
known as Sonova USA Inc. for the purchase of Hearing Assistive Technology (HAT) and Frequency
Modulation (FM) equipment for the Of?ce of Diverse Learner Supports and Services at a total not to
exceed cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive
basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. A written agreement for this purchase is available for signature. No
goods may be ordered or received and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to execution of the
written agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this
agreement is stated below.

 

This March 2019 amendment is necessarv to update the name of the vendor from Phonak. LLC to
Sonova USA. Inc. and increase the not to exceed amount from $216888 to $300000. A written

amendment to the agreement is reguired. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the
event a written amendment is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report.

Contract Administrator Wright, Mr. Thaddeus 773-553?2280

2) Vendor 69878
SONOVA USA INC.

4520 WEAVER PARKWAY
WARRENVILLE, IL 60555

Dawn Ruley
630 821-5205

Ownership: Not For Pro?t

USER INFORMATION 

Project 11610 - Diverse Learner Supports Services
Manager: 42 West Madison Street

Chicago, IL 60602

Volan, Mr. Gregory

773-553-1800 

PM Contact: 11610 - Diverse Learner Supports 8: Services
42 West Madison Street

Chicago, IL 60602
Keenan Ms. Elizabeth A.

773-553-1800

 

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on October 1, 2016 and shall end on September 30, 2019.
This agreement shall have one (1) option to renew for a period of twelve (12) months each.

19-0327-P R2

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

DESCRIPTION OF PURCHASE:
Hearing Assistive Technology (HAT) and Frequency Modulation (FM) equipment to be purchased include
the following:

Category 1 body worn, ear level, neck loop, receiver with audio shoe, semi integrated, bundled semi
integrated, cochlear implant, programming transmitter, basic transmitter, and integrated multitalker, and

Category 2 - classroom speakers.

OUTCOMES:

HAT products will result in students that are classified as deaf or hard of hearing using the devices to
improve hearing capacity, with the goal of improved learning. HAT products and FM receivers provided by
vendor are designed to complement existing therapies in children with minimal or unilateral hearing loss,
auditory processing disorders and learning disabilities.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as follows: as invoices are submitted and veri?ed in accordance with the
prices set forth in the written agreement; total not to exceed $2t61888188 $300,000.00 during the initial
three year term.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement
and amendment. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement and amendment.
Authorize the Chief Of?cer of Diverse Learner Supports and Services to execute all ancillary documents
required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, this contract is waived of the MNVBE participation goals of 30% MBE and
7% WBE, because the contract is not further divisible.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Charge to the Of?ce of Diverse Learner Supports and Services (Unit 11610): 821-67888788 $300,000.00

FY17 $727296 $73,612
FY18 3712:296 $96,027
FY19 $727296 $99,000
FY20 31361

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

2

19-0327-P R2

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of

of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year

budget(s).

Approved for Consideration:

JONATHAN MAPLES
Chief Procurement Officer

Approved:

?l
i
I .


JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Executive Officer

  

QApproved-E}; to e? iForn?Ry

gem 

General ounsei

19-0327-PR3
March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL LOUIS UNIVERSITY
FOR CLASS PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PRE-K SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with National Louis University to provide CLASS observations for Pre-K
services to the Of?ce of Early Childhood Education at an estimated annual cost set forth in the
compensation section of this report. Vendor was selected on a non-competitive basis. This item was
presented to the Single/Sole Source Committee on February 14, 2019 and approved by the Chief
Procurement Of?cer. Prior to approval as a Single Source, the item was published on the Procurement
website on February 11, 2019, found here: cps.edu/procurement. The item will remain on the Procurement
website until the March 27, 2019 Board Meeting. This process complies with the independent consultant?s
recommendations for sole source procurements and the Board's Single/Sole Source Committee Charter. A
written agreement for Vendor's services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by
Vendor and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreement. The
authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within
90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Contract Administrator: Wright, Mr. Thaddeus 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 48030
NATIONAL LOUIS UNIVERSITY
122 S. MICHIGAN AVE.

CHICAGO, IL 60603
Marty Mickey

312 261-3154
Ownership: Not For Profit

USER INFORMATION 

Project

Manager: 11385 - Early Childhood Development City Wide
'42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Kim, Mr. David
773-553-2010

PM Contact:
11360 - Early Childhood Development
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Abello, Mr. Michael Christian
773-553-2010 .

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on April 1, 2019 and shall June 30, 2020. This agreement shall
have two (2) options to renew for periods of twelve (12) months each.

19-0327-P R3

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: .

In 2012, the City and CPS identi?ed the CLASS observation tool as the instrument to measure classroom
quality within all early childhood classrooms across the city of Chicago. Beginning both
organizations will contract with National Louis University to conduct classroom observations utilizing the
CLASS tool which was previously performed by independent consultants. All classroom observation results
will be held within the myTeachstone database platform. myTeachstone is currently being used by the City
to manage CLASS data on Head Start funded classrooms. Additionally, National Louis University will
conduct CLASS assessments for State funded preschool classrooms overseen by the City and CPS
(federally funded preschool classrooms within CPS will be covered under the City contract with National
Louis University). National Louis University will project manage the assessment process cycle; be
responsible for professional development of assessors on the myTeachstone platform; and provide
foundational and interrater reliability training on the dimensions and domains of the CLASS tool to the
assessment team.

DELIVERABLES:

Data obtained through the use of assessment tools will be consistent and reliable. Observational data on
classroom quality will be collected from each assigned age group in community based organizations or
classrooms in CPS classrooms. Qualitative and quantitative Data will be entered in myTeachstone to
facilitate quality support. Quantitative Data will be entered in Branagh Data Information System to generate
site-based facility reports that support participation in ExceleRate Illinois QRIS. The Director of Quality
Assessment and the Quality Assessment Manager will communicate with stakeholders to
determine the number and type of assessments to be completed. National Louis University will connect with
centers/schools via email to schedule an assessment window and exchange needed
pre-assessment/post-assessment information.

outcomes:
Vendor's services will result in the CLASS data being used to support teacher's instructional practice within
the classroom, therefore improving the student outcomes.

COMPENSATION: 
Vendor shall be paid as follows: Equal payments.
Estimated annual costs for the fifteen (15) month term are set forth below:

FY19: $266,666.00
FY20: $1,066,666.00

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
Vendor shall be reimbursed for the following expenses: None.

AUTHORIZATION: 

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Officer of Early
Childhood Education to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women- Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MNVBE Program) this contract Is exempt as this agreement Is for a
not-for-profit organization.

19-0327-P R3

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval Is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Fund 362, Office of Early Childhood Education, Unit 11385

$266,666, FY19
$1,066,666, FY20

Not to exceed $1,333,333 for the one (1) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, In accordance with 105 ILCS
5134-131, the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

I Approved for Consideration: Approved: .
JONATHAN MAPLES TIANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Of?cer Chief Executive Officer

  
 
   


Aytopproved [Forn?

I JOSEPH T. 
\WOunsel

19-0327-PR4
March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH SAGA INNOVATIONS, INC.
FOR IN-CLASS MATH TUTORING SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreementwith SAGA lnnovations, Inc. to provide in-class math tutoring services to at-risk
students at an estimated annual cost set forth in the compensation section of this report. Vendor was
selected on a non-competitive basis. This item was presented to the Single/Sole Source Committee on
February 14, 2019 and approved by the Chief Procurement Officer. Prior to approval as a Single Source,
the item was published on the Procurement website on February 11, 2019, found here:
cps.edulprocurement. The item will remain on the Procurement website until the March 27, 2019 Board
Meeting. This process complies with the independent consultant's recommendations for sole source
procurements and the Board's "Single/Sole Source Committee Charter." A written agreement for Vendor?s
services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment shall be
made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Contract Administrator: Wright, Mr. Thaddeus 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor# 16228
SAGA lnnovations, Inc.
10 Laudholm Rd.

Newton, MA 02458

617-501-9401
657 501-9401
Ownership: Not For Profit

USER INFORMATION 

Project

Manager: 10871 - Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
42 Madison
Chicago, IL 60602
Mcdermott, Mrs. Elizabeth G.
773-553?1000

PM Contact:

10810 - Teaching and Learning Office
42 West Madison Street

Chicago, IL 60602

Alvarado, Miss Anna 

773-553-1216

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on July 1, 2019 and shall end June 30, 2020. This agreement
shall have no options to renew.

19-0327-PR4

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will provide an intensive, high-dosage tutoring program that both personalizes and differentiates
instruction for every student based on their academic needs and individual learning styles and will utilize a
research and evidence based intervention for math to substantially increase the success of struggling
students in grades 9 and 10. The tutoring will be done during the regular school day and does not include
tutoring services after regular school hours. The program must be used with struggling students during the
regular school day, in a structured class period, and shall allow students to work at their own level and pace, 
when appropriate. Tutors working a full day will be required to be available during the regular school hours
(7.5 hours), five days a week. Tutors that work a partial day must work a minimum of three hours during the
school day. The projected schools to receive services are Amundsen High School, Bogan High School,
Corliss High School, Englewood STEM High School, Foreman High School, Harlan High School, Little
Village High School Campus, Phillips High School and Sullivan High School. The total projected number of
students across all these schools that will be served is at least 910. The program shall be for Board students
identified as two or more grade levels below in math. The program shall include training of their tutors on
managing students behavior and strategies for engagement.

DELIVERABLES: 

Vendor will provide the trained tutors and classroom materials in order to run a successful program. Vendor
will also give ?ve (5) assessments to the students throughout the school year in order to measure student
progress and achievement and provide reporting back to the Board based on the results of those
assessments.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in a successful math tutoring program that will increase the academic
outcomes of the students involved. The program will decrease the achievement gap for students that are at
least two grade levels behind in math so that they can catch up to their peers.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as specified in the agreement; estimated annual costs for the one (1) year term are set
forth below:

$2,820,000; FY20
Not to exceed $2,820,000.

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief Of?cer of Teaching
and Learning to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:
Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, Program), this contract is exempt as this agreement is for a
not-for-pro?t organization.

19-O327-P R4

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Fund 332 - Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Programs, Unit #10871

$2,820,000; FY20
Not to exceed $2,820,000

Future year funding in contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

[imam icjg/a
(J
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE JACKSON
Chief Procurement Of?cer Chief Executive Officer

  

Approveda to 
JOSE HT. 

General - ounsel

 March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH ILLINOIS ACTION FOR CHILDREN TO
PROVIDE SUPPORT THROUGH THE UNIVERSAL APPLICATION HOTLINE

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst renewal agreement with Illinois Action for Children to provide parent support through
the universal application hotline to ensure families receive support accessing quality preschool
programming services to the Of?ce of Early Childhood Education at an estimated annual cost set forth in
the Compensation Section of this report. A written document exercising this option is currently being
negotiated. No payment shall be made to illinois Action for Children during the option period prior to
execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a
written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to
this option is stated below.

Contract Administrator: Wright, Mr. Thaddeus 773-553-2280

VENDOR:
1) Vendor 91629

ILLINOIS ACTION FOR CHILDREN
4753 NORTH BROADWAY., STE 1200

CHICAGO, IL 60640

JACQUELINE ZANDERS
773 769-8019

Ownership: Non?Pro?t

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 11385 - Early Childhood Development - City Wide

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Mckinily, Miss Leslie
773-553-2010

PM Contact:
10810 - Teaching and Learning Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Alvarado, Miss Anna 

773-553-1216



ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: -

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 18-0321-PR5) in the amount of $250,000 is for a
term commencing April 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2019, with the Board having two (2) options to
renew for one (1) year terms. Vendor was selected on a non-competitive basis. The original agreement
presented to the Single/Sole Source Committee on March 6, 2018 and approved by the Chief
Procurement Of?cer. Upon approval as a Sole Source, the item was published on the Procurement
website on March 6, 2018, found here: cps.edu/procurement.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing July 1, 2019 and ending June
30, 2020.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one (1) option period for one (1) year remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide support for families throughout the application process. The Chicago Early
Learning Family Support Hotline serves as resource for families to learn about child care options, such as
school?based (Chicago Public Schools) and community-based (Department of Family Support Services)
preschool programs across the City of Chicago. The Hotline also provides assistance in helping parents
complete the universal online preschool application. If necessary, the Hotline can refer families to
in-person resources to follow through with the application, learn more about their program provider and
learn next steps to enroll. The Hotline also troubleshoots and resolve questions, concerns, and issues
surrounding application submission and management. The Hotline number is advertised on all
promotional materials and is readily accessible to families.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will continue to address barriers of connecting the highest need families to Chicago Early
Learning Programs by making families aware of Chicago Early Learning Programs through community
outreach efforts, engaging all City of Chicago families in the application and enrollment process, and
assisting them with successfully navigating the application and enrollment processes. Deliverables will
include the following:

Chicago Early Learning Hotline will monitor: Number of calls received Number of calls served Record
number of referrals provided Number of applications completed List reason for calls (assistance provided)
Record regional breakdown of calls received Record other statistics identi?ed by DFSS and CPS
Chicago Early Learning Community Engagement will monitor: Record number of families engaged List
number of applications submitted Record number of outreaches attended Record detailed listing of
outreach events and outcomes by community Record other statistics identi?ed by DFSS and CPS

OUTCOMES:
Vendor services will result in the following:

Families will receive informed guidance to assist them in ef?ciently and effectively completing applications
to Early Childhood programs. 

COMPENSATION: 

Vendor shall be paid during this option period as speci?ed in their agreement and as follows:
FY20, $250,000.00

Compensation for the twelve (12) month renewal term shall not exceed $250,000.00.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize Early
Childhood Education to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

19-0327-PR5

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MNVBE Program), this contract is exempt as this agreement is for a
not-for?pro?t organization.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 362 Of?ce of Early Childhood Education, Unit 11385

FY20, $250,000.00

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
i
?x 
k,
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Of?cer Chief Executive Officer

 

$3237
1 JOSEP T.lVl RIARTY
General ounset

-0327-P
19 R6 March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE SECOND AND FINAL RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS VENDORS TO
PROVIDE ONLINE DATABASE RESOURCE SUBSCRIPTION SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second and ?nal renewal agreements with various vendors to provide online database
resource subscription services to the Department of Curriculum, Instruction and Digital Learning of the
Chicago Public Schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report.
Written documents exercising this option are currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to
any vendor during the option period prior to execution of their written document. The authority granted
herein shall automatically rescind as to each vendor in?the event their written document is not executed
within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Contract Administrator: Wright, Mr. Thaddeus 773-553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 63346
CENGAGE LEARNING INC.
10650 TOEBBEN DR

INDEPENDENCE, KY 41051

Kira Prince
800 354-9706

Ownership: Cengage Learning Acquisitions
Inc 100%

2) Vendor 12542
BRITANNICA INC.
331 N. LASALLE ST.

CHICAGO, IL 60654

Mabel G. Mannion
312 347-7205

Ownership: Britannica
Holdings - 100%

3) Vendor# 12618
TEACHINGBOOKSNET LLC
2712 Marshall Court, Suite 1

MADISON, WI 53703

Nick Glass
608 257-2919

Ownership: Nick Glass - 100%

19-0327-PR6

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10814 - Pre-K - 12 Curriculum

42 W. Madison
Chicago, IL 60602
Thorstenson, Ms. Kara Leann

773-553-1000

PM Contact:
10810 - Teaching and Learning Office

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Alvarado, Miss Anna 
773-553?1216

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report 17-O426-PR8) in the amount of $177,109.27 are for
a term commencing July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2018, with the Board having two (2) options to
renew for periods of one (1) year each. The agreements were subsequently renewed for a term
commencing July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2019 (authorized by Board Report The
original agreements were awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION. PERIOD: 
The term of each agreement is being renewed for one (1 year commencing July 1, 2019 and ending
June 30, 2020.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors will continue to provide and ensure all students and teachers have 24 hours a day and 7 days a
week access to the subscription sites. Vendors will continue to assign representatives who will ?eld both
phone calls and email requests from CPS for technical assistance.

Britannica will continue to provide the following service:
1. Unlimited on-site and remote access to Britannica Online School Edition and Spanish Reference
Center. .

Cengage Learning will continue to provide the following service:
1. Unlimited on-site and remote access to the Student Resources InContext, Research InContext, Kids
InfoBits, US History InContext, and World History InContext.

Teachingbooksnet will continue to provide access to the following service:
1. Access to the Teachingbooksnet author information database.

19-0327-PR6

DELIVERABLES:

Vendors will continue to provide 24 hour and 7 days a week access to their respective database content
as described above and will continue to provide usage reports detailing the site usage per school
and district-wide.

OUTCOMES:

Vendors services will result in access to noted databases to improve student achievement by providing
access to a rich collection of text, video and audio content. Formats include full text magazines,
newspapers, podcasts, and reference books that are relevant to current events, the arts, science, popular
culture, health, people, government, history, sports and more. The databases successfully support the
Chicago Public Schools curriculum, support effective teaching using technology, and help students
develop the information retrieval and processing skills that are required for students to be college and
career ready.

COMPENSATION:

The maximum compensation during the renewal term of the agreement for each vendor is as follows:
Britannica Inc. Spanish - $59,480.00

Cengage Learning Inc. (Gen K-12 Reference) - $67,500.00 

Cengage Learning Inc. (History) - $43,200.00 
Teachingbooks.net LLC (Author websites, video interviews, book lists, and biographical information) -
$8,659.00

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize Chief of
Teaching and Learning to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the option
agreements. 

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, Program), this pool is exempt as this agreement is for license
and online subscription services.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115 and Fund 324

Teaching and Learning, Unit 10810

$178,839.00, FY20

Future year funding in contingent Upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS 5134-218 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

19-0327-P R6

Indebtedness - The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year

budget(s).

Approved for Consideration:

f5?

JONATHAN MAPLES
Chief Procurement Officer



Approved:

VJANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Executive Officer

Approved\a to? 


JOSEPH T. 

General ounsel

  

19-0327-PR7 March 27, 2019

REPORT ON THE AWARD OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND CHANGES TO CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACTS FOR THE BOARD OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

This report details the award of Capital Improvement Program construction contracts in the total amount of
$527,208.46 to the respective lowest responsible bidders for various construction projects, as listed in
Appendix A of this report. These construction contracts shall be for projects approved as part of the Board?s
Capital Improvement Program. Work involves all labor, material and equipment required to construct new
schools, additions, and annexes, or to renovate existing facilities, all as called for in the plans and
speci?cations for the respective projects. Proposals, schedules of bids, and other supporting documents
are on file in the Department of Operations. These contracts have been awarded in accordance with section
7-3 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.

This report also details changes to existing Capital Improvement Program construction contracts, in the
amount of $496,113.36 as listed in the attached March Change Order Log. These construction contract
changes have been processed and are being submitted to the Board for approval in accordance with
section 7-15 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, since they require an increased
commitment necessitated by an unforeseen combination of circumstances or conditions calling for
immediate action to protect Board property to prevent interference with school sessions.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: The General Contracting Services Agreements entered into by each of the pre-
quali?ed general contractors and other miscellaneous construction contracts awarded outside the pre-
quali?ed general contractor program for new construction awards and changes to existing construction
contracts shall be subject to the Board?s Business Diversity Program for Construction Projects and any
revisions or amendments to that policy that may be adopted during the term of any such contract.

FINANCIAL: Expenditures involved in the Capital Improvement Program are charged to
the Department of Operations, Capital Improvement Program.

Budget classi?cation: Fund 412, 425, 427, 431, 435, 436, 437, 439, 485, 486, 487 488
will be used for all Change Orders (March Change Order Log); Funding source for new
contracts is so indicated on Appendix A

Funding Source: Capital Funding

19-0327-PR7

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board?s Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-PO2), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

ice .Jac son,.Etil5
'efE ecuti Officer

 

   
 

General Cou sel

Appendix A
March
2019

 

SCHOOL CONTRACTOR

CONTRACT CONTRACT

METHOD

C0 NT 
AWARD

AWARD
DATE

ANTICIPATED
COMPLETION DATE

FISCAL AFFIRM.

YEAR

ACTION

SCOPE AND NOTES

REASONS



 

 



 

Agassiz Tyler Lane Construction
Tyler lane Construction
Tyler Lane Construction
Falconer Tyler lane Construction
Garvy Tyler lane 
Hay?t Tyler lane Construction
Incite Tyler Lane Construction
Lovett Tyler lane Construction
Lyon Tyler lane ConsU'uction
Murphy Tyler Lane Construction
Nixon Tyler Lane Construction
Piccolo Tyler lane Construction

Bridge
Burke

Reasons:

1. Safety

lCode Compliance

3. Fire Code Violation:

4. Deteriorated Exterior Conditions

5. Priority Medianlal Needs

6. ADA Compliance

7. Support [or Educational Portfolio Strategy
3 Support for other Disnice lniciatives

9. External Funding Provided

3534130
3534192
3534194
3533597
3533594
3534200
3534234
3534251
3510759
3534261
3534264
3534268

10c
[123,956.52
97,062.23
1 7,215.5 1

7.88035

5,921.50
29,496.45
27,178.46
42,351.45
50,3 62.10
84.01756
21,381.99
22.33434

527,208.46

10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013
10/9/2013

12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013
12/31/2013

2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019
2019



2

$0005



75%

47%
84%

79%
68%
83%
80%
09%
90%
71%





The scope ofworlt consists ofcritical masonry stabilization and structural repairs
The scope ofwork consists ofcritical masonry stabilization and structural rcpnirs
The scope ofworlt consists nfcritical masonry stabiliutjon and structural repairs
The scope ofworlt consists ofcn'tical masonry stabilization and structural repairs
The scope ol'work consists ofcritical masonry stabilization and structural repairs
The scope ofwork consists ofcritical masonry stabilization and structural repairs
The scope ofwork consists ofcritical masonry stabilization and 511110le repairs
The scope ol'work consists ofcritical masonry stabilization and structural repairs
The scope of work consists ofcritical masonry stabilization and structural repairs
The scope of work consists of critical masonry stabilization and structural repairs
The scope of work consists of critical masonry stabilization and structural repairs
The scope of work consists of critical masonry stabilization and structural repairs



 

19-0327-P R7

CPS . MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools 3/5/19

These change order approval cycles range from
Cautal Im urovement Pro :ram 1210112013 to 1213112013 Pa;e 1 of 12

CHANGE ORDER LOG

    

 

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

CapitallOperations - City Wide

2016 42 W. Madison DOR 201 B-12150-DOR
Murphy Jones 00.. Inc. $86,867.00 3 $8,362.28 $95,229.28 9.63%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code .

 

3118898
12111118 12121118 General Contractor to provide all labor and materials to install an audible cover including horns on the Safety Issue $4,035.42
'Request to Exit' push buttons at select doors.

 

Project Total: $4,035.42

CapitaIIOperations City Wide

2019 OIG Office ICR 2019-12150-ICR
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc $393,000.00 1 $16,847.21 $409,847.21 4.29%

Change Date App Date Change Order Descriptions Reason Code
3545539
12114118 12118118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to move and con?gure data systems infrastructure Discovered Conditions $16,847.21
for proper cubicle con?guration.

 

Project Total: $16,847.21

Phillip Armour Elementary School

2018 Armour NPL 2018-22061-NPL
Kee Construction, LLC $341,310.00 1 $2,882.40 $344,192.40 0.84%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri lions

 

Reason Code
3510554 
11116118 12107118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials for removal of asphalt discovered below the soft Discovered Conditions $2,882.40
surface. 

 

Project Total: $2,882.40

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

19-0327-P R7

CPS . MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools 3/5/19

These change order approval cycles range from
Ca - 1tal Im .rovcment Pro,ram 1210112010 to 1213112013 Pa;e 2 of 12

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

19-0327-PR7

Newton Bateman Elementary School

2018 Bateman MEP 2018-22171-MEP
K.R. Miller Contractors, Inc $4,579,660.00 11 $155,344.66 $4,735,004.66 3.39%

Chanqe Date ADD Date Chanqe Order Descriptions Reason Code

3496132! 3514104
12114118 12121118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to abate LBP discovered on existing l-beams. Discovered Conditions $36,640.45

 

Project Total: $36,640.45

George Rogers Clark Elementary School
2017 Clark ES MCR 2017-22191-MCR -
F.H. Paschen. S.N. Nielsen Assoc $2,167,000.00 22 $100,954.42 $2,267,954.42 4.66%

Chanqe Dale App Date Chanqe Order Descriptions Reason Code

32821 12
02119118 12127118 General Contractor to credit plumbing piping not required at the new roof drain locations. Discovered Conditions 

 

Project Total: 

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

CPS . MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools 3/5/19

. These change order approval cycles range from
Ca - Ital Im Pro :ram 1210112013 to 12/31/2018 Pa;e 3 0f 12

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

 

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

Bouchet Academy

2018 Bouchet ROF 2018-22371-ROF
All-Bry Construction Company $8,015,000.00 40 $739,535.09 $8,754,535.09 9.23%

Change Date App Date Chan 63 Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code 
3481943 1' 3512362
12/13/18 12/26/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install window shades in the Assembly Hall. School Request $1292.14

11/29/18 12/06/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to paint interior window guards. School Request $6,885.55
12/13/18 12/26/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install additional transom panels at select doors. School Request $3,252.25

12/13/18 12/26/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to remove and replace asphalt due to poor School Request $83.475.00
sub-base.

11/29/18 12/04/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to repair existing inoperable door. Discovered Conditions $1802.00

12/13/18 12/14/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to remove and replace damaged floor tile with new Discovered Conditions $898.88
VCT.

 

Project Total: $97,605.82

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

R7

 

CPS . MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools 3/5/19

These change order approval cycles range from
Cautal Im trovement Pregram 1210112013 to 1213112013 Pa;e 4 of 12

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

Little Village Academy

2018 Little Village UAF 2018-22521-UAF
AGAE Contractors $720,611.00 7 $46,628.98 $767,239.98 6.47%

Change Date App Date Chance Order Descriptions Reason Code
3498170
12113118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials for removal of foundation wall to depth that allows Discovered Conditions $9,816.93
for installation of turf and drainage system.

12113118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials for the additional work requested by DWM due to Code Compliance A $12,970.61
the existing water main.

12113118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials for removal of arti?cial turf attic stock from scope of Owner Directed -$106.00
work.

12112118 12126118 General Contractor to provide credit for unused under new sidewalk and asphalt, including Discovered Conditions 
excavation.

 

 

Project Total: $14,463.55

George Cassell School

2018 Cassell MCR 2018-22651-MCR
Old Veteran Construction, Inc 554.666.865.88 19 $307,018.22 $4,973,884.10 6.58%

Change Date App Date Chan 9 Order Descri lions Reason Code

 

3485389 1 3512369
12114118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials additional drainage infrastructure, including revised Discovered Conditions $55,540.79
grading and new catch basins.

 

Project Total: $55,540.79

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

19-0327-P R7

MAR CH

These change order approval cycles range from
1210112018 to 1213112018

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of
Contract Change
Amount Orders

CPS

Chicago Public Schools
Ca - ital Im orovement Pro am

 

 

 
  

Revised Total
Contract of
Amount Contract

Total
Change

Project Number
Orders

School Vendor

Dewitt Clinton School

2018 Clinton MCR 2018-22751-MCR
The George Sollitt Construction Co.

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

12111118

513.525.765.00 1.45%
Reason Code

$13,332,254.00 13 $193,511.00

 

12114118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install roof scuppers. Discovered Conditions

General Contractor to provide labor and materials to add power receptacles at the school reception School Request

desk.

12111118 12114118

12111118 12126118 General Contractor to provide credit removal of water meter scope. Discovered Conditions

 

3/5/19
Pa;e 5 of 12

 

Oracle Board Number

PO Number

3506609 1 3512370

$4,024.00

$2,273.00



 

 

Nathan Davis School Annex

2017 Davis, NCP 2017-22891-NCP
All-Bry Construction Company

Chan Order Descri tions

$1,361,850.42 5.65%
Reason Code

$1,289,000.00 6 $72,850.42

App Date

 

Change Date

11115118 General Contractorto provide labor and materials to pour additional concrete curb to conceal exposed Discovered Conditions

foundations at front entry.

12106118

General Contractor to provide labor and materials to lower sidewalk grades for updated ADA Discovered Conditions

1210511 8
requirements and modify retention piping due to site grading conflicts.

11115118

Project Total: $4,919.00

3461099
$4,575.25

$52,407.99

 

James Farnsworth School

2013 Farnsworth NCP 2018-23161-NCP
All-Bry Construction Company

Change Date Agg Date Chan Order Descri tions

11119118 12105118

$1,202,552.92 0.63%
Reason Code

$1,195,000.00 1 $7,552.92

 

General Contractorto provide labor and materials to install new fencing along parking lot. Discovered Conditions

Project Total: $56,983.24

3525317
$7,552.92

 

Project Total: $7,552.92

19-03 27-P R7

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board In arrears.

 

CPS . MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools 3/5/19

. These change order approval cycles range from
Ca 0 ital Im urovement Pro_ram 1210112018 to 1213112010 Pa;e 6 of 12

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

Eugene Field School

2017 Field NCP 2017-23211-NCP
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc $1,133,000.00 7 $33,344.90 $1,166,344.90 2.94%

Change Date Agg Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

3486084
10103118 12112118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to replace existing concrete walkway. Owner Directed $11,613.36

12114118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to provide asphalt resurfacing at playground. Owner Directed $1,466.56

 

 

Project Total: $13,079.92

George McClellan Elementary School

2018 McClellan MCR 2018-24421-MCR
The George Sollitt Construction Co. $6,260,752.00 5 $48,695.19 $6,309,447.19 0.78%

Chanqe Date App Date Chanqe Order Descriptions Reason Code
3516347

11107118 12114118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to provide asbestos abatement discovered during Discovered Conditions $3,115.57
containment.

 

Project Total: 53,11 5.57

James Monroe School

2018 Monroe ROF 2018-24531-ROF
Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. $2,981,587.00 13 $124,247.37 $3,105,834.37 4.17%

Chanqe Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

348203313514108
12112118 12126118 General Contractor to remove and reinstall electrical and ?re alarm devices in order to complete ACT Omission Architect $4,652.00
replacement.

12111118 12126118 General Contractor to provide credit for not raising parapets at main entrance low roof. Discovered Conditions 

 

Project Total: 

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

19-0327-P R7

CPS . MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools 3/5/19
These change order approval cycles range from
C3. ital Im urovement Pro gram 1210112013 to 1213112018 Pa;e 7 of 12

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

 

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

19-0327-P R7

Bernhard Moos School

2018 Moos ROF 2018-24551-ROF
F.H. Paschen. S.N. Nielsen Assoc $3,559,000.00 15 $111,918.40 $3,670,918.40 3.14%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code -
3486082
08127118 12107118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials for required asbestos training for electrician. E80 - MEC $2,052.00

12104118 12106118 General Contractor to provide credit for difference in pricing for previously approved change order to Discovered Conditions 
repair additional window frames with signi?cant gaps.

 

Project Total: 

Peter A Reinberg Elementary School

2018 Reinberg NPL 2018-25111-NPL
All-Bry Construction Company $343,386.00 1 $2,150.00 $345,536.00 0.63%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descn? tions Reason Code

 

3510637
12111118 12814118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install temporary fencing to protect new sod. School Request $2,150.00

 

Project Total: $2,150.00

Sidney Sawyer School .

2018 Sawyer ROF 2018-25231-ROF
Friedler Construction Co. $9,038,000.00 10 $95,075.15 $9,133,075.15 1.05%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

348202913514111
11106118 12126118 General Contractorto provide labor and materials to re?install ?re protection equipment to install new Discovered Conditions $3,316.02
boilers and associated equipment.

11107118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install bottle ?ller. School Request $9,842.42

 

Project Total: $13,1 58.44

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

CPS . MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools 3/5/19

These change order approval cycles range from
Ca-ltal Im urovement Pro :ram 12/01/2018 to 12/31/2018 Pa;e 8 of 12

CHANGE ORDER LOG

    

 

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

R7

James Ward Elementary School

2018 Ward ROF 2018-25751-ROF
Murphy 8: Jones Co., Inc. $924,726.00 2 $21,983.18 $946,709.18 2.38%

Change Date Apr; Date Chanqe Order Descriptions Reason Code
3509663
12/04/18 12/26/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install three new exhaust fans at roof. Discovered Conditions $16,945.00

 

Project Total: $16,945.00

Eli School

2018 Whitney ROF 2018-25841-ROF -
F.H. Paschen. S.N. Nielsen Assoc $5,200,000.00 12 $180,997.75 $5,380,997.75 3.48%

Chanqe Date App Date Chanqe Order Descriptions Reason Code
3482028 3512368

10/23/18 12/03/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to scrape, patch and repair LBP at second ?oor School Request $3,687.60
corridor.

 

Project Total: $3,687.60

Morton School of Excellence

2017 Morton NCP 2017-26091-NCP
Friedler Construction Co. $1,188,800.00 7 $81,902.00 $1,270,702.00 6.89%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 


3468627
11/08/18 12/05/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install a trench drain to alleviate water pending in Omission - Architect $7,412.00
parking lot.

12/13/18 12/26/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to hand dig and uncover gas line. Discovered Conditions $3,030.00

11/08/18 12/03/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to change layout of planting area in order to avoid Discovered Conditions $2,901.00
discovered concrete gas line.

11/09/18 12/13/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to excavate and remove discovered concrete Discovered Conditions $56,515.00
footings and foundations on the north and south site.

 

Project Total: $69,858.00

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

CPS MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools 3/5/19
Ca - ital lm urovement Pro :ram

These change order approval cycles range from
1210112018 to 1213112018

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract P0 Number

Pa-e 9 of12

 

19-0327-P R7

Franklin Fine Arts Center

2017 Franklin ROF 2017-29081-ROF
The George Sollitt Construction Co. $7,924,000.00 22 $97,590.48 $8,021,590.48 1.23%

Change Date Apr; Date Change Order Descriptions Reason Code 

 

3300816
12111118 12114118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials for fence mounted signs around school property. School Request $1354.82

12104118 12114118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to remove buried concrete foundations and adjust Discovered Conditions $6,775.00
two existing buried catch basins. General Contractor to provide additional asphalt overlay and adjust
rim elevations at both existing catch basins.

08117118 12120118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to pour additional concrete floor leveling in the Discovered Conditions $9.472.00
auditorium.

 

Project Total: $17,601.82

Ted Lenart Regional Gifted Center

2018 Lenart ROF 2018-29361-ROF
F.H. Paschen. S.N. Nielsen Assoc $1,911,000.00 8 $1,898,966.25 -0.63%

Chanqe Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

3481878 1 3512367
12118118 12126118 General Contractor to credit the plaster not required for install. Allowance Credit 

12118118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install conduit and cable for new exterior light Omission AOR $1,690.70
?xture not detailed' In the contract documents.

 

Project Total: 

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

CPS . MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools
These change order approval cycles range from
Ca - Ital Im urovement Pro :ram 1210112013 to 1213112018

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

 

Original Number of Total Revised Total

School Vendor ProjectNumber Contract Change Change Contract %of
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract

Michelle Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School

2017 Clark HS MCR 2017-41051-MCR
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc $6,228,000.00 11 $64,532.88 $6,292,532.88 1.04%

Change Date App Date Chanqe Order Descriptions Reason Code .

12110118 12112118 General Contractor to credit the structural slab repairs that were determined unnecessary by the Discovered Conditions
structural engineer of record.

12110118 12112118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to renovate two rooms to allow forthe weight room School Request
make over provided to the school. Work includes environmental demolition, carpeting and MEP
upgrades.

01123118 12112118 General Contractorto credit concrete roof deck repair not required. Allowance Credit

 

3/5/19
Page 10 of 12

Oracle Board Number
P0 Number

3282113


$54,969.01



 

 

Hyde Park Career Academy

2018 Hyde Park ROF 2018-46171-ROF
Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. $15,249.728.00 17 $487,082.00 $15,736,810.00 3.19%
Reason Code

Chanqe Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

11126118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install wood underlayment in music rooms. Discovered Conditions

10123118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install door locks and cores to match existing School Request
building keyway.

Project Total: $23,646.01

3478790
$7,156.00

$19,882.00

 

Wendell Phillips Academy High School

2018 Phillips ICR 2018-46261-ICR
Murphy Jones 00., Inc. $488,600.00 5 $14,603.61 $503,203.61 2.99%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

11115118 12114118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to remove additional layers of sub-?ooring Discovered Conditions
discovered during removal.

Project Total: $27,038.00

3510718
$9,060.54

 

Project Total: $9,060.54

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

19-0327-P R7

CPS . MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools 3/5/19

These change order approval cycles range from
Ca utal Im urovement Pro gram 1210112013 to 1213112018 Pa;e 11 of 12

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract PO Number

      

 

      

North Grand High School

2017 North-Grand MEP 2017-46431-MEP
Stanton Mechanical, $318,615.00 2 $15,504.00 $334,119.00 4.87%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code -

 

3457486
10115118 12103118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to repair existing chiller for proper operation. Discovered Conditions $9,980.00

 

Project Total: $9,980.00

Lindblom Math and Science Academy High School

2017 Lindblom ROF 2017-46511-ROF .
All-81y Construction Company $8,570,000.00 42 $896,021.68 $9,466,021.68 10.46%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

 

3299246
11129118 12118118 General Contractorto provide all labor and materials for environmental remediation, plaster repair and Discovered Conditions $18,355.21
plaster replacement in the girl's gym. of?ce and storage room.

12106118 12112118 General Contractor to credit draining and re?lling of existing chiller water lines. Owner Directed 

 

Project Total: 

Bronzeville Lighthouse Charter School

2017 Hartigan MCR 2017-66421-MCR
The George Sollitt Construction Co. $9,558,212.00 67 $1,757,389.00 $11,315,601.00 18.39%

Reason Code
3460671

11128118 12105118 General Contractorto provide labor and materials to install shades for security purposes at front entry School Request $1,240.00
vestibule.

Chan Order Descri tions

 

Change Date Agg Date

 

12117118 12126118 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to install locks on uni-vent access panels. School Request $1,590.00

 

Project Total: $2,830.00

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

19-0327-P R7

 

CPS MAR CH

Chicago Public Schools
These change order approval cycles range from
Cautal Im-rovement Pro; am 12/01/2018 to 12/31/2018

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change
Amount Orders Orders

 

Eckersall Stadium
2016 Eckersall Stadium UAF 2016-68010-UAF

 

Revised Total
Contract of
Amount Contract

Reliable Associates $2,171,488.00 19 $194,435.56 $2,365,923.56 8.95%

Change Date App Date Chanqe Order Descriptions

12/05/18 12/18/18 General Contractor to provide labor and materials to expedite construction completion.

Total Change Orders for this Period $496,113.36

Reason Code

Owner Directed

3/5/19
Pa;e 12 of 12

 

Oracle Board Number
PO Number

3469606
$63.313.78

 

 

Project Total: $63,313.78

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

19-0327-P R7

19-0327-PR
8 March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AGREEMENT WITH VARIOUS VENDORS FOR CUSTOM PRINT
SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst renewal agreements with vendors to provide custom print services to Central Of?ce and
Schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Written
documents exercising this option are currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to any
Vendor during the option period prior to execution of their written document. The authority granted herein
shall automatically rescind as to each Vendor in the event their written document is not executed within
90 days of the date of this Board Report. information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 16-350019

Contract Administrator Washington, Ms. Nealean 773-553-2273

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 12210 - Procurement and Contracts Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602

May?eld, Mr. Charles Edward
773-553-2901

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreements (authorized by Board Report 16-0427-PR15 as amended by 16-0824-PR5) in
the amount of $8,000,000 are for a term commencing either on May 1, 2016 or upon date of execution
and ending April 30, 2019, with the Board having two (2) options to renew for one (1) year terms. The
original agreements were awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of each agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing May 1, 2019 and ending April
30. 2020.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one (1) option period for one (1) year remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendors will continue to provide custom printing services for Central Of?ce and Schools in the categories
for which they have been pre-approved. The categories are listed below.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendors will continue to provide custom print services in the categories for which each is pre-quali?ed.
The categories for which vendors may be pre-quali?ed are the following:

1. Vinyl Banners

2. Booklets

3. Calendars

4. Elementary and High School Diplomas

19-0327-PR8

5. Pamphlets

6. Personalized Cashier's Receipt Pads
7. Posters

8. Report Cards

9. Schools Certi?cates

10. Wall Decals

1 1. Yearbooks

OUTCOMES:
Vendors' services will result in cost effective custom printing services.

COMPENSATION:

The compensation payable to all Vendors during renewal of the pre-quali?cation period shall not exceed
the amounts below. The payments to all pre-quali?ed Vendor's shall be reported to the Board on a
quarterly basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-8.

Estimated annual costs for the one (1) year renewal term are set forth below:

$416,000, FY19

$2,084,000, FY20

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counselto include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize the Chief
Procurement Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the option
agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts, (MNVBE Program), the Business Diversity goals for this pool are 35%
MBE and 15% MBE. This vendor pool is comprised of 8 vendors with two MBEs. The User Group has
committed to achieve the Business Diversity goals through the utilization of the certi?ed diverse suppliers
and certi?ed diverse subcontractors. 

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund: Various Funds

$416,000, FY19

$2,084,000, FY20

Not to exceed $2,500,000 for the one (1) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

19-O327-P R8

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
7/1 i
a f/Mmc. lC-- (6&1
I 
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

  
 
 

Approvedfto ,e ?lForn?P?
JOSE HT. 

General ounsel

19-0327-P R8

1)

Vendor 20163
BERLAND PRINTING, INC. DBA BPI

PRINTING DUPLICATING
3950 S. MORGAN ST.

CHICAGO, IL 60609

Robert Berland

773 822-0111

CategoriesOwnership: Lawrence Berland: 25% Robert
Berland: 75%

Vendor 39605

FIDELITY PRINT COMMUNICATIONS
2829 S. 18TH AVENUE

BROADVIEW, IL 60155

Bernard Williams
708 343-6833
CategoriesOwnership: Earl AWilliams: 100%

6)
Vendor 55080

PRINTING, INC
361 WEST CHICAGO AVE

CHICAGO, IL 60654

Jeff Juhasz
312 642-8080
CategoriesOwnership: Jeff Juhasz: 67% Stephen Juhasz:
33%

Vendor 44218

GEM BUSINESS FORMS INC
5942 8 CENTRAL Ave.

CHICAGO, IL 60638

Kathy Owens

773 735-3300

Categories: 1,Ownership: Katharine T. Owens 85%,
Courtney Ownes 7.5% and Christopher J.
Owens 7.5%

Vendor 23375

JOSTENS, INC.
3601 MINNESOTA DRIVE, STE 400

MINNEAPOLIS, MN 55435

Jon Lieu

952 830-3300

CategoriesOwnership: Jarden Corporation: 100%

Vendor 40473

PRINTING CO., INC
1410 NORTH MEACHAM ROAD

SCHAUMBURG, IL 60173

Keith Stobart
847 884-1100
CategoriesOwnership: Kenneth Stobart 50% and
Richard Stobart 50%

19-0327-PR8

8)

Vendor 79068

LOWITZ SONS
811 WEST EVERGREEN, STE 402

CHICAGO, IL 60642

Jeffrey Lowitz

312 337-2390 31

CategoriesOwnership: Jeffrey Lowitz: 100%

Vendor 14360

OFFICE DEPOT, INC.
515 KEHOE BLVD.

CAROL STREAM, IL 60188

Scott Sterba
800 651-4624
CategoriesOwnership: There is no shareholders that have
10% of more ownership.

19-0327-PR9

March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS OF AND NEW AGREEMENTS WITH
VARIOUS VENDORS TO PROVIDE RENTAL EQUIPMENT AND RELATED SERVICES
FOR SCHOOL BASED EVENTS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the pre-quali?cation status of and new agreements with various vendors to provide rental
equipment and related services for school based events at an estimated annual cost set forth in the
Compensation Section of this report in the aggregate and authorize a written master agreement with each
vendor. Vendors were selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written master
agreements for vendors are currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment
shall be made to any vendor prior to the execution of their written master agreement. The pre-qualification
status approved herein for each vendor shall automatically rescind In the event such vendor fails to execute
the Board's master agreement within 120 days of the date of thIs Board Report. Information pertinent to this
master agreement' Is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 17-350051
Contract Administrator: Washington, Ms. Nealean Tl 773-553-2273
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 85877
A MOON JUMP 4U, INC DBA AMJ
SPECTACULAR EVENTS
5109 WEST LAKE ST.

MELROSE PARK, IL 60160

Stephen Rhea

708 450-4386

Ownership: William Meyer - 33.3%, Kathleen
Rhea - 33.3%, Stephen Rhea - 33.3%

2) Vendor 44090
CLOWNING AROUND ENTERTAINMENT INC.
220 S. SHADDLE AVE

MUNDELEIN, IL 60060

Lilly Ciganek

847 566-3006

Ownership: Mitch Dicker 100%

USER INFORMATION 

Project

Manager: 12210 - Procurement and Contracts Of?ce
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
May?eld, Mr. Charles Edward
773-553-2901

 R9

TERM:

The term of this pre-qualification period and each master agreement is two (2) years, effective April 1, 2019
and ending March 31, 2021. The Board shall have the right to renew the pre-qualification period and each
master agreement for three (3) additional one (1) year periods.

SCOPE OF SERVICES: .
Vendors will provide rental equipment and related services for a requesting Board department, network or
school's event including all labor for delivery, set-up and take down.

Rental of the following equipment is prohibited: Trampoline equipment, bungee jumping equipment,
rebounding equipment and any enclosed inflatable structures, including, but not limited to moonwalks and
bounce houses.

The Board reserves the right to make additions to this list of prohibited equipment.

COMPENSATION:

Vendors shall be paid as follows:

Estimated annual amounts for the sum of payments to all pre-quali?ed vendors for the two (2) year
pre-qualification term are set forth below:

$75,000, FY19
$900,000, FY20
$900,000, FY21

The costs associated herewith shall be reported to the Board on a quarterly basis pursuant to Board Rule
7-8.

USE OF POOL:

All Schools, department units and networks are authorized to receive products and services from the
pre-qualified pool as follows: All purchases of products and/or services will require a mini?bid process in
which the unit is required to obtain quotes from the vendors in the pre-qualified pool prior to making a
selection.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written master
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the master agreements. Authorize the Chief
Procurement Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the master
agreements.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, Program), this contract is waived of the participation goals
of 30% MBE and 7% WBE because the contract is not further divisible.

LSC REVIEW:
. Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Various Funds and units

3 75,000, FY19
900,000, FY20
900,000, FY21

19-0327-PR9

Not to exceed 3 1,875,000 for the two (2) year term.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics- The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11- -0-525 P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

I 
a mac a5/2.,
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

A

 

JOSE HT 

xt- General ounsel

19-0327-PR10
March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST AND SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH SCR MEDICAL
TRANSPORTATION AND RELIANT TRANSPORTATION FOR PARA-TRANSIT AND ALTERNATE
MODES OF STUDENT TRANSPORTATION SERVICES

THE CHIEPEXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the First and Second Renewal Agreements with SCR Medical Transportation, Inc. and Reliant
Transportation, Inc. to provide para-transit and alternate modes of student transportation services to the
Department of Student Transportation Services at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation
Section of this report. Written documents exercising these options are currently being negotiated. No
payment shall be made to any Vendor during the option period prior to execution of their written document.
The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to each Vendor in the event their written
document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this
option is stated below.

Specification Number: 16-350029
Contract Administrator: Barnes, Miss Allison 773-553-3241
VENDOR:

1) Vendor# 17394
RELIANT TRANSPORTATION, INC.
5910 N. CENTRAL EXPRESSWAY, STE
1145

DALLAS, TX 75206

Robert Hatchett
832 622-1730
Ownership: MV Transportation Inc. (100%)

2) Vendor 25745
SCR MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION,
8801-25 8. GREENWOOD AVENUE

CHICAGO, IL 60619

Stanley C. Rakestraw

773 768-7000

Ownership: Pamela Rakestraw 
Stanley C. Rakestraw 

USER INFORMATION 
Contact:

11870 - Student Transportation
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602

Mc Guire, Mr. Kevin P.
773-553-2860



Project

Manager: 11870 - Student Transportation
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Franco, Mr. Leonardo
773-553-2860

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The Original Agreements (authorized by Board Report 16-0727-PR11) in the amount of $36,000,000 are for
a term commencing August 1, 2016 and ending July 31, 2019, with the Board having two (2) options to
renew for one (1) year each. The Original Agreements were awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to
Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of each agreement is being renewed for two (2) years, commencing August 1, 2019 and ending
July 31, 2021.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no options remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendors will continue to provide school transportation services to and from school and other related
activities to eligible students during regular and summer school terms. Programs served by para-transit and
alternate modes of student transportation services include, but are not limited to, students with disabilities,
students in temporary living situations, and shuttles for any other District activity.

DELIVERABLES:
Transportation of CPS students to school and programs in vans and cars (non-school bus) and
lift/ramp?equipped vans. Vendors will also provide vehicle aides on runs at the discretion of CPS.

OUTCOMES:
Vendors' services will result in delivering safe, reliable, comfortable, and cost effective transportation and
assistance to CPS students.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid as stated in their respective agreement. Estimated annual costs for this option period
are set forth below:

FY20 $11,500,000
FY21 $13,000,000
FY22 $1,500,000

Not to exceed $26,000,000 for all vendors for the two (2) year renewal term.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize Executive
Director of Student Transportation Services to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or
effectuate these option agreements.

19-0327-P R10

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts (MNVBE Program), the Business Diversity goals for this pool are 30% MBE
and 7% WBE. This vendor pool is comprised of two vendors with 1 MBE. The User Group has committed to
achieve the Business Diversity goals through the utilization of the certified diverse suppliers and certified
diverse subcontractors.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Fund: 114 Unit: 11870, Student Transportation Services

FY20 $11,500,000
FY21 $13,000,000
FY22 $1,500,000

Not to exceed $26,000,000 for the two (2) year term.
Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.
Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-POZ), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

19-O327-PR10

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
1 
f? 1471? {Mai-,L- ICU/flag A 
L,
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

y?or?

JOSEPHT. 

\General ounsel

190327431211 March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST AND SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH AT AND MOBILITY
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS, LLC FOR CELLULAR SERVICES, APPLICATIONS, EQUIPMENT,
ACCESSORIES, AND SUPPORT

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the ?rst and second renewal agreements with AT and Mobility National Accounts, LLC to
provide cellular services and related applications, equipment accessories and support services to
departments at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. A written
document exercising this option is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to Vendor
during the option period prior to execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
Board Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 15-35005?

Contract Administrator Washington, Ms. Nealean Tl 773-553-2273
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 59509
AT 8: MOBILITY NATIONAL ACCOUNTS,
LLC
7229 PARKWAY DRIVE.

HANOVER, MD 20176

Keneese McNamer
301 576-5443

Ownership: 100% AT and Mobility ll LLC

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 12510 - Information Technology Services

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602

Zalewski, Miss Lucille
773-553-3060

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 16-0127-PR9) in the amount of $5,357,000 is for a
term commencing July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2019, with the Board having two (2) options to renew
for one (1) year terms. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board
Rule 7-2. 

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for two (2) years commencing July 1, 2019 and ending June
30, 2021.

19-0327-PR11

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:
Vendor will continue to provide cellular services and products to the District as well as related
applications, equipment, accessories and support services.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will continue to provide:

(1) Cellular services, equipment, accessories, applications and support services for Principals, Network
Chiefs, executives and various administrative employees;

(2) Applications and support services including cellular voice and data services, text messaging,
cellular/radi (push-to-talk), Internet access data cards (internal and external), Internet access MiFi units
and other cellular technology solutions;

(3) Text archiving to effectively track text messages sent to and from CPS-issued cellular devices;

(4) Safe Passage Program phones, equipment and support; and

(5) Mobile device management to manage and track iPads, Chromebooks, cell phones and/or other
CPS-issued devices distributed for CPS educational initiatives.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in the District receiving cellular services and products as well as related
support services at a heavily discounted rate.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid upon invoicing, for a total cost not to exceed $3,031,425.00 forthe two (2)
year term. These services are no longer eligible for E-Rate subsidies. Estimated annual cost for the
renewal term are set forth below:

$1,460,320.00, FY20
$1,571,105.00, FY21

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize the Chief
Information Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MNVBE Program), this contract is in full compliance as the Prime vendor
has committed to the participation goals of 30 MBE and 7 WBE. The vendor has scheduled the
following 

Total MBE 30%

Group 0

4905 77th Ave

Milan, IL 61264

Ownership: Gregg Ontiveros

Total WBE 7 

Archon Construction
563 South Route 53
Addison IL, 60101
Ownership: Leta Loizzo

19-0327-PR11

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115, ITS, Unit 12510

$1,460,320.00, FY20

$1,571,105.00, FY21

Not to exceed $3,031,425.00 for the two (2) year term.

CF Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time, .
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
JONATHAN MAPLES K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

   

I

Approveda to 9' IFor .
a, 5, ?a
JOSEPH T. RIARW


Genera! ounsei

19-0327-PR12
March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST AND SECOND RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH MITEL NETWORKS
INCORPORATED FOR WIRING, CABLING, VOICE MAINTENANCE, AND SUPPORT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the first and second renewal agreements with Mitel Networks Incorporated to provide wiring,
cabling, voice network maintenance, and related support services to schools and departments at an
estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. A written document exercising
this option is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to Vendor during the option period prior
to execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a
written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to
this option is stated below.

Specification Number 15-350043
Contract Administrator: Washington, Ms. Nealean 773-553-2273
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 37538
MITEL NETWORKS INCORPORATED
1146 NORTH ALMA SCHOOL ROAD

MESA, AZ 85201

Cmmem
312 479-9032
Ownership: 100% Mitel US Holdings Inc.

USER INFORMATION 

Project

Manager: 12510 - Information Technology Services
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Zalewski, Miss Lucille
773?553-3060

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 16-0127-PR12) in the amount of $15,700,000 is for a
term commencing July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2019, with the Board having two (2) options to renew
for one (1) year terms. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule
7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for two (2) years commencing July 1, 2019 and ending June
30, 2021. -

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

19-0327-P R12

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide maintenance, monitoring, and support services for the District-wide phone
systems, including all related hardware and software as well as wiring, cabling and electrical for voice
and data networks. During this renewal term, Mitel will be upgrading the current premise-based voice
systems and equipment to a Mitel IP cloud-based solution to mitigate security risks of maintaining vital voice
services on out of?support servers and applications while proactively preparing the District for the
telecommunications industry migration from Primary Rate interface (PRI) voice transport to Standard
Initiation Protocol (SIP) voice transport.

Services are to include:

(1) 24x7x365/366 monitoring and support of the voice network, systems, voicemail, and components to
ensure availability and functionality

(2) Maintenance/repair/replacement of broken voice systems, phones, equipment, and supporting
components

(3) Upgrade of voice network and equipment from premise-based systems to IP cloud-based solution to
eliminate security risks of out-of?support servers and applications

(4) Implementation of value-add applications such as Unified Messaging and IP phones across the District
(5) Complete voice system installations for new construction and/or one-time initiatives

(6) Installation and repair/maintenance of wiring, cabling and electrical services to support the District's
voice and data networks

(7) Move, add, and change requests from schools and administrative departments for phone handsets,
numbers, auto attendants and other voice needs

(8) flat rate pricing which covers all current and upgrade-related services

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will continue to provide maintenance, monitoring, and support services for our District-wide phone
systems, including all related hardware and software as well as wiring and cabling for our voice and data
networks while upgrading the current premise-based voice systems to a cloud~based voice solution.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in a secure, up-to-date voice network with reliable maintenance, monitoring
and support of key voice communications systems and equipment which are vital to the operations of
schools and administrative offices. In addition, technology?related wiring, cabling and electrical services will
continue for the District.

COMPENSATION: 
Vendor shall be paid via a fixed fee at an aggregate cost not to exceed $11,640,000 for the two (2)
year term.

Estimated annual cost for the two (2) year term are set forth below:
$5,820,000, FY20
$5,820,000, FY21

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option document. Authorize the Chief
Information Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement. .

19-0327-PR12

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts (MNVBE Program), the goals for this contract are 35% MBE and 5% WBE.
The Office of Business Diversity has granted a partial waiver and the Prime vendor has committed to the
participation goals applicable spend.

Total MBE: 35%

Quantum Crossing LLC

111 Wacker Drive, Suite 990
Chicago, IL 60601

Ownership: Roger Martinez

Total WBE: 5%

Phoenix Business Solutions LLC
12543 Laramie

Alsip, IL 60803

Ownership: Peggy Hrindax

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: 
Fund 115, ITS, Unit 12510

$5,820,000, FY20
$5,820,000, FY21

Not to exceed $11,640,000 forthe two (2) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.
Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

19-0327-PR12

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current ?scal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

f5? [mic (Jig/e
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

?Approved yWome

T. 
General ounsel

 March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE EXTENSION OF THE AGREEMENT WITH ORACLE AMERICA, INC. FOR THE
PURCHASE OF A HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND HOSTING SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the extension of the agreement with Oracle America, Inc. for the purchase of a Human Capital
Management System and Hosting Services for the Department of Information and Technology Services at
an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. This request was presented
to the Single/Sole Source Committee on February 25, 2019 and approved by the Chief Procurement
Of?cer. Prior to approval as a Single Source, the item was published on the Procurement website on
February 22, 2019, found here: The item will remain on the
Procurement website until the March 27, 2019 Board Meeting. This process complies with the
independent consultant's recommendations for single source procurements and the Board's Single/Sole
Source Committee Charter. A written extension document is currently being negotiated. No payment
shall be made to the Vendor during the extension period prior to execution of the written document. The
authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written document is not executed within
90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this extension is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 13-250064

Contract Administrator: Washington, Ms. Nealean 773-553-2273

VENDOR:
1) Vendor 89823

ORACLE AMERICA, INC.
500 ORACLE PARKWAY

REDWOOD SHORES, CA 94065

Guy Borda
406 556-3420

Ownership: Oracle Corporation - 100%
(Publicly Traded)

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 11010 - Talent Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Lyons, Mr. Matthew A

773-553-2520

19-0327-P R13

Project
Manager: 12510 - Information Technology Services

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Swanton, Mr. Craig 
773-553-1300

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report in the amount of $7,500,000 was for
a term commencing on the date the agreement was signed and ending June 30, 2019, with the Board
having no options to renew. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to
Board Rule 7-2.

EXTENSION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being extended for two (2) years commencing July 1, 2019 and ending
June 30, 2021. 

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide on-going software maintenance supporting HR, Payroll, Bene?ts, Learning
Management, and other critical organizational functions. The vendor will also continue to provide a fully
outsourced and managed server infrastructure.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will continue to provide commercially licensed software, and provide hosting services for both
their software and CPS data. Vendor's Human Capital Management and Learning Management software
modules will support critically needed functionality including payroll throughout the district.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in vital functionality including Core HR, Payroll, Bene?ts, Learn Management
and other critical functions to continue to be available to CPS.

COMPENSATION: 

Vendor shall be paid during the extension period as speci?ed in the agreement; the sum of payments for
the term shall not exceed $2,500,000.

Estimated annual costs for the two (2) year term are set forth below:

$1,250,000, FY20

$1,250,000, FY21

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written extension
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the extension document. Authorize the Chief
Information Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MNVBE Program), this contract is waived of the MNVBE participation
goals of 30 MBE and 7% WBE because the contract is not further divisible.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

2

19-0327-PR13

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115, ITS, Unit 12510

$1,250,000, FY20

$1,250,000, FY21

Not to exceed $2,500,000 for the two (2) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
1%;war [ngg?
.
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

,r?I 
Approved?j/to lForW

i RIARTY
-Wounsel

 March 27, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE EXTENSION OF THE AGREEMENT WITH ORACLE AMERICA, INC. TO PROVIDE
TALENT ACQUISITION AND ON-BOARDING IMPLEMENTATION SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the extension of the agreement with Oracle America, to provide technical support for
licenses for the Department of information Technology Services at an estimated annual cost set forth in
the Compensation Section of this report. This request was presented to the Single/Sole Source
Committee on February 25, 2019 and approved by the Chief Procurement Of?cer. Prior to approval as a
Single Source, the item was published on the Procurement website on February 22, 2019, found here:
The item will remain on the Procurement website until the March 27,
2019 Board Meeting. This process complies with the independent consultant's recommendations for
single source procurements and the Board's Single/Sole Source Committee Charter. A written extension
document is currently being negotiated. No payment shall be made to the Vendor during the extension
period prior to execution of the written document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind
in the event a written document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report.
Information pertinent to this extension is stated below.

Contract Administrator: Washington, Ms. Nealean 773-553-2273

VENDOR:
1) Vendor 89823

ORACLE AMERICA, INC.
500 ORACLE PARKWAY

REDWOOD SHORES, CA 94065

Guy Borda
406 556-3420

Ownership: Oracle Corporation - 100%
(Publicly Traded)

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 11010 - Talent Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Lyons, Mr. Matthew A

773-553-2520

19-0327-P R14

Project
Manager: 12510 - Information Technology Services

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Swanton, Mr. Craig 
773-553?3304

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original Agreement (authorized by Board Report 12- In the amount of 623, 769. 20 was
for a term commencing on March 30, 2012 and ending on March 29,2014 with the Board having one (1)
option to renew for a period of 24 months. The original agreement was assigned by Oracle Taleo LLC
(f/k/a Taleo Corporation) to Oracle America, Inc. through an Assignment and Assumption Agreement
dated February 22, 2013. The agreement was renewed (authorized by Board Report 14-0326-PR13) in
the amount of $620,151.20 for a term commencing March 30, 2014 and ending March 29, 2016. The
original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule7-2. The renewal
agreement was amended (authorized by Board Report 15-1118-PR5) to increase the spending authority
by $579,848.80 and extend the end date to June 30, 2017. The agreement was further extended
(authorized by Board Report 17-0524-PR11) for a term commencing July 1, 2017 and ending June 30,
2019.

EXTENSION PERIOD: -
The term of this agreement is being extended for eighteen (18) months commencing July 1, 2019 and
ending December 31, 2020.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide a Talent Acquisition and On-boarding solution, including software,
con?guration and installation, integration, testing, training and ongoing software maintenance and
technical support.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will continue to provide commercially licensed software, delivered in a Software as a Service
(SaaS) model, and provide hosting services for both their software and CPS data. Vendor's Recruiting
and On-boarding software modules will support recruitment and hiring throughout the district.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in creating and sustaining a competitive advantage by hiring the talent
required to achieve the organization's objectives. This system will bring ef?ciencies to the hiring process
which will result in an increased speed in the hiring process.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid during the extension period as speci?ed in the agreement; the sum of payments for .
the term shall not exceed $680,000.

FY20 $340,000 Software and Hosting Costs
FY21 $340,000 Estimated Software and Hosting Costs

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written extension
document. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the extension document. Authorize the Chief
Infomiation Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this extension
agreement.

19-0327-PR14

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MNVBE Program), this contract is exempt as this agreement is for
Proprietary Software.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115, ITS Department, Unit Number 12510

FY20 $340, 000 Software and Hosting Costs

FY21 $340, 000 Estimated Software and Hosting Cost

Future year funding' Is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

1
W- . 1.2
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON

Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

  


Approved


. 

JOSEPH T. 


19-0327-EX3 March 27, 2019

REPORT ON PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (NEW)
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copies of the contracts with the principals listed below who were selected by the Local
School pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance Contract #14-0625?
EX12.

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by the local school councils of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Principal Eligibility Policy, #14? 0723- P01, and approval of any additional
criteria by the General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principals
Performance Contract, Board Rules, and Law.

The Department of Principal Quality has veri?ed that the following individuals have met the requirements
for eligibility.

 

NAME FROM 
Evelia Diaz Assistant Principal Contract Principal
Whitney Whitney
Network: 7
PM 117533

Commencing: 2/11/19
Ending: 2/10/23

Kamilah Hampton Interim Principal Contract Principal
Daley Daley
Network: 8
PM. 147549

Commencing: 11/5/18
Ending: 11/4/22

Debbie ikokavouras Teacher Contract Principal
McCormick McPherson
Network: 2
PM. 113267

Commencing: 1/24/19
Ending: 1/23/23

Zarree Walker Interim Principal Contract Principal

Crown Crown
Network: 5
PM. 120790

Commencing: 1/14/19
Ending: 1/13/23

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contracts with the individuals named above.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

19-0327-EX3

FINANCIAL: The salary of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected by approval of this action are contained in
the 2018?2019 school budgets.

 

 

prov for Considerationi Approved:
TANYA o. MCDADE JA CK ON 
Chief Education Of?cer Chef Exe tiveO Icer

 

 

19-0327-EX4

March 27, 2019

REPORT ON PRINCIPAL CONTRACTS (RENEWALS)

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Accept and ?le copies of the contracts with the principals listed below whose contracts were renewed-by
the Local School Councils pursuant to the Illinois School Code and the Uniform Principal's Performance

Contract and 

DESCRIPTION: Recognize the selection by local school councils of the individuals listed below to the
position of principal subject to the Principal Eligibility Policy, and approval of any additional
criteria by the General Counsel for the purpose of determining consistency with the Uniform Principal?s

Performance Contract, Board Rules, and Law.

The Illinois Administrators Academy has veri?ed that the following principals have completed 20 hours of
Professional Development. The RENEWAL contracts commence on the date speci?ed in the contract and

terminates on the date speci?ed in the contract.

 

NAME FROM

Salvatore Cannella Contract Principal
Swift

Judith Carlson Contract Principal
Grimes

Timothy Devine Contract Principal
Payton HS

Mary Dixon Contract Principal

Dawes



Contract Principal
Swift

Network: 2

P.N. 117738
Commencing: 6/2/19
Ending: 6/1/23

Contract Principal
Grimes

Network: 10

P.N. 299908
Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal
Payton HS 
Network: ISP

- . P.N. 142014

Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal
Dawes

Network: 10

P.N. 137047
Commencing: 2/1/19
Ending: 1/31/23

19-03 27- EX4

Tyrone Dowdell

Clifford Gabor

Jacqueline Hearns

Renee Mackin

Noel McNally

Sherryl Moore?Ollie

Rebecca Parker

Contract Principal 

Green

Contract Principal
Lyon

Contract Principal
Hefferan

Contract Principal
Von Linne

Contract Principal
Vaughn HS

Contract Principal
Penn

Contract Principal
Graham HS

Contract Principal
Green

Network: 11

PM 125958
Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal
Lyon

Network: 3

PM. 113222
Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal
Hefferan

Network: 

P.N. 122604
Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal
Von Linne

Network: 

PM. 121885
Commencing: 8/20/19
Ending: 8/19/23

Contracts Principal
Vaughn HS
Network: 14

PM 294478
Commencing: 8/1/19
Ending: 7/31/23

Contract Principal
Penn?

Network: 5

PM 113482
Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal
Graham HS
Network: 14

PM 394473
Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

19-0327-EX4

Laura Paull

Gilberto Piedra'hita

Danielle Porch

Marilou Rebolledo

Nelly Robles

Raquel Saucedo

Marian Strok

Contract Principal .

Twain

Contract Principal
Jordan

Contract Principal
Caldwell

Contract Principal
A. Jackson

Contract Principal
Sawyer

Contract Principal
Chase

Contract Principal
Evergreen

Contract Principal
Twain

Network: 10

PM 118614
Commencing: 7/19/19
Ending: 7/1'8/23

Contract Principal
Jordan

Network: 2

PM. 138056
Commencing: 7/13/19
Ending: 7/12/23

Contract Principal
Caldwell

Network: ISP

PM. 118612
Commencing: 7/01/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal

A. Jackson

Network: 6

PM 122107
Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal
Sawyer 

Network: 8

PM 119459
Commencing: 7/1/19 
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal
Chase

Network: 4
P.N.117781
Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Contract Principal
Evergreen

Network: 8

RN. 133170
Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

19-0327-EX4

Robert Towner Contract Principal . Contract Principal
Fernwood Fernwood
Network: 13
P.N. 111839

Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Rosa Valdez Contract Principal Contract Principal
Haugan Haugan
Network: 1
P.N. 146539

Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6130/23

Carol Wilson Contract Principal Contract Principal
Brunson Brunson
Network: 3
- P.N. 119924

Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

Lorianne Zaimi Contract Principal Contract Principal
Peirce Peirce
Network: 2
P.N. 113494

Commencing: 7/1/19
Ending: 6/30/23

LSC REVIEW: The respective Local School Councils have executed the Uniform Principal?s Performance
Contract with the individuals named above.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION STATUS: None.

FINANCIAL: The salary of these individuals will be established in accordance with the provisions of the
Administrative Compensation Plan.

19-0327-EX4

PERSONNEL IMPLICATIONS: The positions to be affected. by approval of this action are contained in
the 2019-2020 school budgets.

 

Approved fo Consideration: Approved:

  

 

 

thQI/?g?gw 
LATANYA a JA K. SON \i

Chief Education Of?cer ief Ex cutive f?cer



 

19-0327-AR1 March 27, 2019

REPORT ON BOARD REPORT RESCISSIONS

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Extend the rescission dates contained in the following Board Reports to May 22, 2019
because the parties remain involved in good faith negotiations which are likely to result in
an agreement and the user group(s) concurs with this extension:

1. 16-1207-EXS: Authorize Renewal of the Chicago Excel Academy Agreement with Conditions.
Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status. In negotiations

2. 16-1207-EX13: Authorize Renewal of the Providence Englewood Charter School Agreement
with Conditions.

Services: Charter'SchooI

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

3. 17-1206-OP4: Amend Board Report 01-0725-OP3: Approve Entering into a Lease Agreement
with the North Lawndale College Preparatory Charter High School for Use of Space at the George
Howland School of the Arts Located at 1616 South Spaulding Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations 

4. 17- 1206- CPS: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with North Lawndale College Preparatory
Charter High School for a Portion of Collins High School 1313 S. Sacramento Drive.

Services. Lease Agreement

User Group. Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

5. 17-1206-OP8: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Urban Prep Academies Inc. for a
Portion of the Englewood School Building, 6201 South Stewart Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

6. 17-1206-OP9: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Urban Prep Academies Inc. for the
Medill School Building 1326 West 14th Place.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

7. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Young Women?s Leadership Charter
School for Senstake School, 2641 S. Calumet Avenue. .

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

8. 17-1206-OP14: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with KIPP Chicago Schools for Lathrop
Elementary School, 1440 S. Christiana Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations



9. 17-1206-OP15: Amend Board Report 16-1207-OP2: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
Chicago Charter School Foundation (Chicago International Charter School) for a Portion of The
Truth School Building, 1443 N. Ogden, and Annex, 1409 N. Ogden.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations 

10. 17-1206-OP16: Amend Board Report 16-1207-OP4: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
KIPP Chicago Schools for a Portion of Nash Elementary School, 4818 W. Ohio.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

11. 17- 1206- OP17: Amend Board Report 16- 1207- CPS: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
Chicago Schools for a Portion of Hope College Preparatory High School, 5515 S. Lowe
Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

12. 17-1206-OP18: Amend Board Report 16-1207-OP5: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
Chicago Schools for a Portion of the Orr School Building, 730 N. Pulaski Road.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

13. 17-1206-OP19: Amend Board Report 16-1207-OP6: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with
Chicago Schools for a Portion of Penn School, 1616 S. Avers.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

14. 17-1206-OP20: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Camelot Alt Ed-Illinois, LLC for
Guggenheim Schoo_,l 7141 South Morgan Street.

Services. Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

15. 18- 0228- 0P2: Approve Entering into an Intergovernmental Use Agreement with the Chicago
Park District In Connection with the Construction and Use of the Park 580 (Read- -Dunning)
Services: Construction and Use of Park 580

User Group: Facilities Operations

Status: In negotiations

16. 18-0228-PR7: Authorize New Agreement with Neopost USA, Inc. and Pitney Bowes Inc. for
Mail Equipment, Supplies, and Mail Services.

Services: Mail Equipment, Supplies and Mail Services

User Group: Department of Procurement

Status: In negotiations

17. 18-0321-PR3: Authorize First Renewal Agreements with Various Vendors for Arts and Cultural
Enrichment (Out-of -School), Academic Support (Out-of-School), and Student Health and Wellness
(In-School, Out-of-School, Recess) Services.

Services: Out of School Time Services

User Group: Student Support and Engagement

19-0327-AR1

Additional Action: This matter was omitted from the February 27, 2019 Rescission Board Report.
The Extension of the rescissiondate is rati?ed to take effect as of the prior date thereby extending
the rescission date to April 24, 2019.

18. Authorize the First Renewal with Amplify Education Inc. and NWEA for an Early
Grades Assessment System.

Services: Assessment Services

User Group. Assessment

Status. 1 of 2 Is fully executed; the remainder Is in negotiations

19. 18-0425-PR5: Authorize a New Agreement with NWEA for Student Assessment Services.
Services: Assessment Services

User Group: Assessment

Status: In negotiations

20. Amend Board Report 18-0627-EX2: Approve Exercising the Options to Renew
the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Department of Family Support Services (DFSS) - The

City of Chicago

Services: Community-based early childhood programming

User Group: Of?ce of Early Childhood Education

Status: In negotiations

21. Authorize a New Agreement with Arbitersports, LLC for Online Of?cial Fee
Payment Services.

Services. Online Payment Services

User Group: Sports Administration and Facilities Management

Status: In negotiations

22. 18-1024-PR3: Authorize the First and Second Renewal Agreements with Ef?ciency Energy
LLC for 1790 Energy Consultant Services.

Services: Energy Consultant Services

User Group: Facility Operations and Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

23. 18-1024-PR8: ?Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Mythics, Inc. for Oracle
Infrastructure Upgrades.

Services: Oracle Infrastructure Upgrades

User Group: Information Technology Services

Status: In negotiations

24. Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Hartford Life and Accident
Insurance Company and Cannon Cochran Management Services, Inc for Third Party Claims
Administration Services and Life Insurance.

Services: 'Third Claim Administration Services and Life Insurance

User Group: Talent of?ce 

Status: In negotiations

25. 18-1205-PR1: Authorize a New Agreement with Ingenuity Incorporated Chicago. for
Educational Support Services.

Services; Educational Support Services

User Group: Arts

Status: In negotiations

26. 18-1205-PR2: Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Nursing Services.
services: Nursing Services

User Group: Diverse Leaners Support Services

Status: 5 of 7 agreements are fully executed; the remainder are in negotiations

3

19-0327-AR1

27. 18-1205-PR4: Authorize a New Agreement with American Institutes for Research (AIR) for
Consulting Services to the Community Schools Initiative (CSI). 

Services: Consulting Services

User Group: Student Support and Engagement

Status: In negotiations

28. 18-1205-PR6: Authorize the Second and Third Renewal Agreements with Constellation
Newenergy, Inc. for the Supply of Electricity.

Services: Supply of Electricity

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance - City Wide

Status: In negotiations

29. 18-1205-PR8: Authorize the Second and Final Renewal Agreement with W.W. Grainger Inc.
for Maintenance Repair and Operation Supplies.

Services: Maintenance Repair and Operation Supplies

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance City Wide

Status: In negotiations

30. Authorize the Third and Fourth Renewal Agreements with Constellation Energy
Services Natural Gas, LLC to Supply Natural Gas. 
Services: Supply of Natural Gas

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance? City Wide
Status: In negotiations

31. Authorize a New Agreement with Amersco, inc. for Energy Management
Consulting Services.

Services: Consulting Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance City Wide

Status: In negotiations

32. 18-1205-PR12: Authorize the Pre-Quali?cation Status of and New Agreements with Various
Contractors for Environmental Contracting Services.

Services: Environmental Contracting Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance City Wide

Status: 10 of 11 are fully executed; the remainder is in negotiations

33. Authorize New Agreement with Of?ce Depot, Inc. for the Purchase Of?ce
Supplies and Related Products. 

Services: Purchase of Of?ce Supplies

User Group: Procurement and Contracts Of?ce

Status: In negotiations

34. 18- 1205? PR17: Amend Board Report 18- 0425- PR12: Authorize a New Agreement with
Cityspan Technologies Inc. for Program Management Functions for Student Transition Programs.
Services. Program Management Functions for Student Transition Program

User Group: lnfonnation Technology Services

Status: In negotiations

   
 

Rescind the following Be! I?d Reports in part or in full for failure to enter into an agreement

with the Board, after re ated attempts, and the user groups have been advised of such
rescission:

 

Joseph T. M?on rty, {General (younsel

