th
August 14
, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.

Noticed for 10:00 AM: Commenced at 10:25 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (8/14/2019)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda”.

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Kevin Irvin
Johnny Miller, Alejandro Silva.

PUBLIC COMMENT: Jennifer Smith, Cynthia Allen, Dan Giloth, Jacky Grimshaw, Susan Hurley, Cass
Beyer, Bob Israel.

COMMENDATIONS: President Carter and the Board congratulated the national winners of the Natio
Rail Rodeo competition.

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
July17th, 2019. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with five yes votes.

BOARD MATTERS. Vice-Chairman Alva Rosales asked for a motion to approve an ordinance re-elec
Terry Peterson Chairman of the CTA Board. After the motion was moved and seconded, the ordina
was adopted with five yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Chairman Silva presented the report. The commi
th
reviewed the monthly (August) report on Finance and approved
, 2019
the July
committee
17
meeting
minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda items, listed on the Committee Ag
were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board approv
Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Silva. After b
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes.
All approved August 2019 Board ordinances are available on-line, www.transitchicago.com
. “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 019-63 through 019-73.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Bill Mooney presented the Construction Repo
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (August 2019), “Construction Report”.
th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn
, the
2019
August 14
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

 