Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
September 18th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Roll Call
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Victor M. Gonzalez
Joseph B. Starshak
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Juan M. Calderon
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.

Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Victor M. Gonzalez
Joseph B. Starshak
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Juan M. Calderon
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.

For the Department
Allison Arwady, M.D., Acting Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
September 18th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:01 am by Board President, Dr. Carolyn Lopez.
Approval of Minutes: Quorum was present, and August Meeting Minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Dr. Allision Arwady, Commissioner, provided the following updates:

Vaping: As you may already be aware, at a press conference earlier this week that included US Senator
Dick Durbin, Mayor Lightfoot announced her commitment to lead an effort to expand the current ban on
sales of flavored e-cigarettes and other flavored tobacco products, citywide. Vaping rates are
skyrocketing, threatening to get another generation hooked on nicotine. Flavored products of all kinds,
whether e-cigarettes, cigarillos, chew, or hookah, are the main gateway for youth to tobacco addiction.
CDPH is conducting an investigation after multiple individuals in Chicago developed respiratory disease
that may be related to vaping. We are searching for patterns to see if there's a specific product or device
causing the problem. One Illinois resident who become ill after vaping has died. The CDC has deployed
staff in Illinois to help identify affected individuals, review their medical records and conduct interviews
for potential exposures.
Older Adults Report: CDPH, in partnership with the Center for Community Health Equity, has released a
report describing the health status of Chicago’s older adults (65+). Report findings include that, in
Chicago, the older adult population is increasing, both in number and percentage; more than a third have
a disability; 16% live in poverty; and nearly half would not be able to afford an unexpected $400 expense.
Chicago’s older adults die most frequently from heart disease, cancer, and stroke regardless of race or
gender; and they report a high level of neighborhood belonging, again across race and gender.
HIV Care and Support: CDPH will soon release new guidelines for delegate agencies that provide medical
and support services to people living with HIV through the federal Ryan White Part A grant program. The
new standards, last updated in 2012, were developed through an 18-month process that included
collaboration between clients, providers, community members, and subject matter experts. The 2019
guidelines aim to reduce administrative burdens attached to service delivery and strengthen the focus on
integrated HIV care, prevention, and housing, consistent with the Getting to Zero plan.
Trauma-Informed Chicago Summit: Last week CDPH hosted more than 500 local stakeholders for a
trauma summit at UIC. This event celebrated our shared vision to make Chicago a trauma-informed city,
and highlighted efforts of communities, organizations, and local government, to promote resilience. The
summit was organized by CDPH s violence prevention team.
Child Health Report: CDPH’s epidemiology office collaborates with Lurie Children’s Hospital on a monthly
basis to release relevant results from our Healthy Chicago Survey. This month, the report shows that
children’s health is linked with parent insurance status, as well as the overall physical and mental health
of the parent.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
September 18th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604
Requests for Proposals:
Lead: CDPH just released an RFP to address lead hazards and other home-based health hazards in at least
200 properties of low-income owners in the next two years.
Tobacco: CDPH will soon release an RFP to reduce tobacco use in priority populations by supporting
evidence-based cessation services and referrals to the Illinois Tobacco Quitline.
Addiction: CDPH will soon release four RFPs to address substance use disorders, primarily but not entirely
related to opioids. The RFPs will focus on:
1) Linkage to care;
2) Prevention;
3) In-patient residential care and recovery; and
4) Outpatient care with medication-assisted treatment (MAT).
The funding will be targeted to populations most in need.
Family Connects: As an update to last month’s presentation, CDPH will soon be announcing the Chicago
pilot of Family Connects. As you may recall, Family Connects will provide evidence-based nurse home
visiting services to newborns and their families. When the program is at scale, it will provide home visits
and connections to needed healthcare and community services for all families with newborns in Chicago.
In the meantime, implementation of Family Connects is currently underway. CDPH nurses will begin at
Saint Bernard Hospital the week of September 23rd, and at Norwegian American Hospital the week of
September 30th, to schedule home visits for early October. Rush Memorial Hospital is preparing to begin
visits in early November. CDPH has recruited the City Advisory Council, and an initial meeting is planned
for October. The UIC School of Public Health will conduct the implementation evaluation of the pilot.

Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez addressed the group attending the meeting and explained the
powers and duties of the Board as an advisory body to the City of Chicago, and the Health Department.

Presentation: “Public Health Preparedness Successes” was presented by Christopher Shields, CDPH Assistant
Commissioner, and Frankie Shipman-Amuwo, CDPH Director of Planning, Research and Development.
Comments from the Board:
Member Rothschild inquired about the possible nursing strike at the University of Chicago Hospital, and CDPH
reviewed the emergency preparedness team’s preparations for these types of scenarios.
President Lopez discussed the importance for the City to have consideration for low-income adults who are
homeowners and can be ineligible for services if they remain in their homes.
Member Starshak inquired about the current state of vaping, and CDPH provided a brief overview.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
September 18th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604
Member Gonzalez asked about private sector involvement in emergency communications, and their ability to
communicate, and CDPH indicated that the private sector is an active stakeholder in the City’s Emergency
Operations Center.
Member Starshak inquired about mortality and the possible loss of healthcare providers in case of an emergency
situation in Chicago, and CDPH provided an overview of citywide measures that are prepared for workforce loss.
Member Evans inquired about translators so emergency communications can be transmitted citywide.
President Lopez inquired about language services access in hospitals.
Member Rothschild highlighted difficulties with translating messaging to action in emergency preparedness.
Member Smith reiterated that those in poverty might be disproportionately affected by an emergency.
Member Starshak inquired about future emergency planning for 2020.

New Business:
•
•

The board approved a Memorial Resolution in honor of Dr. Bell, former board member.
The board was provided the 2019 Ethics & Open Meetings Guide for Board and Commission Members,
and discussed the possibility of an ethics training at an upcoming meeting.

Old Business:
•

Policy Resolutions: The board will continue reviewing the climate change and infant and child mental
health resolutions.

Public Comments: none
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:21AM.

 