MEETING OF THE HEALTH BENEFITS COMMITTEE
OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’
ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST
PRESERVE DISTRICT EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
70 W. Madison, Suite 1925
Chicago, IL 60602
Minutes for the September 19, 2019, Health Benefits Committee Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County are herein collectively referred
to as the “Fund.” All committee recommendations are preliminary in nature and subject to review and
approval by the full Retirement Board.
Call to Order and Roll Call
Committee Members Present:

Jack Fitzgerald (Chair); Robert DeGraff; Bill Kouruklis; Patrick
McFadden; Kevin Ochalla; Dennis White

Trustees Present:

Joe Nevius

Staff Present:

Regina Tuczak, Executive Director; Jane Hawes, Director, Health
Benefits; Rachelle Howliet, Senior Health Benefits Specialist;
Tonya Jackson, Benefits Specialist.

Others Present:

Daniel Levin, Segal Consulting.

Public Comment
Chairman Fitzgerald opened the meeting for public comment and no one having requested to address the
Committee, the next item of business on the Agenda was considered.
1. Review and Consideration of August 6, 2019, Health Benefits Committee Meeting Minutes

It was moved by Trustee Ochalla and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the presented minutes of the
Health Benefits Committee meeting on August 6, 2019, be adopted.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
70 W Madison St, Suite 1925   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 2. Health Benefits Exception Policy
Gina Tuczak reviewed the Health Benefit Exception Policy, previously approved by the Retirement
Board on April 4, 2019, and asked the Health Benefits Committee to consider an amendment to
address expedited exceptions. The amendment would give staff authority to approve benefit
exceptions over $3,000 which require immediate action. In the event staff approves an expedited
exception, the request will be presented for ratification at the next open meeting of the Retirement
Board or Health Benefits Committee.
It was moved by Trustee Ochalla and seconded by Trustee McFadden to recommend the Board
approve the amended Health Benefits Exception Policy which would allow staff to approved
exceptions over $3,000 which require immediate action.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

3. Benefit Plan Change – Acute Inpatient Rehabilitation Services
Jane Hawes reported that it was recently discovered that a discrepancy exists between acute inpatient
rehabilitation (rehab) benefits for Medicare and non-Medicare members, due to the fact that
Medicare provides separate acute inpatient rehab and skilled nursing benefits. The Health Benefits
Committee was asked to consider a recommendation to the Board to align acute inpatient rehab and
skilled nursing benefits for non-Medicare members with benefits for Medicare members.
It was moved by Trustee Ochalla and seconded by Trustee DeGraff to recommend the Board
approve changing acute inpatient rehab benefits for non-Medicare members to 150 days of inpatient
hospital coverage, and also provide separate benefits for skilled nursing limited to 90 days each plan
year, effective 1/1/2020 for both Choice and Choice Plus plans.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

4. Review of UHC Wellness Budget and Consideration of Future Expenditures
Ms. Hawes stated there is a balance of approximately $78,000 in the UHC wellness budget. UHC
has agreed to roll-over any remaining money to next year and combine this with the 2020 plan year
budget of $120,000. The Committee reviewed a list of services the UHC wellness credit may be
used to cover and agreed to consider funding programs to support diabetes self-management. The
Committee also agreed to consider providing blood pressure monitors and bathroom scales for the
members who were unsuccessful participants in the coupon campaign earlier this year.
5. CVS Commercial and EGWP Contract Status
Dan Levin reported that although fee documents have been approved and implemented for both the
CVS commercial (non-Medicare) and EGWP (Medicare) contracts, the terms of the CVS and EGWP
contracts are still being negotiated. Segal is assisting staff in these negotiations which are aimed at
achieving better control of pharmacy costs through contract definitions and terms.

2

 6. Coalition Medical RFP Report
Proposals for health benefits administrative services for the coalition of municipal agencies (the
Coalition) are due October 1, 2019. Staff and Segal will be reviewing proposals and participating in
Coalition meetings and reviewing proposals.
7. Open Enrollment Preparations
Ms. Hawes advised the Committee that rental agreements for two event locations have not reached a
satisfactory conclusion. Alternative sites were discussed and Trustee White suggested renting
facilities at Cook County Forest Preserve properties.
8. Health Benefits Committee Meeting to be Held on October 10, 2019
The Committee will consider various options for use of the UHC wellness budget in 2020.
9. Old Business/New Business
Ms. Tuczak informed the Committee that Chairman Fitzgerald is retiring from his Trustee position
and Trustee DeGraff has elected not to seek another term as Trustee. Ms. Tuczak thanked them for
their service.
10. Adjournment
There being no further business before the Committee, it was moved by Trustee McFadden and
seconded by Trustee White that the trustees adjourn the meeting.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

The next Health Benefits Committee meeting is scheduled for October 10, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.

3

 