MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE
MOSAIC EASTERN MARKET
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
Thursday, October 17, 2019
Eastern Market Corporation, Shed #5
Russell Street at Alfred Street
Detroit, MI 48207
5:30 PM
In attendance were:
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Catherine Frazier (DEGC)
Kirstie Hardy (AKT Peerless)
Brian Holdwick (Ventra Group)
Malik Goodwin (Ventra Group)
Sanford Nelson (FIRM Real Estate)
Guy Pellino (Amore de Roma)
Alana Phillips (Well Done Goods)
Jordan Pellino (Amore de Roma)
Myles Hamby (The Platform)
Mr. Vosburg called the public hearing to order at 5:40 PM.
Mr. Vosburg informed the hearing of the tax increment financing request per the Brownfield Plan,
including the eligible activities included, and provided an overview of the project.
Mr. Goodwin and Mr. Holdwick provided details regarding the redevelopment plan for the project and
answered questions regarding the anticipated retail and food accelerator tenants and the availability of
commercial space, compliance with applicable Executive Orders, anticipated start of construction, the
financial need for the tax incentives being requested, the partnership with Eastern Market Corporation,
the changes in zoning for the property, the plans for the pedestrian plaza, the plans and requirements for
the stormwater management system, the planned solar array on the property, the plans for parking for the
project, and the reopening of Riopelle Street and its potential effect on neighboring businesses.
Paper copies of the Brownfield Plan and renderings for the project were provided.
Mr. Nelson stated that he is completely in support of the project and that the renovation of the existing
structure will help bridge the development happening between the Eastern Market Corporation sheds and
the Dequindre Cut.
One person present indicated their support for the project on the sign-in sheet. There were no comments
received in opposition of the project.
Mr. Vosburg closed the public hearing at 6:09 PM.

 