ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
August 15, 2019, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
ICJIA Chair Patrick Delfino called the meeting to order at 10:02 a.m. ICJIA Acting
General Counsel Robin Murphy called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Peter Kocerka for Cook Co. Public Defender Amy
Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney Kimberly
Foxx
John Carroll for Attorney General Kwame Raoul
David Byrd for Illinois State Police Director Brendan Kelly
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Kendall County Sheriff Dwight Baird
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes
Patricia McCreary for Cook County Circuit Court Clerk
Dorothy Brown
State Appellate Defenders Office Director James Chadd
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino (Authority Chair)
Illinois Dept. of Public Health Director Dr. Ngozi Ezike
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Illinois Department of Corrections Director Rob Jeffreys
Barbara West for Chicago Police Department Superintendent
Eddie Johnson
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler

Present

Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
Present

Telephone

X
Absent
X
X
X
X

X
X
X
X
X
X

 8/15/19 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

David Olson
Metra Chief of Police Joseph Perez
Rebecca Janowitz for Cook County Board President Toni
Preckwinkle
Kathryn Saltmarsh
Antwan Turpeau for Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services Director Marc D. Smith
Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X
X
X
X
X

Director Delfino appointed Mr. Olson and Mr. Perez to the Budget Committee for the
duration of the meeting.
Also in attendance were:
Matt Buckman, Southern Illinois University (via teleconference)
ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor Reshma Desai
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Rick Krause, Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
Ginger Meyer, Southern Illinois University (via teleconference)
Nell McKitrick, Lurie Children’s Hospital
ICJIA Acting General Counsel and Chief of Staff Robin Murphy
ICJIA Acting Executive Director Jason Stamps
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Acting Associate Director Greg Stevens
ICJIA Criminal Justice Specialist Lauren Simmons
Vickie Smith, Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence (via teleconference)
Carrie Ward, Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault
ICJIA Acting Deputy Director & Chief Financial Officer Angie Weis
Rickey Williams, Mayor of the City of Danville (via teleconference)
Chris Yates, Police Chief, City of Danville (via teleconference)
Other Authority staff members and guests
1. Minutes of the June 20, 2019, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Mr. Byrd moved to approve the minutes of the June 20, 2019, Budget
Committee Meeting. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Mr. Olson said the minutes incorrectly refer to him as having participated via
teleconference when he was, in fact, present.
Motion: Mr. Byrd moved to approve the requested revision to minutes of the June 20,
2019, Budget Committee Meeting. Mr. Olson seconded the motion.

X

 8/15/19 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

Vote: The motion, with the correction noted by Mr. Olson, passed by unanimous voice
vote.
2. State Programs
A. Bullying Prevention
ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor Reshma Desai said the Southern Illinois University (SIU)
Board of Trustees and Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago completed
an evidence-based trauma-responsive schools program assessment and planning period
on June 30, 2019. She described the goals, objectives, and program activities that would
be supported by the following recommended SFY20 Bullying Prevention fund
designations:
Applicant
Board of Trustees of
Southern Illinois
University
Ann & Robert H.
Lurie Children's
Hospital of Chicago

Regions served
Franklin, Saline, and Williamson
counties
North Lawndale, South Lawndale,
and Englewood (CPS Elementary
and High School Networks 5, 7, 15
and 16)

Number of
Schools
9

SFY20
Funds
$198,380

8

$193,809

Ms. Kramer asked why, despite nearly identical full-time-equivalent personnel costs
being represented in the two budgets, the personnel budget for Lurie Children’s Hospital
was approximately three times as much as that for SIU.
Ms. Desai said that SIU allocated more work to contractors via subawards, versus SIU
personnel.
Mr. Buckman said SIU’s program includes more contractual workers and other staff who
will work on the project part-time. Thus, staff costs will be significantly less compared to
costs of expert-level staff employed by other programs.
Ms. McKitrick said Lurie project work would be done by staff with Ph.D.s or by licensed
clinical social workers with advanced training.
Motion: Mr. Perez moved to approve the recommended SFY20 Bullying Prevention
designations. Mr. Byrd seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 8/15/19 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

B. Violence Prevention and Street Intervention Programming
Mr. Hoffman called attention to the supplemental memorandum on the state Violence
Prevention and Street Intervention Programming (VPSIP) appropriation. He said staff
recommended a one-time designation of $2.25 million in SFY20 VPSIP funds to
Metropolitan Family Services to support its Communities Partnering 4 Peace program.
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to approve the recommended SFY20 VPSIP designation.
Mr. Byrd seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
C. Safe From the Start
Mr. Hoffman said that staff is planning to issue a SFY20 Safe From the Start (SFS)
notice of funding opportunity to support an SFS program evaluation. He said the
evaluator would be required to manage the client information database, provide
assessment tools to program sites, provide technical assistance to program sites, manage
Institutional Review Board approval processes for the evaluation project, share
information with program sites, and provide a program evaluation report and a promising
practices report.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended SFY20 SFS designation. Mr.
Byrd seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
D. City of Danville Violence Prevention Program
Mr. Hoffman said that the State of Illinois’ SFY20 budget includes a $75,000
appropriation to the City of Danville for violence prevention programming.
Motion: Mr. Olson moved to approve the recommended SFY20 Danville Violence
Prevention Program designation. Mr. Byrd seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
3. Justice Assistance Grants
Mr. Stevens said that at the June 27, 2019, ICJIA Board meeting, the Board approved the
JAG Strategic Plan for 2019-2024. At the same meeting, he said, the Board requested a
JAG program funding implementation plan. He said staff intended to present the plan for
recommendations and approval at the October 17, 2019, Budget Committee meeting. He
said the plan would then be presented to the ICJIA Board in October.

 8/15/19 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

Mr. Stevens said that half of the FFY17 JAG award had been obligated, ICJIA is
anticipating receipt of its FFY18 JAG award, and staff submitted an application for the
FFY19 JAG award.
No action was necessary and none was taken.
4. Victims of Crime Act
1. Designation Reductions
ICJIA Criminal Justice Specialist Lauren Simmons introduced designation reductions
totaling $897,431 in FFY16 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funds returned to ICJIA.
Motion: Mr. Byrd moved to approve the recommended FFY16 VOCA designation
reductions. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
2. Recommended Designations
Child Abuse, Financial Crime, and Impaired Driving
Ms. Simmons described a recommended designation of $957,514 in FFY17 Victims of
Crime Act (VOCA) funds for support services to victims of child abuse, financial crimes,
and impaired driving.
Motion: Mr. Olson moved to approve the recommended FFY17 VOCA designations to
support services to victims of child abuse, financial crimes, and impaired driving. Mr.
Byrd seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Community Violence
Ms. Desai said that the Illinois Helping Everyone Access Linked Systems (HEALS) is a
federal demonstration project funded by the Office for Victims of Crime that includes a
five-year implementation period. She said a 15-month planning period ended in
December 2018 and that ICJIA staff developed an action plan to select a demonstration
site to coordinate care for children, youths, and families who are victims of violence. She
said staff recommended designating $800,000 in FFY17 VOCA funds to Egyptian Health
Department, which will serve as Illinois HEALS’ first demonstration site.
Motion: Mr. Olson moved to approve the recommended FFY17 VOCA designation to
support the Illinois HEALS demonstration project. Mr. Byrd seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 8/15/19 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

Services to Victims of Domestic Violence
Ms. Simmons said staff recommended designating $455,000 in FFY17 VOCA funds to
the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services (DFSS) for the Statewide
Domestic Violence Hotline.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended FFY17 VOCA designation to
DFSS to support the hotline. Mr. Olson seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Statewide InfoNet Data Collection Program
Ms. Simmons said staff recommended designating $556,024 in FFY17 VOCA funds to
ICJIA to supplement the statewide InfoNet data collection system. She said ICJIA
developed and manages InfoNet, a web-based, centralized statewide case management
system for domestic and sexual violence centers. She said InfoNet is used by over 100
Illinois victim service providers, allowing them to track individual victims served and
services provided and easily produce standardized program and funding reports.
A discussion around indirect cost rates ensued. Ms. Weis provided an overview of the
indirect cost rate.
Motion: Mr. Perez moved to approve the recommended FFY17 VOCA designation to
ICJIA to support the InfoNet program. Mr. Byrd seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Lead Entity Program: Statewide Services to Victims of Sexual Assault
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey introduced the Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) Sexual Assault Services Program (SASP). She said ICJIA typically receives the
federal award on August 1 or later, creating a gap in funding periods for VAWA SASP
programming. She said staff recommended designating FFY17 VOCA funds totaling
$503,870 to Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (ICASA) for subgrants to cover
SASP activities for one year, beginning July 1, 2019. She said the designation would
allow staff to close the gap in funding periods and prevent possible interruption in
services at ICASA-supported rape crisis centers. She said the remaining VAWA SASP
funds could be used for new programming.
Motion: Mr. Byrd moved to approve the recommended FFY17 VOCA designation to
ICASA to support SASP. Ms. West seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 8/15/19 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 7

3. Recommended Notice of Funding Opportunity
Transitional Housing
Ms. Simmons said that staff requests designating up to $5 million in available FFY18
VOCA funds to issue a notice of funding opportunity in the fourth quarter of 2019 for
transitional housing programs. She said designation recommendations resulting from this
funding opportunity would be presented at the December 12, 2019, Budget Committee
meeting.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended $5 million set-aside for the
FFY17 VOCA Transitional Housing Notice of Funding Opportunity. Mr. Kocerka
seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Public Comment
Carrie Ward, representing ICASA, said that she appreciated the re-purposing of VOCA
funds to replace the VAWA SASP funds and that it would ease burdens on rape crisis
centers that typically rely on VAWA SASP funds.
Old Business / New Business
Mr. Stevens said that at the June 20, 2019, Budget Committee meeting, roughly $33.1
million in new designations were made, resulting in 115 grants that had to be executed by
July 1, 2019. By comparison, staff executed 77 agreements the prior year, he said. He
reported that even with the added workload, staff were able to increase their grant ontime execution rate by 12 percent. He also noted said ICJIA Criminal Justice Specialist
Tierra Scott was leaving ICJIA for a position at the Illinois Department of Corrections
and that she had made many valuable contributions to the agency.
Adjourn
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Byrd seconded the motion.
The motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 10:52 a.m.

 