VOQMUAK 52353.0?



ZCK 

EIGHB ORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 Woonwano AVENUE, SUITE l026
Dmon?, MICHIGAN 48226

0F Demon PHONE: 3l3 628-2l58
OFFICE OF THECHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FAX. 3, 3 . 234 . 0542

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS GOV

 

September 5. 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2019 AmeriCorps VISTA
(Volunteers In Service To Arnerica) Grant

The Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) has awarded the City of
Detroit Mayor's Of?ce. Department of Neighborhoods with the FY 2019 AmeriCorps
VISTA (Volunteers In Service To America) Grant for a total of $167,412.00. The Federal
share is $167,412.00 of the approved amount, and a there is a required cash match of
$33,980.00. The total project cost is $201,392.00.

The objective of the grant is to provide the Mayor's Of?ce. Department of
Neighborhoods and the District Managers with up to nine AmeriCorps to
support and expand block clubs and Blight Strike Team partnerships. The funding
awarded to the department will be utilized to pay for the VISTA stipends.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number
is 20678, with the match amount coming from appropriation number 00870.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely.



Ryan Friedn'chs
Director. Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:

Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director. Grants

Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department

This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget

25'

g?

Office of Development and Grants cm-ormwn

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS. the Mayor?s Of?ce, Department of Neighborhoods is requesting authorization to
accept a grant from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), in the amount
of $167,412.00, to provide up to nine AmeriCorps VISTAs to support and expand block clubs and
Blight Strike Team partnerships; and

WHEREAS, the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), will directly pay for the
stipends, In the amount of $201,392.00. and invoice the City of Detroit for the required
cash match of $33,980.00; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department: and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20678, in the amount of $33,980.00. coming from Appropriation number 00870. in order
to provide the cash match for the FY 2019 AmeriCorps VISTA Grant.

Page 1 ol 1

CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE
AmeriCorps VISTA

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

Between

City of Detroit

2 Woodward Ave

Rm 1026

Detroit, MI 48226-3445
EIN: 386004606

 

and

Corporation for National and Community Service
Michigan State Of?ce

Corp. for National and Community Service

250 Street SW

Washington, DC 20525-3249

Pursuant to Title I, Pub.L. 93-113, the Domestic Volunteer Service Act 0f1973, as amended, 87 Stat. 394
hereinafter, the "Act"

This Memorandum of Agreement, hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement", between the two above-captioned
parties: 1) Corporation for National and Community Service, hereinafter referred to as and 2) City of Detroit,
hereinafter referred to as the "Sponsor", sets forth the parties' understanding concerning the establishment and operation
of a local project under the AmeriCorps VISTA program, pursuant to Title I, Part A of the Domestic Volunteer Service
Act, as amended, (42 4950 et seq.), hereinafter may be referred to as "the Act". The primary purpose of this
agreement is for CNCS to provide the Sponsor with up to nine (9) AmeriCorps VISTA members and up to zero (0)
Summer Associates to perform volunteer service to strengthen and supplement efforts to eliminate poverty and poverty-
related human, social, and environmental problems as speci?ed in the Project Application. The Project Application is
incorporated in this Agreement by reference.

The project shall be cost-shared between CNCS and the Sponsor. Accordingly, the Agreement provides for the
Sponsor's funding of up to $24,980.00 to cost-share up to two (2) AmeriCorps VISTA member(s) and up to zero (0)
Summer Associates and the assignment of up to seven (7) AmeriCorps VISTA members(s) and up to zero (0) Summer
Associates supported by CNCS. The Sponsor's cost-share of up to two (2) VISTAs and Summer Associates is subject
to annual review and renewal every 12 months. The ?nal numbers of AmeriCorps VISTA members and/or Summer
Associates placed may be less than the number listed above due to considerations, such as those related to the
management, resources and budget of the VISTA program. Speci?c details regarding cost-share payment roles and
responsibilities associated with this Agreement are set forth in paragraph 20 of Part II of this Agreement.

This Agreement is for one year, and shall become effective on the date of 09/15/2019 execution of this Agreement.
The date of execution of this agreement is the date that the ?nal signatory for either party signs and dates this
Agreement. This Agreement is subject to performance of the terms as set forth in this Agreement, below in Part 11.
Activity on the project shall be deemed to have begun on 09/15/2019 and shall end thereafter on 09/ 12/2020, unless
terminated sooner by either or both of the parties.

Click below to view:
General Provisions of the Cost Share MA

 

 

In witness whereof, the parties whose signatures appear below attest to having the authority to enter into
this Agreement and agree that this Agreement will become effective on the aforementioned date. (The
Sponsor and Corporation for National and Community Service staff must sign the Memorandum of
Agreement even though single signatures only are required for grant agreements.)

Sponsor

By: 

 

(Sponsor signature)

Name: Raymond Solomon

Title:
Date:

City of Detroit

Address: 2 Woodward Ave
Rm 1026

Detroit, MI 48226-3445

Phone: (313) 628-0273
Sponsor Location Code Number: 61309
Sponsor DUNS Number: 006530661

Corporation for National and Community Service

By:

(State Director signature)

 

Name: Cathy L. Sharp
Title: State Program Director
Date:

Corporation for National and Community Service
Address: Michigan State Of?ce

Corp. for National and Community Service
250 Street SW
Washington, DC 20525-3249

313-989-4573

 

Phone:

By:

 

(Executive Of?cer signature)

Name: Management and Program Analyst
Kira Weiss

Title:

Date:

 

Corporation for National and Community Service

 

Address: 250 Street SW

Suite 300

Washington, DC 20525-0001
Phone: 202-606-6626

 

COST SHARE MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT FOR
AMERICORPS VISTA PROJECTS

Effective March 1, 2019

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

I. Purpose of the Memorandum of Agreement (MA) and Provisions 2

ll. Definitionsz

CNCS Responsibilities 3
IV. Sponsor Responsibilities 4
V. Reporting Requirements 7
VI. Other Legal Requirements 8
VII. Affiliation with AmeriCorps VISTA 12
Cost Share Payment Requirements 12

 

I. Purpose of the Memorandum of Agreement (MA) and Provisions

This Memorandum of Agreement and its Provisions or ?Memorandum of Agreement?) constitute a
binding agreement between the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) and the Sponsor
regarding its AmeriCorps VISTA Project. The Memorandum of Agreement details the number of AmeriCorps
VISTA members that may be assigned to the Sponsor, the respective roles and responsibilities of CNCS and the
Sponsor regarding the operation of its VISTA project, and the full range of legal requirements of the Sponsor in
the programmatic operations of its VISTA project. The assignment of AmeriCorps VISTA members under this
MA is subject to the Sponsor?s acceptable past performance, if applicable, and to the availability of funds. It is
the Sponsor?s responsibility to ensure that the MA is signed by an authorized representative empowered to
enter legal agreements with the Federal Government.

The Memorandum of Agreement is signed electronically in electronic grant management system by
both parties. On the rare occasion that a Sponsor is unable to electronically sign the MA, documentation of
that restriction must be provided to CNCS in advance. The electronic signature process will still be required to
process the Project Application, but a scanned version of the physical MA (as approved by the CNCS Office of
General Counsel) with physical signatures will be uploaded to the system and will supersede the digital MA
and Provisions.

To the extent CNCS awards any grant funds associated with this Agreement, neither this Agreement, nor its

Provisions, shall go into effect until the date of award of the grant funds as set forth in the Notice of
Grant Award.

II. Definitions

 

1. Sponsor refers to the non-profit organization or government agency that applies for and receives an award
to place AmeriCorps VISTA members, and if applicable, receive a VISTA Support or Program grant.

2. Project refers to the set of activities, as set forth in the Project Application, for which the federal award of
VISTA resources was made.

3. Site refers to an organization, usually separate from the Sponsor that hosts AmeriCorps VISTA members
who were assigned to the Sponsor?s VISTA Project, and where the AmeriCorps VISTA members perform
service activities.

4. Service Location refers to an organization not hosting or receiving AmeriCorps VISTA members that
directly benefits from the services of one or more VISTA members, as set forth in the Project Application.

5. Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) refers to the agreement document between the Sponsor and

each of its Sites as outlined in Section IV, Number 4.

Applicant and Candidate are used to refer to individuals seeking to enroll in the AmeriCorps VISTA

program. An applicant is an individual who has applied to one (1) or more VISTA service opportunities

created by the Sponsor and is awaiting further action on their application. A candidate is an individual who
is recommended by the Sponsor to be selected to serve in the VISTA program and whose completed
application has been approved by CNCS. Neither an applicant nor a candidate is a member, and neither an
applicant nor a candidate is currently enrolled in the VISTA program.



7. Member refers to an individual that has taken the Oath of VISTA service and is currently enrolled in the
AmeriCorps VISTA program.

CNCS Responsibilities

 

1) Recommendation and Selection. Following the Sponsor?s recommendation for selection, the CNCS
State Office reviews the Applicant?s application subject to suitability and eligibility requirements and
the availability of funds. CNCS selects and assigns individuals to serve as AmeriCorps VISTA members
with the Sponsor?s project. All candidate selections and assignments are at the discretion of CNCS.

2) VISTA Assignment Description (VAD). Each member has a VISTA Assignment Description (VAD) that
sets forth the scope of VISTA activities that the member is expected to perform during their service
term at the Sponsor. As part of the recruitment process, the Sponsor will prepare a VAD for each VISTA
position that is in alignment with the goals described in the Project Application. While VADs may be
developed and proposed by the Sponsor, all VADs must be reviewed and approved by CNCS.

3) Orientation and Training. CNCS will provide candidates an online Member Orientation at the start of
the service term and may provide additional training later in the service year. The Sponsor will provide
On-Site Orientation and Training (OSOT) for members, and in?service training (online or face-to-face),
as specified in the Project Narrative.

During the Member Orientation, which includes two extended webinars, CNCS will provide information
regarding volunteer discrimination complaint rights and procedures and grievance rights and
procedures, in accordance with federal law and applicable regulations. Prior to the Member
Orientation webinars, and throughout the service term, CNCS will make available to all candidates and
members the AmeriCorps VISTA Member Handbook.

4) Member Benefits. CNCS will provide AmeriCorps VISTA members with any benefits to which each is
eligible, as prescribed by statute and VISTA program policy. Depending on the eligibility and
circumstances of each VISTA member, benefits may include a living allowance, relocation assistance, an
end of service award, health benefits and child care coverage.

5) Oversight. CNCS will periodically review the use of its AmeriCorps VISTA members to achieve the
objectives and perform the taskls) specified in the Project Application. This review may include
monitoring and/or onsite visits and interviews with Sponsor staff, Site staff and the AmeriCorps VISTA
members.

6) Communication with Sponsor. CNCS will provide the Sponsor timely information concerning applicable
CNCS and AmeriCorps VISTA regulations, policies and procedures.

7) Project Support. CNCS will provide technical assistance to the Sponsor and, subject to the availability
of funds, conduct training for the Sponsor?s Project Director and/or Supervisor(s).

8)

Removal and Termination. CNCS will respond to written requests by the Sponsor to remove
any AmeriCorps VISTA member from the project in accordance with AmeriCorps VISTA regulations,
policies and procedures. CNCS will effect removals of AmeriCorps VISTA members from Sponsors, and
effect early terminations from the AmeriCorps VISTA program of AmeriCorps VISTA members. CNCS
has sole responsibility to effect a member?s removal from a Sponsor and termination from the
AmeriCorps VISTA program.

IV. Sponsor Responsibilities

1)

2)

3)

4)

Project Operation Requirements. The Sponsor will operate the project in accordance with the
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 ("the Act?), applicable program policies and regulations, and
other Federal laws, and regulations that are, or become, applicable to the AmeriCorps VISTA program.
The Sponsor will also operate the project in accordance with the approved Project Application. The
Sponsor will also engage in best efforts to accomplish the goals set out for the AmeriCorps VISTA
members in the Project Application, and comply with the Certifications and Assurances included within
the Project Application.

Community Involvement. To the maximum extent practicable, the Sponsor and each of its Sites will
consult with and involve the people of the community or communities to be served by AmeriCorps
VISTA members in planning, developing, and implementing the project.

Project Director/Supervisor and Site Supervisor Training. Subject to the availability of funds, CNCS will
conduct training for the Sponsor?s Project Director and/or Supervisor(s). In such case, the Sponsor shall
ensure that the individual named in the Project Application as the Project Director/Supervisor
participates in such training, and shall ensure the training of Site supervisors with the support of the
CNCS State Office.

Intermediary Projects. The Sponsor may carry out a VISTA project through, in part, one or more Sites.
The Sponsor must enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with each Site that is a separate
legal entity. The MOU must have at least the following elements:

3. Written understanding and agreement that the Site is required to properly ensure that all VISTA
resources are used to carry out the VISTA project in conformity with all applicable CNCS laws,
regulations, policies, procedures, program guidance and the MA Provisions;

Responsibilities of the parties and other program requirements;

Policies and procedures regarding requesting removal of VISTA members;

Records to be kept and reports on project and member progress to be submitted; and

Written understanding and agreement that while the Sponsor maintains responsibility for the
Site?s proper use of VISTA members, the Site may be held financially responsible to CNCS for
the inappropriate use of all such VISTA resources by the Site.

[0190'

The Sponsor retains the responsibility for compliance with this Memorandum of Agreement; any
agreements that it has with Site(s); all applicable regulations; and all applicable policies, procedures,
and program guidance issued by CNCS regarding the VISTA program. Evidence of each Site?s eligibility

4

5)

6)

7)

8)

to receive AmeriCorps VISTA resources must be maintained by the Sponsor and available for review by
CNCS and the CNCS Office of Inspector General. The Sponsor shall not request or receive any
compensation from any Site for services performed by a VISTA member or Summer Associate. The
Sponsor shall not request or receive application fees or any other compensation from a gotential Site
or a gotential service location as consideration for the Site or service location to operate as part of the
Sponsor?s project. The Sponsor shall not receive payment from, or on behalf of, any Site for costs
associated with VISTA program assistance, except for reasonable and actual costs incurred by the
Sponsor directly related to the Site?s participation in a VISTA project.

Site Support Payment (SSP). The Sponsor may only receive payment from, or on behalf of, any Site, for
reasonable and actual costs associated with VISTA program assistance incurred by the Sponsor directly
related to the Site?s participation in a VISTA project. Thus, Sponsors may only receive "Site Support
Payments" (SSPs) for reasonable and actual costs incurred by the Sponsor directly related to the Site?s
participation in the VISTA project. SSPs may only be collected by Sponsors for expenses directly
attributable to the VISTA project and that are not being funded by CNCS via a Support or Program
grant. SSPs shall not be collected for any costs related to the Sponsor's overall operating expenses.
SSPs are separate from, and must be treated separately from, funds that a Sponsor receives from a Site
for the purpose of cost sharing the VISTA living allowance. SSPs may not be required of, or received
from, performance measurement-only service locations (described in the Appication) as they do not
receive members. The Sponsor must provide a line item breakout for each year's projected SSP in their
project application. The same SSP information must be included in the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with each Site.

Delegation and Subcontracting. The Sponsor is prohibited from delegating or assigning any of its
obligations or duties contained in this Memorandum of Agreement, with the exception of delegation
or assignment to approved Sites. AmeriCorps VISTA members may be assigned by the Sponsor to
perform duties with other eligible public or private non-profit agencies or organizations (Sites or
service locations) as described in the Project Application and in accordance with written MOUs with
each Site. AmeriCorps VISTA grant funds, if provided to the Sponsor, may not be sub-granted to other
organizations.

Proper Use of VISTA Resources at All Times. VISTA resources include the time and activities of the
VISTA member CNCS assigns to the VISTA Sponsor and supports through VISTA member benefits. The
Sponsor is required to ensure that all VISTA resources are properly used at all times. If CNCS
determines that the Sponsor, and/or, if applicable, any Site of the Sponsor (as described in the
Definitions section), has misused VISTA resources in violation of Federal law, Federal regulation, or the
terms or conditions of this Memorandum of Agreement, the Sponsor and/or the Site may be held
financially responsible to reimburse CNCS for VISTA living allowances, and, if applicable, end of service
awards and other CNCS funds provided in support of a VISTA member. Whether the Sponsor and/or
the Site is held financially responsible to reimburse CNCS is within complete discretion.

Recruitment and Recommendation for Selection. The Sponsor will use the CNCS recruitment system to
post service opportunities, review applications and make candidate recommendations for selection to
the CNCS State Office, in advance of VISTA Member Orientations. The Sponsor will review and act on
all submitted applications, whether to accept or reject them, in a timely manner. To ensure applicants
are suitable for AmeriCorps VISTA service, the Sponsor will interview and screen applicants and verify
references prior to recommending applicants to CNCS for selection.

5

9) VISTA Assignment Description (VAD). As part of the recruitment process, the Sponsor will prepare a
VISTA Assignment Description for each VISTA position that is in alignment with the goals described in
the Project Application. Upon the Sponsor?s recommendation of an applicant?s selection, and prior to
approval ofthat applicant to be a member, the sponsor will assign an approved VAD to the
individual.

10) Orientation and Training. The Sponsor will arrange and be responsible for providing in-depth On-Site
Orientation and Training (OSOT) for all incoming AmeriCorps VISTA members at the beginning of their
service. The Sponsor will assist CNCS, as needed, in the provision of pre?service and in-service training
(online or face-to-face), as specified in the Project Narrative. The Sponsor will submit OSOT plans to the
appropriate CNCS State Office at least thirty (30) days in advance of the candidate?s first day of service.
OSOT must begin on the member?s first day of service and be completed within the first four weeks of
an AmeriCorps VISTA member?s assignment to the Sponsor. The Sponsor should provide additional
training designed to foster project and member success and to include professional development
throughout the member?s assignment year.

11) Supervision and Project Support. The Sponsor shall supervise all assigned AmeriCorps VISTA members
on a day-to-day basis, and as described in the Project Narrative. If AmeriCorps VISTAs are placed at
Sites, the Sponsor shall ensure that each Site organization provides day-to-day supervision and
support. The Sponsor will provide service-related transportation, administrative resources and other
project support needed to successfully conduct the project activities. Service-related transportation
may include mileage reimbursement for the member(s)? vehicles, public transportation fares and/or
use of vehicles owned or leased by the Sponsor.

12) Health and Safety. The Sponsor shall make every reasonable effort to ensure that the health and
safety of all assigned AmeriCorps VISTA members are protected during the performance of their
assigned duties. The Sponsor shall not assign or require AmeriCorps VISTA members to perform duties
which would jeopardize their safety or cause them to sustain injuries. In the event of a serious injury,
the Sponsor shall notify CNCS 

13) Grievance Rights. The Sponsor will comply with all AmeriCorps VISTA members? grievance rights and
procedures in accordance with federal law, applicable regulations, and the AmeriCorps VISTA Member
Handbook. CNCS will provide to Sponsors and AmeriCorps VISTA candidates and members information
regarding volunteer discrimination complaint procedures, and grievance procedures, as provided in
federal law, applicable regulations, and the AmeriCorps VISTA Member Handbook.

14) Record-keeping. The Sponsor shall create and maintain records involving AmeriCorps VISTA members
and the project, including the tracking of leave taken by assigned AmeriCorps VISTA members, as CNCS
may require. Those records shall be made available to CNCS and the CNCS Office of Inspector General
upon request. The Sponsor agrees to retain such records for a period of three years after completion
or termination of the project, or longer if required for administrative proceedings and/or litigation
purposes, and to provide access to such records to CNCS for the purpose of litigation, audit or
examination.

15) Emergency Funds. If circumstances require, the Sponsor will advance up to $500.00 to any AmeriCorps
VISTA member in case of any emergency critical illness or death in the immediate family) to be

6

reimbursed by the AmeriCorps VISTA member when the AmeriCorps VISTA member has completed
and submitted an AmeriCorps VISTA Payment Voucher. CNCS will not be responsible for the
reimbursement of these funds unless the AmeriCorps VISTA Payment Voucher form is submitted to
CNCS.

16) Unscheduled Absences. The Sponsor and/or Site supervisor will report to the appropriate CNCS State
Office, within 24 hours, the unscheduled departure of all assigned AmeriCorps VISTA members, and
otherwise keep CNCS timely informed of unscheduled changes of status and conditions of AmeriCorps
VISTA members, such as arrests, medical emergencies, hospitalization, and absence without leave.

17) Days of Service. Should activities be organized in the communities where the AmeriCorps VISTA
members are assigned for service, the Sponsor will allow assigned AmeriCorps VISTA members to
participate in Days of Service, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service and the September 11th
National Day of Service and Remembrance.

18) Removal Requests. The Sponsor will contact their CNCS Program Officer whenever there is a concern
with a member?s conduct or performance. If the Sponsor wishes for CNCS to remove the member from
the project, they must submit that request in writing including supporting documentation (letter or
email). CNCS will respond to written requests by the Sponsor to remove any member from
the project in accordance with policies and procedures. When warranted, CNCS will effect
removals of AmeriCorps VISTA members from the Sponsor, and effect early terminations from the
AmeriCorps VISTA program of its members. CNCS has the sole authority to remove and terminate
AmeriCorps VISTA members.

19) Close of Service. Forty-five (45) days prior to the end of an AmeriCorps service term, the
member must complete the Future Plans Form (FPF). The Sponsor must work with the memberls) to
ensure the FPFs are done and when submitted, is required to complete the Sponsor?s section of the
FPF within five (5) workdays after receipt. The Sponsor or its Site supervisors may provide letters of
reference to their AmeriCorps VISTA members.

V. Reporting Requirements

1) Sponsor Verification Form. On a biweekly basis, the Sponsor must complete and submit the Sponsor
Verification Form within three (3) workdays of receipt to confirm which AmeriCorps VISTA members
remained active during the previous pay period, and which AmeriCorps members left service at the
Sponsor during the previous pay period. If applicable, the Sponsor must indicate the actual departure
date of any AmeriCorps VISTA member who leaves during the period pay period if the departure is
prior to completion of their service term. This reporting requirement does not replace the requirement
of the Sponsor or its Sites to notify CNCS immediately regarding the departure early termination,
AWOL) of any of its AmeriCorps VISTA members. The Sponsor must certify the Form even if no
AmeriCorps VISTA members left/leave during the pay period covered by the Form.

2) Project Progress Reports. The Sponsor will submit Project Progress Reports within the required time

frame.
7

3) VISTA Progress Report Supplement (VPRS). The Sponsor will submit the VPRS within the required time
frame, generally 30-45 days after the end of the federal fiscal year.

4) Federal Financial Report (FFR): If awarded a Support or Program grant, the Sponsor will submit the
required FFRs within the required time frame as described in the separate Notice of Grant Award
(NGA).

VI. Other Legal Requirements

 

1) Status of VISTA Members during Service. AmeriCorps VISTA members are eligible for all benefits and
coverage provided to them under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (the Act), including the
?income disregard? provisions as set forth at 42 U.S.C. 5044 of the Act; the Federal Employees
Compensation Act and the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA).

AmeriCorps VISTA members shall not be considered employees ofthe Sponsor. AmeriCorps VISTA
members are deemed employees of the federal government only for those limited purposes identified
at 42 U.S.C. 5055 of the Act.

2) Prohibition on Nepotism. To avoid actual or apparent favoritism in the operation of an AmeriCorps
VISTA project, AmeriCorps VISTA program prohibits certain assignment arrangements, as
follows:

a. VISTA members. An AmeriCorps VISTA member cannot be assigned to an AmeriCorps VISTA project
Site if s/he is:

i. in the immediate family spouse, domestic partner, parent or guardian whether by blood
or adoption, child whether by blood or adoption) of a staff member of the project or the Site or
a CNCS staff person in the applicable State Office;

ii. a close relative, whether by blood or adoption, grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle,
niece, nephew, first cousin) of a staff member of the project or the Site, or a CNCS staff person
in the applicable State Office;

in the immediate family spouse, domestic partner, parent or guardian whether by blood
or adoption, child whether by blood or adoption) of a member of the board of directors of the
specific AmeriCorps VISTA project Site where the VISTA member reports for service; or

iv. a close relative, whether by blood or adoption, grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle,
niece, nephew, first cousin) of a member ofthe board of directors of the specific AmeriCorps
VISTA project Site where the VISTA member reports for service.

b. VISTA Project Supervisory Employees. A project and/or Site employee is prohibited from holding a
VISTA project supervisory position if s/he:

the immediate family spouse, domestic partner, parent or guardian whether by blood
or adoption, child whether by blood or adoption) of any CNCS official responsible for the
AmeriCorps VISTA project.

ii. is a close relative, whether by blood or adoption, grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle,
niece, nephew, first cousin) of any CNCS official responsible for the AmeriCorps VISTA project.

is in the immediate family spouse, domestic partner, parent or guardian whether by blood
or adoption, child whether by blood or adoption) of any project Site employee who holds
supervisory authority over him/her; or

iv. is a close relative, whether by blood or adoption, grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle,
niece, nephew, first cousin) of any project Site employee who holds supervisory authority over
him/her.

Nondiscrimination. No person with responsibilities in the operation of the project shall discriminate
against any AmeriCorps VISTA member, or member of the staff, or beneficiary of the project, with
respect to any aspect of the project on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual
orientation, age, disability, political affiliation, marital or parental status, or military service.

Ensuring Accessibility for Persons with Disabilities. By signing this MA, the Sponsor certifies that it has
conducted a self-evaluation of its compliance with Section 504 ofthe Rehabilitation Act of 1973,
including that it has taken all reasonable measures to ensure that its facilities and all participating Sites
are accessible to qualified persons with disabilities, promotes their equal participation, and does not
otherwise discriminate against such persons based on disability.

Sexual Harassment. Sexual harassment is a form of discrimination based on sex that is prohibited. As
the recipient of federal resources from CNCS, the Sponsor is responsible for violations of the
prohibition against sexual harassment and for taking corrective action toward and/or disciplinary
action against Sponsor staff or Site staff, if such violations occur. CNCS is responsible for violations of
the prohibition against sexual harassment and for taking corrective action toward and/or disciplinary
action against VISTA members, if such violations occur. Such sexual harassment violations include:

a. Acts of ?quid pro quo? sexual harassment where a supervisor demands sexual favors for service
benefits, regardless of whether the Sponsor, its agents or supervisory employees should have
known of the acts.

b. Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of
sexual nature which have the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive
service environment.

c. Acts of sexual harassment toward fellow AmeriCorps VISTA members or non-employees, where the
Sponsor, its agent or its supervisory employees knew or should have known of the conduct, unless
it took immediate and appropriate corrective action.

Supplemental Payments Prohibited. Monetary living (living) allowances provided to AmeriCorps VISTA
members are designed to permit AmeriCorps VISTA members to live at or below the economic level of

9

7)

8)

9)

the persons served, as required by law. Neither the Sponsor nor its Sites may supplement these
allowances in a manner that would interfere with the member?s experience of living at or below the
poverty level. Sponsors and Sites are strictly prohibited from providing VISTA members or Summer
Associates with monetary assistance.

Prohibitions of Use of CNCS Resources by Sponsor. The Sponsor agrees that no AmeriCorps VISTA
member assigned to the Sponsor, and no other federal financial assistance provided by CNCS, shall be
used to assist, provide or participate in:

a. Partisan and non?partisan political activities associated with a candidate, including voter
registration or providing voter transportation to the polls;

b. Direct or indirect attempts to influence passage or defeat of legislation or proposals by initiative
petition;

c. Labor or anti-labor organization or related activities;

d. Religious instruction, worship services, proselytization, or any other religious activity as part of
their duties;

e. Activities or service that would supplant the hiring of or result in the displacement of employed
workers, existing volunteers or impair existing contracts for service;

f. Receiving or accepting compensation from AmeriCorps VISTA members or from beneficiaries for
the services of AmeriCorps VISTA members;

g. Requesting, charging or accepting participation or application fees from potential VISTA applicants
or candidates; or

h. Requiring or accepting project application fees from potential Sites.

Other Prohibited Activities. The Sponsor agrees that it is prohibited from allowing AmeriCorps VISTA
members assigned to the project to engage in the following activities:

a. Reporting or completing Progress Reports, the VISTA Progress Report Supplement (VPRS),
Continuation applications or Amendments, the Sponsor Verification Report or other reports and
forms required of the Sponsor in eGrants; and

b. Taking actions in any CNCS system on behalf of the Sponsor for any CNCS programs, such as
applying for and reporting on CNCS grants, selecting AmeriCorps members, tracking hours or
closing out service terms and granting AmeriCorps Education Awards.

Whistleblower Rights and Remedies for Employees of the Sponsors. The Sponsor is required to notify
all of its employees in writing of employee Whistleblower rights and protections under 41 U.S.C. 
4712, as described at As such, Sponsor is
required

 

10

to notify all of its employees that they may not be discharged, demoted, or otherwise discriminated
against for disclosing information that an employee reasonably believes is evidence of:

a. Gross mismanagement or waste of a Federal contract or grant;

b. An abuse of authority relating to a Federal contract or grant (an arbitrary and capricious exercise of
authority that is inconsistent with the mission of CNCS or the successful performance of a contract
or grant of 

c. A substantial and specific danger to public health or safety; or
cl. A violation of law, rule, or regulation related to a Federal contract or grant.

The Sponsor is required to notify all of its employees that an employee may disclose suspected
wrongdoing described above to any of the following:

a. The CNCS Office of Inspector General;
b. A CNCS employee responsible for contract or grant oversight or management;

c. A management official or other employee of the Sponsor who has the responsibility to investigate,
discover, or address misconduct, or;

d. An authorized official of the US. Department ofJustice or other law enforcement agency, a
Member of Congress, or a representative of a committee of Congress, or the Government
Accountability Office (GAO).

The Sponsor is required to notify all of its employees in writing that if an employee believes that he or she
has been subjected to reprisal for disclosed wrongdoing described above, the employee may submit a
complaint to the CNCS OIG within three (3) years of the date on which the alleged reprisal took place.

10) Amendments. This Memorandum of Agreement may be amended at any time, in writing, by
authorized representatives ofthe Sponsor, and the appropriate CNCS State Director.

11) Increases in AmeriCorps VISTA Payment Amounts during This Agreement. The parties to this
Agreement are cognizant of the likelihood of future area-based ?cost-of-living? increases to
subsistence allowances, to which AmeriCorps VISTA members would be entitled, in the course of their
service at the Sponsor. The parties specifically intend that their respective obligations to pay, or
reimburse amounts paid to, AmeriCorps VISTA members shall reflect and be adjusted to account for
such general increases, in accordance with the Act and regulations and procedures.

12) Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is construed as illegal or invalid, this will not affect the
legality or validity of any of the other provisions contained in this Agreement. The illegal or invalid
provision will be deemed stricken and deleted from the Agreement to the same extent and affect as if
it never existed, but all other provisions will continue in effect.

13) Termination and Suspension

11

a. Sponsor: Right to Terminate with Notice. The Sponsor may terminate this Agreement at any
time by giving at least thirty (30) days? notice in writing to CNCS of its intent.

b. CNCS: Right to Terminate or Suspend. CNCS may terminate or suspend this Agreement in
accordance with applicable terms and procedures set forth in applicable Federal regulations
and 42 5052. The Sponsor understands and agrees that CNCS may take action to
terminate or suspend this Agreement, or deny renewal of this Agreement or VISTA resources,
for failure to comply with the applicable terms and conditions of this Agreement.

14) Order of Precedence. In the event of inconsistencies or conflicts between the Project Narrative and the
Agreement, this Agreement shall govern.

15) Notices. All notices and communications required to be given to CNCS by the Sponsor, shall be directed
to the CNCS State Program Director or Program Officer. All notices to be given to the Sponsor by CNCS
shall be directed to the Project Director as indicated in the Project Application.

a. In the event that any of the parties or addresses referenced in the above paragraph change,
written notice to all other parties must be provided within seven (7) days of the change. Such
written notice must include the Project Number and Sponsor EIN. Within seven (7) days of the
change, the Sponsor must also update its information in eGrants, including deactivating staff
accounts for individuals no longer working at the Sponsor?s organization.

VII. Affiliation with AmeriCorps VISTA

1) Identification as an AmeriCorps VISTA Project or Member. The Sponsor must identify the project as an
AmeriCorps VISTA project and assigned members as AmeriCorps VISTA members. In cases where the
Sponsor has one or more Site(s) or service location(s) as described above in Section II, ?Definitions? of
this Memorandum of Agreement, all Site agreements related to the AmeriCorps VISTA project must
explicitly state that the project is an AmeriCorps VISTA project and assigned AmeriCorps VISTA
members are the resource being provided.

2) The AmeriCorps VISTA Name and Logo. AmeriCorps VISTA is a registered service mark of the
Corporation for National and Community Service. CNCS provides a camera-ready logo. Sponsors and
Sites must use the AmeriCorps VISTA name and logo in accordance with CNCS requirements. The
Sponsor may not use or display the AmeriCorps VISTA name or logo in connection with any prohibited
activity referenced in Section VI, ?Other Legal Requirements" of this Memorandum of Agreement.

Cost Share Payment Requirements

 

1) Bi-Weekly Allowance Payments Made By CNCS to VISTA Members. The Sponsor shall reimburse CNCS
for bi-weekly payments to all cost-share VISTA members, covered by this Agreement, for their living
allowances subsistence allowances) as stated in the Budget.

12

2) Reimbursement Schedule for Sponsor to Pay Back CNCS.

a. CNCS Issues Bi-Weekly Invoices: At the end of each month during which cost-share VISTA members
are serving throughout the term of this Agreement, CNCS will provide the Sponsor with an invoice
detailing the member allowance expenditures made by CNCS, on behalf of the Sponsor, in that
month. The Sponsor will have 30 days to tender full reimbursement to CNCS of the total
expenditures noted on the invoice.

b. Requirement For Full Reimbursement to CNCS By Due Date: In accordance with the Debt Collection
Improvement Act of 1986, 31 U.S.C. chapter 37 (DCIA), Claims Collection Regulations at 45
CFR Part 2506, and the Federal Claims Collections Standards (FCCS) (31 CFR Parts 900 to 904), the
Sponsor is required to fully reimburse CNCS for the expenditures that CNCS made to the cost-share
VISTA member(s) on behalf of the Sponsor by the Due Date set forth on the Invoice. Also, under
federal law, any expenditures that CNCS makes to the cost?share VISTA member(s) on behalf of the
Sponsor is considered a debt of the Sponsor, and CNCS must try to collect the debt it is owed.

3) Reimbursement Procedures for Sponsor to Pay Back CNCS. All reimbursements made by the Sponsor
to CNCS reimbursements and close-out payments for any amounts remaining due --
may be paid through Within 45 days after the end of the project (whether by
termination or by expiration of this Agreement), CNCS will provide a final accounting of member
allowance expenditures, together with a final invoice for any amount remaining due, pursuant to the
Sponsor?s cost-share Agreement. Payment of any invoice described above is due within 30 days of the
date of the invoice.

4) Interest, Administrative Costs, and Penalties for Non-Reimbursement and Delinquencies. The parties
to this Agreement understand that the reimbursement amounts that the Sponsor owes CNCS, as set
forth in the invoices, discussed above in parts b. and are considered debts under Federal law and
applicable regulations. As a federal agency, CNCS must comply with the Debt Collection Improvement
Act of 1986, 31 U.S.C. chapter 37 (DCIA), Claims Collection Regulations at 45 CFR Part 2506, and
the Federal Claims Collections Standards (FCCS) (4 CFR Part II.). Accordingly, CNCS is required to try to
collect all debts that it is owed. Such debts include any and all reimbursement amounts that the
Sponsor owes CNCS.

a. The Sponsor is required to pay CNCS the full reimbursement amount set forth on each invoice, by
the date specified on the invoice. Any reimbursement amount unpaid by the Sponsor to CNCS by the
date specified on the invoice becomes a delinquent debt. A debt becomes delinquent the day after
the date specified on the invoice for the full reimbursement amount.

b. The parties to this Agreement understand that to the extent that the reimbursement amount that
the Sponsor owes CNCS, as set forth on the invoice, becomes delinquent, the Sponsor is subject to
interest on that delinquent debt in accordance with the DCIA at 31 U.S.C. 3717. To the extent the
Sponsor?s debt remains delinquent for more than 60 days, CNCS shall initiate action to collect such
debt with interest. In addition, in instances where the Sponsor has such debt that remains
delinquent for more than 90 days, CNCS may also initiate action to collect interest, administrative
costs and penalties. Debt collection may include referral to the U. S. Department of the Treasury,
Debt Management Services. The debt may also be collected by the Internal Revenue Service
through the US. Department of the Treasury Offset Program (TOP).

13

5) Non-Reimbursement or Delinquency May Result in Cessation of VISTA Operations. The Sponsor
understands and agrees that if the full reimbursement amount set forth on each cost share invoice is
not paid by the date specified on the invoice and thus becomes a delinquent debt, CNCS may deny
refunding of the VISTA project, or suspend or terminate the VISTA project prior to the conclusion of the
last term of service date for all VISTA members or Summer Associates currently assigned to the
Sponsor, or may take such other action as is appropriate and legally available to CNCS. The Sponsor
further understands and agrees that should CNCS take any action available to it as a result of a failure
to make a full reimbursement amount set forth on each cost share invoice, that the debt owed by the
Sponsor to CNCS is not extinguished, and that such debt remains due and owing regardless of other
actions taken for violations of this Agreement.

14

