Cook County Complete Count Census Commission
Community and Faith Based Organizations Subcommittee
Date: September 3, 2019
Time: 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m.

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chair McMorris, Vice Chair Anaya, Commissioner Phyllis Logan, Andre Ashmore
(Cook County Bureau of Economic Development), Victoria Moreno (staff)
SUBCOMMITTEE MINUTES

I.

Call to Order
The September 3rd meeting of The Cook County Complete Count Census
Commission Community and Faith Based Organizations Subcommittee was
convened via an in-person meeting from 10:37 a.m. - 11:08 a.m. The meeting was
chaired by Lamell McMorris. This meeting was open to the public, no public
comment was given.

II.

Public Comment
a. Public Comment was given by Rubina Alam.

III.

Goals of Subcommittee
a. Chair McMorris suggested it would be a good exercise for Commission members
to collectively create a mission and vision for the subcommittee which will help
to measure milestones and serve as guiding rules.
b. Each subcommittee member is expected to share their view on the mission and
vision and will be consolidated into one document.

IV.

Discussion on External Membership
a. Commissioner Logan recommended inviting the core subcommittee members to
think of recommendations of external partners
b. Vice Chair Anaya stated that Commission Chair had indicated there needs to be a
minimum of 5 – 7 external partners, but there can be more.

 c. These external partners will be our Census ambassadors, partnership with them
will be crucial.
d. Chair McMorris said recommendations should be geared towards areas identified
as “hard-to-count” by Cook County GIS.
e. Andre Ashmore from the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development shared
that the first deadline for Cook County Census funding is October 1, 2019.
i. He also stated that the evaluation of the Program Administrator is
finalized, and they will begin work in late September, early October, once
they are approved by the Board of Commissioners.
ii. He will be representing the Bureau at these meetings and will be available
for any questions.
f. Vice Chair Anaya suggested holding forums/townhalls with communities (both
by geography in the County and by identity/issue area) who are not represented at
the Commission or subcommittee
i. Other members liked this idea, and suggested including Cook County
Commissioner Miller in this process.
V.

Calendar for the Year
a. Subcommittee members will review their calendars and coordinate with the Chair
and Vice Chair’s staff regarding best availability.

VI.

Next Steps
a. Subcommittee members will send names of recommendations to Commissioner Anaya’s
office by September 17, 2019.
b. Subcommittee members will send their suggestions on the mission and vision of the
subcommittee to Commissioner Anaya’s office by September 17, 2019.
c. The Chair and Vice Chair’s staff will coordinate on suggested days/time for
subcommittee meetings to propose to other members.
d. Vice Chair Anaya’s staff will check feasibility of call-in option for future meetings and of
holding subcommittee meetings off-site.

VII.

Adjournment
a. Meeting was adjourned at 11:08 a.m.

 