U5 a) BM 65




BUDGET,
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

 
   

CITYOF

DETROIT

Coleman A. Young Lenter
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1008
CITY OF DETROIT Detroit, MI 48226

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Phone: (313) 224-4500

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING PROCUREMENT Fax: (313) 628-1160
E-Mail: purchasing@detroitmi.gov

OCTOBER 25, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

CONTRACTS AND PURCHASE ORDERS SCHEDULED TO BE CONSIDERED AT THE FORMAL
SESSION OF OCTOBER 29, 2019

CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

6002222 100% City Funding AMEND To Provide an Increase of Funds for Land Acquisition
Related Activities in Support of Industrial Economic Development. Contractor: Detroit
Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority Location: 500 Griswold Suite 2200 Detroit, MI,
48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through June 26, 2020 Contract
Increase Amount: $3,650,000.00 Total Contract Amount: $3,800,000.00.



CITY CLERK

(titty at Eetrnit 

 

OFFICE OF THE AUDITOR GENERAL

 

Audit of the Casino Development Fund
Project: Real Property Rehabilitation GAP Fund

October, 2019

 

CITY OF
DETROIT
Mark W. Lockridge, Auditor General

DATE:

TO:

FROM:

RE:

CC:

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 216
Office of the Auditor General Detroit. Michigan 43226
Phone: (313) 224-3101
Fax: (313) 224-4091


 

MEMORANDUM

October 24, 2019

Honorable City Council
Honorable Mayor Mike Duggan

Mark W. Lockridge, 

Auditor General

THE CASINO DEVELOPMENT FUND AUDIT
Real Property Rehabilitation Gap Fund Project

Glen Long, COO, EDC

Stephanie Washington, Esq., City Council Liaison
David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division
Casino Representatives

 

Attached for your review is our report on the Audit of the Casino Development Fund
Real Property Rehabilitation Gap Fund project. This report contains our audit purpose,
scope, objectives, methodology and conclusions; background; our audit findings and
recommendations; and the response from the Economic Development Corporation.

Responsibility for the installation and maintenance of a system of internal control that
minimizes errors and provides reasonable safeguards rests entirely with the Economic
Development Corporation.

Copies of all of the Office of the Auditor General reports can be found on our website at
of the Auditor General.

Audit of the Casino Development Fund
Real Property Rehabilitation GAP Fund

CONTENTS
Page

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES, METHODOLOGY 1
AND CONCLUSIONS
BACKGROUND 3
AUDIT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
1. Economic Development Corporation (EDC) Did Not Have 4

An Application Process for the Real Property Rehabilitation

GAP Fund (RPGF) Project
2. EDC Failed to Enforce Loan Agreements 6
3. EDC Did Not Follow the Guidelines Established for the 7

RPGF Project
AGENCY RESPONSE

Economic Development Corporation ATTACHMENT A

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES, METHODOLOGY AND CONCLUSIONS

AUDIT PURPOSE

The audit of the Casino Development Fund Real Property Rehabilitation Gap Fund
project was performed in accordance with the Office of the Auditor General?s (OAG)
charter mandate as noted in Section which states:

 

Make audits of the financial transactions, performance and operations of City
agencies based on an annual risk-based audit plan prepared by the Auditor
General, or as othen/vise directed by City Council and report findings and
recommendations to City Council and the Mayor.

City Council requested that the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) perform an audit of
the Casino Development Fund in relation to a Legislative Policy Division report dated
October 11, 2016.

AUDIT SCOPE

The scope of this audit was an independent review and assessment of the Real
Property Rehabilitation GAP Fund project. Our audit was conducted in accordance
with Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United
States, except for the completion of an external peer review of the OAG within the last
three years.

AUDIT OBJECTIVES
The overall audit objectives were:

- Review financial reports and audited financial statements from each sub-grantee
to ensure the Casino Development Funds are properly accounted for and spent
in accordance with program objectives and guidelines as stated in the casino
agreements, Economic Development Corporation of Detroit and
EDC/sub-grantee funding agreements.

- Conduct a performance audit of each sub-grantee to ensure the Casino
Development Funds are effectively and efficiently received and spent in
accordance with best practices and in support of project objectives and
guidelines.

AUDIT METHODOLOGY
To accomplish our audit objectives, our audit work included:

- Reviewing the Casino Development Agreements, project funding agreements,
City Charter, the project budget reports, and organization charts.

. Gathering policies and procedures of core operations and similar data.

Conducting an audit-planning meeting to determine the scope and audit
objectives, and to determine the financial transactions and/or areas to audit.

Identifying risks relative to financial transactions and mitigating controls with
appropriate personnel.

Developing questions regarding the Casino Development Fund project?s
transactions, controls, functions, records, and personnel.

Interviewing appropriate personnel, reviewing documentation, and making
observations to aid in developing audit programs.

CONCLUSIONS
As a result of our audit we have concluded that:

The EDC did not effectively administer the application and approval process for
the Real Property Rehabilitation Gap Fund project.

The EDC did not properly service its loan portfolio resulting in a total of
$89,031.70 in uncharged late fees as of April 30, 2018.

EDC reprogrammed and used $407,559.05 of the Real Property Rehabilitation
Gap Fund project funds for administrative cost. Under the funding agreement
between the Economic Development Corporation and the City of Detroit, EDC is
allowed to draw funds from programs to cover administrative services if they do
not earn enough interest to cover their administrative cost.

Project Objectives

 

EDC has distributed a total of $1,080,950.25 in loans towards the project.
Three loan projects were funded and completed.
One project did not meet the project guidelines of Detroit resident ownership.

One project did not receive approval from the EDC Board to receive funds form
the Real Property Rehabilitation Gap Fund project.

There is a total of $2,238,375.70 available for additional project loans.

NOTE: The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit Credit Policy
Manual, Credit Authority, reads ?Authority to extend credit resides solely with the EDC
Board of Directors.? While we understand this policy, use of this authority may deprive
Detroit resident?s the opportunity to obtain funding for their business ventures.

BACKGROUND

Origination of Casino Development Fund

The Casino Development Fund is a commitment made by the three Detroit casinos
(MGM Grand Detroit, MotorCity, and Greektown) and the City of Detroit, to contribute
money for the purpose of assisting minority business development in a specified area
within the City. The assistance to business development focuses on: financing facade
improvements, GAP financing, loan guaranties, rehabilitation, equipment and working
capital for existing and new businesses.

The City received $2.5 million from MotorCity Casino during the period of the initial
Casino Development agreements (1998-1999). The City received $30 million from the
three casinos ($10 million from each casino) in accordance with the revised Casino
Development agreements.

Economic Development Corporation

EDC is a public body corporation created by the City Council of the City of Detroit by
enactment of Ordinance 120-H effective June 9, 1979. All services to be performed are
set forth in the ?Scope of Services? section of the of Detroit personal service
contract and is coordinated and performed by the DEGC. The DEGC is a private non-
profit 501(c)(4) organization and is an agent of the EDC that acts as a liaison between
the EDC and the City.

Real Property Rehabilitation Gap Fund Project

In an effort to further the City?s ability to assist the small Detroit-based, women-owned,
and minority-owned businesses throughout the City, EDC received Casino
Development Funds to administer various programs per their funding agreement
including the Real Property Rehabilitation Gap Fund Project (RPGF).

The project was originally established by the DEGC to foster greater investment in real
property rehabilitation projects by City of Detroit residents. The projects selected for
this program were to be located along the Woodward Corridor (from Jefferson Avenue
to Warren Avenue) and within the Central Business District area. All loans disbursed for
the project were to be limited to real property rehabilitation projects owned, Operated,
and financed by City of Detroit residents with at least 60% ownership of the project.

Project Budget and Expenditures

According to the EDC Casino Development Funds Budget and Expenditure report dated
March 31, 2019, RPGF had a budget of $6,000,000. The EDC revised the budget to
$3,726,885. EDC stated that the total amount of loans approved for the RPGF program
was $1,130,000. EDC disbursed $1,080,950.25 and $407,559.05 was used for
administrative cost. Total disbursements for the project were $1,488,509.30 leaving
$2,238,375.70 available for additional loans.

AUDIT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

1. Economic Development Corporation (EDC) Did Not Have an Application
Process for the Real Propertv Rehabilitation (RPGF) Proiect

We reviewed the application process for the RPGF project. Our review included the
EDC process for applying for a loan, required document submission, loan document
review, loan approval, loan closing and finally funding of the loan. Based on our review,
we determined that:

Applyinq for a Loan
. There was no loan application on the EDC website for the RPGF project.

- EDC did not have a written process for perspective applicants on how to apply
for a RPGF loan.

- Applicants were able to email or call EDC to initiate a loan application.

The loan files for three recipients of RPGF project did not have a loan
application.

Loan Approval
. One of the loan recipients did not meet the RPGF project Detroit residency-

ownership requirement.

. One loan recipient did not receive approval from the EDC Board to receive funds
from the project.

0 Loan Recipient A was approved to receive funds from the National Retail
Loan project. There was no record of any documentation submitted to
change the funding allocation.

. The documentation deficiencies in borrowers? files provided no assurance that
agency staff insured that all required information had been submitted to perform
an adequate application analysis or verification before submission to the EDC
Board.

Best business practices for loans management include a standard applications process
and required documentation, a loan review and approval process. The Small Business
Administration program, an industry leader in assisting businesses requires the
following steps in the life of a loan:

A loan application.

. Loan application review.

. The lender makes a decision on whether to approve the loan.

. Upondsatisfaction of all items and conditions of the loan authorization, the loan is
close .

in addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation recommends, at a minimum for
installment lending policies, and a process that addresses the loan application.

4

The EDC Loan Credit Policy states that staff shall ensure that all loans are properly
documented in accordance with the loan approval and the requirements of the particular
loan program. The loan approval authority resides solely with the EDC Board of
Directors.

Due to a lack of standard required application and loan documents, we cannot
determine if proper documentation was submitted and reviewed for the loans approved.
Failure to require and maintain proper documentation can result in fraud and other
losses of funds by approving ineligible applicants.

We determined that lack of a comprehensive RPGF project standard operating
procedures allowed for inconsistencies in the management of the project.

Recommendations
We recommend that the EDC Board:

- Review and revise the EDC credit policy manual, ensuring that it is consistent
with the relevant provisions of the Funding Agreement.

- Implement a transparent application process.

. Ensure that the EDC provides oversight consistent with the sections of the
Funding Agreement and approved guidelines governing loan program
management.

. Require that EDC retain documents to ensure that eligibility requirements are
met and included on all required documents for EDC Board review.

2. EDC Failed to Enforce Loan Agreements
We reviewed the entire RPGF portfolio of three loans. Based on our review of the
loans, we determined that:

 

- EDC failed to charge and collect late fees for delinquent payments for the three
loans totaling $89,031.70.

. Late payments for the borrowers ranged from 12 to 46 occurrences with the
average late payments for the borrowers totaling 87%. NOTE: We reviewed
payments through 2019 and found the late payment percentage to be the same.

. EDC sent collection notices to the borrowers but there was no indication that late
fees were charged at any time during the period of the delinquencies.

- EDC did not report the payment histories of borrowers to any credit reporting
agency.

According to the Payments section in two of the recipients? loan agreements, if any
payment is not received by the 10th day of the month, it shall be deemed late, and a
late charge equal to five cents for each dollar of any installment not paid
timely shall be due and payable.

The Payments section in the third loan agreement stated that late payments may be
deemed late and late charges may be due and payable.

EDC failed to collect $89,031.70 in penalties and interest on loans creating lost revenue
to the loan portfolio. In addition, EDC did not receive consistent payments to be used
for additional loans to other borrows.
We determined that EDC did not:
. Enforce the loan repayment agreements.
- Charge late fees which contributed to the borrower?s late payment patterns.
. Report the payment histories of borrowers to credit reporting agencies; a practice
that could have encouraged prompt payments.
Recommendations
We recommend that the EDC:
- Follow, adhere to and enforce the loan agreements approved by the EDC Board.
Assess and collect required late charges per the loan agreements.

- Report loan recipients? payment history to credit reporting agencies.

3. EDC Did Not Follow the Guidelines Established for the RPGF Project D-3

We reviewed three loans to determine if the loan recipients met the criteria for the
RPGF project. EDC approved a loan for a recipient who did not qualify for the loan
program. The loan recipient did not meet the RPGF 60% Detroit residency-ownership
requirement.

Two Companies are involved in the redevelopment of properties into mixed use space.
Company is a 35% owner and Company is a 65% owner in the project. Both
Company and are located in Detroit. However, the majority owner in Company is
a Southfield resident which is not consistent with the rules of the program. The
ownership of Company is as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPANY 
Ownership
Owner Percentage Residency
A 43% Detroit, Michigan
4% Detroit, Michigan
53% Southfield, Michigan

 

 

 

The information contained in the loan file did not document that the recipients met the
RPGF criteria prior to the loan application being submitted and approved by the EDC
Board.

The of Detroit Funding Agreement requires that loans will be limited to real
property rehabilitation projects to be owned, operated, and financed by City of Detroit
residents who have a minimum of 60% ownership over the project. City of Detroit
resident ownership is defined as a minimum of 60% of the ownership entity being
comprised of City of Detroit residents (minimum two year residency requirement).

The EDC Loan Credit Policy states that staff shall ensure that all loans are properly
documented in accordance with the loan approval and the requirements of the particular
loan project.

The failure of EDC to follow the policy resulted in $250,000 being distributed to an
ineligible applicant.
We determined that EDC:

. Did not ensure that loans were in compliance with the rules established in the
of Detroit Funding Agreement for the RPGF project.

. Failed to require proper documentation to verify compliance to the Detroit
residency requirement.

. Did not have and maintain proper documentation in borrowers? files to
substantiate the borrower?s eligibility for the project.

7

Recommendations
We recommend that the EDC Board requires EDC to:

. Follow, enforce and adhere to the eligibility requirements.

. Obtain and retain proper documentation in the borrower?s file to confirm and
verify eligibility for the loan program.

Attachment A

    

500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

TO: Mark W. Lockridge, Auditor General

FROM: Glen W. Long, Jr, Authorized Agent

DATE: October 21, 2019

RE: THE CASINO DEVELOPMENT FUND AUDIT

Real Property Rehabilitation GAP Fund

 

We are in receipt of your Final report concerning the Real Property Rehabilitation GAP
Fund (RPGF) projects. We recognize all of the hard work that your staff has done in
their auditing of the fund. We acknowledge their findings, and appreciate their
suggested improvements; but feel that their conclusions require further clarification.
Our response is as follows:

CONCLUSIONS:

Your staff concluded that EDC did not have all of the proper documentation in its files
and did not charge late fees on delinquent payments. These first two conclusions
became findings and our responses are detailed in the next section.

The third conclusion of the report notes that the EDC reprogrammed project funds for
administrative costs; however, the report also notes that this reprogramming is
expressly permitted under the terms of the funding agreement where interest income is
insufficient to cover the administrative cost. We note that this reprogramming became
necessary because the City?s contribution to the program was $10,250,000 less than
contemplated when the program was approved and payments from the City were not
made on the agreed upon schedule.

 

FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
I. EDC Did Not Have an Application Process for the RPGF Project
1. Applying for a Loan

The auditors are correct when they say that there was no loan application
on the website and that the loan files did not have a loan application. Staff

Auditor General Real Property
October 21,2019

Page 2 of5

2.

has initiated corrective measures. An application process has been put in
place for other EDC loan programs and will be applied to this program as
well. These applications appear on the website. This will ensure a
transparent application process.

EDC does have a written checklist for its Loan Officer to follow when
working with a borrower. It has always been followed, but in an attempt to
correct this perceived weakness, EDC will make the checklist available to
prospective borrowers going fonivard.

Applicants have always been able to email or call EDC to initiate a loan
application. The loan programs have been marketed by the Business
Development staff of the DEGC as well as by Program Partners such as
Invest Detroit and Detroit Development Fund. These loan programs have
specific geographical and usage restrictions, and as such it has been our
experience that a narrowly tailored and targeted marketing strategy has
led to the most successful applications.

Some of the loan files may not have had an application on file. That said,
it is not as if the information necessary to review and unden/vrite a loan
request was not all gathered and meticulously vetted. This is clear from
the Board memos and resolutions. It is important to remember that this
audit has gone back to 2007 when there were different staff members in
place over the program. Current staff has agreed to utilize an application
on every loan, and we will incorporate that into our next Credit Policy
Manual revision.

Loan Approval

The auditors contend that one of the loan recipients did not meet the
Residency ownership requirement. This is inaccurate. In the loan in
question, the borrowing entity was jointly owned by two separate LLCs
that were Detroit Headquartered. The first company with 35% ownership
was 100% owned by Detroit Residents, while the second company with
65% ownership was 47% owned by Detroit residents resulting in 66%
Detroit ownership, above the necessary threshold. We clarify this more in
response to Finding further below.

The auditors contend that one loan recipient did not receive approval from
the EDC Board to receive funds from the RPGF portion of the program,

but rather the National Retail portion. The Loan Officer on staff at the time
was using a template to prepare his write-up for the Board. He mistakenly
identified the wrong portion of the Casino Development Loan Funds in his
write-up. He subsequently corrected it with the disbursement request and

Auditor General Real Property
October 21, 2019

Page 3 of5

3.

later notified the Board of the correction. Further, when that loan was
repaid, the proceeds were returned to the RPGF program funds for
additional use. That said, we acknowledge that we were not able to find
his correction in the Board Minutes we reviewed and that our minute
keeping several years ago was not as complete as it is now.

The auditors cite that deficiencies in borrowers? files provided no
assurance that agency staff ensured that all required information had been
submitted. Again, these deficiencies are found in the older files that were
maintained by staff no longer with us. Furthermore, it is worth noting that
the undenivriting, vetting, and Board document preparation could not have
been completed had staff not gathered all pertinent information. We can
testify that current staff ensures that all files are complete. Unfortunately,
completeness of the files can be a problem with an audit spanning a 12
year period, where staff turnover has happened and retention deadlines
have been passed.

Recommendations

The auditors recommend a review and revision ofthe EDC's Credit Policy
Manual. The EDC Staff and Board currently review the Credit Policy
Manual every few years and a review was already scheduled for 2020.

The auditors recommend implementation ofa transparent application
process. We recognize the weaknesses of the previous process and have
already implemented changes including the posting of the applications,
guidelines, and checklists on to our website.

The auditors recommend that the EDC provides oversight consistent with
the Funding Agreement. While the EDC feels that it already does this, we
will be making improvements to our application process as well as
updating the Credit Policy Manual. Again, some of these weaknesses
have already been improved, but an audit over a 12 year period can
uncover some old weaknesses that have already been addressed.

Lastly in this section, the auditors recommend that EDC ensure eligibility
requirements are met and included on all required documents for EDC
Board review. This is already being done, however the EDC Board does
have the right to approve exceptions to the eligibility requirements. Again,
existing improvements in current staff record keeping must be considered.

EDC Failed to Enforce Loan Agreements

Auditor General Real Property
October 21, 2019

Page 4 of5

1. Late Fees

The auditors noted several loan payments that were late and cite
delinquency rates and the lack of late charges and credit reports being
made. We acknowledge that $89,031.70 (an average of about
$7,500/year) could have been collected from the Casino Development
Loan Program Funds in late fees over the last 12 years, but it has been
the experience of staff that adding on late fees, that are often
uncollectable, ultimately creates more problems than it solves.

This finding highlights a fundamental difference between a bank and an
economic development agency. These Loan Programs were meant to
provide ?but for? financing and many of the loans are high risk. At the
beginning of the program EDC Staff and Finance Committee made a
conscious decision to be extremelyjudicious when levying any late fees
on borrowers. While the auditors feel that late fees would encourage the
borrowers to pay on time, it has been staff?s finding that additional charges
only serve to put the borrowers further behind. Staff has a dedicated
employee who works with the borrowers and who is responsible for
collections. She has a remarkable record for collecting the principal and
interest on the loans, but adding late fees only serves to poison that
relationship. Staff and previous Committees did not feel that was worth
$7,500 a year.

Further, staff insists that the reporting of payment histories on these
borrowers to credit reporting agencies would damage these small local
businesses, which would be in clear contradiction to purpose of the
program and the very mission statement of the EDC and DEGC. Staff
feels that damaging the credit rating of the local businesses and damaging
the relationship of the Loan Officer with the borrower by charging late fees
that are difficult to collect is not good practice.

Having said all of that, we will be reviewing this audit and our responses
with the current version of the EDC Finance Committee at an upcoming
meeting and if the current committee feels differently than the previous
versions then staff will adjust accordingly.

2. Recommendations

The auditors recommend that the EDC enforce the loan agreements
approved by the Board, assess and collect late fees, and report borrower
payment history to credit reporting agencies.

Auditor General Real Property
October 21, 2019
Page 5 of 5

As stated previously, staff feels that this would disadvantage our high risk
borrowers and would cause damage to the very local businesses we are
trying to assist, however we will revisit this topic with the EDC Finance
Committee and Board and will enforce whatever directive they give us.

Ill. EDC Did not follow the Guidelines established for the RPGF project
1. Ownership Percentage

The auditors contend that one of the loan recipients did not meet the
Residency ownership requirement. This is confusing because of the
multiple owners of multiple involved in the ownership structure, but
inaccurate. The Woodward Theater loan was special in many ways. It
was a priority of the Administration at the time, as well as the State to get
this project up and running. The EDC Finance Committee and Board both
reviewed all aspects of the deal and felt that it was important to use these
specific high risk funds in order to make the development of this key block
on Woodward work. The Loan Officer and Committee did feel that the
loan met the requirements of the program since the borrowing entity was
jointly owned by two separate LLCs that were Detroit Headquartered. The
first company with 35% ownership was 100% owned by Detroit Residents,
while the second company with 65% ownership was 47% owned by
Detroit residents (47%x65%=31%) resulting in 66% Detroit ownership
which is above the necessary threshold of 60%.

2. Recommendations

The auditors recommend that the EDC adhere to the eligibility
requirements and obtain and retain proper documentation to verify
eligibility.

EDC Staff feels that the eligibility requirements have been adhered to, but
acknowledges that on some of its older loans the files are not as complete
as they should be. Unfortunately, an audit going back 12 years will
identify some shortcomings like this between staff changes and document
retention expirations. Current staff has kept complete files and will
continue to do so.

