MINUTES
ILLINOIS ARTS COUNCIL AGENCY
BOARD MEETING
JAMES R. THOMPSON CENTER
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
MAY 18, 2018

Board Members Present:

Shirley R. Madigan, Chairman;
Rhoda A. Pierce, Vice Chairman/Secretary;
Rich Daniels; Beth Boosalis Davis;
Christina K. Gidwitz; Henry D. Godinez;
Desiree Grode; Jodie S. Kavensky;
Gary Matts; Peggy Montes;
Christina Steelman; Tim Touhy

Board Members Absent:

Jill Arena; Lisa Dent Flesner;
Valerie King; Jennifer Levine;
Sheila M. O’Brien; Cecilia Rodhe;
Gail Shiel; Howard A. Tullman;
Donald Wiener

Chairman Madigan called the meeting to order at 9:44 A.M.
It was moved by Rhoda Pierce and seconded that the agenda for today’s meeting be
amended to include an item from the closed session that preceded this meeting. The
motion carried.
APPROVAL OF AN ITEM FROM CLOSED SESSION
During the closed session that preceded this meeting, the Illinois Arts Council Agency
(IACA) voted to approve the recommendation by the Executive Director Search
Committee to hire Joshua Davis as the Agency’s Executive Director.
It was moved by Rhoda Pierce and seconded that the above item of business, as
presented during the closed session, be approved. The motion carried.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF DECEMBER 8, 2017 BOARD MEETING
It was moved by Rhoda Pierce and seconded that the Minutes of the December 8, 2017
Board meeting, as presented in the Board book under Tab 1, be approved. The motion
carried.
FISCAL REPORT
•

FY18 10-Month Financial Report

It was moved by Rhoda Pierce and seconded that the FY18 10-Month Financial Report
Update ending April 30, 2018, as presented in the Board book under Tab 2, be
approved. The motion carried.
1

 APPROVAL OF FY18 GRANTS
It was moved by Rhoda Pierce and seconded that the FY18 Grants, as presented in the
Board book under Tab 3, pages 1-3, be approved. The motion carried.
ABSTENTIONS: Beth Boosalis Davis 0242 Northlight Theatre; Christina K. Gidwitz
0351 Loyola University Chicago; Henry Godinez 0369 Albany Park Theater Project,
0315 Chicago Children’s Theatre; Shirley R. Madigan 0315 Loyola University Chicago.
RATIFICATION OF FY18 GRANTS
It was moved by Rhoda Pierce and seconded that the FY18 Grants, as presented in the
Board book under Tab 4 pages 1- 5, be ratified. The motion carried.
ABSTENTIONS: None.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SEARCH UPDATE
Chairman Madigan reported to the staff that the search for a new IACA Executive
Director had been completed. A decision had been reached and approved by the Board.
She announced that Acting Executive Director, Joshua Davis had been unanimously
chosen as the new Executive Director of the Agency. Congratulatory greetings were
shared with Mr. Davis.
ONE STATE TOGTHER IN THE ARTS 2018
Program Director Encarnacion Teruel provided an update on the plans for the biennial
conference held in partnership with Arts Alliance Illinois. This year’s gathering will be
held in Galesburg, Illinois on October 21-23. A formal committee has been formed that
includes arts administrators from around the state, and municipal leaders from the
Galesburg area. The Committee is charged with determining content (presentations,
workshops and panels), creative expression (exhibitions, performances, interactives)
and marketing and supplemental fundraising for the 2-day conference.
LEGISLATIVE UPDATE
Vice Chairman Rhoda Pierce provided an update on the IACA’s appropriations
hearings, held in late April in Springfield. She reported that Chairman Madigan
provided excellent testimony before both the Senate and House Appropriations
Committees and that the IACA was well received with no negative feedback from
legislators. Acting Executive Director Davis and Chief Fiscal Officer Yazoo Hall, had
done a superb job in providing replies to inquires from both Committees.
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT
Chairman Madigan provided Board members with an update on recent IACA
activities. She reported that Board member Gail Shiel had relocated her residence
outside of Illinois, which would prevent her from continuing to serve on the Board.
2

 She also informed the Board that the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) continues to
proceed with the final stages of the IACA’s FY16-FY17 audit. She stressed the IACA’s
appreciation for the assistance received from both the OAG and the Attorney General’s
Office during this process. IACA funding will be provided for “Art in Illinois”, a fine
arts and decorative arts exhibit that will be installed for public viewing at the Illinois
Executive Mansion, renamed the Illinois Governor’s Mansion. The exhibit, which
opens in mid-July, will feature 102 works of art, all by Illinois artists. Finally, the
Illinois Bicentennial Luncheon that was scheduled for June 18, 2018 had to be
postponed due to unforeseen circumstances. The luncheon will be rescheduled in the
fall should a suitable date be found.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Executive Director Davis reported that the Illinois Arts Council Agency had recovered
from the budget impasse. Several goals were met in the past few months, including:
•
•
•
•
•
•

review and awarding of all pending FY17/18 Program Grant applications
release of IACA’s FY19 Program Grant guidelines on schedule
relaunch of programs including Artstour/Live Music, Individual Artist, Arts and
Foreign Language, and StArts
renewal of support from the National Endowment for the Arts with a small
increase for FY19
an increase in the number of applications submitted within every program
released
vacant staff positions filled, easing the burden across the Agency

He also mentioned that he was proud of the work that the IACA had been able to
accomplish in the short amount of time that he had been Acting Director, and that he
was looking forward to the months ahead. He thanked Chairman Madigan and Vice
Chairman Pierce for mentoring him and voiced his appreciation to the staff for their
hard work.
It was moved by Rhoda Pierce and seconded that the Illinois Arts Council Agency,
having completed its scheduled business, be adjourned. The motion carried.
Chairman Madigan adjourned the meeting at 10:30 A.M.
Respectfully submitted,

Rhoda A. Pierce, Vice Chairman/Secretary

3

 