Ham 
)wmabu 20/;

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

 

 

Submitted by Council    

Member Castaneda-Lopez

 

 

George Daniel Arnold

100th Birthday Celebration

WHEREAS: George Daniel Arnold was born November 5, 1919 in Reidsville, Georgia  Joseph
James, a Baptist minister, and Susie Snell Arnold. George was the youngest often; and

WHEREAS: The Arnold family valued education. George and his siblings were expected to do the best
they could in school. All of his siblings were trained in skilled professions. George
graduated from Dorchester Academy where he received training as a plasterer; and

WHEREAS: George left home after graduation to practice his trade. During this time he met and married
the late Margarette Hayes-Arnold. In 1943, the lure of better opportunities convinced him to
join his brothers James, Pat and Smith in Detroit, Michigan; and

WHEREAS: Once in Detroit, he quickly became part of the community by joining Aijalon Baptist
Church. He is one of Aijalon?s longest serving ushers, sitting on the usher board to this day;
and

WHEREAS: In 1943 he joined the King David Lodge and is still a dedicated member. He has earned

many titles of distinction such as: 33rd degree Mason, Past Grand Lecturer, Worshipful
Master, Shrines, and Knights of the Temple. His past and current positions include: Dean of
the Most Worshipful Institute of Learning, which was renamed the George D. Arnold
Institute of Learning in recognition of devoted service to his Masonic Brothers. As part of
his continual service, George performs burial ceremonies in Detroit, Flint, Saginaw and
Grand Rapids; and

WHEREAS: In 1950, he and his brother Smith started the Plastering Company in Detroit
continuing business until the 19903. The establishment of this company helped him to be
known to many throughout southeastern Michigan as the ?Master Plasterer?. When asked
?What is the most important thing in you life?? he replies ?family?. The love George has
for his family of 10 children, 20 grandchildren, 32 great grandchildren and 12 great-great
grandchildren speaks volumes. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED: Council Member Raquel Casta?eda-Lopez and her colleagues on the Detroit City
Council celebrate 100 years of life with George Daniel Arnold, his family, friends and
community. Wishing George Daniel Arnold many more years of good health, happiness,
God?s grace and perfect peace. Happy 100th Birthday!

 

4.0.5.14 

COUN BER 

 

 

   

November 2 19
DATE

 

