Fig/110%
WM, fay?

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

19

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6001869 100% City Funding AMEND 1 To Provide an Increase of Funds for Cardiac
Monitoring Supplies for the City of Detroit's Fire Department EMS Division. 
Contractor: Bound Tree Medical Location: 5000 Tuttle Crossing Blvd, Dublin,
OH 43016 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through August 31,
2020 Contract Increase Amount: $134,578.20 Total Contract Amount:
$328,297.22. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION - Previous Contract
Period: January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001869 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6001033 100% City Funding AMEND To Provide an Extension of Time and Increase
of Funds for Vehicle Wash Services for the City of Detroit?s Police Department. 
Contractor: Jefferson Car Wash Location: 14615 Jefferson, Detroit, MI 48215
Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through October 31, 2020 
Contract Increase Amount: $66,804.00 Total Contract Amount: $200,412.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION - Previous Contract Period:
November 1, 2017 October 31, 2019

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001033 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.



OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6002478 100% City Funding To Provide Environmental Remediation and Other Work to
Assist in Preparing Properties for Future Development. Contractor: Detroit
Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority Location: 500 Griswold Suite 2200,
Detroit, MI 48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through
November 3, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $250,000.00. PLANNING AND

DEVELOPMENT

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Officer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002478 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.



Alton James . Brenda Goss Andrews
Chairperson ?!tp at EBtru It Damion W. Ellis
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Esparza, AIA, LEED
?rench 0.0/8 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory 
we a? core ary . . . Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Detro1t, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Marcel] R. Todd Jr.

Director

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e?mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

October 30, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE: Hostels Ordinances (RECOMMEND APPROVAL WITH MODIFICATIONS)

Background

In 2011, the Fourth General Text Amendment to the Zoning Ordinance (Ord. No. 13-11)
included the ?rst provisions in Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code (Zoning) with respect to
youth hostels/hostels as a land use. Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez has requested that
the bulk of the regulations for hostels be moved from the Zoning Ordinance into the chapter of
the City Code dealing with Public Lodging (Chapter 44 of the 1984 Detroit City Code). With
recodi?cation, Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning, is now Chapter 50 of the 2019
Detroit City Code and Chapter 44 is now Chapter 36.

Scope of the Zoning Amendment, Chapter 50 of the 2019 Detroit City Code

The Zoning Ordinance amendment repeals the fourteen regulations speci?ed in Sec. 50-12-322
and amends the de?nition of youth hostel/hostel (Sec. 50-16-462) for consistency with the same
de?nition proposed in the Chapter 36 amendment.

The 2011 hostel ordinance was somewhat atypical of zoning amendments because the list of 14
use regulations included not only zoning/land use provisions but also went into areas more
appropriate to licensing speci?cations or building code regulations or ?house rules.?

The proposed Zoning Ordinance text amendment makes no change to the permissibility of
hostels: they remain a Conditional Use on land zoned R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, B1, B2, B4, B5, 
and SD2. The amended use regulation in Sec. 50?12?322 newly states that hostels are ?subject to
the provisions of Chapter 36, Public Lodging, Article 1, Public Accommodations, Division 1,
Generally, Division 3, Hostels, and Division 4, Licenses, of the 2019 Detroit City Code.?

As part of Zoning, hostel violations were processed as blight violations; as part of Chapter 36,
Public Lodging, hostel violations will be treated as misdemeanors.

Scope of the Public Lodging Amendment, Chapter 36 of the 2019 Detroit City Code

The Chapter 36 provisions for hostels involve the de?nition and various regulations:
De?nition. Sec. 36-1-1 provides the following:

Hostel means an overnight lodging facility offering temporary lodging and services
related to hostelling that is operated, managed, or maintained under sponsorship of a
nonpro?t or for-pro?t organization, providing beds for rent on a daily basis in individual

1

rooms or dormitories, and typically characterized by low cost, shared use of a self-service
kitchen, common areas, sleeping rooms, and bathroom facilities. This use does not
include emergency shelters, rooming houses, single-room-occupancy housing, pre-release
adjustment centers, or halfway houses.

The only differences in this de?nition and the 2011 de?nition of hostel is that it shortens the land
use title from ?youth hostel/hostel? to, simply, ?hostel;? it also deletes the phrase, . .in'a
building originally constructed for other than use as a single-family dwelling or two-family
dwelling." The effect of this change would be to make single? and two-family dwellings in the
higher intensity zoning districts newly eligible for a change of use to a hostel on a Conditional
Use basis. This is one of the Chapter 36 provisions which the City Planning Commission (CPC)
has recommended for modi?cation.

Regulations specific to hosieis

 

Ten of the 14 hostel provisions of the 2011 Zoning Ordinance text amendment are preserved or
strengthened in the Chapter 36 amendment:

Staf?ng. Management staf?ng is required on a 24-hour basis (Sec. 
Common space; lockers. Common interior space is required for residents (Sec. 36-1-
Individual lockers or a locked luggage room must be provided (Sec. 36-1 -41 
Smoke alarm. Per Michigan Building Code, a separate smoke alarm is required for each
sleeping room (Sec. 

Fire escape plan. A ?re escape plan must be displayed in each guest room (Sec. 36-1-

41 

One lavatory, one shower, and one handwashing
facility is required per 15 sleeping spaces with appropriate lodger privacy (See. 36-1-


Identification. Government?issued identi?cation is required as a condition of lodging
(Sec. 

Minors. Lodging by those under age 18 without parent/ guardian/ organized group leader
is prohibited (Sec. 

Occupancy limits. Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department
determines building occupancy limit (Sec. 

Fair Housing. Hostels are subject to Title of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 (Sec. 36-
1 -41 

Laundry. Laundry facilities or service for lodgers staying longer than seven days must be
provided (Sec. 

Four of the 14 hostel provisions of the 2011 Zoning Ordinance text amendment are changed:

Length of stay. The maximum length of an individual?s stay is increased from 14 to 17
days; the 21-day minimum between stays of repeat visitors remains unchanged (Sec. 36-
1-4 1 

Signage. The speci?cations for identi?cation signs for hostels are repealed; the generally
applicable sign regulations stated in Chapter 4 of the Detroit City Code will apply.

0 House rules. The ?rule of conduct? prohibiting controlled substances and alcohol on the
premises is not preserved. Rules relative to check-in/check-out/curfew, animals on
premises, and ampli?ed music are preserved (Sec. 36-1-41 

I A?iliation. The expectation of a hostel?s af?liation with a national or international hostel
association within one year of Opening is deleted.

Results of August 1, 2019 CPC public hearing and public discussion

In addition to the CPC staff, Mr. Zach from Council Member Castaneda-Lopez?s of?ce
and Attorney Tonja Long of the Law Department were present to speak to the proposed
amendments to the City Code and to respond to comments and questions.

The Law Department provided the Commission with a revised and shorter version of the
amendments to the Public Lodging Chapter (Chapter 44 of the 1984 Detroit City Code and
Chapter 36 of the 2019 Detroit City Code). The revised draft omitted provisions that were
unrelated to hostels and, importantly, it included a requirement that hostels be licensed by the
City?s Business License Center.

Two members of the public were present to voice their opinion relative to the ordinances: one
spoke in opposition to the amendments as an activist from Russell Woods anticipating problems
of prostitution and drugs; the second speaker supported hostels in designated areas of the city.
Additionally, one letter of opposition was received from a block club president concerned over
potential abuse of indigents and the proposed allowance of alcohol and controlled substances on
the premises.

Commissioners asked the Law Department to report back regarding the applicability of ADA
requirements to hostels and asked CPC staff to obtain information regarding the status of existing
hostels in the city and to request a representative from the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) for the September 5th CPC meeting.

The Law Department?s 3-page opinion in response to the ADA question is attached; the
existing hostel at 2700 Vermont Street is free of violations and possesses a certi?cate of
occupancy; BSEED staff was present at the September 5th meeting.

In the course of the August meeting, it was noted that both hostels and short term rental
properties offered accommodations for transients. While short term rentals are proposed to be
limited to a person?s own primary residence, limited to 90 nights? operation per year and located
at least 1,000 feet from another short term rental, hostels could operate 360 days per year
unrestricted by a spacing limitation.

Analysis

The CPC notes that the removal of the hostel regulations from the Zoning chapter of the Code to
the Public Lodging chapter of the Code is very appropriate. Of particular value is the new
requirement that hostels be licensed by the City thus making hostels more accountable and
administration and enforcement by the City clearer.

One possible scenario, however, is troubling. The owner of a single- or two-family dwelling

located on land zoned R3, R4, R5, R6, B1, B2, B4, B5, SDI, or SD2 could ?le for a conditional

land use hearing for a hostel and, if approved after the required public hearing at BSEED, could
3

operate as 360-day per year short term rental (Airbnb-type use) with no spacing restriction. This
inadvertently creates a loophole relative to the proposed short term rental ordinance provisions
approved by the CPC on June 20, 2019.

It should be noted that short term rentals in single- or two?family dwellings are most likely,
though not necessarily, to occur on land zoned R1 and R2 where hostels are prohibited. Yet,
there are likely hundreds of single? and two-family dwellings in the zoning districts where
hostels are conditionally permitted.

The original intention in 2011 of specifying hostels as a land use in a building other than a
single- or two-family dwelling was to avoid the establishment of unof?cial group homes,
particularly in R3 districts, where rooming houses, emergency shelters, assisted living facilities,
and nursing homes/rest homes are prohibited. Unof?cial group homes have long been a
complaint of neighborhood organizations and a challenge for zoning enforcement.

Recommendation

At its meeting of September 5, 2019, the CPC recommended approval of the proposed hostel
amendments?Chapter 50 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Zoning, and Chapter 36 of the 2019
Detroit City Code, Public Lodging, as submitted by the Law Department?with one amendment
involving two sections?one section in each of the two proposed amendments:

0 Sec. 50-16?462. The de?nition of hostel should preserve the wording, . .in a building
originally constructed for other than use as a single-family dwelling or two-family
dwelling. . 

0 Sec. 36-1-1. The de?nition of hostel should be expanded to re?ect the current de?nition
in the Zoning chapter to include the wording, . .in a building originally constructed for
other than use as a single-family dwelling or two-family dwelling. . 

Next steps

As is the case with multi-chapter amendments of the City Code, it is appropriate that the amendments
to the two chapters be scheduled for a vote at the same formal session even if the public hearings for
each chapter are not held onthe same day. The Chapter 50, Zoning, amendment awaits approval as
to form; the Chapter 36 amendment has been transmitted by the Law Dept. under separate cover.

ReSpectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, Chai erson


MM afrsaa 37,!

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
M. Rory Bolger, Staff
Attachments

cc: Arthur emison, Chief of Infrastructure and Services
Katy Trudeau, PDD
Karen Gage, PDD, Director of Zoning Innovation
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel

SUMMARY

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 50 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Zoning, by
amending Article XII, Use Regulations, Sec. 50-12-322, and Article XVI, De?nitions, Sec. 50-
16-462, relative to youth hostels/hostels, for consistency with Chapter 36, Public Lodging, Article I,
Public Accommodations, Division 1, Generally, Division 3, Hostels, and Division 4, Licenses of the 2019

Detroit City Code.

COUNCIL MEMBER 055ep2019

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 50 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Zoning, by
amending Article XII, Use Regulations, Sec. 50-12-322, and Article XVI, De?nitions, Sec. 50-
16-462, relative to youth hostels/hostels, for consistency With Chapter 36, Public Lodging, Article 1,
Public Accommodations, Division 1, Generally, Division 3, Hostels, and Division 4, Licenses of the 2019

Detroit City Code.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 50 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Zoning, Article XII, Use
Regulations, and Article XVI, Definitions, is amended by amending Secs. 50-12-322 and 50-16?

462 to read as follows:

CHAPTER 50. ZONING.

ARTICLE XII. USE REGULATIONS

DIVISION 3. SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS

Subdivision E. Retail, Service and Commercial Uses; Generally
Sec. 50-12-322. -Youth hostels/hostels.

Youth hostels/hostels shall be subject to the Iollewngereqrn?rementen provisions of
Chapter 36. Public Lodging, Article I. Public Division 1, Genera/i1;
Division 3. Hostels. and Division 4. Licenses ot' the 3019 Detroit City Code.



 

ARTICLE XVI. DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION

DIVISION 2. WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED

 

 

Subdivision T.

Letters Through 

 

 

Sec. 50-16-462. Words and terms (Xa-Xz and Ya-Yz and Za-Zz).

 

For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases beginning with the letters
?Xa? through and ?Ya? through and ?Za? through shall have the meaning
respectively ascribed to them by this section:

 

 

 

 

Yard The actual (as opposed to required) open area that exists between a lot line and
a building or structure. See also ?Setback?

Yard, front A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the front lot line and
the nearest part of the principal building or structure.

Yard, rear A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear lot line and the
nearest part of the principal building or structure.

Yard, side A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the side lot line

and the nearest part of the principal building or structure, excepting permitted
encroachments.

 

Youth activity center

A type of nonprofit neighborhood center whose primary purpose is to provide
education, recreational, cultural, and/or leisure activities for minors, but
excludes:

an arcade, as defined in Sec. 50-16?113 of this Code;

a health club;

a medical facility;

a public dance hall, as defined in Sec. of this Code;

a rehabilitation facility;

a rental hall, as defined in Sec. 50?16?362 of this Code;

a residential facility;

a restaurant, as defined in Sec. 50-16-362 of this Code; and

a school.

 

Youth hostel/hostel

An overnight lodging facility, in a building originally constructed for other than
use as a single-family dwelling or two-family dwelling, offering temporary lodging
and services related to hosteling that is operated, managed, or maintained under
sponsorship of a nonprofit or for-profit organizationrsueh?Hses?previee providing
beds for rent on a daily basis as in individual rooms or dormitories?ueh?usesare
typically characterized by low cost, shared use of a self-service kitchen,
common areas, sleeping rooms, and bathroom facilities. This type u_se does not
include emergency shelters, rooming houses, single-room-occupancy housing, pre-

release adjustment centers, or ?halfway houses?.

 

Zoning Enabling Act

The Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, being MCL 125.3101 et seq.

 

Zoning Grant

 

 

A written decision and order of the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department or the Board of Zoning Appeals approving a use or
other requested action.

 

 

10
11
12
13

14

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after publication in
accordance with MCL 125.3401(6) and Section 4-118, paragraph 3, of the 2012 Detroit City

Charter.

Approved as to form:



Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

?gr-rd

CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313. 224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336

Email: historic@detroitmi.gov

 

MEMORANDUM
TO: Planning Economic Development Standing Committee
FROM: Janese Chapman, Deputy Director
Jennifer Reinhardt, Historic Preservation Planner
DATE: October 28, 2019
RE: Status of 150 Bagley (United Artists Theatre Building)

Background

At the September 26, 2019 meeting of the Planning and Development Standing Committee, two
public hearings regarding the establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District and
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone for 150 Bagley (the United Artists Theatre Building) were
postponed due to the developer, Bagley Development Group, being unable to attend. The building
is owned by Olympia Development of Michigan.

At the rescheduled public hearings during the October 24, 2019 meeting of the Planning and
Development Standing Committee, questions arose regarding the treatment of the historic theatre
as the building is part of the Grand Circus Park Historic District and listed on the National Register
of Historic Places. The developer stated that in the current redevelopment plan, the theatre building
would be demolished as a condition for receiving a Section 221(d)4 loan from the US. Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). At that time, since neither Legislative Policy Division
(LPD) nor Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) staff had received any supporting
documentation to this effect, Your Honorable Body requested that the developer submit the
requested HUD materials to the Clerk?s Office in order to provide a more complete analysis of the
proposed redevelopment of 150 Bagley.

Analysis

Upon receipt of the October 2, 2019 letter from Gershman Mortgage to Bagley Development
Group (attached here), both HDAB and LPD staff have determined that an application including
the demolition of the theatre building has been submitted to HUD to receive a Section 221(d)4

loan. The approval of this loan application is contingent on obtaining approval from the State
Historic Preservation Ollice (51 as part of the Section 100 process. After requesting Section
106 documentation from the SHPO on October 24, 2019, LPD and HDAB staff were informed
that the SHPO has not been of?cially notified and thus no Section 106 review is
currently underway to evaluate the proposed demolition of the theatre building. HUD loan
?nancing is contingent on the ?nal determination, which has not been made yet.

A separate application to obtain federal historic tax credit incentives has been submitted for the
project. Additionally, as 150 Bagley is adjacent to the Grand Circus Park local historic district, the
project requires an advisory review from the City of Detroit Historic District Commission (HDC).
This review is scheduled to take place at the next regular November 13, 2019 meeting.

Upon review of the application materials made available by HDC staff, HDAB staff has
determined that the demolition of the theatre building would result in twenty (20) surface parking
spaces, a loading dock, and a small utilities building fronting Clifford Street. Additionally, the
December 26, 2018 structural inspection report for 150 Bagley found the interior conditions of the
theatre building to be ?structurally deteriorated,? but the exterior conditions, including the roof
and brick facade, are rated ?good? and ?fairly good,? respectively.

Recommendation

 

It is the opinion of HDAB staff that more documentation, including the of?cial Section 106
assessment from the SHPO, is required in order to adequately assess the impact of the proposed
demolition as well as viable redevelopment opportunities for the theatre building at 150 Bagley.
We also recommend obtaining an official opinion from the Flaming Development Department
regarding their site plan review process, treatment of historic properties and surface parking in the
downtown core, and adherence to the master plan of policies.

Respectfully submitted,

anese Chapman Jennifer Reinhardt
Deputy Director Historic Preservation Planner
Attachment

CC: City Council
City Clerk
Legislative Policy Division
Planning Development Department

 

. October 2nd. 2019

 

 

 

Mr. Emmett Moten
Managing Member
Bagley Development Group LLC

RE: Residences @150 Bagley
221(dj4 Sub Rehab Loan

Dear Mr. Moten:

Gershman Mortgage has accepted your application to process a HUD-insured loan under Section 221(d)4 to fund the
construction and permanent loan for the project captioned above. Gershman has submitted a Pre-Application and was successfully
invited to submit a Firm Application to HUD on July 2019.

As part of Gershman's Pre-Application submission and HUD's approval of Gershman's application, the development was
presented to Gershman and HUD such that the adjoining theater would be demolished. As part of Gershman and approval of
the demolition, we will require appropriate approvals from the SHPO. It has recently come to Gershman's attention that there is
consideration not to demolish the theater. Not demolishing the theater is a material change from the ?nancing application that has
been presented and approved of to date. and making this change will put the 221(d)4 financing at risk.

Gershman has grave concerns that keeping the theater building would be to the determent of the successful completion and
lease up of Residences 150 Bagley. Our concerns revolve around the below marketability aspects of the project:

1. It was anticipated that the cleared theater building would be used for parking spots for the residential tenants. Removing
these spots adjacent to the project would make the project less attractive and less marketable to prospective tenants.

2. The theater building is dilapidated and not an attractive building to live next to. Gershman has concerns that tenants will
not want to live in a Class A residential building adjoined next to a dilapidated building

3. If the theater building gets renovated and becomes operational again. Gershman has concerns that this adjoining
commercial. public use would disrupt the residential tenants and therefore make the project less attractive and less
marketable as a going concern.

With these reasons stated above. Gershman is unable to move forward with financing the Residences 150 Bagley if the
proposed demolition plans of the adjoining theater building remains intact.

As the theater building is not part of Gershman's collateral of the mortgage as a condition of the 221(d)4 loan's closing.
Gershman and HUD will require a cost estimate for the demolition of the theater along with either a cash escrow controlled by Gershman
or an unconditional. irrevocable Letter of Credit accessible to Gershman for the cost of demolition to ensure that the demolition of the
theater is completed during the construction of the Residences 150 Bagley.

Gershman Mortgage is very familiar with this form of ?nancing with multi-layered sources of funds. We have recently closed
similar transactions in Michigan. Nebraska. Missouri. Kansas. Georgia. and North Carolina

lfyou have any questions in regard to the information provided above. please call me at (314) 889-0694

Sincerely.
GERSHMAN MORTGAGE

2?17?) 
{far ?*4th - ..

?Adam Hendin
Vice President

QEitp at Eetrnit
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336

Email: historic@detroitmi. gov

TO: Planning and Economic Standing Committee

FROM: anese Chapman, Senior Historic Planner

DATE: October 29, 2019

RE: Extension of study period for the proposed Aretha Franklin
Amphitheater/Chene Park Historic District

The study by the Historic Designation Advisory Board of the proposed Aretha
Franklin Amphitheater/Chene Park Historic District is currently underway. It
would appear that to provide time for the completion of this process that it is
necessary to extend the study period for this proposed historic district. A
resolution is attached for your consideration.

Res ectfully submitteW

anese Cha enior Historic Planner
Legislative Policy Division

 
 

Cc: City Clerk
David Bell Director, BSEED
Marcell R. Todd Jr. Director, City Planning Commission
David Whitaker Director, Legislative Policy Division

BY

 

NOW BE IT RESOLVED that in accordance with the forgoing communication,
the period of study for the proposed Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chene Park,
located at 2200/2600 East Atwater Street, established by resolution on October 23,
2018 is hereby extended to March 31, 2020.

City of Ecttnit
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336
Email: 

October 29, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition 1661 Historic Designation Advisory Board submitting its final report
recommending designation and proposed draft ordinance designating the proposed
Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chene Park Historic District (For introduction of
Ordinance and setting of public hearing)

At the direction ofthe Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) at its meeting ofJune 20,
2019, we are pleased to submit to Your Honorable Body the board?s final report on the
proposed Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chene Historic District. The recommendation of the
Advisory Board is for designation and, therefore, a draft ordinance of designation is attached.
The ordinance has been approved as to form by the Law Department.

Ad Hoc members of the Advisory Board for this study were Bernice Leatherwood and Harriet
Saperstein. Both representatives recommend designation.

If you should have any questions, please contact HDAB staff at (313) 224-3487.

pectfully submitted,


Janese (1 Deputy Director

Historic Designation Advisory Board

 

Attachment

cc: City Clerk
Marcell Todd, Director, CPC
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Historic District Commission

ditty at Ectrnit

CITY COUNCIL
HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336
Email: historic@detroitmi. gov

Draft Final Report
Proposed Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chem Park Historic District
2200/2600 East Atwater Street

 

By a resolution dated October 23, 2018, the Detroit City Council charged the Historic Designation
Advisory Board, a study committee, with the of?cial study of the proposed Aretha Franklin Am-
phitheater/Chene Park Historic District in accordance with Chapter 25 of the 1984 Detroit City
Code and the Michigan Local Historic Districts Act.

The proposed Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chene Park Historic District consists of a single 9.3
acre parcel owned by the Detroit Recreation Department and contains a covered amphitheater with
a stage, seating and an adjacent multi-level pavilion. Other features include a ticket booth, small

merchandising building, administrative of?ce, and a building operated by the City of Detroit Water
and Sewage Department. Prominent landscaping features include the entry plaza, mall, and festival
plaza, including the seawall, pond, signage, lighting, benches, planters, fencing, vegetation,
manmade contours of the hill and benns, and two outdoor sculptures.

The proposed historic district is located on the East Riverfront at the foot of the Detroit River
approximately 1.25 miles east from the city center and near the intersection of East Atwater and
Chene Streets, addressed as both 2200 and 2600 East Atwater Street. It is situated along the Detroit
Riverwalk within the Rivertown-Warehouse District neighborhood and is west of Belle Isle, south-
east of the Lafayette Park historic district, and adjacent to the William G. Milliken State hit and
Harbor. The surrounding area features scattered industrial buildings, many of which have been
converted into residential lofts and of?ces.

BOUNDARIES

The boundaries of the proposed Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chem Park Historic District are
outlined in heavy black on the attached map, and are as follows:



tn!?



  
 

lime-t Run



The northeast and southwest boundaries are co-determinate with the northwest and southwest
boundaries, extended northwest and southeast, of the parcel described as: ATWATER 124.50
FT OF CHENE FARM 733 LYG 5 OF AND ADJ ATWATER ST 50 FT WD 11/4 1 THRU SBLK 1 SUB OF PT
JAMES CAMPAU FARM 1/2 OF 91 L2 P17 PLATS, 9/1 ALSO THAT PT OF DUBOIS FARM 1/2
0? 91 LYG 5 OF ATWATER ST 50 FT WD 9/11 403,191 SQ FT

The northwest boundary is the centerline of East Atwater Street.

4- U'ftf?a?} 

1

The northwest boundary is the centerline of East Atwater Street.
The southeast boundary is the Detroit harbor line.
Boundary ustitication

The boundaries described above consist of the original boundaries of the land purchased by the
City of Detroit in 1979 to create Chene Park and includes the entire parcel.

HISTORY

Significance Statement

 

The proposed Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chem Park Historic District is signi?cant at the local
level under National Register Criteria A for Community Flaming and Development for its asso-
ciation with local planning efforts to reclaim and redevelop the Detroit Riverfront for public use
and to support economic development by enhancing the local entertainment industry with a river-
front music venue. As Chene Park, it had the distinction of being the ?rst phase of the Linked
Riverfront Parks Project.

Its period of signi?cance is de?ned as 1982, when the groundbreaking ceremony took place, to
1990, when the park was reopened after undergoing site improvements.

Early History of the Detroit Riverfront

Archeological evidence suggests that Native American tribes lived along the Detroit River as early
as A.D. 750.l By the 16005, the Anishinaabe, Wyandot, Iroquois, Fox, Miami, and Sauk tribes
used the Detroit River as a place to hunt and gather. Many of the early Native American trails now
trace Detroit?s major arterial roadways, including East Jefferson Avenue.

The French were the ?rst Europeans to arrive to establish Fort Pontchartrain du D?troit in 1701 as
a permanent military outpost and ?ir trading center with the Native Americans along the narrowest
part of the strait between Lake Erie and Lake Huron. Within the ?rst decade, the French divided
land along the waterways east of the fort into ribbon or strip farms. The long narrow plots of land
guaranteed water access to a maximum of settlers who farmed the land. The ?rst grants for the
ribbon farms were located east of the fort. Many of these early land grantees are memorialized in
the street names that still run to the riverfront around the proposed Aretha Franklin Amphithea-
ter/Chene Park Historic District like Chene, Joseph Campau, Dubois and St. Aubin. Water access
supported a bountiful farming community and the close proximity of housing along the water?s
edge provided security from frontier attacks.

 

1 State of Michigan Registry of Historic Sites, #50704.

Farming ?ourished much of the nineteenth century until industrialization took hold in the later part
of the century. Silas Farmer?s 1890 History of Detroit and Wayne County and Early Michigan
noted that Michigan?s manufacturing industry was supported by the abundance and quality of its
iron, copper and lumber resources. Michigan possessed the largest deposits of quality iron, had the
largest copper smelting works, and produced more lumber than any other state in the United States
at the close the nineteenth century.

By 1885, the Detroit riverfront proved an ideal link for shipping Michigan?s abundant natural re?
sources to America?s eastern shore. The riverfront vicinity east of St. Aubin and west of Belle Isle
had transformed to predominantly lumber yards and its related industries. The area associated with
the Chene Park parcel was owned by Moffat Eatherly and Company Lumber and Detroit Lumber
on 1885 and 1911 maps, respectively, and the general area was ?lled with holding and staging
areas for the lumber industry. Hugh Moffat (1810-1884), founder of Moffat Eatherly and Com-
pany Lumber, had come to the ?City of the Straits? in 1837.2 He started as a carpenter and moved
into the lumber trades in 1852. He served as the Mayor of Detroit from 1872 to 1876 and formed
a partnership shortly thereafter with his son, Addison and Florance Darling Eatherly for the lumber
company in 1878. A sawmill is the only known building on early maps (1885-1923) where the
proposed Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chene Park Historic District is now located. The sawmill
was noted in Silas Fanner?s Biographical Edition of the History of Detroit (1889) as one of
Moffat?s ?last enterprises? and considered one of the best in the state of Michigan.3

At the beginning of the twentieth century, Detroit had become a bustling city, amassing a popula-
tion of more than 2 million. With Detroit?s strategic connection to the Great Lakes, manufacturing
and commerce along the riverfront thrived during the ?rst half of the twentieth century. Several
maps from 1885 to the 1920s reveal a shift in the riverfront industries from lumberyards to ship
and railroad car building companies and various industries associated with iron, steel, and coal
products. The 1897 Sanborn map shows a dry dock located where the Aretha Franklin Amphithe?
ater/Chene Park parcel is today and the 1923 Baist Atlas map indicates that the Imperial Ship
Company acquired most of the parcel with sandyards ?anking both sides. These sandyards even-
tually become Medusa Concrete and Petoskey Portland Cement Company/Penn-Dixie Company
servicing trade routes from Detroit along the Great Lakes to destinations in Northern Michigan,
Chicago, Milwaukee, Toledo, etc.

Earlv City Planning Eftbiis for the Detroit Riverfront

With the rapid growth of urban industrialization, Americans began to seek ways to improve city
living and address the increasing pollution, population, and public health concerns. Society?s upper
classes were the ?rst to champion for city parks as places contributing to better health. After 1900,
supporters of social reform also held that parks were a healthier alternative than going to saloons

 

2 Farmer, Silas. The History of Detroit and Michigan or "The Metropolis Illustrated.? 1889, Biographical Edition.
3 Two previous mills occupied the site, the first burned and the second was removed for the one described in the
1889 book.

to socialize. The concept of large urban parks promoting a better quality of living started in Eng-
land in the early 18003 and was imported to New York City when Frederick Law Olmsted and
Calvert Vaux won a competition for their design of Central Park. Frederick Law Olmsted (1822?
1903) became America? most well-known landscape architect, going on to design numerous parks
nationwide during his career including Detroit?s Belle Isle in the 1880s as the country?s largest
city island park (although not fully realized according to Olmsted?s Vision).

After Belle Isle Park was established in 1845, parks were included in subsequent Detroit Master
Plan of Policies. Noted architect and city planner Edward H. Bennett was commissioned by the
Detroit City Plan and Improvement Commission to conduct the 1915 Preliminary Plan of Detroit.
Bennett was well known for his association and collaboration with Daniel Burnham on the 1909
Chicago City Plan for which he designed Grant Park. After the 1915 Preliminary Plan of Detroit
was published, the City Plan Commission was created to formalize a comprehensive plan to make
greenspace recommendations for ?the development of parks, recreation areas, boulevards, and the
riverfront.? Those recommendations led to a 1927 approved Master Plan that included an idea to
Create a Riverside Drive near the Detroit River complete with networked parks. Unfortunately,
though the networked parks concept was brought forward, Riverside Drive never met fruition.

City planning efforts for parks and recreation development along the Detroit River gradually in-
creased in scope; the 1947 Master Plan included the riverfront from the Central Business District
to the eastern city limits at Alter Road and the 1965 Master Plan included the entire riverfront.4
Emphasis on the waterfront as an important advantage for industrial development remained prev-
alent, although the 1963 Port of Detroit Riverfront Study prepared for the Area Redevelopment
Administration for the US. Department of Congress concurred with the city?s objective to orient
?long?range planning for the waterfront area east of the Civic Center to light industrial, commer-
cial, or residential/recreational purposes.?5

As was the case in many other American cities, economic changes included a major decline in
manufacturing infrastructure within Detroit after WWII. As manufacturing plants moved to the
outer reaches of suburbs made accessible by an expanding freeway system, the loss of manufac-
turing infrastructure was detrimental to a much needed tax base. As manufacturing left Detroit,
vast areas of the city were abandoned and in some places heavily polluted.

Linked Riverfront Parks Project

Mayor Coleman A. Young (1974-1994) took of?ce in 1974 amid many challenges generated by a
declining tax base. Mayor Young believed that the revitalization of the downtown riverfront using
private and public partnerships with federal, state and local funds would spur additional economic
and community development. During his initial run for of?ce, Mayor Young emphasized his desire

 

4 1973 Detroit Master Plan
5 1963 Port of Detroit Riverfront Study

to revitalize the riverfront between the Ambassador Bridge in Southwest Detroit and the MacAr-
thur Bridge leading to Belle Isle. The opening of Hart Plaza in 1975 and the Renaissance Center
in 1977 served as anchors for his urban policy agenda.

Shortly after Mayor Young took of?ce, an $80,000 Coastal Zone Management federal grant was
awarded to provide funding for a riverfront revitalization study that would serve as the foundation
of the Linked Riverfront Parks Project to ?link? the Central Business District to Belle Isle along
the Detroit riverfront. The Coastal Zone Management Act was passed by Congress in 1972 to
provide funds to assist with planning efforts to develop wise use of coastal areas across the county,
including the Great Lakes. The City of Detroit Recreation Department under Director Leon
Atchison selected Detroit based architectural ?rm Schervish, Vo gel, Merz PC (SVM) to work with
Project Manager Harriet Saperstein to prepare the cohesive riverfront redevelopment plan after a
request for proposal went out to the public.

Mayor Young formally introduced the Linked Riverfront Parks Project in his Moving Detroit or-
ward Urban Economic Revitalization Plan in 1977. Mayor Young?s comprehensive ?ve-year
plan for revitalizing the city included repurposing abandoned areas of the riverfront for general
public use through public and private investment. The Plan was presented to President Jimmy
Carter (1977-1981) in June of 1977 by an alliance of business and local government of?cials that
included General Motors Corporation Chairman Thomas A. Murphy, City Council president Carl
Levin, and US. Representative Charles Diggs as a sign of solidary for the ambitious 2.5 billion
dollar project. On October 31, 1979 the public was presented the Executive Summary of the Linked
Riverfront Parks Project.

Due to the close professional association between Mayor Young and President Carter Detroit was
well positioned to capitalize on the Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG) funding package
to assist American cities. The UDAG program was created by the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1977 to promote economic development to distressed cities and urban counties
through the stimulation of private investment, which would create permanent jobs and expand the
tax base. Mayor Young believed that capturing these funds would help Detroit take major steps to
transform signi?cant portions of the historic riverfront from industrial use to public recreational
use, which would then spur economic development. Detroit successfully received ?$107 million
in grants, more than any other city in the nation, for sixteen development projects, many of them
along the riverfront.?6

 

6 Young, Coleman and Lonnie Wheeler. Hard Stuff: The Autobiography ofMayor Coleman Young. Page 225.

Chene Park

Mayor Young?s Moving Detroit Forward Urban Economic Revitalization Plan made com-
mitment to ?re-establish the waterfront as the physical image of the city,?7 and called for a river-
front outdoor music theater component to be included Within the Linked Riverfront Parks Project.
He envisioned an urban waterfront music venue that would rival the suburban Pine Knob Theater8
to support Detroit?s rich musical heritage and entertainment industry. Detroit?s 1981 Riverfront
Redevelopment Plan included a $1.2 million budget to redevelop Chene Park with an updated
amphitheater and pavilion that would allow for larger acts. Chene Park proved to be the ideal
choice for Detroit?s ?rst riverfront entertainment venue with its scenic location. The stage is ideally
located near the Detroit River?s edge, offering patrons sweeping views of Canada and boaters
?oating behind the stage area.

A Federal Land Water Conservation Fund Grant9 provided funds to purchase three water related
outdoor recreation sites on the Detroit River. Detroit used a portion of the $2.3 million grant to
acquire seven parcels along the Detroit River that became the single Chene Park parcel in 1979.-
The seven purchased lots once included French granted land from the original ribbon farms of the
Chene, Campau and Dubois families. These three sites or nodes10 were named for their locations
at the foot of Chene, St. Aubin and Mr. Elliott streets and were to be constructed in phases starting
with the Chene site, which required the least amount of prep work because it lacked buildings and
was used mostly for storage. The three parks were to be linked for pedestrians, bicycles and auto-
mobiles via pathways, parking and public transportation access.

Ground breaking for the park occurred on June 16, 1982 with Detroit Councilwoman Erma Hen?
derson, Mayor Young and Detroit Recreation Department Director Daniel Krichbaum of?ciating.
As the lead project landscape architect, David Schervish ?treated the park as an environmental
sculpture?l I and contoured the ?at parcel with berms to disguise the remaining concrete companies
that still ?anked each side. Despite the early 19803 recession with double digit interest rates the
project moved slowly forward. Chene Park opened in 1984 and was expanded a short time later in
1986 and again in 1990.

Mayor Young?s idea that the tax base would be increased if the city converted the riverfront with
public and private money was materialized. Hart Plaza was one of the ?rst of his riverfront en-
deavors, completed in 1975, and drew 6.5 million visitors to its ethnic festivals and other events
like the annual ?reworks show within ?ve years.12 By the fall of 1987, the $20 million in public

 

7 Executive Summary Linked Riverfront Parks Project. Pg. 1.

8 Now known as DTE Energy Music Theater in Clarkston, Michigan.

9 Detroit Free Press. U.S. Aid Due for Rink on Belle Isle. 29 Nov 1975.

10 Nodes are activity centers related to development and recreational use. (Urban Planning term)
The Detroit News. Chene Park: success in the city. 2 Oct 1984.

12 Detroit Free Press. Downtown?s on the Upswing. 2 Oct 1981.

funds within the Linked Riverfront Parks Project limits had stimulated nearly $220 million in pri-
vate funds for housing, of?ce and commercial recreation development. ?3

Ron Alpem was hired by the Detroit Recreation Department as the Chene Park Programs Coordi-
nator in 1984. Alpern?s efforts to market Chene Park as a ?festival park? featured both performing
and visual arts. Unlike Hart Plaza that featured free public programming, Chene Park?s original
vision was to be a ticketed venue like Pine Knob Theater, but covenants were placed on the prop-
erty as a result of the funding and required a percentage of the programming to be free for citizens.
Alpern successfully garnered contributions from major businesses like Ford Motor Company,
Stroh Brewery and Coca-Cola Bottlers of Detroit, who sponsored concerts and special events. A
free Saturday Children?s series was offered for several summers that included music, magic, sto-
rytellers and puppeteering. In 1985, the Detroit Recreation Department was awarded the Michigan
Recreation and Park Association Innovative Park Resource Award for his contribution to Chene
Park programming.

In addition to the Park?s main emphasis as a performing arts venue, the Detroit Recreation Depart-
ment included a visual arts component. To support marketing efforts on a limited budget and to
keep the new park in the public light, bike tours showcasing the riverfront used Chene Park as its
starting location. With the assistance from the Junior League of Detroit and the Michigan Council
of the Arts, Chene Park became the site of arts exhibits. In the summer of 1984, an ?Artist in
Residence? program was held using the newly prepped site as a blank canvas for showcasing
pieces of art in collaboration with the Detroit Artist Market. Artists were on hand each weekend
between June and August to educate visitors about their art. After the program was completed the
two pieces of artwork on display in Chene Park were purchased and remain on display.

Jazz has played the pronounced role of musical concerts since opening in 1984. Jazz guitarist Ron
English was the headliner act for the Ribbon Cutting Ceremony with Mayor Young on August 10,
1984 and Chene Park was one of several concert venues during the Montreux Jazz Festival in
1986. Other noted jazz artists include saxophonist Omette Coleman and singer Carmen McRae
who drew more than 5,000 people with a standing room only crowd. The Detroit jazz station WJZZ
was a regular sponsor for jazz events and a Wednesday Night Jazz Series has become a tradition
under the direction of The Right Productions CEO and President Shahida Mausi and has been held
every functional year of the park?s existence.

Renowned talent such as Smokey Robinson, B-SZS, Manhattan Transfer, Anne Murray, Robin
Thick, Miles Davis, and Aretha Franklin have performed at Chene Park. The comedian Sinbad
was the opening act on the 4th of July, 1990, after the last expansion grand opening. Classical music
has also been an important musical component and the Detroit Orchestra played in
Chene Park after Ford Auditorium was closed. The free Special Sundays Program featured orches-
tra music, folk, blues, bluegrass and a variety of other world music and dancing.

 

13? Saperstein, Harriet. Recreation Department Leads the Way. Michigan Planner. Fall 1987.

The Aretha Franklin Amphitheater has an annual attendance of 150,000 people each year and it
has achieved international acclaim as one of the world?s highest ranked amphitheaters.14 In August
2018, numerous artists from Motown, Blues Jazz, Bluegrass, Folk, Gospel, and
Dance gathered at Chene Park to pay tribute to Aretha Franklin with a free concert the night before
her funeral. On December 5, 2018, Chene Park was of?cially renamed the Aretha Franklin Am-
phitheater/Chene Park by Detroit City Council. The Aretha Franklin Amphitheater will host an
Aretha Jazz Series on Wednesdays during the 2019 season. 

ARCHITECTURE
Architecture Firm: Schervish, Vogel. Merz

Schervish, Vogel, Merz PC (also known as SVM) was a Detroit-based architecture and landscape
architecture ?rm established in 1978 with a special emphasis on urban planning and historic
preservation. Notable projects include the renovation of the McGregor Carriage House on Wood-
bridge Street in the Rivertown-Warehouse District for their business of?ce as well as develop-
ments in Harmonie Park and Marina Village, Atwater Landing Revitalization and the Lofts at
Rivertown.15 In 1995 the ?rm was sold to Albert Kahn and Associates.

SVM worked on the Linked Riverfront Parks Project for twelve years that included the original
planning, construction, and the major expansion completed in 1990. Rainy Hamilton is credited
with the design of the Chene Park pavilion after he graduated from the University of Detroit Ar-
chitecture School and joined the ?rm, later becoming a partner. Each principal took on the role as
principal-in-charge and project designer of one of the linked parks after working on the Master
Plan together for a year. David Schervish was the lead for Chene Park, Stephen Vogel-St. Aubin
Park (now the William G. Milliken State Park and Harbor) and Charles Merz-Mt. Elliott Park.

Each park re?ects a different aspect of the Detroit River. Chene Park relates a connection between
its past industrial landscape and its connection to modern architecture. St. Aubin Park (now part
of William L. Milliken State Park and Harbor) celebrates Detroit?s Great Lakes traditions and
history through a series of interpretive elements and display, like ?The Black Presence in Detroit?
commemorative wall. Mt. Elliott Park focuses on the industrial history of Detroit.

SVM has received several accolades for Chene Park over time including awards for its design from
the Detroit and Michigan Chapters of the American Institute of Architects, the Michigan American
Society of Landscape Architects and the Michigan Society of Flaming Of?cials. In 1987 SVM
received the prestigious Detroit American Institute of Architects Allied Arts Award and in 2019
the Michigan American Institute of Architects 25 Year Honor Award.

 

14 By Pollstar, a trade publication for the music industry.
15 The 1989 adaptive reuse of a former pharmaceutical complex to condominiums. Frederick Stearns Building
(1989) located at 6533 East Jefferson.

Description

Overall the park has an organic sculptural feeling. Circles, semicircles and wave patterns are used
to connect the river to the land. The landscape architects? Vision of linking the park from the Re-
naissance Center to Belle Isle suggest its past relationship to an industrial landscape and a new
connection to modern architecture of the Renaissance Center. ?6 Walkways curve and ?ow around
the property allowing for Visitors to pause for scenic vistas of the interplay of the property land?
scape, artworks, and views of the Detroit River and Canada beyond. Earth berms, on each side of
the park, once used to provide screening for the past industries that once occupied the riverfront,
have slowly been purchased and are being converted to public use. Mature trees planted as part of
the original design suggest the riverfront has always been a natural landscape. A semicircular pond
covers approximately two-thirds of the frontage with East Atwater Street making the connection
to Bloody Run Creek that once ?owed into the Detroit River nearby, but has since been enclosed
and incorporated into the modern sewer system.17

The Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chene Park Historic District is approached at the intersection
of East Atwater and Chene streets by a circular Entry Plaza that is then connected to a straight
promenade labeled The Mall leading to the circular Festival Plaza near the edge of the Detroit
River. ?8 The entry plaza consists of a series of circular concrete slabs with six concentric circles
of varied width in natural shades of dark gray, beige, and white. There are six total planters ap-
proximately two feet high in the circle constructed of rough textured concrete, three on each side
consisting of two square planters separated with an arched planter. The circular patterns are remi-
niscent of the concrete silos that served as inspiration for the architects and the rough textured
concrete is intentionally used throughout the park on planters, wall, and stairs to simulate the sur?
faces of the Renaissance Center.l9 Removable bollards at the front of the Entry Plaza provide se-
curity and prevent vehicles from entering the property when in place.

Meandering pathways and landscaping along the venue, pond and riverfront complete the park and
tie the entire landscape together. Pathways are well-lit and lined with the same lampposts found
along the Mall, pavilion and riverfront. A paved area in back of the stage can be used for special
event accommodations directly adjacent to the river. Numerous round concrete planters
approximately one to three feet high are found along walkways and are constructed of gray rough
textured concrete. Berms ?ank each side of the property and were planted with mature deciduous
and evergreen trees taken from the Rouge Park Nursery to help buffer the park with its industrial
neighbors when it was originally constructed.

 

16 Email from David Schervish 26 Mar 2019.

17 Stephen Vogel interview. The only remaining section of Bloody Run Creek that has not been enclosed and inte-
grated into the sewer system is in Elmwood Cemetery near Mt. Elliott and E. Lafayette Streets.

18 Entry Plaza, The Mall, and Festival Plaza are the place names referred to in the 1986 Expansion Plans that were
completed in 1990.

19 Interview with David Schervish and Rainy Hamilton 15 Feb 2019.

Beyond the Entry Plaza entrance, the Mall continues straight southeast to the river and consists of
a small three foot high silver wave-shaped directional sign on the right side. The sign is marked
?Chene Park? and points toward the main gated entrance. The walkway consists of large gray and
white rectangular slabs of concrete in an offset wave pattern, separated by perpendicular bans of
dark gray concrete. The Mall is well lit with eight silver metal lampposts, four on each side, eight
silver metal triple seat benches, four on each side and two silver metal trash receptacles. Lampposts
are approximately ten feet high and consist of a shaft with a ?at LED light mounted on a four
prong head. Benches are silver metal with three seats separated with arched circle armrests. Trash
receptacles are vented with vertical cutouts to resemble the rough textured concrete. The grassy
area ?anking the plazas and the Mall are utilized for vendors to set up tables and erect tent struc-
tures to line the pathways during events. A manmade berm with mature trees and plantings extends
the length of the Mall, which ends at the Festival Plaza near the edge of the Detroit River. A large
six foot high silver wave-shaped directional sign on the left side between the Mall and Festival
Plaza announces the river promenade area. The Festival Plaza is similar, but smaller than
the Entry Plaza with only ?ve concentric circles of dark beige, dark and light gray. The 1984 three-
piece artwork Carnival by John Piet is showcased in the center circle.

To the east of Festival Plaza are eight small, medium, and large white rectangular slabs separated
by gray perpendicular bands used for special event seating and dining. The first three medium
sized slabs have a centered elevated landscaping area approximately two feet high like the Entry
Plaza with rough textured concrete and are offset halfway into the slab. There are ten
lampposts and two trash receptacles similar to those located on The Mall. A small three foot high
silver wave-shaped directional sign on the left side is next to a ten foot long square concrete bench
approximately one and a half feet square.

A manmade L-shaped freeform shaped pond runs parallel to East Atwater Street for 450 feet before
turning toward the Detroit River for an additional 300 feet. A fountain is located in the center of
the 300 foot stretch of the pond. The pond fronting East Atwater Street provides a barrier from the
street and was later incorporated with fencing and gateways that help secure the stage and amphi-
theater areas. An Exit Plaza on the far west side of the pond and just outside the fence was added
as part of the 1986 expansion at Dubois Street with three concentric circles of white, beige, and
dark gray and outlined by a short two-foot wall of rough textured concrete and fronted with the
same removable steel bollards as the entry plaza. A back gate on the west side of the property
provides access to the City of Detroit Water Sewage Department building and administrative
of?ce.

The Entry Plaza, the Mall, Festival Plaza and the area east of Festival Plaza are ungated and have
?owing walkways along the pond near the gated entrance and a promenade along the edge of the
Detroit River. The promenade fence along the River is mounted to the 1982 seawall that was the
park?s ?rst improvement. The fence is constructed of vertically oriented horizontal panels sup-
ported between silver metal cylinders.

10

The main entrance to the Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chene Park Historic District consists of a
gate secured by metal bars that leads to a fenced area west of Festival Plaza and between the pond
and Detroit River. Just inside the fenced area is a small oval one-story concrete building for selling
merchandise. A second piece of artwork from 1984, Lattice arm by Raymond L. Katz is located
immediately to the right in front of the multi-level pavilion. Walkways inside the gated area are of
natural gray concrete and organically ?ow to and from the amphitheater area and along the pond
and rear perimeter of the property.

Located in the southwest quadrant of the parcel is the prominent covered amphitheater and pavilion
structure that are connected by a 40?foot tall hill that slopes downward to the stage area. 20 The
amphitheater consists of a round ?at 30 foot concrete stage ?anked by two twenty-foot wings at
ground-level with a metal fence blocking off access to the Detroit River. The stage is covered by
a large Te?on coated??berglass tensile structure supported by four rough textured gray concrete
support columns that act as the base for the main stage house framework and mechanical space.
The ?xed seating is covered by the tensile structure which is supported by nine inverted 
concrete structures along the outside, seven at the top of the hill create a fan-shaped roof structure
and one on each side help anchor each side. Inside and underneath the tensile roof structure are
three ?xed steel support towers that are ?uted at the top and provide a catwalk
and open half cage area for mounting the lighting and audio equipment.

The asymmetrical multi-level pavilion is directly adjacent and north of the amphitheater and
consists of a series of circular and semicircular concrete structure segments. It is arranged with
multiple stacked round silo-shaped structures with exterior gray rough texture concrete ?nishes
and houses the concession stands, restroom facilities, private event space and mechanical
operations. Between the period of 1984 and 1990, the pavilion was expanded from three-levels to
?ve-levels with four new concession and two new restroom facilities that extended the original
accommodations seven-fold.21 Dressing rooms for the performers were moved from the bottom
level ?oor of the pavilion to the administrative building when it was built 'circa 2000. The pavilion
pattern slopes up and over the crest of the hill with hardscape areas of solid rough textured
cylinders resembling piers that slope down to the pond framing the landscaped area. This area once
featured a water feature but is now closed. A treble clef note by artist Keith Jackson from 2018 is
near the bottom by the pathway.

On the east elevation, a ticket booth currently stands at the southeast corner of Chene and East
Atwater Streets and is a green rectangular, steel and composition board, one-story ?at roofed build?
ing on a slab foundation. The ticket booth facade has three ticket windows, a door, and two signs
denoting it is Chene Park and the Chene Park Box Of?ce. Located to the right of the entry is a
?fteen foot high venue sign revealed on May 17, 2019 labeled with the newly renamed Aretha
Franklin Amphitheater. The park was renamed for the famous singer by Detroit City Council on
November 15, 2018. The dark gray metal sign is topped with a wave detail followed by the name
above a changeable electronic billboard.

 

3" The 15 foot hill was first created in 1984 using dirt fill from the adjacent pond, and concrete rubble salvaged
from the recently demolished Dodge Main Plant that was capped with clay. The hill was expanded to the current
40 feet by 1990 utilizing soil from the construction of the nearby St. Aubin marina.

2? Riverfront Music Theater at Chene Park Fact Sheet and Media Release. June 1990.

11

On the west elevation of the parcel is an Exit Plaza located between the fence and East Atwater
Street immediately west of the pond. The Exit Plaza has three concentric circles of dark gray, beige
and white concrete and removable bollards for limiting vehicle access. Immediately west of the
Exit Plaza are two buildings accessed via a mechanical gate and roadway leading off East Atwater
Street. A circa 2000 one-story building operated by the City of Detroit Water and Sewage
Department is comprised of light-beige concrete block and capped with a turquoise-colored metal
roof with glass block windows forming a triangle in the gables. Directly adjacent to the building
is the administrative of?ce for the park located next to the Detroit River. The administrative
building is a rectangle building with a half round building added to the length of the rectangle
building which faces the river. The recessed main entry to the administrative building faces west
and houses the of?ces of the venue operator, The Right Productions. The administrative building
consists of four rooms in the half circle area and four dressing rooms in the back rectangular section
of the building.

Art Objects

Two of the art objects are original to the 1984 opening of Chene Park. The artworks were part of
a twelve artists? sculpture exhibit, Installation/Outdoor Sites, hosted May 26-June 23, 1984 in
Chene Park. In collaboration with the project landscape architect, David Schervish and an advisory
committee, ?ve of the pieces were considered for permanent residency. The two pieces available
for viewing were selected from the ?eld of ?ve.22

Carnival by John Piet (1984)

Located near the edge of the Detroit River at the end of the main entry promenade, in the ungated
section of the park, Carnival is an eighteen foot tall three-part steel sculpture. Circular
and semicircular motifs connect those same motifs that served as the inSpiration for Chene Park.
It was originally painted blue, green and red but is now painted light gray.

John Piet (1946- received art degrees from the Detroit Society of Arts and Crafts (name changed
to Center for Creative Studies in 1975 and Wayne State University. Piet taught art at Macomb
County Community College from 1976 to 2010.

Lattice Form by Raymond L. Katz (1984)

Located just inside the main gate to the right is Lattice Form, a white, nine and a half foot tall,
semi?circular steel lattice artwork. Lattice Form follows the semi-circular theme alongside the
similar lines of the pavilion directly adjacent. The see-through quality of the artwork is used to
enjoy views of the river and landscaping behind the piece.

 

22 Detroit Recreation Department Artworks Inventory. Three ring binder.

12

Raymond L. Katz (1938- received a Master of Fine Arts in Sculpture from Wayne State Univer-
sity in 1968 and his pieces are typically credited to Ray Katz. He has had a proli?c career and
fabricated numerous public sculpture artworks that were displayed in several states and countries,
including Japan and France. Katz specializes in abstract art and he prefers to work with metal for
its durability and beauty.?

Two recent pieces of art that are noncontributing to the proposed historic district are a three foot
high treble clef note near the base of the pavilion by Keith Jackson placed in 2018 as part of local
Detroit Council of the Arts grant. In addition, a chair from the estate of Dr. Maya Angelou (1928-
2014) resides in The Right Production of?ce of CEO Shahida Mausi with a handmade book for
cultivating special memories of those invited to sit in Dr. Angelou?s inspirational chair.

CONTRIBUTING AND NON-CONTRIBUTING RESOURCES

The following resources are identi?ed as contributing and non-contributing to the Aretha Frank-
lin Amphitheater/Chene Park Historic District-See Site Map on Page 16.?

onlributing resources

Entry Plaza

The Mall

Festival Plaza
Artwork- Carnival
Pond
Artwork-Lattice F0 rm
Pavilion

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tensile Roof
Stage
Exit Plaza

 

 

qumommuo>

 

 

 

 

Non-contributing resources

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ticket Booth

Administrative Of?ce

Water Sewage Building
CRITERIA

The proposed historic district appears to meet the National Register Criteria A at a local level:

 

23 statement. Accessed 22 March 2019.

13

A) That are associated with events that have made a signi?cant contribution to the broad
patterns of our history; and

Furthermore, the proposed historic district meets the National Register Criterion Consideration G:
Properties That Have Achieved Signi?cance Within The Last Fifty Years and appears to meet the
exceptional importance rule for its signi?cance as the culmination of twentieth century urban plan-
ning theories to reclaim and redevelop the Detroit Riverfront for public use and support economic
development by enhancing the local entertainment industry with a riverfront music venue.

COMPOSITION OF THE HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD

The Historic Designation Advisory Board has nine members, who are residents of Detroit, and two
ex-of?cio members. The appointed members are Melanie Bazil, Naomi Beasley-Porter, Carolyn
Carter, Keith Dye, Louis Fisher, Zen? Fogel-Gibson, Theresa Holder-Hagood, Calvin Jackson,
and Joseph Rashid. The ex?of?cio members, who may be represented by members of their staff,
are the Director of the City Planning Commission and the Director of the Planning and Develop-
ment Department. Ad hoc members for this study are Bernice Leatherwood and Harriet Saperstein.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Bennett, Edward H. ?Preliminary Plan ofDetroit-together with Sketch Plans for a new bridge to
Belle Isle by Cass Gilbert, Architect? Detroit City Planning and Improvement
Commission. 1915.

Burton, C.M., ?Cadillac?s Village? or ?Detroit Under Cadillac?: with list of property owners and
history of the settlement, 1701 -1 710. 1896.

Chene Park Amphitheater, and The Right Productions, Inc. website. Accessed January 2019
from 

Detroit Free Press,
15 Feb 1976 Public Notice of Public Hearing for acquisition of the 3 sites on March 2,
1976
10 Feb 1978 ?30 Acres Linked by Bike Paths?
28 Mar 1978 ?Carter Asks for $8.3 Billion To Save America?s Cities?
18 Feb 1979 ?10 miles riv vu??
14 Aug 1980 Legal Notice - River?ont Acquisition FONSI for 8 Parcels of Jefferson,
both sides of Chene St
02 Oct 1981 ?Downtown?s on the upswing?
30 Jan 2016 ?How do you develop Detroit?s 400 acre riverfront??

Detroit News,
2 Oct 1984 ?Chene Park: success in the city?

Detroit Master Plan of 1973. Article 401, Detroit Riverfront. Adopted May 1974. PG IV-3.

14

Dunnigan, Brian Leigh. ""The Prettiest Settlement in America": A Select Bibliography of Early
Detroit through the War of 1812.? Michigan Historical Review 27, no. 1 (2001): 1?20.


Farmer, Silas, History of Detroit and Wayne County and Early Michigan. Third Edition,
published by Silas Farmer Co. 1890. Republished by Gale Research Company, Book
tower, Detroit, 1969.

?Linked Riverfront Parks Project ?Executive Summary Report. October 1979.

Keller, Timothy, ASLA and Genevieve P. Keller, Land and Community Associates of
Charlottesville, Virginia. How to Evaluate and Nominate Designed Historic Landscapes,
National Register Bulletin #18.

Saperstein, Harriet. Recreation Department Leads the Way. Michigan Planner. Fall 1987. PG 6.

Sugrue, Thomas ., The Origins of the Urban Crisis: Race and Inequality in Postwar Detroit
(Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1996), 270.

United States Department of the Interior National Park Service Bulletin 15, How to Apply the
National Register Criteria for Evaluation, US Government Printing Of?ce, Washington DC.
Revised 1997.

Personal interviews:

Steven Vo gel. Personal Interview, February 7, 2019

David Schervish and Rainy Hamilton. Personal interview, Meeting at Hamilton and Associates,
February 15, 2019.

Harriet Saperstein. Personal Interview, February 26, 2019.

Ron Alpern. Telephone Interview. March 6, 2019.

Charles Merz. Telephone Interview. March 18, 2019.

Shahida Mausi and Jaunae Jones. Personal interview and property tour, March 26, 2019.

15

SITE MAP AND PICTURES

Arutha Franklin Amphitheater/Chane Map

 

Legend-Contributing in Bold

 

AwEntrv Plaza (Cl
E?Tixkr: Em [h (NC)
C?Tho Mall 

D?Famval Plaza (C)

Roof (C)

E?Artwork [Ci l-Stage?Under I 
F?Pond K?Adlrninixlmtiue
G?Artwork (CI I Walnr Sovngc
M?Exlt Plaza 

     
 

 

  

   

i

(A) [Entry Plaza-looking south (B) Ticket Booth far left

Snulw I, 701'?

16

 

    
 

(C)The Mall-looking south

 

1 

1 1
1.392%;

 

(D) Festival Plaza with the Carnival (E) by John Piet in center

17

 

 
  

-. 



(G) Lattice arm by Raymond L. Katz iboking southeast

18

Qt].

I 11:2. ,5

I :alrg'mmsi .m ram. wig?

Ink-'2

 

(I) Tensile Roof over Fixed Seating-Looking soufh .

19

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


J.
?3 



?1
P. 1: 3111' 

?l 

(J) Stage with added wings-note stage house overhead for tensile roof base

?(K) Administrative Of?ce

20


i .
- -- w?g-Anm-Rea
-- -
15-3334.?

(M) Exit Plaza looking east

?1:13 
El?n; 3.1?

 

21



-..J




Wm?de-LL?

IQ Ix.) IQ


l-JIdh-J
Lu

mlth-Jhl





Ac.-


SUMMARY

This ordinance amends Chapter 21, Article II, of the 2019 Detroit City Code by adding
Section 21-2-238 to establish the Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chane Park Historic District,
and to de?ne the elements of design for the district.

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 21, Article II of the 2019 Detroit City Code
by adding Section 21-2-238 to establish the Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chem Park
Historic District and to de?ne the elements of design for the district.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 21, Article II, of the 2019 Detroit City Code be amended by
adding Section 21-2-238 to read as follows:

Sec. 21-2-3238. Aretha Franklin AmnhithcaterfChene Park Historic District.

A historic district to be known as the Aretha Franklin Amphitheater/Chane
Park Historic District is established in accordance with the provisions of this article.

This historic district designation is certi?ed as being consistent with the
Detroit Master Plan.

to} The boundaries of the Aretha Franklin Arnohitheaten?Chene Park Historic

District are as shown on the map on ?le in the of?ce of the City Clerk, and are as

follows: The northeast and southwest boundaries are eo-detenninate with the northwest
and southwest boundaries, extended northwest and southeast, of the parcel described as:
ATWATER 124.50 FT OF CHENE FARM T33 LYG OF AND ADJ
ATWATER ST 50 FT WD 1114 THRU SBLK SUB OF PT JAMES CAMPAU
FARM OF 91 L2 P17 FLATS. 9/1 ALSO THAT PT OF THE DUBOIS
FARM '5 OF 91 LYG OF ATWATER ST 50 FT WD 9111 403. The
northwest boundarv is the centerline of East Atwater Street. The southeast boundarv is
the Detroit harbor line. Commonly known as 220012600 East Atwater Street.

The de?ned elements of design. as provided for in Section 21-2-2 of this

code. are as follows:

ix}

(1)

(2)

(3)

Height. The buildings at 2200152600 East Atwater Street consists of a one

(I) storv reetaneular ticket booth. at one i 1} storv oval merchandising

building. a ?ve level pavilion made up pf a series of circular cylinders
for concession. restroom. and event facilities, a one sing;

administration building. an annroximatelv seventv (i?l foot high

 

amphitheater and stage structure constructed on top of a fortv (40) foot
high manmade hill (the stage is elevated approximately two (21 feet}, and
two art obiects annroximatelv ten (10) feet high each.

Proportion ofbniiding's fi?al'tl' facades. All buildings are wider than tall on

all elevations. The pavilion is approximately ??y-three (53) feet by one
hundred and thirty: (130) feet in a arched shape, and features

numerous round cvlinder shaped buildinns and structures assembled in an

asymmetrical stepped pattern surrounding its main entrance with a total of

five levels. The steoned pattern adds a vertical emphasis to the

building fapade.

Pro oriion enin 3 within the

 

com sed of a roximatel ei ht ereent 0% enin in its front

fa ade northwest elevation .The merchandisin buildin has one 0 coin

that is approximately severing ?ve percent of its front fapade [north

elevation .

 

percent openinas in its front facade (southeast elevation}. The pavilion
building is composed of anorexirnatelv seventv five percent 
asvmmetrieal openings in its front facade (south elevation}. The
arnphitheater structure is one hundred percent {100%} open on its entire

circumference and covered by: a tensile structure.

(4)

(5)

(6)

or] solids to voids in the from fagodes. A regular of solids
to voids exists on all elevations of the ticket building= An irregular 

of solids to voids exists on all elevations of the merchandising, pavilion,
and administration buildings. A single void occupies the merchandising

building facade. The navilion voids are irregularlv placed: some voids act

as window, doorways. and viewing points. The voids are full lengm
starting aggroximatelx three (3: feet from the floor. The administration
building has minimal voids on the entire surface of the semicircular facade

of the building. There is a recessed surface with a single door on the far

right side of the recess. A row of three ?xed sguare panes ?ank the

south side of the recessed entrv an_d two sets of three (3) ?xed square
panes flank the north side of the recessed entry. There are single doorway
voids on the south and west elevations.

ofspochrg of buildings on streets. Spacing of buildings is based
on the necessity of the logistics for the entertainment venue to grovide
access and security. The gavilion is directly adiacent to the amphitheater,
grgviding an entrance the stage and service areas. One I buildingI the

ticket booth. is directly adjacent to the street-

of entrance and?or porch protections. The roof of the ticket booth
nroiects gooroximatelv two feet from the facade (northeast elevationl

and is unsupported. The merchandising building roof proieets

aporoximatelv three (3) feet on its facade (east elevation} and is

unsupgorted. The entrance to the administrative building is recessed into

the facade {southeast elevation} aooroximatelv three feet for a length

(7)

(8)

(9)

of aggroximately ten [10} feet. No consistent of entrance andfor

porch projections exist amongst the buildings.

 

Relationshi 0 materials. The buildin materials are enerall com osed

   

of concrete. The tensile roof consists of a Te?on coated plastic membrane.
The roof of the tensile structure is supported by concrete columns and
steel poles: the structure above the staee creates a stage house base for
anchoring the tensile structure. Landscape elements including sidewalk,
planters. and retaining walls are concrete. Lighting ?xtures outside the

amphitheater area= benches, signage. and trash receptacles are metal

mounted on concrete bases.

Relationshi textures. The ticket booth buildin dis la 5 an overall

smooth texture. The merchandising building has a textured tagger
surface rising from an aggroximatelv two [21 foot base with a heavier

textured vertical oriented natlern found on the surface of the pavilion and
on manv of the landscape retaining walls and stair risers and is
intentionallv similar to the surface of the Renaissance Center [General
Motors Buildinel. The pavilion consists of the same heavilv textured
vertical concrete surface resembling the texture of the Renaissance Center.

The heavily textured vertical concrete surfaces are found on the concrete

planters incorporated into the pavilion and the facing of the stairwav

risers.

 

Relationship ofeolors. The ticket booth buildina is painted in areen with

black accents. Walkways associated with the Entry Plaza, Mall, and
Festival Plaza consist of bands of li?i-COlOl?Ed circular and wave gattems of
naturally: colored gray: concrete with accents of black, dark beige= and

0

I0



I2

13

(10)

(11)

white banding. The artwork Cornivoi originally painted green, blue, and
red is now painted light gay. The merchandising building upper surface is
dark beige and the textured base is a natural colored gray concrete. The

fencing. handrails. and lighting in the amphitheater are painted the same
green as the ticket booth. The artwork Lattice Form is painted white. The
concrete surfaces of the amphitheater and the immediate surrounding
waikwavs are a naturallv colored grav. Fixed seating_is white. The roof is
a white membrane. The administrative building. is white.

Relationship of architectural details. Irregularlulrranged, repetitive
cvlinder shape details of various heights are found throughovt the propertv
especiallv along the riverfront and cascading from the toe of the pavilion
to its base where a water feature was once installed. Cvlinder shapes are
arranged in an asymmetrical modern stvle spare of details. The primarv
facade (north elevation) of the pavilion is dominated bv rough textured
concrete with vertical textured design elements. Concrete stair risers
repeat the same vertical textures. The amphitheater design intent is to
allow the audience views of the river and the stage is located near the edge
of the river with the entertainers facing awav (north) from the river. The
administrative building utilizes a verticallv laid stack bond that
emphasizes a vertical architectural element.

Relationship The roof over the ticket booth. merchandising
building, pavilion. and administrative building are ?at. The tensile

structure roof over the amphitheater begins over the stage area and

agenda in a fan shape up the side of the amphitheater to the top of the

Iv.)





(12)

(13)

hill. three interior support towers create a rise in three (3) places in the
Lot

Walls of conrhraitv. Landscaped planters and retaining walls are of the
same verticallv oriented textured concrete as the walls of the pavilion and
integrated into the landscape to provide a wall of continuitv. The vertical
light standards. fencing. and planted trees. where lhev exist. result in
expressions ofcontinuigg.

Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments.
Mature trees are found on the east elevation and surrounding the
amphitheater. Mature shrubberv are located throughout all elevations
along the building footprint and paved walkwavs. The Entrv Plaza. Mall
and Festival Plaza. and sidewalks along the pond are ?wkcd with grass.
The hill bevond the fixed seating of the amphitheater is covered in grass.
and berms on the east and west sides of the parcel are covered with grass.
Collections of low level multi?height culinder shaped landscaping features
are arranged along the riverfront and within the landscaped areas and
some include the vertical texturizing found on the outside of the pavilion
and stair risers. A seven foot high metal fence provides a securitv
buffer along the front of the propertv and at each end of the pond and does
not contribute because it is a Feature installed outside the period of
signi?cance. A new electronic changeable sign. erected in 2019. near the
Entrv Plaza does not contribute to signi?cance. The lighting ?itting.

benches. and metal bollards that were replaced a?er 1990 period of

signi?cance.

(14)

(15)

(16)

Relationship of open space to structures. Open space exists in the broad,

grassy lgwn. and mature landscaping large manmade pond buffers the
amphitheater from East Atwater Street. The amphitheater is covered bv a
tensile roof that allows the entire peripheryr of the amphitheater and stage
to be men to the scenic views of the riverfront and mature landscap?
Walkways are flat in publielv accessible areas. Small sections of ramping
are present on each side of the stage for accessibility to the stage.
Stairways are utilized to provide access into the pavilion. and
amphitheater seating area. A driveway ending at a small parkinggea is

located to the west side of the propertv to provide access to the

administration building and the Detroit Water and Sewage Department
building.

Scale of facades and facade elements. The huildint'. facades are of a scale
typical to be secondary,r to the large-scaled amphitheater structure. The
facade of the pavilion is directlv adiacent to the amphitheater structure and

horizontally dominates the entrance area of the amphitheater.

Directional expression af?'om elevations. The front elevation of the ticket

booth. and the merchandising building. are horizontal in expression due to

 

the one-story with ?at roof construction. The administrative building is

horizontallv expressed. but suegests a vertical expression due to the

vertically stacked bond brick pattern. The pavilion is vertical in expression
due to the arrangement of tall cylinder structures rising five [51 levels up

the hill directly adiacent to the amphitheater. The amphitheater possesses a

diagonal expression. beginning at the base of the hill at the stage level and

IQ

DJ

U1

(17)

(18)

(19)

(20)

moving in a westerly diagonal direction up to the top of the forty (40) fpot
hill.

of building setbacks. No of building setbacks is created
within the park-like setting.

Relationship of for coverages. The buildings occupv_less than thirtv
percent of its lot. with a broad grassv lawn with landscape
treatments surrounding all buildings.

Degree o?compiexitgwirhin the facades. A low degree of complexitv is
found at facade openings of the ticket of?ce. merchandising building? and
administrative building main entrances: door and window openings
throughout are unadopned. A subtle but high degree of complexity is found
in the architectural details of the pavilion due to the stacked nature of the
cvlinder shapes that create a tower of cvlindrical elements with vertical


Orientation. vistas, overviews. The primary orientation of all buildings.

amphitheater and stage structure, and obiects are designed to maximize
views of the Detroit River and Canada (facing south). The ticket booth

building and Exit Plaza are oriented to Face East Atwater Street facing

 

north}. The pavilion openings provide Frames for viewing the matpm
landscape and water features. The amphitheater provides patrons vistas of
the Detroit River and is the backdrop for the stage. The parcel was
designed to engage and connect people with the natural beautv of the

riverfront with the City of Detroit as its backdrop by placing mature trees

into the landscape.

LII

(21) Svmmerrie or appearance. The arranaemcnt of building;
structure and obiects are asvmmetrie because it was consciouslv desiened
bv the landscape architect to maximize views of the Detroit River and

laud-straw.-

(22) General environmenmi character. The

 

entertainment venue that?s interrelationship is to enin?vr the entertainment

complimented within its natural environment. Walkwavs are oraanicallv
arrangedto invite people to meander and stop to eniov views of the water

and landscaping elements. The surrounding area directly adiacent consists

mostly of vacant lots used for patron parking. There are scattered
commercial buildings along East Atwater Street between Chene and
Joseph Campau Streets. lmmediatelv adiacent to both east and west sides
of the parcel are parcels undercoinu development as additional outdoor
recreation venues that will provide a consistent link of riverfront parks
connected by a pathway to be utilized by the public.

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances, or resolutions, in con?ict with
this ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public
peace, health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. If this ordinance is passed by a two-thirds majority of City
Council members sewing, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective
upon publication in accordance with Section 4-118(1) of the 2012 Detroit City Charter;
otherwise, it shall become effective in accordance with Section 18(2) of the 2012

Detroit City Charter.

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Lawrence T. Garcia

Corporation Counsel

 

"City of Detroit

semi R. sauiott_ 

25

MEMORANDUM

TO:

Hon. James Tate, Chair, Planning Economic Development

FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 

CC:

VIA:
DATE:

RE:

Hon. Gabe Leland, Member, Flaming Economic Development
Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

Marcell Todd, Director, CPC

Tonja Long, Law Department

Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President

30 Oct 2019

MODIFICATION OF THE DRAFT SIGN ORDINANCE

Please make the following modi?cations to the draft sign ordinance:

1.

Remove line items: Section 4-1-1 (6) 4-1-1 (7). This modi?cation removes
landscaped rights-of-way from advertising sensitive areas.

Modify Section 4-4-123 to allow for automatic renewal of an advertising permit
after ten years if there is no other entity requesting the permit, the land owner is in
compliance with all City codes and the permit fee is paid. This eliminates the
mandate that the existing sign has to be removed at the end of ten years if the
applicant successfully renews the advertising permit.

Modify Section 4-4-128(d) to increase the number of super advertising signs to
45. This increases the total number of authorized signs to 70 from 60.

Modify Section 4-3?4 to include marihuana and associated products to the
prohibition of advertising within 1,000 feet of ?advertising sensitive property.?
Add a de?nition for ?marihuana? to Section 4-1?1. De?nitions.

Add a de?nition for ?marihuana products? to Section 4-1?1. De?nitions.

If you have any questions do not hesitate to contact my of?ce at, 313-224-1198

nter . 9* Woodward Ave. Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226

Coleman A. Young Fax {313-} 224-1684
bansons@detroitmi.gou

