[4011 (UL
Hem/m 5' 20/7

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6001608 100% City Funding AMEND 1 To Provide an Increase of Funds for Cardiac
Monitoring Supplies for the City of Detroit's Fire Department EMS Division. 
Contractor: Bound Tree Medical Location: 5000 Tuttle Crossing Blvd., Dublin,
OH 43016 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through August 31,
2020 Contract Increase Amount: $134,578.20 TOtal Contract Amount:
$328,297.22. FIRE

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001608 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
firm(s) or person(s):

3038049 100% City Funding To Provide an Emergency Demolition for Commercial
Property, 5432 W. Vernor. Contractor: Adamo Demolition Co. Location: 300
Seven Mile Road, Detroit, MI 48203 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through October 8, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $28,000.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3038049 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
October 30, 2019 
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

3038142 100% City Funding To Provide an Emergency Demolition for Residential
Property, 8221 Knodell. Contractor: Able Demolition, Inc. Location: 5675
Auburn Road, Shelby Township, MI 48317 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through October 15, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $15,554.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3038142 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

2"

27

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

3038188 100% City Funding To Provide an Emergency Demolition for the Following
Residential Properties, 13982 Goddard and 15550 Wabash. Contractor: Able
Demolition, Inc. Location: 5675 Auburn Road, Shelby Township, MI 48317 
Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through October 15, 2020 Total
Contract Amount: $27,421.50. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3038188 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

3038305 100% City Funding To Provide an Emergency Demolition for Residential
Property, 2694 Court. Contractor: Salenbien Trucking and Excavating,
Inc. Location: 9217 Ann Arbor Road, Dundee, MI 48131 Contract Period:
Upon City Council Approval through October 1, 2020 Total Contract Amount:
$21,392.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3038305 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

7?

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

3038320 100% City Funding To Provide an Emergency Demolition for Residential
Property, 16185 Bramell. Contractor: Able Demolition, Inc. Location: 5675
Auburn Road, Shelby Township, MI 48317 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through October 28, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $12,525.01.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3038320 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

3038452 100% City Funding To Provide an Emergency Demolition for Commercial
Property, 15215 Cherrylawn. Contractor: Gayanga Co. Location: 1120 W.
Baltimore Suite 200, Detroit, MI 48202 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through October 22, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $38,216.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3038452 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

3038455 100% City Funding To Provide an Emergency Demolition for the Following
Residential Properties, 6206 Avery, 6226 Avery and 6881 Minock. Contractor:
Able Demolition, Inc. Location: 5675 Auburn Road, Shelby Township, MI
48317 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through October 20, 2020
Total Contract Amount: $52,772.50. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3038455 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

'32.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

3038479 100% City Funding To Provide an Emergency Demolition for Commercial
Property, 3300 Warren. Contractor: Able Demolition, Inc. Location: 5675
Auburn Road, Shelby Township, MI 48317 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through October 21, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $17,473.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respect?illy submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3038479 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

CITY OF DETROIT 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1008
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Detroit, MI 48226 3
OFFICE OF CONTRACTING PROCUREMENT 13110061313) 224-4600

Fax: (313) 628.1160

    

CITY OF

DETROIT

 

  

October 28, 2019

TO: HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

Re: Contracts and Purchase Orders Scheduled to be considered at the Formal Session for October 22, 2019

Please be advised that the Contracts listed were submitted on October 16, 20 1 9 for the City Council Agenda
for October 22, 2019 have been amended as follows:

1. The Contractors Address was Submitted Incorrectly by the Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement.
Please see the correcti0n(s) below:

Submitted as: Page 1
CITYWIDE

6001603 100% City Funding To Provide the Assignment of Contract 6001603 from BDM
Transport, LLC to Black Circle, LLC for Moving Services. Contractor: Black Circle,
LLC Location: 19785 12 Mile Road Number 561, South?eld, MI 48076 
Contract Period: August 28, 2018 through August 27, 2021 Total Contract Amount:
$1,000,000.00.

Should Read as: Page 1
CITYWIDE

6001603 100% City Funding To Provide the Assignment ofContract 6001603 from BDM
TranSport, LLC to Black Circle, LLC for Moving Services. Contractor: Black Circle,
LLC Location: 8120 Jefferson Avenue Detroit, MI 48214 Contract Period:
August 28, 2018 through August 27, 2021 Total Contract Amount:

$1,000,000.00.
Submitted as: Page 1
TRANSPORTATION
6001919 100% City Funding - To Provide the Assignment of Contract 6001603 from BDM

Transport, LLC to Black Circle, LLC for Moving Services. Contractor: Black Circle,
LLC Location: 19785 12 Mile Road Number 561, South?eld, MI 48076 
Contract Period: August 28, 2018 through August 27, 2021 Total Contract Amount:
$1,000,000.00.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

CITY OF DETROIT 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1008
Detroit, MI 48225

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
OFFICE OF CONTRACTING PROCUREMENT one' (313) 2244600
Fax: (313) 628.1160

Should Read as: Page 1
TRANSPORTATION

6001919 100% City Funding To Provide the Assignment of Contract 600 1 603 from BDM
Transport, LLC to Black Circle, LLC for Moving Services. Contractor: Black Circle,
LLC Location: 8120 Jefferson Avenue Detroit, MI 48214 Contract Period:
August 28, 2018 through August 27, 2021 Total Contract Amount:
$1,000,000.00. . 

Respectfully Submitted,

  

BI. Jackson
Chief Procurement Of?cer


 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

CITY OF DETROIT 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1008
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER D?trmt. Ml348226
OFFICE OF CONTRACTING PROCUREMENT one- (31 224.4600

Fax: (313) 628.1160

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

RESOLVED, that Contract #6001603 and #6001919 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 16, 2019 be hereby and is approved.

   

0  DETROIT
BUILDINGS, SAH

Date: October 22, 2019

El?! ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL MI-INI

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL 
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH LOOR
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-0484 - 



HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RECOMMENDATION FOR DEF ERRAL

RE:
ADDRESS: 5545 Bedford
NAME: Hartland Investing LLC

Demolition OrderedMay 1, 2017
In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and

Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:
A special inspection conducted on October 18, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner

has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral request for this

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following

conditions:

1.

5.

6.

A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business davs from the date ofthe City Council

decision.

BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar day-s from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty??ve (45) calendar

days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during

the approved time frame for rehabilitation.
The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely

barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which

time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_]l rental pr0perties
The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

nd that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

We recomme

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without

further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respectfully Submitted.

Director

DB:bkd

CC:

I-lartland Investing LLC, 861 Long Lake DR, Brighton, MI 48114
Investing Group LLC, 861 Long Lake DR, Brighton, MI 481 14

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG liN l?liR
2 WOODWARD AVE, LOOR

on Dlil?ROl'l? MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS. ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - i

 
 
 

R01 

Date: October 22, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 12740 Mendota
NAME: TW Real Estate and Investment LLC
Demolition Ordered: October 26, 2015

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on October 17, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral request for this

property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_I_l rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.
At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions

of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Reap ll?ully submitted,

David Bell I 
Director


DB:bkd

ATTN: Latisha Williams


73
I?d
cc: TW Real Estate and Investment LLC, 34815 Glenwood, Wayne, MI 48184 :55

rw Real Estate and Investment LLC, 13.0. Box85006, Westland, MI 48185 :5



L.)

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER 3?

2 WOODWARD AVENUE. SUITE  026
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT PHONE: 313 0 628-2158
OFFICE or THE CHIEF FINANCIALOFFICER FAX: 313 224 . 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

October 10, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate a Sub-award of the FY 2018 Project Safe
Neighborhoods Grant

Black Family Development. Inc. has awarded the City Of Detroit Police Department with
the FY 2018 Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant for a total of $351,365.00. This grant is
a sub-award from the us. Department of Justice to Black Family DeveIOpment, Inc.
There is no match requirement for this grant.

The Objective of the grant is to create safer neighborhoods through a sustained
reduction in gang violence and gun crime. The funding allotted to the department will
be utilized to pay for overtime. travel. and supplies for Detroit Police personnel. This is
a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number
is 20696.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely.

Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:

Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants

Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department

This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget

'5

Office of Development and Grants anowmon

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from Black Family Development, Inc. in the amount of $351,365.00. to create safer
neighborhoods through a sustained reduction in gang violence and gun crime; and

WHEREAS. this request has been approved by the Law Department; and
WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget: now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20696, in the amount of $351,365.00, for the sub-award of the FY 2018 Project Safe
Neighborhoods Grant.

Page 1 of 1

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

 

 

PROJECT SAFE NEIGHBORHOODS

Subaward to The Detroit Police Department from Black Family Development
under its Project Safe Neighborhoods Federal Grant Award for Violent Gang
and Gun Crime Reduction; Federal Award Number 2018-GP-BX-0036

Contract Time Frame - April 16, 2019 September 30, 2021
Contract Subaward Amount $351,365.00

 

 

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

Table of Contents


Contractor?s Name 2
Purpose 2
Engagement of Contractor 2
Relationship of Parties 2 - 3
Description of Project 3
Performance Objectives 3
Scope of Service 4
Performance Metrics . . . 4
Internal Controls 5
Debarment Suspension 5
Cost Allocations 5 - 6
Fraud, Waste and Abuse 7
Budget Line Item Changes 7
Invoicing 7 - 8
Reporting Requirements 8 - 9
Contract Closeout 9
Termination 9
Insurance Requirement 10
Indemnification 10
Contract Budget/Time Frame 10 - 11
Signatures 11

Exhibit 1 Performance Measures

Exhibit 2 Detailed Budget

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

THIS CONTRACT is between Black Family Development, Inc., a Michigan non-profit

corporation with principal of?ces at 2995 East Grand Blvd., Detroit, Michigan 48202 and
the City of Detroit, Police Dt?aartment (the contractor) with its principal offices at
1301 Third Street, Detroit, Michigan 48226.

1. PURPOSE

1.01 The implementation of Project Safe Neighborhoods in the Eastern District of
Michigan is designed to "create safer neighborhoods through a sustained
reduction in gang violence and gun crime. The effectiveness of Project Safe
Neighborhoods is based on the cooperation of local, state, and federal
agencies engaged in a unified approach led by the US. Attorney's Office."

1.02 The following five design features to address specific gun crime and gage
violence will be implemented in Project Safe Neighborhoods: partnerships,

strategic planning, training, outreach, and accountability. (See Exhibit 1)

2. ENGAGEMENT OF CONTRACTOR

2.01 Black Family DeveIOpment engages the Contractor and the Contractor
agrees to faithfully and diligently perform the services according to the
terms and conditions contained in this Contract and the standard of
profession practice within your respective organization.

2.02 City of Detroit, Police Department, as the contractor, shall not
subcontract work described in this Contract as subcontracting is prohibited
within the terms of the Project Safe Neighborhoods federal grant

conditions.

3. RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES

3.01 Contractor Status: The relationship between Black Family Development

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)

Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction-Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program

Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

and said Contractor, as well as their respective employees and agents, is
that of Contractor, and neither shall be considered an agent or
representative of the other Party for any purposes, nor shall either hold

itself out to be an agent or representative of the other for any purposes.

4. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT

4.01

4.02

Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN) Task Force for the Eastern District, of
Michigan, of which City of Detroit, Police Department is a member. will
implement a 36 month comprehensive gang and gun crime reduction
program to reduce gang crime and violence through coordinated
suppression, prosecution, community policing, and prevention, intervention
and treatment. Detroit Police personnel, will conduct uniform, plainclothes
and undercover operations, including intelligence gathering, and spotting
collaboratively with DPD operation units, CVRP, state, federal and county
law enforcement agencies

?Task Force" is defined as an operational entity that works together in a
multi-jurisdictional capacity, on a full-time basis and reports for duty in a
space defined as the Task Force Operations Office by the multi-

jurisdictional partners.

5. PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES

5.01 Objective 1: Establish and expand evidence-based programming in PSN

task forces so that they can effectively and sustainably prevent and respond

to gun and gang crime.

5.02 Objective 2: Create and maintain coordination among federal, state, local,

and tribal law enforcement and prosecution officials; researchers; social

service providers: and community members with an emphasis on prevention,

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

tactical intelligence gathering, more vigorous and strategic prosecutions of

gun and gang crimes, and enhanced accountability

SCOPE OF SERVICE

6.01 The role of the Detroit Police Officer is to protect and serve the people of
Detroit. Officers do this by enforcing laws, including traffic codes, and assisting
the public in times of crisis. Officers can specialize in different areas of law
enforcement, such as detective work, bomb squad, mounted unit, or marine unit.
The Detroit Police Department will serve as the primary local law enforcement
partner. Detroit Police Department will also provide a Gang Resistance Education
and Training (GREAT) Officer.

For purposes of this Task Force, Officers will be working in a multi-
jurisdictional unit to include federal, state and additional local law enforcement
municipalities to target ?rearm and gang offenders, investigate violent crimes with
a ?rearm and/or gang nexus. analyze intelligence in concert with Task Force
Members, execute arrests, and testify in court. Additionally, duties will include
outreach efforts to youth in school. and participate in town hall and community
meetings to assist with primary and secondary interventions programming.

As a Project Safe Neighborhoods partner, Detroit Police Department will
meet regularly as a Task Force Member to review its respective achievement
toward the project?s collective strategies, which include: 1) targeted police
operations; 2) court/ prosecution partnerships; 3) researcher involvement in the
design, implementation and evaluation of activities; 4) probation/parole
compliance; 5) school-based interventions and parental empowerment, education;
6) increased community capacity for service delivery, and policing by community

and faith?based organizations.

PERFORMANCE METRICS

7.01 Project Safe Neighborhoods contractors are required to capture, measure

9.

10.

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)

Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program

Detroit Police Department Subaward Provider Contract

and report out on data that aligns with establishing and expanding
evidence-based programming as outlined in Exhibit 1, Performance

Measures Metric.

INTERNAL CONTROLS

8.01

8.02

All contractors are required to have accounting systems that accurately

account for funds contracted to them. A contractor's financial

management system may be reviewed at any time after receiving a

contract.

To be an acceptable financial management system, the contractors system

must:

. Maintain detailed and auditable records.

. Track the funding received from Black Family Development, Inc. for
Project Safe Neighborhoods separately from other grants and other
funding sources.

I Document the following information:

0 Amounts received
0 Amounts billed

DEBARMENT 8i SUSPENSION

9.01 All contractors involved in the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant must

complete and return the Debarment and Suspension Certification with their
signed BFDI contract. The certification must be submitted to the Chief
Executive Officer of Black Family Development, Inc. Guidance on the
Government-wide common rule for debarment and suspension is found at
Title 2 CFR Part 180. Actions that lead to Debarment and Suspension
include; Fraud . Falsifying Certifications, No Drug Free Workplace,
Lobbying. Misappropriating Funds, Not Turning In Required Reports,
Material Findings In Audits, No Audits and Lack of Internal Controls.

COST ALLOCATIONS

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)

Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program

Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

10.01 Per Title 2 CFR Part 225 and Part 230, Black Family Development, Inc.
require that a cost billed to the Project Safe Neighborhoods be all of the

following:

Allowable

Necessary to the performance of the project

Reasonable

Allocable to the project and consistently treated as a direct cost on
other projects

Not profitable

Claimed against only one contract

Permissible under State and Federal laws and regulations

10.02 All costs billed for Project Safe Neighborhoods, must:

Be approved in the budget

Be in line with and necessary to achieve the program goals and
objectives

include sufficient support

Not be supplanted

10.03 For purposes of Project Safe Neighborhoods budgeting and billing, the

following Table 1 outlines cost that are allowable and unallowable:

11.

12.

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)

Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program

Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

 

Table 1. Allowable and Unaiiowahio - Cost Categories

 

 

 

Al lm-?able Direct

Salaries and wage:
For direct lab-3r
employees
lincluding Fringe
benel'in. such 
holida}: lick lemr
etc. 1

Other employee
{urge bene?ts
allmable Indirect
Labor ernployeer.

Consultant sen-ices
contracted to
speci?c
Ptolect 

Tux cl al'dnecr labor
employee-i

P-latelialsand
tupplie; purchared
directly for me on a
ip-eeilk proieci 

E-quipn'xnt 55K



 

 

Allowable Indirect

hiainlenance of

buildings (rent.
electric it):
heat)

- Expense-s
associated \V?ill'l
telephone and
IT service:

0 General
supplies

. Depreciation

Costs
associated with
overhead stall.

- Other coSts not
readily
identi?able
?ill?! .1
particular
project

 

 



Un-hllunwahle

Lobbying

Items not included in approved budget

CoSt that should be charged to another grant

Alcoholic beverages

Entertainment. including amusements. diversions. social
activities. and tickets to shows or sporting went-:- (including
associated meals. lodging. rentals. transportation. or
gratuities]

Fines-3nd penalties-

Viza and passport rec-s

W'rlte-ol'l's for bad debt expenses
Contributic-ns or donations to charities
Contingencies

Fundialsmg and investment nunag-z-ment costs
Goo-d: or service: fat-personal use

Interest on borrowings. regardless ol'form
[.1nd acquisition

Cmnpensiition of full-time Federal employee-s
Tl avel of Federal enlployoex

 

 

 

FRAUD, WASH: AND ABUSE

11.01 Contractors for Project Safe Neighborhoods are encouraged to be aware of

common contract fraud schemes. This knowledge is the best way to reduce

or even eliminate the risk of fraud. Therefore Contractors are required to

adopt effective fraud risk-management efforts within their organizations,

and to encourage their staff and vendors to do the same in order to prevent

and detect fraud as early as possible. Please note that the consequences

of contract fraud can include:

a Debarment from receiving Federal Funding or Black Family

Development. Inc. contracts

I Black Family Development, Inc. recovery of funds
- Civil lawsuits and criminal prosecution/incarceration
. A combination of all or some of these remedies

BUDGET LINE ITEM CHANGES

12.01 Black Family Development, Inc. requires that all changes in contract

 

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)

Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program

Detroit Police Department Subaward Provider Contract

budget line items have prior written approval. In some instances budget
line item changes may require a Grant Adjustment Notice (GAN) which will -
need to be approved by both BFDI and the Department of Justice. Note

also that the policy for is that only one can be approved per award.

13. INVOICING

13.01

13.02

All activities for funding reimbursement must be executed within the
geographic area defined by the grant proposal. The PSN focus area is
Detroit's 9th precinct, and hotspots within the 9th precinct. This area is
bounded by McNichols (South). Gratiot to 7 Mile and 7 Mile to Hayes (East).
Hoover to 7 Mile and 7 Mile to Outer Drive (West), and 8 Mile (North).

Contractors involved in Project Safe Neighborhoods are required to submit
invoices no later than 7 days after the month of the invoice (Example,
May 2019 invoice must be submitted by June 7, 2019, in

order to be paid by June 14, 2019 if approved). Invoices should
contain the following pieces of information that tie the expense directly to
the funded program:

Name of contractor and invoice date.
Invoice number, as assigned by the contractor.
Description, price. and quantity of the item and/or services actually
delivered that match each line in the approved budget. Examples of
required and authorized documentation include:

Time Sheets

- Payment Receipts

- Mileage Forms

- Conference Registrations including Training Topics and

verification of attendance
- Lodging

. Payment terms that include the contractors' invoice due date.
Other substantiating documentation or information as required by a
contract.

0 Name, title. telephone number, and complete mailing address of
contract contact person.

0 Prior to payment, invoices must be approved by persons in Black
Family Development, inc. with the authority to do so.

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

Approved invoices will be paid within 7 days of receipt after funds are received

from the Department of Justice.

14. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

14.01 Black Family Development. lnc. requires contractors for Project Safe
Neighborhoods to submit both financial and program reports. These
reports describe the status of the invoices billed to the project, compare
actual accomplishments to objectives. and provide other pertinent
information. Contractor agreements may also include information regarding
reporting requirements specific to the particular contract. Progress reports
must be submitted within 14 days after the end of the reporting periods for
the life of the contract. Unless othenlvise noted, the final report. including
the final evaluation report, is due within 45 days after the end date of the
contract period.

Report Months Report 2018-19 Due Date 2019-20 Due Date 2020-21 Due Datl
Required

Oct Dec 1?5t Performance January 14, 2019 January 14. 2020 January 14. 2021

Quarter Metrics Tool (PMT)

Jan Mar 2"d PMT and Progress April 14, 2019 April 14. 2020 April 14, 2021

Quarter Report

Apr June 3rd PMT July 14, 2019 July 14. 2020 July 14. 2021

Quarter

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)

Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program

Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

Jul Sept 4th PMT and Progress October 14. 2019 October 14, 2020 October 14, 2021
Quarter 

Final Closeout PMT. Progress, and November 15, 202
Report Evaluation Report

Site Reviews May 2020 November 2021
Scheduled

15. CONTRACT CLOSEOUT

 

15.01 Contractors have 45 days after the contract period end date to close out

their contracts. This is also called the liquidation period. It is intended to
allow contractors the necessary time to provide support for all open issues
and invoices. This time frame cannot be used to add new cost for
services that have not been billed before or for services that were not
approved in the original contract.

Contractors should start the closeout process as soon as the project is
completed and all approved funding has been spent.

If the closeout process has not been initiated within 30 days of the
project period end date, Black Family Development, Inc. will begin the
closeout process without the contractor's consent. This is referred to as an

administrative closeout.

16. TERMINATION

16.01

Black Family Development, Inc. or the contractor, may terminate this
contract at any time for any reason by giving at least thirty (30) day notice
in writing to Black Family Development, Inc. If the contract is terminated by
Black Family Development, Inc., the contractor will be paid for all approved

and completed services as of the termination date.

17. INSURANCE REQUIREMENT

17.01 The City of Detroit is a Michigan municipal corporation, and is self-insured.

10

18.

19.

20.

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?_Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

INDEMNIFICATION

 

18.01 Each party shall be responsible for its negligent acts or omissions and the
negligent acts or omissions of its employees. officers, or directors, to the
extent allowed by law. The City does not waive any right or defense of

governmental immunity as granted by statute, case law or otherwise.

CONTRACT BUDGETITIME FRAME

19.01 The total budget allocation is $351 $65.00. with Year One (1) funding at
$140,546.00, and Year Two (2) funding at $105,409.50 and Year Three (3) at
$105,409.50. This budget will support overtime, training, conferences,
meetings, and supply cost as indicated in the proposal budget. Please see
detailed budget in Appendix 3.

19.02 The contract time frame is from April 16, 2019 to September 30, 2021.

SIGNATURES
Wherefore, the undersigned parties have executed this agreement, intending to

be bound hereby.

11

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subawa rd - Provider Contract

20. SIGNATURES
Wherefore, the undersigned parties have executed this agreement. intending to

be bound hereby.

Cityf of Detroit, Police Department

By: Date: 91/12/2017

Printed Name: James E. Craig

Title: Chief of Police

Address: 1301 Third Street, Ste. 73-751
Detroit, Michioan 48226

 

Black Family Development, Inc.

By: Date: 

Printed Name: Alice (3. Thompson

Title: Chief ExeCutive Officer

Address: 2995 East Grand Boulevard
Detroit, MI 48202

 

12

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Su baward - Provider Contract

Exhibit 1. Performance Measures

 

Performance Measures

Report Due Dates:

1St Quarter - Due January 1, 2019
Quarter - Due April 14, 2019
3'd Quarter - Due July 14, 2019

4'h Quarter - Due October 14, 2019

 

 

 

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subawa rd - Provider Contract

The following pages outline general questions and performance measures for the Bureau of Justice
Assistance (BJA) and BFDI - Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction (also known as Project Safe
Neighborhoods; PSN) Grant Program.

A PSN evaluation, funded by the National Institute ofJustice and conducted by Michigan State University
(MSU), found that PSN target cities achieved a 4.1 percent decline in violent crime compared to a 0.9
percent decline in non-target cities and of the PSN sites for which case studies were conducted, 8 out of 10
experienced statistically significant reductions in violent crime, ranging from 2 percent to 42 percent. Key
factors for success included U.S. Attorney?s Office leadership, cross-agency buy-in, and the ?exibility of the
program to adjust to the realities of individual jurisdictions.

Drawing on the results of MSU's evaluation, goal is to reduce gun and gang violence by the most
violent individuals in target neighborhoods by employing a research-driven, intelligence-led, and problem-
solving approach to reducing firearm and gang violence through enforcement, deterrence, and prevention.

PROGRAM OBJECT IVES
- OBJECTIVE 1: Establish and expand evidence?based programming in PSN task forces so that they can
effectively and sustainably prevent and respond to gun and gang crime.

- OBJECTIVE 2: Create and maintain coordination among Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement
and prosecution officials; researchers; social service providers; and community members with an
emphasis on prevention, tactical intelligence gathering, more vigorous and strategic prosecutions of
gun and gang crimes, and enhanced accountability.

STRUCTURE OF THE QUESTIONNAIRE

The PSN Grant Program questionnaire contains performance measures and narrative (goals and objectives)
questions. Complete the performance measures in the BJA BFDI Performance Measurement Tool (PMT)
four times per year to report on your activity during the prior 3 months, also known as a reporting period.
Complete the goals and objectives questions twice each year.

ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COMPLETION

BJA and expectation is that the person completing these questions will know the status and progress
of all aspects of your PSN program. Therefore, your agency's PSN coordinator/grantee point of contact (or
another designated person with working knowledge of the PSN project) should complete these questions
on your PSN initiative?s behalf. Your agency may also need to consult with BFDI, the PSN research partner
and other partner agencies to complete these responses.

PMT REPORTING PERIODS -

In July and January of each year, you will be responsible for creating a report from the PMT below that BFDI
will upload into the Grants Management System (GMS). This is the GMS report. During the non-submission
reporting periods, you are encouraged to create reports for your records, but you will not upload them to
the GMS. Enter your responses to the questions that follow in the PMT. If you have any questions about
the PMT or performance measures, please call PSN Program Manager? Kevin Bryant at 313-758-
0150 or send an e-mail to 

Note: Data entry will occur quarterly, with a 30day submission period following the close of the
reporting period.

If you have questions about your program, please contact your State Policy Advisor (SPA) at


14

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

AWARD ADMINISTRATION

Is this the last reporting period for which the contractor will have data to report?

Yes/ No

CONTRACT ACTIVITY

1. Was there contract activity during the reporting period? There is contract activity when the
contractor has obligated, expended, or drawn down grant funds to implement objectives proposed in
the approved contract. if you select ?Yes,? the program becomes Operational and should
remain so until the contract ends.

 

 

A. Yes/No
B. If No, please select from the following responses:
Select all
,Reasonls) for no grant activity during the reporting period. that apply

in procurement
Project or budget not approved by county, city, or State governing agency

 

 

 

Waiting to hire project manager, additional staff, or coordinating staff

 

Paying for the program using prior Federal funds
Administrative hold court case pending)
Still seeking BFDI budget approval

 

 

 

Waiting for partners or collaborators .
Other

If Other, please
explain .
2. Please complete the following table indicating the percentage of your PSN contract allocated
for each of the following categories. Percentage allocations should represent the entire life of the
award but can be updated by reporting period as needed. Please enter whole numbers only. Total

must be equal to 100%.

Allocation category Percent of overall program
funding

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Police agency

Research partner

All other partners/agencies
Total

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. If Other, please explain

 

15

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Red uction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

INFORMATION

This section?s purpose is to collect baseline information about your PSN project. All of these
questions are required during the first reporting period and will carry forward into subsequent
reporting periods. Your responses can be updated as needed.

3. What was the start date (month/year) of your PSN program? Your program?s start date may
be different from the date when you received your contract. (Baseline)

A. Month/Year:

4. Please provide the primary point of contact (POC) for the PSN initiative. Ifthere has been a
change in the POC, please update. (Carry-forward) A. Name:
B. PSN POC information:

 

 

 

1. Telephone number:
2. E-mail:
3. Address:

 

5. Has there been a change in agency or project leadership during the reporting period? (Carry-
forward) A. Yes/No
B. If Yes, please explain

 

6. Please provide the primary POC for the research partner that your agency will be working
with as part of this PSN program. If there has been a change in the research partner POC, please
update. (Carry-forward)

 

 

 

A. Name: B. Research partner POC information:
1. Telephone number:
2. E?mail:
3. Address:

 

7. Has there been a change in your PSN research partner or a significant change in the research
partner team members during the reporting period? (Carry-forward)

A. Yes/No
B. If Yes, please explain

8. How does your site plan to sustain the PSN program post-funding completion, possibly
without subsequent PSN funding? Select all that apply. (Carry-forward)

A. _Continue to invest in research partnerships

B. Continue to use data analysis to inform and improve strategic and tactical
responses

C. Foster community partnerships through systematic public outreach

D. Systematically offer in-service training

16

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

E. Replicate the PSN programs, if applicable

F. Plan to seek long-term funding (grants, local funding, foundation funding) G.
Other (please describe)

9. Which of the following partners did you consult when completing the performance measures
during the reporting period? {Carry-forward) Select all that apply.

Law enforcement partner

Research partner

United States Attorney's Of?ce representative
Community partner

Prosecutors

Corrections/community corrections

. Other (please describe)



17

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)

Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program

Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

PLANNING AND UNDERSTANDING THE PROBLEM

This section?s purpose is to measure the establishment of sustainable research activities and analysis
that PSN task force community agencies have integrated into their strategic and tactical operations.

Overall OJP program measures related to this section include: - Percentage of PSN sites with

completed strategic action plans, and

- Percentage of PSN sites that have completed a problem analysis.

10. Has your PSN task force completed all activities that were defined and outlined in your site's

Strategic Action Plan?
A. Yes/No
B. If Yes, skip to question 12

11. Based on the Strategic Action Plan template, please select the development status of each of the
following PSN Strategic Action Plan activities during the reporting period.

 

Action plan activities

Not
applicable

Not started

in? progress

Completed

 

Analyzed most recent violent crime, gun, and
gang crime data in the target area, based on
Uniform Crime Reporting or other local
sourcels) information

 

based on specific data elements and analysis

identified the problem and research methods 

 

Utilized the Violence Reduction Assessment
Tool

 

Identified target areas for the PSN initiative

 

identified goals for the PSN initiative

 

Identified an approach (evidence?based,
promising, and/or innovative strategies to be
employed to address the target problem)

 

Established a research design or plan
(describing special experience of the research
team and how the plan defines a dynamic
problem?solving process that will periodically
use data analysis)

 

Identified community partners/members
that will help with implementing the PSN
initiative 
Identified collaboration and outreach

strategies to accomplish project objectives

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18

 

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

 

Developed a sustainability plan for the PSN
initiative

 

Submitted Strategic Action Plan to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12."Did you complete the problem analysis during the reporting period? Problem analysis is an
approach/method/process conducted within the police agency in which formal criminal justice
theory, research methods, and comprehensive data collection and analysis procedures are used in a
systematic way to conduct in-depth examination of, develop

informed responses to, and evaluate crime and disorder problems?

A. Yes/No
B. if No, skip to Data Tracking and Data Analysis section

13. In which of the following activities did your research partner assist with the problem analysis
during the reporting period? Select all that apply.

Provided training and/or technical assistance to agency 

Introduced new partners to the working group to assist with problem response
Collected data for the problem analysis

Conducted or assisted in ongoing data analysis

interpreted analysis results

Provided recommendations on program strategies

Presented analysis results/recommendations to the agency and/or PSN working
group partners

H. Communicated analysis results/recommendations to groups outside of the
agency and/or PSN project working group local government, community
organizations, media)

97"?"9093?

DATA TRACKING AND DATA ANALYSIS

Data tracking and analysis are important to assist in targeting responses appropriately. Data tracking
and analysis are also used to assure the program is being implemented as planned so the targeted
response can be improved if needed. This section asks specific questions about analysis you
conducted as part of your PSN program and how you use this analysis in the
response/implementation process. Overall OJP program measures related to this section include:
-Percentage of PSN sites performing data analysis, and
-Percentage of PSN sites using certain data.

14. Which of the following groups performed data analysis for the PSN program during the
reporting period? Data analysis includes reviewing data to find information and support decision
making. Select all that apply.

A. Data was not analyzed this reporting period (skip to question 18)

B. Sworn employees of the police agency

 

Boba. R. (2003). Problem analysis in policing. Washington. D.C.: Police Foundation.

19

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

C. Civilian employees of the police agency

D. Research partner E. Outside contractor
F. Community partners
G. Employees of the prosecutor? 5 office

H. Other (please describe)

15. Which of the following data sources did your site use for your PSN project during the
reporting period? Select all that apply.

A. Official police call, crime and arrest data calls for service, officer-initiated
calls for service, crime incident reports, or arrest reports)

B. Internal agency pre-existing data tracking citizen complaints)

C. Community data foreclosures, health and human services data, or other

community data)
Corrections data (probation and parole data)
Prosecution data pretrial data)
Court data (case outcomes, convictions, sentences)
Social service provider data (number of clients, number of sessions)
Client risk assessments
Focus group data (focus groups of community members, officers, or victims)
Survey data (surveys of community members, officers, clients, or victims)
Systematic observations of places by trained observers physical disorder)
intelligence from confidential or other informants
. Youth-focused data (juvenile justice system data, gang-related data, school data)
National Integrated Ballistics lntelligence Network
. Other (please describe)
16. What types of data analysis did you conduct to inform the work of your PSN site task force
during the reporting period? Select all that apply.
A. __Trend analysis
B. Crime mapping C. Risk terrain mapping
D. Social network analysis E.
Gang audits



F. Repeat violent persons analysis

G. Crime pattern analysis

H. Gunshot detection and location analysis shot spotter)
l. None of the above

J. Other (please describe)

17. Please indicate whether your task force used analysis to inform the following PSN program
activities during the reporting period. Analysis includes the review of crime data, disorder data,
objective criteria, or other systematic data sources (9.9., systematic observations of place, survey
data) to inform task force activities and decision making. if you answer ?Not applicable, this

20

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

indicates that you do not perform this activity at your site. If you answer this indicates that
your site performed this activity but did not use analysis to inform the activity.

No1:
applicable ?Yes No

 

 

Working group activities

 

Prosecution partner activities

 

Law enforcement partner activities

 

Call-in meetings for at-risk people

 

Adjustment to the target area

 

Compilation/adjustments to at-risk person
list/population

Errections, reentry, or community corrections
interventions

Criminal investigations

 

 

 

Crime-prevention activities

 

Hospital-based interventions

 

Community empowerment through
information dissemination
Other

 

 

 

 

If Otherrplease describe

 

 

 

 

18. In which of the following activities did your research partner assist with the PSN program
response during the reporting period? Select all that apply.

A. Provided training and/or technical assistance to agency 

B. Introduced new partners to the PSN working group to assist with problem
response

C. Collected data for the problem response analysis

D. Conducted or assisted in ongoing data analysis

E. interpreted analysis results

F. Provided recommendations on program strategies

G. Presented analysis results/recommendations to the agency and/or PSN working

group partners

H. Communicated analysis results/recommendations to groups outside of the
agency and/or PSN project working group local government, community
organizations, media)

I. Other (please explain)

21

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Detroit Police Department Subaward - Provider Contract

19. Has your research partner provided you with any PSN project products community
survey findings, defined gun violence hot spots and comparison areas, progress reports,
presentation slides, final report) during the reporting period?

A. Yes/No
B. If Yes, how many products were provided?
C. If Yes, please list and briefly describe the products you received

 

22

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

This section?s purpose is to measure training availability on PSN initiatives during reporting periods. This
section also focuses on the frequency and quality of training and technical assistance provided by
BJA or BFDI-funded training assistance partners. The overall OJP program measures related to this

section are:

'Number of personnel trained on methods used for the PSN initiative (gun and gang violence),
'Number of WA requests during the reporting period, and
Quality of the interaction during the reporting period.
20. Did PSN task force members receive training during the reporting period?
A. Yes/No
B. If No, please skip to question 22
C. If Yes, how many types of trainings did your task force members attend during the
reporting period? 

21. For each of the trainings task force members received, please indicate the number of task
force members who attended the training and the length of the course in hours during the
reporting period. Count each person only once per training topic, regardless of how many times
he/she attended the training.

Number of training
sessions received

 

Number
people trained

Length of
can rse

Training

Training name provided by

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


22. Did you/your agency/entire task force receive any technical assistance from BFDI or any other

BJA funded programs during the reporting period? Technical assistance can be defined as using a
partner for assistance implementing programs, strategic planning, curriculum development, data
analysis, meetings, fostering relationships, trainings, research and information requests, and other
technical areas that would supplement your PSN program.

A. Yes/ No

B. if No, skip to Task Force Partnerships section.

C. if Yes, how many providers did you work with during the reporting period? 

 

23. For each of the technical assistance engagements with a TA provider during the reporting
period, please enter the following questions. The number of entries should equal the number you
entered in question 22 C.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name of Feedback on
technical your encounters
assistance Nature of contact (select Number of With this TA

provider ali that apply} engagements Satisfaction Provider

 

23

 

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract - City of Detroit, Police Department

 

 

Phone call [Positive whole Very satisfied

in-person meeting number] SatiS?Ed

Video conference Neither satisfied nor

Site visit dissatisfied
Dissatisfied

conference Ver dissatisfied

Other (if Other, please 

explain)

 

 

 

 

 

 

TASK FORCE PARTNERSHIPS

The PSN task force partnerships (or working groups) are an important component of the PSN
program. The task force is defined as personnel within the law enforcement agency, the research
partner, and any other external partner(s) who are involved in the project?s strategic operations. This
group may also include task force subcommittees and any other agency staff who will experience an
impact as a result of the PSN program implementation. The task force and other partners should
collaborate throughout the PSN program to help with planning and implementation activities.

This section asks questions about your PSN task force and other partnership activity during the
reporting period. Overall DJP program measures related to this section include:

- Frequency of PSN task force partnership meetings,

-Number of partners involved in PSN task force partnerships, and

-Number of activities PSN task force is conducting.

24. How often did your PSN task force hold organized meetings during the reporting period?
Select the answer that best approximates how often you met.

A. We did not meet this quarter (skip to Response to Problem section)
B. Daily

C. Weekly/biweekly

D. 

Quarterly

25. Please rate the following PSN task force partners based on this statement: "This partner was
actively involved in the PSN initiative this reporting period.? Please rate your partners on a scale of
1-5 as indicated below. if you have multiple partners in a category, please rate them as a whole. if
a partner fits in more than one category, please rate it in the one category that fits the best for
that partner. Please do not rate yourself.

 

Stro Neit Stro

ngly her ngly

disa agre agre

gree 
Dlsa ?Elsa

gree gree Agr
ee

 

This partner is actively involved in the

PSN program BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

 

State leadership governor?s office)

 

Tribal leadership

 

?Local leadership mayor?s office)

 

Federal law enforcement agencies

 

State law enforcement agencies

 

Local law enforcement agencies

 

 

Community-based victim services

 

Pretrial service organizations

 

U.S. Attorney's Office

 

Prosecutor (District attorney?s office or
State?s attorney?s office)

Public defense

 

 

Courts

 

Community corrections
(probation/parole)

Corrections

 

 

 

 

Health care providers

 

Mental health providers

 

Substance use disorder treatment
providers

Child protective services

 

 

Community?based service providers 
housing, employment)

 

Community groups 
neighborhood watch, community
center, community representatives)

Faith?based organizations

 

 

Subject~matter experts

 

Foundations/philanthropic organizations

 

Researcher, evaluator, or statistical analysis
center

 

Training and technical assistance
provider(s)

 

 

Tribal criminal justice agencies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract - City of Detroit, Police Department

 

 

Businesses . . . (F)

 

schools

 

Public services trash collection,
public works)
Other (please describe)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26. Please indicate activities the task force carried out during the reporting period. Select all that
apply.

A. Briefed agency leaders
B. Conducted planning meetings
C. Discussed group membership/participation
D. Discussed resources needed/resource sharing
E. Invited outside partners to speak with the members faith based)
F. Planned related activities for group members
G. Reviewed initiative responses directed patrol, prosecution status, at-risk
persons list)
H. Planned prevention programs school-based enrichment programs, Citizens
on Patrol)
1. Planned at?risk persons call-in meetings
J. Reviewed analysis products K. Reviewed project progress
L. Engaged in project?sustainability planning M.

Other (please describe)
Does your taskforce have any subcommittees that work on assigned PSN tasks?

A. Yes/No
B. If Yes, please enter the number of subcommittees

26

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT 
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

RESPONSE TO PROBLEM

This section addresses activities that specifically focus on a response to a crime, disorder, or other
community problem mental health problems, community satisfaction, community engagement)
as determined by your PSN task force's problem analysis. Overall OJP program measures related to
this section include:

-Percentage of PSN sites using a targeted response model based on their problem analysis,

and

-Percentage of PSN sites providing direct services as part of the PSN initiative.

28. Does your PSN task force focus efforts around any of the following models? Check all that
apply.
A. Community?oriented approach community policing, community
prosecution)

B. Problem-solving approach problem-oriented policing, prosecutor as
problem solver)

C. Geographic focus hot spots policing) D. High-rate persons focus 
focused deterrence)

E. High-rate group/gang focus pulling levers)

F. Procedural justice (ensuring individuals feel law enforcement is fair and just)

G. Violence interrupters, gang interventions, conflict mediators Cure
Violence)

H. Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design strategies (CPTED)

l. Situational crime prevention
J. Unsure/don?t know
K. Other (please describe)

29. How often did your task force conduct the following activities as part of your PSN program
during the reporting periodBall ekly


 

 

Created or reviewed at?risk persons list

 

Utilized directed/hot spots patrol

 

Utilized at-risk persons meetings

 

 

Conducted public outreach contacted potential
victims, employed focused-media outreach)
Conducted community engagement chief?s
roundtables, community advisory boards)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

 

Engaged in community problem solving partnerships
with businesses, faith-based institutions, community
groups)

 

Provided or referred individuals to community

 

services, assistance, or counseling mental health
assistance, victim services)

 

Referred cases for Federal prosecution

 

Referred cases for State/local prosecution

 

Advocated for the diversion of individuals from prosecution
to alternative sanctions or programs - -- - - - - .- 

 

Diverted those with mental health or substance abuse
problems from arrest to treatment/drop-off centers

 

Provided group or classroom instruction for at?risk

 

population - - .I.
Provided direct services for at-risk population 

 

 

Utilized intervention teams crisis intervention,
violence interrupters, gang interventions, conflict
mediators) 

 

Other

 

 

 

 

 

 

If Other, please explain

 

 

 

 

 

30. If you have provided direct services during this reporting period, which. of the following
services were provided to your at?risk population? (Select all that apply)

A. _Cognitive based. These services include therapeutic programs used to change

criminal thinking and behavior, such as moral reconation therapy, Think for a Change, or

aggression replacement training.

B. _Educational. These services foster knowledge by helping participants develop daily

life skills that can enhance their opportunities.

C. _Employment. These services are designed to help people find and obtain suitable

job opportunities.

D. _Health care/Medicaid eligibility. These services are designed to help individuals or

families find, obtain, or retain health ca re.

E. _Housing. These services are designed to help individuals or families find, obtain, or

retain suitable housing, including transitional housing
F. _Mental health. These services are provided in correctional facilities or in the

community for those participants under supervision and may include counseling programs

or group self-help programs.

G. _Pro-social. These services use directed skill building to help participants interact in
a positive way with others.

H. _Substance abuse. These services include substance abuse education, treatment, or
aftercare.

I. _Transportation. These services include assistance with public transportation costs

or help in finding other reliable transportation.

28

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

J. _Vocational. These services help participants learn a trade and enhance theirjob
opportunities.

K. ?Individualized case planning. These services help participants set goals, objectives,
and conditions for reentering society.

L. _Family engagement. These services focus on involving family members in the
treatment process to help provide support and encouragement

M. _Other (please describe)

Prevention and Community Empowerment

This section?s purpose is to measure your program?s development and promotion of community
outreach and empowerment efforts to support other gun and gang violence reduction strategies.
Overall OJP program measures related to this section include:
- Percentage of PSN sites incorporating prevention methods into their task force activities,
and
- Frequency of outreach conducted in the target area.

31. How often was your PSN task force involved in the following community activities as part of
your PSN program during the reporting period?

 

w&iw QUE
eklgekl' Mo rterl
i? 
le

Dali


 

Parent-focused programs parenting
skills)

Youth-focused programs Boys and
Girls Club, children of incarcerated parents
programs, school enrichment programs)

 

 

Media outreach TVNads, billboards,
news spots) - -

 

Community-leadership programs 
community mobilization)

 

Public meetings joint problem
solving, presentations) .

 

Community events National Night
block parties, and other programs to
promote police?community relations)

 

'Distributing a newsletter, e-mail, or other
bulletin .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

 

Social media activities Facebook,
Twitter) - . - 

Outreacth?o'targetpapillations street
outreach, gang contacts 

Other

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If Other, please describe

 

 

 

 

 

32. Which of the following crime prevention models/strategies, if any, did your PSN site use
during the re porting period? Select all that apply.
A. _Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design strategies situational
crime prevention (approaches that change the perceived opportunities for a crime, such
as leading individuals to believe the crime is more difficult or risky; for example, access
control to parking lots or improved lighting on a walkway)

B. Youth development (programs that promote positive behavior and decrease
negative behavior in youth; for example, any of the Blueprints programs)

C. Crime awareness (programs aimed at increasing the awareness ofa crime
problem, including solutions to prevent crime; for example, a ?lock it or lose it? program)
D. Increase personal safety (programs that provide instruction on increasing
personal safety; for example, a rape aggression defense class)

E. Community building (programs that promote community cohesion, including
public safety partnerships between the community and elements of the criminal justice
system; for example, National Night Out?) F. At?risk persons call-in/ notification
meetings

G. None of the above

H. Other crime prevention model/strategy (please explain)

Program Impact

This section?s purpose is to measure the impact and organizational integration of the PSN initiative to
support gun and gang violence reduction strategies. Overall program measures related to this
section include:
-Percentage of PSN sites using data to measure the impact of their PSN initiative, and
-Percentage of sites with a measurable/identifiable addition to their community due to the
integration of PSN.

33. Since the beginning of your program, has it demonstrated a measurable impact on the
problem of focus? When answering this question, please consider your comparison areas and/or
implementation design and analysis findings to this point. Please consult with the research
partner when answering this question.

A. Yes, positive impact B. Yes, negative impact C. No measurable impact
D. Not yet been measured

E. Please explain your response, using data measures, such as percentage and raw
number increases or decreases in gun or gang crime, where possible.

30

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

34. What data did you use to support your conclusion about your PSN program?s impact?

A. Official police call, crime, and arrest data calls for service, officer-initiated
calls for service, crime incident reports, or arrest reports)

B. Internal agency pre?existing data tracking use of force reports, citizen
complaints)

C. Community data foreclosures, health and human services data, or other
community data)

D. Corrections data probation and parole data)

Prosecution data pre-trial data)

F. Court data case outcomes, convictions, sentences)

G. At-risk persons risk assessments

H. Focus-group data focus groups of community members, officers, or

victims)

l. Survey data surveys of community members, officers, clients, or victims)
J. Systematic observations of places by trained observers physical disorder)
K. Intelligence from confidential or other informants

L. data juvenile justice system data, gang-related data, school
data)

M. NIBIN (National Integrated Ballistics intelligence Network

N. Other (please explain)

35. Please indicate what new resources, practices, or other features were new this reporting
period and made possible due to the funding provided to your PSN initiative.

Crime data analyst

Increase in crime analysis capacity

Data housing, sharing, and networking across agencies

Integration of data analysis into the culture of partner agencies

Identified target/focus areas

Partnerships across organizations that impact the community

Partnerships between Federal and local law enforcement and/or prosecutors



Increased involvement of noncriminal justice entities community
organizations, social service providers, community leaders)

I. Community mobilization aimed at reducing/preventing crime
J. Targeted crime reduction/prevention strategies
K. Collaboration with a research partner L. Other (please explain)

GOALS AND OBJECTIVES MODULE

{This module should be completed in January and July by all grantees that had any activity during the
1-reporting period or at the close of the grant, based on the previous or next 6 months.

31

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract - City of Detroit, Police Department

1. Please identify the goal(s) you hope to achieve with your funding. If you have multiple goals,
please report on each separately (one at a time), and repeat questions 1?4 for each goal.

 

2. What is the current status of this goal?

A. Not yet started

in progress

C. Delayed

D. Completed

Goal no longer applicable

3. During the past 6 months, please describe any progress you made or barriers you
encountered related to this goal.

 

 

4. In the next 6 months, what major activities are planned for this goal?

 

 

Please answer the following questions based on your overall activity during the previous 6 months.

5. Did you receive or do you desire any assistance from BJA or a BJA-funded technical
assistance provider? Check all that apply.

A. Yes, we received assistance (please describe)

B. Yes, we would like assistance or additional assistance (please describe)

C. No

 

 

6. BJA likes to showcase grantees who are working on successful, innovative, and/or evidence
based programs. Do you have any noteworthy accomplishments, success stories, or program
results from this reporting period that you would like to showcase?

A. Yes (Please share your story at: 
B. No

32

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract - City of Detroit, Police Department

Exhibit 2 Detailed Budget

33

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

34

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reductions?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract -- City of Detroit, Police Department

 

 

who INTER-OFFICE MEMORANDUM Phi"
1-ch scum SUPPORT OPERATIONS 2019
To: Chief of Police. James E. Craig (Through Channels)?"

Subject: SIGNATURE REQUEST: PROJECT SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD BUDGET
From: Director. Trisha Stein, Administrative Operations

in 2018 the Detroit Police Department was awarded $351.365??
funding over three years {October 1. 2018 to September 30, 2021) from the
Department of Justice to support work related to the Project Safe Neighborhood
(PEN) program. This program a partnership between DPD. the US Attomey?s
Of?ce. Michigan Department of Corrections, Wayne County Prosecutor's Of?ce.
and other state and federal law enforcement agencies was based In the 
Precinct during previous years. Starting in January 2018. the FEM program
focused its work in scout car areas 901. 902, 905, 908. and 90?.

The intended goal of PSN is to reduce gun crime and gang violence in the
focus area. The primary activities of DPD as a partner in are to support
case development for federal prosecution of a violent gang and conduct regular
enforcement operations in the focus area.

To proceed with the initiative, the budget must be submitted to the
Department of Justice with your signature. The following is a high-level summary
of the three~year budget:

elr1 our 2 You
5 13 4
993.35

1 1:13st a 405.96
us 1

 

 

- Overtime: Cost of Detroit Police personnel. who will conduct operations
collaboratively with DPD operation units. CVRP. state, federal and
county law enforcement agencies.

- Travel: DPD has estimated up to ?ve of?cers that will be traveling to
various trainings and required DOJ Conference l' Meetings.

- Supplies: Monies for of?ce supplies and PSN task force attire.

i request your review and signature on the attached PSN Budget
Document so that it may be submitted to the Department of Justice. Thank you
for your consideration. 

IR Cl) Wl TRISHA 

Director
Administrative Opera

a?esgegsemu

l0 

 

35

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

Project Safe Neighborhoods: Community Policing Pll'tner
Detroit Police Department (DPD) Budget Narrative Beginning
October 1, IBIHoptemMr 30, 202!

Year 1 Year 2 rear 3 Total
Overtime 131422 95278 96279 323970
Travel 7993 35 7993.35 7993.35 23980.05
Supplies 1130 65 1133.15 1138.15 3406.95
Total: 140546 1054095 1054095 351365

Year 1

The UFO Preposal Covers a 36 month period Beginning October 1, 20] B-Smtembcr 30, 202]. For year
I The Comprehensive Violent Reduction Partnership (CVRP) Overtime allocation monies will be used
to cover the overtime cost ot? Detroit Police personnel. who will conduct uniform. plainclolhcs and
undercover operations, including intelligence gathering. and spotting collaboratively with DPD operation
units, CVRP. state. federal and county law enforcement agencies. Projected schedule for year 1. l2
months consists of Sergeants and Officers working at an approximate overtime rate of $46.00 For two
thousand eight hundred tiny seven (2.857) working hours. The gap in the current PSN strategy is the
lack of funds to expand the concentrated PSN program beyond these precincts to other targeted areas that
are inundated with violent crime. Law enforcement would benefit from additional ?tnds for gun
interdiction and investigation training. The current budget de?cit for the city of Detroit has greatly
impacted the manpower tutti ultimately the services that were provided by the Detroit Police Department.
Funding will be used to pay for overtime ot?of?eers that are assigned to investigate gun crimes.

"giver-time Coat Approailrate Rate Hours Total Cost
Sergeants/Police 46.00 2,857.00 5 131,422.00
omcen
Sub Total Budget 2,857.00 8 l3 l,422.00

Travel - The Detroit Police Department has estimated up to ?ve of?cers that will be traveling to various
trainings in the 12 month period. Program staff is expected to attend required 
operation training and certi?cation. Coal
includes: airfare. lodging, baggage. meals, and ground transportation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Budge_tltern Travel Total Year I
DPD $1993.35
Hotel Accommodations Lodging for 15 nights $4 333 35
5 Of?cers 3 nights $288.89 night including taxes 
Round trip air liar-e
Transportation transportation from Detroit $2,500.00
$500.00 round trip 5
. $50 per day for vehicle rental
Local Transportation 4 days $200.00
GSA Per Diem 
[5 Days Average $64/tlay $960.00

 

 

 

 

 

36

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract City of Detroit, Police Department

Supplies - all supplies will be used by assigned PSN personnel for investigations. Of?ce supplies
will be dedicated for program only. Law enforcement identi?cation will be embroidered on all
clothing gear. Note the larger quantity of task force attire items will be ordered in year one start
up and less in years 2 and 3 (see yrs. 2 and 3 budget narratives).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Item Quantity Coat Subtotal

PSN CVRP Task Force

attire (t-shirts, sweat

shirts and jackets lees Cost for all items $831.99 $831.99

will be ordered in years

2 and 3)

Box of Xerox paper 2 $34.99 $69.98

Printer Toner Ink 2 879.34 $158.63

in]: Pens $70.00 $70.00
Sub Total Supply Cert $1,130.65

Grand Total 8 ?0,546.00

 

Detroit Police Department (DPD) Year 2 Narrative

The DPD Proposal Covers a 36 month period. For year 2 The Comprehensive Violent Reduction
Partnership (CVRP) Overtime allocation monies will be used to cover the overtime cost of Detroit
Police personnel, who will conduct uniform, plainclothos and undercover operations, including
intelligence gathering. and spotting collaboratively with DPD operation units, CVRP, state. federal
and county law enforcement agencies. Projected schedule for year 2, 12 months consists of
Sergeants and Of?cers working at an approximate overtime rate of $46.00 for two thousand ninety
three (2,093) working hours.

The gap in the current PSN strategy is the lack of funds to expand the concentrated PSN program
beyond these precincts to other targeted areas that are inundated with violent crime. Law
enforcement would bene?t ?'om additional funds for gun interdiction and investigation training.
The current budget de?cit for the city of Detroit has greatly impacted the manpower and ultimately
the services that were provided by the Detroit Police Department. Funding will be used to pay for
overtime of of?cers that are assigned to investigate gun crimes.

Overtime Coat Rnte Hours Tgy Cogt 
Sergeants/Police 46.00 2,093.00 3 96,278.00
Of?cers

Total Budget 2,093.00 96,278.00

Travel - The Detroit Police Department has estimated up to ?ve of?cers that will be traveling to
various trainings in the 12 month period. Program staff is expected to attend required 
ContitrencelMeetings, out-ol-state meetings/conferences, operation enforcement training and
G.R.E.A.T. certi?cation. Cost includes: airfare. lodging. baggage, meals, and ground transportation.

37

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)

Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract - City of Detroit, Police Department

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15 Average $64/day $9601!)

 

 

Budget Ital: Travel Total Year 2
DPD $7,993.35
Hotel Accommodations Lodging for 15 nights 
5 Drama aim $288.89 night including taxes ??335

Round trip air faro
Transportation transportation from Detroit $2,500.00

$500.00 round trip 5

. $50 par day for vehicle natal

marmspomuon 4 days $200.00
GSA Per Diem

Supplies - all supplies will he used by assigned PSN personnel for investigations. Of?ce supplies
Will be dedtcatcd for program only. Law enforcement identi?isation will be embroidered on all

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clothing gear.
Item Quantity Cost Subtotal

PSN CVRP Task Force

attire (t-ahirts, sweat Cost for all item $839.49 $839.49

shirts and jackm)

Box oonrox paper 2 $34.99 $69.98

Printer Toner Ink 2 $79.34 ?58.63

Ink Pans $70.00 $70.00
Total Supply Coat $1,138.15

Grand Total 3 105,409.50

38

 

 

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract - City of Detroit, Police Department

Detroit Police Department (DPD) Year 3 Narrative

The DPD Proposal Covers a 36 month period. For yeer 3 The Comprehensive Violent Reduction
Partnership (CVRP) Overtime allocation monies will be used to cover the overtime cost of Detroit
Police personnel, who will conduct uniform, plainclothea and undercover operations, including
intelligence gathering, and spotting collaboratively with DPD operation units, CVRP, state, federal
and county law enforcement agencies. Projected schedule for year 3, 12 months consists of
Sergeant: and Of?cers working at an approximate overtime rate of $46.00 for two thousand ninety
three (2,093) working hours.

The gap in the current PSN struegy is the lack of funds to expand the concentrated PSN program
beyond these precincts to other targeted areas that are inundated with violent crime. Law
enforcement would bene?t from additional funds for gun interdiction and investigation training.
The eta-rent budget de?cit for the city of Detroit has greatly impacted the manpower and ultimately
the services that were provided by the Detroit Police Department. Funding will be used to pay for
overtime ofot??cers that are assigned to investigate gun crimes.

Drawn-s Cost . Heart-? Tom Cot
SergeantalPollee 46.00 2,093.00 3 96,278.00
Oan

Totnl Budget 2,093.00 96,278.00

Travel - The Detroit Police Department has estimated up to ?ve of?cers that will be traveling to
various trainings in the 12 month period. Program staff is expected to attend required DOJ
Conference/Meetings, out-of-state meetings/conferences, operation enforcement training and
GREAT. certi?cation. Cost includes: airfare, lodging, baggage, meals, and ground transportation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
     

 

 

 

Budget Item Travel Total Year 3
DPD $7,993.35

Hotel Accommodations Lodging for 15 nights $4,333 35
5 Of?cers 3 nights $288.89 night including taxes 
Round trip air fare
Transportation transportation from Detroit $2,500.00
$500.00 round trip 5
. $50 per day for vehicle rental
Local Transportation 4 days $200.00
GSA Per Diem
15 Days Average $64/day $960.00

 

 

 

 

39

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction-Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract - City of Detroit, Police Department

Sopplies - all applies will be used by assigned PSN personnel for investigations. O?ee auppliee
Will be dedicated for program only. Law enforcement identi?cation will he mnbroidered on all

clothing gear.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Item Qunn?ly_ Cost 8
Teak Force ?but? 
altire (t-shins, sweat Cost for all ileum $839.49 3
shirts and jackets) $8 949
Box of Xerox paper 2 $34.99 $69.98
Printer Toner Ink 2 $79.34 ?58.68
Ink Pens $70.00 $70.00
Total Supply Coot 81.138.15
Grand Total 105.409.50

 

Agency: Detroit Police Department

Authorize-d Signor: it'll-'1? 1


Tiller 0/11411/ dig 

 



 

Due: 5' .3 2&7.

40

BLACK FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (BFDI)
Violent Gang and Gun Crime Reduction?Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program
Provider Contract - City of Detroit, Police Department

41

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
a 2 WODDWARD l026 .
DETROIT, MIC HIGAN 48226

CITY or Demon - 628-2I
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER [.3224 . 05438

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

October 1 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2019 Innovations in Community-
Based Crime Reduction Program

The US. Department of Justice has awarded the City of Detroit Police Department with
the FY 2019 Innovations in Community-Based Crime Reduction Program for a total Of
$999,860.00. The total project cost is $999,860.00. The grant period is October 1. 2019
through September 30' 2023.

The objective of the grant is to reduce gun-related, violent and drug crimes in areas
targeted for demolition of vacant properties. The funding allotted to the department will
be utilized to convene a cross sector partnership to develop and implement a place-
based, data-driven strategy to address violent crime. This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number
is 20693.

i respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely.

(w

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjlah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget

 

Office of Development and Grants mime"

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the US. Department of Justice. in the amount of $999,860.00. to reduce gun-
related. violent and drug crimes In areas targeted for demolition of vacant properties; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and
WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE iT RESOLVED, that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20693. in the amount of $999,860.00, for the FY 2019 Innovations in Community-Based
Crime Reduction Program.

Page1oi1

U.S. Department ot?Justiee

Of?u oI'Justice Programs

 

 

Of?ce ot?tlte Assistant Attorney General ll'mhinglun. t? :05"
September 28. 20 I9

The Honorable Mike Duggan
City of Detroit

I Woodward Ave. Ste ?26
Detroit. MI 48226

Dear Mayor Duggan:
On behall'ol? Attorney General Wiliiam P. Barr, it is my pleasure to infomt you that the Of?ce ol?Justiee Programs has

approved your application for funding underthe FY l8 Innovations in Community-Based Crime Reduction Program in the
amount of $999,860 for City of Detroit.

Enclosed you will ?nd the Grant Award and Special Conditions documents. This award is subject to all administrative and
?nancial requirements, including the timely submission of all ?nancial and programmatic reports. resolution ol'nll interim
audit ?ndings. and the maintenance ol'a minimum level ofcash-on-hand. Should you not adhere to these requirements, you
will be in violation of the terms of this agreement and the award will be Subject to termination for cause or other adminisuativc
action as appropriate.
If you have questions regarding this award. please contact:

- Program Questions, Linda Hill-Franklin. Program Manager at {202) and

- Financial Questions. the Of?ce of the Chiel? Financial Ollicer, Customer Service Center (CSC) II
(800) 458-0786. or you may contact the CSC at 

Congratulations. and we look forward to working with you.
Sincerely.

i

We 1- 

Katharine T. Sullivan
Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Enclosures

US. Department of Justice
Of?ce of Justice Programs
O?ice of r'w'i Rights

 

 

Washington. DC 2053!
September 28, 20l9

The Honorable Mike Duggan
City of Detroit

I Woodward Ave. Ste [[26
Detroit, MI 48226

Dear Mayor Duggan:

Congratulations on your recent award! The Office for Civil Rights (OCR). Of?ce of Justice Programs US Department of
Justice (DOJ) has been delegated the responsibility for ensuring that recipients of federal ?nancial assistance from the OJP, the Of?ce
of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS and the Of?ce on Violence Against Women (OVW) are not engaged in
discrimination prohibited by hw. Several federal civil rights laws, such as Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of I964 and Title IX of
the Education Amendmentsof 1972, require recipients of federal ?nancial assistance to give assurances that they will comply with
those laws. In addition to those civil rights laws. many grant program statutes contain nondiscrimination provisions that require
compliance with them as a condition of receiving federal ?nancial assistance. For a complete review of these civil rights laws and
nondiscrimination requirements, in connection with and other awards. sec


Under the delegation of authority. the OCR investigates allegations of discrimination against recipients from individuals. entities. or
groups. In addition. the OCR conducts limited compliance reviews and audits based on regulatory criteria. These reviews and audits
permit the OCR to evaluate whether recipients of ?nancial assistance from the Department are providing services in a non-
discriminatory manner to their service population or have employment practices that meet equal-opportunity standouts.

ll'you are a recipient of grant awards under the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act or the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency
Prevention Act and your agency is pan of a criminal justice system. there are two additional obligations that may apply in connection
with the awards: (1) complying with the regulation relating to Equal Employment Opportunity Programs and (2)
submitting ?nding ofdiscrimination to OCR. For additional information regarding the EEOP requirement, see 28 CFR Part 42.
subpart E, and for additional information regarding requirements when there is an adverse ?nding. see 28 C.F.R. 
205(c)(5). Please submit information about any adverse ?nding to the OCR at the above address.

We at the OCR are available to help you and your organization meet the civil rights requiremenls that are associated with OJP and
other DOJ grant funding. If you would like the OCR to assist you in ful?lling your organization's civil rights or nondiscrimination
responsibilities as a recipient of federal ?nancial assistance. please do not hesitate to let us know.

Sincerely.

77W awn??
Michael L. Alston
Director

cc: Grant Manager
Financial Analyst

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

US. Department ofJuslicc
Office oI'Juslicc Programs
mm?: 1 or 2:
Bureau of Justice Assistance Grant
I. NAME AND ADDRESS [Including Zip Code) 4. AWARD NUMBER: zolo-m-axmos
City DfD?loil
Woodward the. Ste ?36 5. PROJECT PERIOD: FROM TO 00r30r2023
Dmuil. Ml 40220
BUDGET PERIOD FROM moron-2010 To own/20:3
a. AWARD DATE ommzow 7, ACTION
IRSN ENDOR No. a. SUPPLEMENT NUMBER Iniu?al
38600-1606 00
2b. GRANTEE DUNS NO
I 11:99:00 9 PREVIOUS AWARD AMOUNT so
3. PROJECT TITLE AMOUNT OF THIS AWARD 999.000
FY l9 CBCR Program
I I Town. AWARD 999.000

 

 

I2. SPECIAL CONDITIONS

ON THE ATTACHED PAGEISI.

THE ABOVE GRANT PROJECT IS APPROVED SUBJECT TO SUCH CONDITIONS OR LIMITATIONS AS ARE SET FORTH

 

13. STATUTORY FOR GRANT

This project is supporlnl undcl - CBCRI Pub. L. No. I I645. 133 Sin! l3, ?4

 

I-I . CATALOG OF DOMESTIC FEDERAL ASSISTANCE Number}

16 317 - Criminal Juslice Innovaliun I?murnm

I5. METHOD OF PAYMENT
GPRS

 

I6. TYPED NAME ANDTITLE OF APPROVING OFFICIAL

Kalhuinc T. Sullix an

Principal Deputy Assislam Attorney (3mm!

AGENCYAPPROVAL GMWEEACCEPTANCE 

TYPED NAME ANDTITLE OF AUTHORIZED GRANTEF. OFFICIAL

Mike Duggnn
Mayor

 

I7. SIGNATURE OF APPROVING OFFICIAL

{dim-W!"

I9 SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OFFICIAL DA 

 

AGENCY

usnom 

 

10. ACCOUNTING CLASSIFICATION CODES

FISCAL FUND BUD. DIV.

YEAR CODE ACT. OFC. REG SUB. POMS AMOUNT
3 81 BO 00 00 855850
31 80 00 00 00 

 

 

 





 

FORM 40002 (REV. 5-87) PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE.

OJP FORM 445)

 

 

US. Department of Justice

I Of?ce ofJustiCe Programs . AWARD CONTINUATION 
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET 3 mac 2 or 22
Grant
PROJECT NUMBER AWARD DATE 09123120?

SPECIAL CONDITIONS

I'd

Requiremean of the award; remedies for non-compliance or for materially false statements

The conditions of the award are material requirements of the award. Compliance with any assurances or certi?cations
submitted by area behalf of the recipient that relate to conduct during the period of pcrfannance also is a material
requirement of this award. By signing and accepting this award on behalf ofthe recipient. the authorized recipient
of?cial accepts all material requirements ofthe award, and speci?cally adopts all such assurances or certi?cations as if
personally executed by the authorized recipient of?cial.

Failure to comply with any one or more oflhesc award requirements - whether a condition set out in full below. a
condition incorporated by reference below, or an assurance or certi?cation related to conduct during theaward period -
- may result in the Office ofiustice Programs taking appropriate action with respect to the recipient and the
award. Among other things. the may withhold award funds, dimilow costs. or suspend or terminate the award.
The US. Department ofJustice including OJP. also may take other legal action as appropriate.

Any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement to the federal government related to this award (or concealment

or omission of a material fact) may be the subject ofcriminal prosecution (including under l8 U.S.C. IOOI andlor 162 l.
andfor 34 U.S.C. and also may lead to imposition ofcivil penalties and administrative remedies for false
claims or otherwise (including undcr3  U.S.C. 3729-3730 and 380l-38 l2).

Should any provision ot'a requirement ofthis award be held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, that provision
shall ?rst be applied with a limited construction so as to give it the maximum effect permitted by law. Should it be
held, instead, that the provision is utterly inValid or such provision shall be deemed from this
award.

Applicability of Part 200 Uniform Requirements

The Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles. and Audit Requirements in 2 C.F.R. Pan 200. as adopted
and supplemented by in 2 C.F.R. Pan 2800 (together, the "Part 200 Uniform Requirements") apply to this FY
2019 award from OJP.

The Pan 200 Uniform Requirements were ?rst adopted by on December 26. 20l4. if this FY 20l9 award
supplements funds previously awarded by 01? antler the same award number funds awarded during or before
December the Part 200 Uniform Requirements apply with respect to all funds under that award number
(regardless of the award date, and regardless of whether derived from the initial award or a supplemental award) that
are obligated on or alter the acceptance date of this FY 2019 award.

For more information and mourns on the Part 200 Uniform Requirements as they relate to 01F aWards and subawards
(?subgrants?), see the website at 

Record retention and access: Records pertinent to the award that the recipient (and any subrecipient ("subgrantce") at
any tier) must retain -- typically for a period of 3 years from the date ofsubmission of the ?nal expenditure report (SF
425}. unless a different retention period applies - and to which the n-cipient (and any subrecipient at
any tier) must provide access, include performance measurement information. in addition to the financial records,
supporting documents, statistical records, and other pertinent records indicated at 2 C.F.R. 200.333.

In the event that an award-related question arises from documents or other materials prepared or distributed by 
that may appearto con?ict with, ordiffer in some way from. the provisions of the Part 200 Uniform Requirements, the
recipient is to contact 01? for clari?cation.

OIP FORM 400011 

US. Department of Justice

 

Office ofJustiee Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET nos 3 or :2
Grant
PROJECT NUMBER awwao one meteors
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

3. Complianca with DOJ Grants Financial Guide

Referencrs to the 001 Grams Financial Guide are to the DOJ Grants Financial Guide as posted on the OJP website
(currently. the "00] Grants Financial Guide" available at including any
updated version that may be posted during the period of performance. The recipient agrees to comply with the 
Grants Financial Guide.

4. Reclassi?cation of various statutory provisions to a new Title 34 of the United States Code

On September I. 2017. various statutory provisions previously codi?ed elsewhere in the U.S. Code were editorially
reclassi?ed (that is. moved and renumbn?cd) to a new Title 34. entitled "Crime Control and Law Enforcement." The
reclassi?cation encompassed a number of statutory provisions pertinent to OJ awards (that is. OJ grants and
cooperative agreements), including many provisions previously codi?ed in Title 42 of the US. Code.

Echctive as of September I. 2011', any reference in this award document to a statutory provision that has been
reclassi?ed to the new Title 34 of the US. Code is to be read as a reference to that statutory provision as reclassi?ed to
Title 34. This rule speci?cally includes referencrs set out in award conditions. references set out in
material incorporated by reference through aWard conditions, and referencrs set out in other award requirements.

5. Required training for Point ofContact and all Financial Points of Contact

Both the Point ofContact (POC) and all Financial Points of Contact (FPOCs) for this award must have successfully
completed an ?nancial management and grant administration u-aining" by I20 days after the date of the
recipient's acceptance of the award. Successful completion of such a training on or alier January l. 2017. will satisfy
this condition.

In the event that either the POC or an FPOC for this award changes period of performance. the new POC or
FPOC must have successfully completed an ?nancial management and grant adminisuation training" by no
calendar days a?er - the date ofOJP's approval of the "Change Grantee Contact" GAN {in the case of a new
POC). orll) the date the FCC enters information on the new FPOC in GMS (in the case ofa new FPOC). Successful
completion ofsuch attaining on or after January I, 20?. will satisfy this condition.

A list of OJP trainings that OJP will consider ?nancial management and grant administration training? for
purposes of this condition is available at All trainings that satisfy this condition
include a session on grant fraud prevention and detection

The recipient should anticipate that 011? will immediately withhold ("freeze") award funds if the recipient fails to
comply with this condition. The recipient's failure to comply also may lead OJP to impose additional appropriate
conditions on this award.

6. Requirements related to "dc minimis" indirect cost rate

A recipient that is eligible under the Part 200 Uniform Requirements and other applicable law to use the "de minimis"
indirect cost rule described in 2 C.F.R. 200.4 and that elects to use the "de minimis" indirect cost rate. must advise
OJP in writing of both its eligibility and its election. and must comply with all associated requirements in the Part 200
Uniform Requirements. The "de minimis" rate may be applied only to modi?ed total direct costs as de?ned
by the Part 200 Uniform Requirements.

Oll' FORM 400012 (REV 4-88)

US. Department ol'Justbc -
Otl'rce ofJustiee Program AWARD CONTINUATION

 

Bureau of Justice Assistance 3 SHEET race 4 or 2.:
Grant
raorecr NUMBER :m-or-rrx-noos AWARD one men/20:9
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

7. Requirement to report potentially duplicative funding

ll'tlte recipient currently has other active awards of federal funds. or if the recipient receives any other award of federal
funds during the period ol'perl'onnance for this award. the recipient must determine whether funds from any
ol'those other federal awards have been. are being. or are to he used (in whole more of the
identical cost items for which funds are provided under this award. If so. the recipient must notify the DOJ
awarding agency (OJP or OVW, as appropriate} in writing of the potential duplication. and, if so requested by the 
awarding agency, must seek a budget-modi?cation or change-o f-projcct-scope grant adjustment notice (GAN) to
eliminate any inappropriate duplication of funding.

8. Requirements related to System for Award Management and Universal Identi?er Requirements

The recipient must comply with applicable requirements regarding the System for Award Management (SAM),
currently accessible at This include: applicable requirements regarding registration with SAM.
as Well as maintaining the currency ol'inl'omtation in SAM.

The recipient also must comply with applicable restrictions on suhawards to ?rst-tier subreeipients
(?rst-tier "subgrantees"), including restrictions on subawards entities that do not acquire and provide (to the
recipient) the unique entity identi?er required for SAM registration.

The details of the recipient's obligations related to SAM and to unique entity identi?ers are posted on the 011? web site
at (Awanl condition: System for Arvard Managemart (SAM) and Universal
Identi?er Requirematts), and are incorporated by reference here.

This condition does not apply to an award to an individual who received the award a natural person unrelated to
any business or nompro?t organization that he or she may own or operate in his or her name).

OJP FORM 400W: 

US. Department ofJustice

 

Of?ce of Justice Proglams AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance I SHEET PAGE 5 or 2:
Grant
PROJECT NUMBER AWARD one amateurs
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

9. Employment eligibility veri?cation for hiring under the award
I. The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must--
A. Ensure that, as part ofthe hiring process for any position within dte United States that is or will be funded (in whole
or in part) with award funds. the recipient [or any subrecipient) property veri?ts the employment eligibility of the
individual who is being hired, consistent with the provisions of 8 U.S.C. I324a(a)( l) and (2).

B. Notify all persons associated with the recipient (or any subrccipient) who are or will be involved in activities under
this award of both?

(1 this award requirement for veri?cation of employment eligibility. and

(2) the associated provisions in 8 U.S.C. I324a(a)(l) and (2)1hat. generally speaking. nuke it unlawful. in the United
States, to hire (or recruit for employment) certain aliens.

C. Provide training (to the extent necessary) to those persons required by this condition to be noti?ed of the award
requirement for employment eligibility veri?cation and ofthe associated provisions of 8 U.S.C. l324a(a)(l) and (2).

D. As part ofthe rccordlteeping forthc award (including pursuant to the Fun 200 Uniform Requirements), maintain
records ofall employment eligibility veri?cations pertinent to compliance with this award condition in accordance with
Form 1-9 recon] retention requirements. as well as records ofall pertinent noti?cations and trainings.

2. Monitoring

The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with this condition.

3. Allowable costs

To the extent that such costs are not reimbursed under any other federal program. award funds may be obligated for the
reasonable. necessary. and allocable costs (ifany) of actions designed to ensure compliance with this condition.

4. Rules of construction

A. Staff involved in the hiring process

For purposes of this condition. petSons ?who are or will be involved in activities under this award" speci?cally includes
(without limitation) any and all recipient (or any subrecipient) of?cials or other staff who are or will be involved in the
hiring process with respect to a position that is or will be funded (in whole or in part) with award funds.

B. Employment eligibility con?rmation with E-Verify

For purposes ofsatisfying the requirement ofthis condition regarding veri?cation of employment eligibility. the
recipient (or any subrecipient) may choose to participate in. and use, E-Verify provided an
appropriate person authorized to act on behalfof the recipient {or subrecipient) uses E-Verify (and follows the proper
E-Verify procedures. including in the event ofa 'Tentativc Noncon?rmation? or a "Final Noncon?rmation") to
con?rm ernployment eligibility for each hiring fora position in the United States that is or will be funded (in whole or
in part) with award funds.

C. "United States? speci?cally includes the District ofColumbia. Pucrto Rico. Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United
States. and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marietta islands

D. Nothing in this condition shall be understood to authorize or require any recipient. any subrecipierrt at any tier. or

011? FORM 4000f: (REV. 4-88)

US. Department of Justice

 

Of?ce ofJustice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET PAGE 6 or 22
Grant

PROJECT NUMBER AWARD DATE Will/3019
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

any person or other entity, to violrle any federal law, including any applicable civil rights or nondiscrimination law.

E. Nothing in this condition. including in paragraph 4.3., shall be understood to relieve any recipient. any subtecipient
at any tier, or any person or other entity. ofany obligation otherwise imposed by law, including 8 U.S.C. I324a(a)( I)
and (2).

Questions about E-Verify should be directed to DHS. For more information about E-Veril'y visit the E-Verify
website or entail E-Verify at E-Verify@dhs. gov. E-Verify ernployer agents can email E-
Vcrify at 

Questions about the meaning or scope ofthis condition should be directed to OJP. before award acceptance.

l0. Requirement to report actual or imminent breach ofpersanally identi?able information (Pll)

The recipient (and any ?subrecipient? at any tier) must have written procedures in place to re5pond in the event of an
actual or imminent "breach" (0MB Moll-l2) if it (or a subrecipicnt) creates. collects. uses, processes. stores,
maintains. di55eminates, disclosw, or disposes of "personally identi?able information (2 CFR 200.79) within the
scope of an OJP grant-funded program or activity, or (2) uses or operates a "Federal information system? (OMB
Circular A-130). The recipient's breach procedures must include a requirement to report actual or imminent breach of
PH to an OJP Program Manager no later than 24 hours alter an occurrence of an actual breach, or the detection of an
imminent 

1. All subawands must have speci?c federal authorization

The recipient. and any subrecipient at any tier. must comply with all applicable requiremems for
authorintion of any subatvard. This condition applies to agreements that - for purposes of federal grants
administrative requirements - OJP considers a "subawatd" (and therefore does not consider a procurement
?contract").

The details oftlte requirement for authorization of any subaward are posted on the web site at
(Award condition: All subawartls (?subgrants") must have
speci?c federal authorization), and are incorporated by reference here.

I2. Speci?c post-award approval required to use a noncompetitive approach irt any procurement contract that Would
exceed 5250.000

The recipient. and any subreeipient at any tier, must comply with all applicable requirements to obtain
speci?c advance approval to use a noncompetitive approach in any procurement contract that would exceed the
Simpli?ed Acquisition Threshold (currently. $250,000). This condition applies to agreements that - for purposes of
federal grants administrative requirements - OJP considers a procurement "contract" (and therefore does not comider
a subaward).

The details of the requirement for advance approval to use a noncompetitive approach in a procurement contract under
an OJP award are posted on the OJP web site at 
(Award condition: Speci?c post-award approval required to use a noncompetitive approach in a procurement contract
(if contract would exceed $250,000?. and are incorporated by reference here.

OJP FORM 400012 (REV 4-88)

US. Department othIstice

 

Ofl'rce ofJustice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance . SHEET nos 7 or :2
Grant
PROJECT NUMBER rower-exams AWARD arms meteors
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

l3. Unreasonable restrictions on competition under the award; association with federal government

SCOPE. This condition applies with respect to any procurement ofproperty or services that is funded (in whole or in
part) by this award. whether by the recipient or by any subrecipient at any tier, and regardless of the dollar amount of
the purchase or acquisition, the method of procurement. or the nature of any legal instrument used. 11a: provisions of
this condition must be among those included in any subaward {at any tier).

I. No discrimination. in procurement transactions. against associates of the federal government

Consistent with the Part 200 Uniform Requirements - including as set out at 2 C.F.R. 200.300 (requiring
awards to be ?manage[d] and administcr[ed] in a manner so as to ensure that Federal funding is expended and
associated programs are implemented in full accordance with US. statutory and public policy requirements?) and

200.3 l9(a] (generally requiring "[a]ll procurement transactions [to] be conducted in a manner providing full and open
competition" and forbidding practices "restrictive of competition," such as "[p]lacing unreasonable requirements on
?rms in order for them to qualify to do business? and taking '[a]ny arbitrary action in the procurement process") - no
recipient (or subrecipient, at any tier) may (in any procurement transaction) discriminate against any person or entity on
the basis ofsuch person or entity?s status as an "associate ofthe federal government" (or on the basis ofsuch person or
entity's status as a parent. af?liate. or subsidiary ofsuch an associate). except as expressly set out in 2 C.F.R.

200.3 l9(a) or as speci?cally authorized by USDOI.

Monitoring
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subreeipientcompliartce with this condition.
3. Allowable costs

To the extent that such costs are not reimbursed under any other federal program, award funds may be obligated for the
reasonable, necessary. and allocable costs (if any) ofactions designed to ensure compliance with this condition

4. Rules of construction

A. The term "associate of the federal govemment" means any person or entity engaged or employed (in the past or at
present) by or on behalf of the federal government as an employee, contractor or subcontractor (at any tier). Grant
recipient or -subrucipient (at any tier), agent, or otherwise - in undertaking any work, project, or activity for or on
behalf oftor in providing goods or services to or on behalfol') the federal government. and includes any applicant for
such employment or engagemurt, and any person or entity committed by legal instrument to undertake any Such work,
project, or activity (or to provide such goods or services) in future.

B. Nothing in this condition shall be understood to authorize or require any recipient. any subrecipient at any tier. or
any person or other entity. to violate any federal law. including arty applicable civil rights or nondiscrimination law.

OJP FORM 4000f: (REV 4-38)

US. Department of Justice 

 

Office of Justice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET PAGE 3 or :2
Grant 
raorccr NUMBER AWARD one awesome
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

14. Requiremean pertaining to prohibited conduct related to traf?cking in persons (including reporting requiremena: and
OIP authority to terminate award)

The recipient, and any subrccipient("subgran1ce") at any tier. must comply with all applicable requirements including
requirements to report allegations) pertaining to prohibited conduct related to the traf?cking of persons, whether on the
part of recipients. subrccipients or individuals de?ned [for pu rposas of condition) as "employees"
ofthe recipient or ofany subrecipient.

The details ofthc recipient's obligations relatetl to prohibited conduct related to traf?cking in persons are posted on the
OJP web site at condition; Prohibited
conduct by recipients and Subrecipienls related to traf?cking in persons (including reporting requirements and OJP
authority to terminate award?. and are incorporated by here.

l3. Determination of suitability to interact with panicipating minors

SCOPE. This condition applies to this award if it is indicated -- in the application for the award (as approved by
in the application for any subaward, in any tier]. the funding announcement (solicitation). or an
associated federal statute - that a purpose of some or all of the activities to be carried out under the award (whether by
the recipient. or a subrecipient at any tier) is to bene?t a set of individuals under I8 years of age.

The recipient. and any subrecipient at any tier. must make determinations of suitability before certain individuals may
interact with participating minors. This requirement applies regardless of an individuals employment status

The details of this requirement are posted on the OJP web site at 
(Award condition: Determination of suitability required. in advance, for certain individuals who may interact with
participating minors). and are incorporated by reference here.

l6. Compliance with applicable rules regarding approval. planning. and reporting of conferences. meetings. trainings. and
other events

The recipient, and any subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier. must comply with all applicable laws, regulations.
policies. and of?cial guidance (including speci?c cost limits. prior approval and reporting requirements. where
applicable) governing the use of federal funds for expenses related to conferences (as that term is de?ned by D01).
including the provision of food andfor beverages at such conferences, and costs of attendance at such conferences

lnfonnation on the pertinent definition of conferences and the mles applicable to this awanl appears in the 
Grants Financial Guide(cunenlly. as section 3. 0 of"l'oslaward Requirements" in the Grants Financial Guide?).

Requirement for data on performance and effectiveness under the award

The recipient must collect and maintain data that measure the performance and effectiveness of worlt under this award.
The data must be provided to OJP in the manner (including within the timcframes) speci?ed by OJP in the program
solicitation or other applicable written guidance. Data collection suppons compliance with the Government
Performance and Results Act (GPRA) and the GPRA Modernization Act and other applicable laws

l8. OJP Training Guiding Principles
Any training or training materials that the recipient -- or any subrecipient at any tier - develops or

delivers with OJP award funds must adhere to the OJP Training Guiding Principles for Grantees and Subgrantees.
available at htm.

OJP FORM 4000i: 4-38)

US. Department 

 

Othce of Justice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET PAGE 9 or 2:
Grant
raoracr NUMBER :ots-EtLBX-oms awaao DATE 0912mm
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

I9. Effect of failure to address audit issues

The recipient understands and agrees that the awarding agency (OJ or OVW, as appropriate] may withhold
award funds, or may impose other related requirements. if (as determined by the DOJ awarding agency) the recipient
does not satisfactorily and address outstanding issues from audits required by the Part 200 Uniform
Requirements (or by the terms of this awanl). or other outstanding issues that arise in connection with audits.
investigations, or reviews of awards.

20. Potential imposition of additional requirements

The recipient agrees to comply with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the DOJ awarding agency
(OJP or OVW. as appropriate) during the period of performance for this award. if the recipient is designated as "high-
risk? for purposes ofthe DOJ high-risk grantee list.

Compliance with regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 CPR. Part 42

The recipient, and any subrecipient at any tier. must comply with all applicable requirements of 28
C.F.R. Part 42. speci?cally including any applicable requirements in Subpan of28 C.F.R. Part 42 that relate to an
equal employment opportunity program.

22. Compliance with regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination 28 FR. Part 54

The recipient, and any subrecipient (?subgrantee?) at any tier. must comply with all applicable requirements of 28
CPR. Part 54. which relates to nondiscrimination on the basis of sex in certain "education programs."

23. Compliance with D01 regulations pertaining to civil rights and nondiscrimination - 28 ER. Part 38

The recipient. and any subrecipient "subgrantce") at any tier, must comply with all applicable requirements of28
C.F.K Part 38 (as may be applicable from time to time), speci?cally including any applicable requirements regarding
written notice to program bene?ciaries and prospective program bene?ciaries

Cum-ally, among other things. 28 CPR. Part 38 includes rules that prohibtt specific forms of discrimination on the
basis of religion. a religious beiicl'. a refusal to hold a religious belief, or refusal to attend or participate in a religious
practice. Part 38, currently. also sets out rules and requirements that pertain to recipient and subrecipient
("subgrantce") organizations that engage in or conduct explicitly religious activities, as well as mics and requirements
that pertain to recipients and subrccipients that are faith-based or religious organimtions

The test of 28 CPR. Part 38 is available via the Electronic Code of Federal Regulations (can-catty accessible at

i?r by browsing to Title 28-Judicial Administration. Chapter 1, Part
38, under ?current" data.

FORM 400M 4-88}

US. Department of Justin-

 

Office of Justice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET PAGE lo or 2:
Grant
PROJECT NUMBER AWARD DATE 09/385115)
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

24. Restrictions on "lobbying"

In general, as a matter offederal law, federal funds awarded by may not be used by the recipient, or any
subrecipient ("subgrantee") at any tier. either directly or indirectly, to support or oppose the enactment, repeal,
modi?cation. or adoption of any law. regulation. or policy. at any level of government See 18 U.5.C I913 (There
may be exceptions if an applicable federal statute speci?cally authorizes certain activities that otherwiSe would be
barred by law.)

Another federal law generally prohibits federal funds awarded by (HP from being used by the recipient, or any
subrecipient at any tier. to pay any personto in?uence (or attempt to in?uence} a federal agency. a Member of
Congress, or Congress (or an official or employee of any of them) with respect to the awarding of a federal grant or
cooperative agreement. contract. subcontract, or loan, or with respect to actions such as renewing. extending.
or modifying any such award. Sec 3  U.S.C. I352. Certain exceptions to this law apply, including an exception that
applies to Indian tribes and u-ibal organizations

Should any question arise as to whether a particular usa of federal funds by a recipient (or subrecipient) would or might
fall within the scope of these prohibitions, the recipient is to contact OJP for guidance, and may not proceed without the
express prior Written approval of OJP

25. Compliance with general appropriations-law restrictions on the use of federal funds (FY 2019)

The recipient. and any subrecipient (?subgrantee?) at any tier, must comply with all applicable restrictions on the use of
federal funds set out in federal appropriations statutes Pertinent restrictions. including from various ?general
provisions" in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019, are set out at

I'rojp him, and are incorporated by refenmce here.

Should a question arise as to whether a particular use offedeial funds by a recipient (or a subrecipient) would or might
fall willtin the scope of an appropriations-law restriction, the recipient is to contact for guidance, and may not
proceed without the prior written approval 

26. Reporting potential fraud, waste. and abuse, and similar misconduct

The recipient and any subrecipicnts ("subgroutees") must refer to the Of?ce of the General
(OIG) any credible evidence that a principal, employee. agent. subrecipient. contractor, subcontractor, or other person
has, in connection with funds under this awanl - (1) submitted a claim that violates the False Claims Act; or (2)
committed a criminal or civil violation of laws pertaining to fraud. con?ict of interest. bribery. gratuity. or similar
misconducL

Potential fraud, waste, abuse. or misconduct involving or relating to funth under this award should be reported to the
010 by-?tr I online submission accessible via the OIG webpage at r'oigjuslicc 
(select "Submit Report Online?). (2) mail directed to Office of the Inspector General, US Depanment of Justice,
Investigations Division, I45 New York Avenue, Suite 7I00. Washington, DC 20530; andfor (3) by facsimile
directed to the DIG Fraud Detection Office (Attn. Grantee Reporting) at (202) (fax).

Additional information is available from the DOJ OIG website at -'oig justice govlhotline.

Olf' FORM 

US. Department of Justice

 

Of?ce of Justice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION I
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET PAGE II or 2:
Grant
raorecr NUMBER amen one user/core
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

Restrictions and certi?cations regarding non-disclosure agreements and related matters

No recipient or subrecipient ("subgrantee") under this award. or entity that receives a procurement contract or
subcontract with any funds under this award. may require any employee or contractor to sign an internal con?dentiality
agreement or statement that prohibits or otherwise restricts. or purports to prohibit or restrict. the reporting (in
accordance with law) ofwaste. fraud. or abuse to an investigative or law enforcement representative ofa federal
department or agency authorized to receive such information.

The foregoing is not intended. and shall not be understood by the agency making this award. to contravene
requirements applicable to Standard Form 3 12 (which relates to classi?ed information). Form 44 I4 (which relates to
sensitive companmented information), or any other form issued by a federal department or agency governing the
nondisclosure ofclassil?rcd information.

i. In accepting this award, the recipient?

a. represents that it neither requires nor has required internal con?dentiality agreements or statements from employees
or contractors that currently prohibit or otherwise currently restrict {or purport to prohibit or restrict) employees or
contractors from reporting waste, fraud. or abuse as described above; and

b. certi?es that. if it or is noti?ed that it is or has been requiring its employees or contractors to execute
agreements or statements that prohibit or otherwise restrict (or purport to prohibit or restrict). reporting of waste. fraud.
or abuse r5 described above. it will immediately stop any further obligations of award funds. will provide prompt
written noti?cation to the federal agency making this award. and will resume (or permit resumption of) such
obligations only if expressly authorized to do so agency.

2. If the nrcipient does or is authorized under this award to make subawards ("subgrants"). procurement contracts. or
both?

a. it represents that?

(1) it has detennined that no other entity that the recipient's application proposes may or will receive award funds
(whether through a subaward ("subgrant"). procurement contract. or subcontract under a procurement contract) either
requires or has required internal con?dentiality agreements or statements from employees or contractors that 
prohibit or currently restrict (or purport to prohibit or restrict) employees or contractors from reporting waste.
fraud. or abuse as described above; and

(2.) it has made appropriate inquiry. or orherw'sc has an adequate factual basis. to support this representation; and

b. it certifies that. if it learns or is noti?ed that any subrecipient. contractor. or subcoraractor entity that receives funds
under this award is or has been requiring its employees or contractors to execute agreements or statements that prohibit
or otherwise restrict (or purport to prohibit or restrict). reporting of waste. fraud, or abuseas described above. it will
immediately stop any further obliguions of award funds to or by that entity. will provide prompt written noti?cation to
the federal agency making this award. and will resume (or permit resumption of) such obliguions only 
authorized to do so by that agency.

FORM 4000/2 (REV 4-58]

U.S. Department of Justice I I

 

Of?ce ofJustice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance I SHEET PAGE I: or a:
Grant
rnorcernurnaca 20I9-BJ-BX-0005 amen oars 09:23am
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

28. Compliance with 4  U.S.C. 4712 (including prohibitions on reprisal; notice to employers)

The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with. and is subject to. all applicable provisions of 4i
U.S.C. 47 I 2, including all applicable provisions that prohibit. under speci?ed circumstances. discrimination against an
employee as reprisal for the employee's disclosure of information related to gross mismanagement of a federal grant, a
gross waste of federal funds, an abuse of authority relating to a federal grant. a substantial and speci?c danger to public
health or safety. or a violation of law. rule. or regulation related to a federal grant.

The recipient also must inform its employees. in writing (and in the predominantnativc language of the Workforce). of
employee ?ghts and remedies under 41 U.S.C. 47 

Should a question arise as to the applicability oftlte provisions of4l U.S.C. 47 l2 to this award. the recipient is to
contact the DOJ awarding agency (OJP or OVW. as appropriate) for guidance.

29. Encouragement of policies to ban text messaging while driving

Pursuant to Executive Order 135 l3. ?Federal Leadership on Reclining Text Messaging While Driving." 74 Fed. Reg.
SIZES (October I. 2009). encourages recipients and subrccipicnts ("subgrantees") to adopt and enforce policies
banning employees from text messaging while driving any vehicle during the course of performing work funded by this
award. and to stablish workplace safety policies and conduct education, awarentss. and other outreach to decrease
crashes caused by distracted drivers.

30. Requirement to disclose whether recipient is designated "high risk" by a federal grunt-making agency outside of 

If the recipient is designated ?high risk" by a federal grant-making agency outside of currently or at any time
during tlte course ofthe period ofperl'onnance under this award. the recipient must disclose that fact and certain related
infomtation to DJ by email at lL'idD] gov For purposes of this disolusure, high risk
includa any status under which a federal awarding agency provides additional oversight due to the recipient's past
performance. or other programmatic or ?nancial concerns with the recipient. The recipient's disclosure must include
the following: I. The federal awarding agency liar currently dsignates the recipient high risk. 2. The date the recipient
was drsignated high risk. 3. The high-risk point of contact at that federal awarding agency (name. phone number. and
email address). and 4. The reasons for the high-risk status, as set out by the federal awarding agency.

3 l. The recipient agrees to submit to BIA for review and approval any curricula. training materials, proposed publications,
reports, or any other written materials that will be published. including web-based materials and web site content.
through funds from this grant at least thirty (30) working days prior to the targeted dissemination date. Any written.
visual. or audio publications. with the exception of press releases. whether published at the grantee's or government's
expense. shall contain the following statements: "This project was supported by Grant No. 
awarded by the Bureau of Justice Assistance. The Bureau ofJ'usticc Assistance is a component of the Department of
Justice's Office of Justice Programs. which also includes the Bureau ofJustice Statistics. the National Institute of
Justice. the Of?ce of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. the Office for Victims of Crime, and the SMART
Office. Points of view or opinions in this doeumcntare tltose of the author and do not necessarily represent the of?cial
position or policies of the US. Department of Justice." The current edition of the DOJ Grants Financial Guide provides
guidance on allowable printing and publication activities.

32. The recipient agrees to cooperate with any assessments. national evaluation efforts. or information or data collection
requests. including. but not limited to, tire provision of any information required for the assessment or evaluation of any
activities within this project.

OJP FORM (REV. 4-88)

U.5. Depanment of Justice

 

Of?ce of Justice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance i SHEET PAGE or :2
Grant


raorecr NUMBER euro-nauseous hwaao DATE 092312019
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

33 Any Web site that is funded in whole or in part under this award must include tlte following statement on the home
page. on all major entry pages(i.e.. pages (exclusive whose primary purpose is to navigate the user to
interior content}. and on any pages from which a visitor may access or use a Web-based service, including any pages
that provide results or outputs from the service: ?This Web site is funded in whole or in part through a grant from the
Bureau of Justice Assistance. Of?ce ofJustice Programs. US. Department of Justice. Neither the US. Department of
Justice nor any of is components operate. control, are responsible for. or necessarily endorse. this Web site (including,
without limitation, its content. technical infrastructure, and policies, and any services or tools provided)." The full text
oftlre foregoing statement must be clearly visible on the home page. On other pages, the statement may be included
through a link, entitled "Notice of Federal Funding and Federal Disclaimer." to the full text of the statement.

34. Justi?cation of consultant rate

Approval of this award does not indicate approval ofany consultant rate in excess of $650 per day. A detailed
justi?cation must be submitted to and approved by the OJP program office prior to obligation or expenditure of such
funds

35. Copyright; Data lights

The recipient acknowledges that OJP reserves a royalty-free. non-exclusive. and irrevocable license to reproduce.
publish, or otherwise use. and authorize others to use{in whole or in part. including in connection with derivative
works). for Federal purposes: (I) any work subject to copyright developed under an awanl or subaward (at any tier);
and (2) any rights of copyright to which a recipient or subrecipient (at any tier) purchases ownership with Federal
support.

The recipient acknowledges that OJP has the right to obtain. reproduce. publish, or otherwise use the data ?rst
produced under any such award or subaward; and (2) authorize others to receive. reproduce. publish. or otherwise use
such data for Federal purposes. "Data" includes data as de?ned in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) provision
51227-14 (Rights in Data - General).

It is the responsibility of the recipient (and of each subrecipient (at any tier). if applicable) to ensure that the provisions
of this Condition are included in any subaward (at any tier) under this award.

The recipient has the responsibility to obtain from subrecipicnts. contractors, and subcontractors (if any) all rights and
data necessary to ful?ll the recipient's obligations to the Government under this award. lfa proposed subrecipicnt,
contractor. or subcorlractor refu5es to accept terms affording the Government such rights. the recipient shall 
bring such refusal to the attention of the OJP program manager for the award and not proceed with the agreement in
question without further authorization from the OJP program of?ce.

36. Con?dentiality of data
The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with all con?dentiality requirements of 34 U.S.C. IOEJI
and 23 C.F.R. Part 22 that are applicable to collection. use and revelation of data or information. The recipient further

agren. as a condition ofaward approval. to submit a Privacy Certi?cate that is in accord with requirements of28
C.F.R. Part 22 and. in particular. 28 C.F.R. 22.23.

OJP FORM 400012 (REV. 4-83)

 
US. Department of Justice 

 

ornat- ofJusticc Programs AWARD CONTINUATION .
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET more it or 22
Grant .
raorccr nausea DATE emanate
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

With respect to this award, federal funds my not be used to pay cash compensation (salary plus bontmes) to any
employee of the award recipient at a rate that exceeds ofthe maximum annual salary payable to a member of the
federal Senior Executive Sewice (5E5) at an agency with a Cettil'tcd SE5 Performance Appraisal System
forthat year. {An award recipient nary cumpcasate an employee at a higher rate, provided the amount in excess of this
compensation limitation is paid with non-federal funds.)

This limitation on compensation rates allowable under this award may be waived on an individual basis at the
discretion of the OJP of?cial indicated in tire program announcement under which this award is made.

38. Protection ofhuman research subjects

The recipient (and any subrecipient at any tier) must comply with the requirements of 28 CPR. Part 46 and all OJP
policies and procedures regarding the protection of human research subjects. including attainment of Institutional
Review Board approval, ifappropn?ate, and subject informed consent.

39. FFATA reporting: Subawards and executive compensation

The recipient must comply with applicable requirements to report ?rst-tier subawards ("sabgrants") of 525.000 or
more and. in certain circumstances. to report the names and total compensation oftlte live most highly compensated
executives of the recipient and first-tier subrecipients (?rst-tier of award funds. The details of recipient
obligations, which derive from the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (FFATA), are posted
on the OJP web site at (Award condition: Reporting Subawards and
Executive Compensation), and are incorporated by reference here.

This condition, including its reporting nsquirement, does not apply to- (I) an award of less than 525,000, or (2) an
award made to an individual who received the award as a natural person unrelated to any business or non-pro?t
organization that he or she may own or operate in his or her name).

40. Cooperating with Monitoring

The recipient agrees to cooperate with OJP monitoring of this award pursuant to OJP's guidelines, protocols. and
procedures. and to cooperate with OJP {including the grant manager for this award and the Of?ce of Chief Financial
Of?cer (OCFOD requests related to such monimring. including requests related to desk reviews and/or site visits. The
rcCipient agrces to provide to OJP all documentation necessary for OJP to complete its monitoring tasks. including
documentation related to arty subawards made under this award. Further. the recipient agrees to abide by reasonable
deadlines set by Di for providing the requested documents. Failure to cooperate with DJP's monitoring activities may
result in actions that affect the recipient's D01 awards, including, but not limited to: withholdings antlforother
restrictions on the recipient's access to award funds; rct'cnal to the D01 OIG for audit review; designation ol'the
recipient as a 00] High Risk grantee; or lamination ofan awardfs).

4 1. Required anendance at BlA-sponsarcd events

The recipient (and its subrecipients at any tier) must participate in BIA-sponsored training events, technical assistance
events. or conferences held by BJA or its designees. upon BJA's request.

OJP FORM 4000/2 (REV 4-38)

 

US. Department of Justice 5
Office ofJustice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION

Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET PAGE rs or 2:

I Grant I
raotecr NUMBER :ors-nr-axaoos nwnno oars commons

43.

44.

45.

46.

SPECIA CONDITIONS

Recipient integrity and perfomtance matters: Requirement to repon information on certain civil. criminal, and
administrative proceedings to SAM and FAPIIS

The recipient must Comply with any and all applicable requirements regarding reporting ofinfonnation on civil.
criminal. and administrative proceuiings connected with (or connected to the performance on either this OJP award or
any other grant. cooperative agreement, or procurement contract from the federal government Under certain
circumstances. recipients of (HP awards are required to report information about such proceedings. through the federal
System for Arvard Management (known as lo the designated federal integrity and performance system
(currently. 

The details of recipient obligations regarding the required reporting (and updating) of information on certain civil,
criminal. and adminisuative proceedings to the federal designated integrity and performance system (currently,
within SAM are posted on the web site It (Award condition:
Recipient integrity and Performance Matters. including Recipient Reporting to and are incorporated by
reference here.

The recipient is authorized to incur obligations, expend, and draw down funds in an amount not to exceed 520.000 for
the sole purpose of submitting additional information to BIA to obtain budget approval; working with the BJA TTA
provider to conduct a needs assessment; securing a project coordinator. participating in BJA and TM provider
orientation and training webinars; forrnalizing and meeting with cross-sector management teams; developing or
revising MOUs and negotiating of work with research partner and other subcontractors;
identifying primary data sources and beginning data exchanges; and. developing ?early action? projects. The grantee is
not authorized to incur any additional obligations. or expenditures or drawdowns until the awarding agency and the
Office of the Chief Financial Of?cer (OCFO) has reviewed and approved the recipient?s budget and budget narrative.
and a Grant Adjustment Notice (GAN) has been issued to remove this special condition.

Recipient understands and agrees to report on the use and status of real property acquired. constructed. or improved
under this award. throughout the useful life ofthe property or until the federal interest in the property ceases. witicheVer
is shorter. Recipient further agrees to provide the required use and status reports on federal Standard Form 429, or by
other rmsonable method as directed by 01?, in conformance with 2 .F.R. 200.329.

To demonstrate program progress and success. as well as to assist the Department with ful?lling its responsibilities
under the Government PerfonnanCe and Results Act of I993 Public Law [03-62, and the GPRA
Modernization Act of 20l0. Public Law I [?352. the recipient must regularly provide data to measure the results of
their work done under this solicitation. Recipients will be required to submit quarterly performance metrics through
BlA?s online Performance Measurement Tool (PMT), located at bjapmt.ojp.gov. The complete list of BCJI Program
performance measures is available here: 

The recipient may not obligate. expend, or draw down more than 50.000 under this award until: (I) the recipient
submits a comprehensive implementation plan; BM approves the implementation plan and determines that the
recipient has satisfactorily completed the Planning Phase; and a Grant Adjustment Notice (GAN) has been iSsued to
remove this condition.

OJP FORM 4000i! (REV 4-88)

US. Department ofJustice i

 

Office ofJustice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION 

Bureau otJustiee Assistance SHEET PAGE 16 or 2:

Grant
I 

NUMBER zots-w-mes AWARD DATE 0912812019
SPECIAL CONDITIONS
Noninterference (within the funded "mgr-am or activity") with federal law enforcement: 8 U.S.C. 1373 and 
ongoing compliance

I. With respect to the "program or activity" funded in whole or part under this award (including any such program or
activity of any subrecipicnt at any tier), throughout the period of performance, no State or local government entity. -
agency. or -o?icial may prohibit or in any way restrict-- I I) any government entity or -ol?cial sending or
receiving information regarding citizenship or imnigtation status as described in 8 U.5.C. I373(a); or (2) government
entity or -agenr:y from sending, requiring or receiving, maintaining. or exchanging infomration regarding Emigration
status as described in either 8 U.S.C. 13730:) or I644. Any prohibition (or restriction) that violates this condition is an
"infonnation-communication restriction" under this award.

2. The recipient's monitoring resporuibilities include monitoring of subrecipiertt compliance with the requirements of
this condition.

3. Allowable costs. Compliance with these requirements is an authorized and priority purpose ofthis award. To the
extent that such costs are not reimbursed under any other federal program, award funds may be obligated for the
reasonable, necessary, and allocable costs (if any) that the recipient. or any subrecipient at any tier that is a State, a
local government, ora public institution of higher education. incurs to implement this condition

4. Rules of Construction
A. For purposes of this condition:

(I) "State" and "local government" include any agency or other mtity thereof] but not any institution of higher
education or any Indian tribe.

(2) A "public" institution of higher education is de?ned to one that is owned, controlled. or directly funded (in whole or
in substantial part} by a State or local government {Such a public institution is considered to be a "government entity.?
and its of?cials to be "government of?cials 

(3) "Program or activity" means what it means under title VI of the Civil Righu Act of I 964 (see 42 U.S.C. 2000d-4a).

(4) "Immigration status" means what it means under 8 U.S.C. I373 and 8 USE. and terms that are de?ned in 8
U.S.C. ?01 mean what they mean under that section 1 l0! except that ?State" also includes American Samoa.

(5) Pursuant to the provisions set out at (or referenced in) U.S.C. ISSI note ("Abolition and Transfer of
Functions"), references to the "Immigration and Naturalization Service" in 8 U.S.C. 1373 and I644 are to be read as
references to particular components of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).

B. Nothing in this condition shall he understood to authorize or require any recipient, any subrecipient at any tier, any
State or local government. any public institution ofhigher education. or any other entity (or individual)to violate any
federal law, including any applicable civil rights or nondiscrimination law.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Any questions about the meaning or scope ofthis condition should be directed to OJP, before
award acceptance

FORM 400012 (REV 4-88)

 

U.S. Department ofJusticr:

Of?ce of Justice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET PAGE or :2
. Grant
rnomcr NUMBER AWARD DATE 09232019
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

48.

No use of funds to interfere with federal law enforcement: 8 U.S.C. I373 and [644; ongoing 

1. Throughout the period of performance. no State or local government entity. or -ofl'rcial may use funds
under this award (including under any subaward, at any tier) to prohibit or in any way restrict? I) any 
entity or -oii'rcial from sending or receiving information regarding or immigration status as described in 8
U.S.C. or (2) a government entity or -ageney from sending. requesting or receiving, maintaining. or
exchanging information regarding immigration status as described in either 8 U.S.C.  373(b) or l644. Any prohibition
{or restriction) that violates this condition is an "infotaxation-communication restriction? under this award.

2. The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with the requirements of
this condition.

3. Allowable cosLs. Compliance with time requirements is an authoriZed and priority purpose of this award. To the
extent that such costs are not reimbursed under any other federal program. award funds may be obligated for the
reasonable, necessary. and allocable costs (if any) that the recipient. or any subrecipient at any tier that is a State, a
local government. or a public institution ofltiglter education. incurs to implement this condition.

4. Rules Both the ?Rules of Construction" and the ?Important Note" set out in the "Noninterference
(within the funded "program or activity") with federal law enforcement: 8 U.S.C. LTD and 1644; ongoing Compliance"
condition are incorporated by reference as though set forth here in full.

OJP FORM 400012 (REV 4-31!)

US. Department ofJustice

 

Of?ce of Justice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET race [it or 2:
Grant
rrtorccr NUMBER zero-Brannon: AWARD one 
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

49. Authority to obligate award funds contingent on (within the funded ?program or activity") with federal
law enforcement: 8 U.S.C. lJ73 and ?344; unallowable costs; noti?cation

I. If the reci ient is a ?State," a local overnment, or a ublic" institution of higher education:


A. The recipient may not obligate award funds if, at the time of the obligation, the "program or activity" ofthe recipient
(or of any subrecipient at any tier that is a State, a local government. or a public institution of higher education) that is
funded in whole or in part with award funds is subject to any "information-communication r?triction."

B. In addition, with respect to any project costs it incurs ?at risk," the recipient may not obligate award funds to
reimburse itself if at the time it incurs Such costs - the program or activity ofthc recipient {or ofany subrecipient
at any tier that is a State, a local government. or a public institution of higher education) that would be reimbursed in
whole or in part with award funds was subjmt to any infomtation-communication restriction.

C. Any drawdown of award funds by the recipient shall be considered, for all purpOSG, to be a material representation
by the recipient to 01? that. as of the date the recipient requests the drawdown, the recipient and each subrecipient
(regardless oftier) that is a State, local government, or public institution of higher education, is in compliance with the
award condition entitled (within the funded ?progtam or activity') with federal law enforcement: 8
U.S.C. I373 and l644; ongoing compl?nncc."

D. The recipient must notify DJP (in writing) ifthc recipient, from its requisite monitoring of compliance
with award conditions or otherwise, has credible evidence that indicates that the funded program or activity of the
recipient. or of any suhecipient at any tier that is either a State or a local government or a public institution of higher
education, may be subject to any infonnalion-communication restriction. In addition, any subaward (at any tier) to a
subrecipient that is a State, a local government, or a public institution of higher education must require prompt
noti?cation to the entity that made the subaward. should the subrecipicnt have such credible evidence regarding an
information-communimtion restriction.

2. Any subaward (at any tier) to a subrecipient that is a State, a local government, or a public institution of higher
education must provide that the subrecipient may not obligate award funds if, at the time of tlte obligation, the program
or activity of the subreeipient (or ofany further such subrecipient at any tier) that is funded in whole or in part with
award funds is subject to any infonnation-conununication resa-iction.

3. Absent an express written determination by DOJ to the contrary, based upon a ?nding by ofeompelling
circumstances a small amount of award funds obligated by the recipient at the time of a subrecipient's minor and
transitory non-compliance, which was unknown to the recipient despite diligent monitoring), any obligations ofaward
funds that, under this condition, may not be made shall be unaliowable costs for purposes of this award. In making any
such determination, will give great weight to evidence submitted by the recipient that demonstrates diligent
monitoring of subreeipiern compliance with the requirements set out in the 8 U.S.C 1373 and
1644; ongoing compliance" award condition

4. Rules of Construction

A. For purposes of this condition ?infonnation-communication restriction" has the morning set out in the
"Noninterference 8 U.S.C. I373 and ongoing compliance" condition.

B. Both the "Rules of Construction" and the "Important Note? set out in the ?Noninterferenee 8 U.S.C. l373 and
?544-, ongoing compliance" condition are incorporated by reference as though set forth here in full.

Oll" FORM 4000.12tl1EV. 4-58)

U.S. Department ofJustice


 

OlI'tccofJusticc Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau ofJustice Assistance SHEET mos to or :2
Grant 
PRBJECT NUMBER AWARD DATE 0913830?)
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

50. Authority to obligate award funds contingent on no use of furrls to interfere with federal law enforcement: 8 U.S.C.
1373 and 1644; unallowable Costs; noti?cation

1. If the recipient is a "State," a local government, or a "public" institution ofhigher education:

A. The recipient may not obligate award funds if, at the time ofthe obligation, the "program or activity" ofthe recipient
(or of any subrecipicnt at any tier that is a State, a local government, or a public institution of higher education) that is
funded in whole or in pan with award funds is subject to any "infonnation-communication restriction."

B. In addition, with respect to any project costs it incurs ?at risk,? the recipient may not obligate award funds to
reimburse itself if at the time it incurs such costs - the program or activity of the recipient (or of any subrecipient
at any tier that is a State. a local or a public institution of higher education) that would be reimbursed in
whole or in pan with award funds was subject to any information-communication restriction.

C. Any drawdown of award funds by the recipient shall be considered, for all purposes, to be a material representation
by the recipient to OJP that, as of the date the recipient requests the dmwdown, the recipient and each subrecipient
(regardless oftier) that is a State, local government, or public institution ofhigher education, is in compliance with the
award condition entitled "No use of funds to interfere with federal law enforcement; 8 U.5.C. I373 and ongoing
compliance."

D. The recipient must notify OJP (in writing) ifdre recipient. from its requisite monitoring of compliance
with award conditions or otherWisc. has credible evidence that indimtes that the funded program or activity ofthe
recipient, or ofany subrecipient at any tier that is either a State or a local government or a public institution of higher
education. may be subject to any information-communication restriction. In addition, any subaWard (at any tier) to a
subrecipicnt that is a State, a local government, or tr public institution of higher uiucation must require prompt
notification to the entity that made the Subaward, should the subrecipient have such credible evidence regarding an
information-communication restriction.

2. Any subaward (at any tier) to a subreeipient that is a State, a local government, or a public institution of higher
education must provide that the subrecipient may not obligate award funds if. at the time ofthe obligation, the program
or activity of the subrecipicnt (or of any further such subrecipicnt at any tier) that is funded in whole or in part with
award funds is subject to any information-communication restriction.

3. Absent an express written determination by to the contrary. based upon a ?nding by of compelling
circumstances a small amount of award funds obligated by the recipient at the time oh subrccipient's minor and
transitory non-compliance. which was unknown to the recipient despite diligent monitoring), any obligations of award
funds that. under this condition, may not be made shall be unallowable costs for purposes of this award, In making any
such determination, DOJ will give weight to evidence submitted by the recipient that demomtrates diligent
monitoring of subrecipient compliance with the requirements set out in the "No use of funds to interfere 8 U.S.C.
[373 and [644,- ongoing compliance" award condition.

4. Rules ofConstruction. The "Rules of Construction" set out in the "Authority to obligate award funds contingent on

noninterference(within the funded "program or activity") with federal law enforcement: 8 U.S.C. I373 and 1644;
unallowable costs; noti?cation" condition are incorporated by reference to though set fonh here in full.

OJP FORM 4000/2 (REV 4-83)

US. Department of Justice

 

Of?cr: of Justice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET mos 20 or :2
1 Grant
PROJECT NUMBER AWARD oars 092mm
SPECIAL CONDITIONS

Noninterfercnce (within the funded "program or activity?) with federal law enforcement: No public disclosure of
certain law enforcement sensitive information

SCOPE. This condition applies with respect to the ?program or activity" that is funded (in whole or in part) by the
award, as ofthc date the recipient accepLs this award, and throughout the remainder of the period of performance. Its
provisions must be among those included in any subaward (at any tier].

I. Noninterferencc: No public disclosure of federal law enforcement information in order to conceal. harbor, or shield

Consistent with the purposes and objectives of federal law enforcement statutes and fedcml criminal law (including 8
U.S.C. 1324 and I8 U.S.C. chs. l, 49, 227), no public disclosure may be made of any federal law enforcement
information in a direct or indirect attempt to conceal. harbor. or shield from detection any fugitive from justice under l8
U.S.C. ch. 49, or any alien who has come to. entered, or remains in the United States in violation of ti U.S.C. cit. l2 
without rcgani to whether such disclosure would constitute (or could form a predicate for) a violation of [3 U.S.C.

IOTI or [072 or ofli U.S.C. 1324(a).

2. Monitoring
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with this condition.
3. Allowable costs

To the extent that such costs are not reimbursed under any other uieral program, award funds may be obligated for the
reasonable. necessary. and allocable costs (if any) of actions training) designed to ensure compliance with this
condition.

4. Rules of construction
A. For pumoses of this condition?

(I) the term "alien" means what it means under section l0] ofthc Immigration and Nationality Act {See 8 U.S.C
 01(a)(3ll;

the term ?federal law enforcement information" means law enforcement Sensitive information communicated or
made available, by the federal government. to a State or local government entity. ?agency. or -ofticiat. through any
means. including, without limitation- (1) through any database. in connectiOn with any law enforcement
partnership or dusk-force. (3) in connection with any reqursl for law enforcement assistance or -conperatiott. or (4)
through any deconfl?ction (or courtesy) notiCe of planner]. imminent, commencing. continuing, or impending 
law enforcement activity;

(3) the term ?law enforcement sensitive information? means records or information compiled for any law enforcement
purpose; and

the term "public disclosure" means any communicrlion or release other than onc? within the recipient. or to
any subrecipient (at any tier) that is a govemment entity.

B. Both the "Rules of Construction? and the "Important Note" set out in the "Nortinlerfetence (within the funded

'program or activity'i with federal law enforcement: 8 U.S.C. I373 and [644 and ongoing compliance" award
condition are incorporated by reference as though set forth here in full.

011' FORM 4000f: (REV 4-88]:

US. Department of Justice

 

Of?ce oflustice Programs AWARD CONTINUATION
Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET PAGE 21 0F :2
Grant
PROJECT NUMBER 20 9 AWARD DATE 
SPECIAL CONDITIONS
52. No use offunds to interfere with federal law enforcement: No public disclosure of certain law enforcement sensitive
information

SCOPE. This Condition applies as of the date the recipient accepts this award, and throughout the remainder of the
period of perfonnancc. Its provisions must be among those included in any suhaward (at any tier)

I. No uscoffunds to interfere No public disclosure of federal law enforcement information in orderto concur], harbor,
or shield

Consistent with the purposes and objectives of federal law enforcement statutes and federal criminal law (including 8
U.S.C. 1324 and I8 U.S.C. I, 49, 227), no funds under this award may be used to make any public disclosure of
any federal law enforcement infonnalion in a direct or indirect attempt to conceal, harbor, or shield from detection any
fugitive from justice under 18 S.C. ch. 49, or any alien who has come to. entered, or remains in the United States in
violation of 8 U.S.C. ch. I2 - without regard to whether such disclosure would constitute (or could form a predicate
for) a violation of 18 U.S.C. [0'71 or [072 orofB U.S.C. l324{a).

2. Monitoring
The recipient's monitoring responsibilities include monitoring of subrecipient compliance with this condition
3. Allowable costs

To the extent that such coso are not reimbursed under any other federal program, award funds may be obligated for the
reasonable, necessary, and ullocable costs (ifany) of actions (e training] designed to ensure compliance with this
condition.

4 Rules of construction.

The "Rults of Construction" set out in the "Noninterference (within the funded *program or activity") with federal law
enforcement: No public disclosure of certain law enforcement sensitive information" award condition are incorporated
by reference as though SCI forth here in full.

53. Requirement to collect certain information from subrecipients

Except as provided in this condition, the recipient may not make a subaward to a State, a local government, are
"public" institution ofhigltr education. unless it ?rst obtains from the proposed subrccipient respomes to the questions
identi?ed in the program solicitation as "information regarding Communication with the Department of Homeland
Security (DHS) andfor Immigration and Customs Enforcement All subrecipient responses must be collected and
maintained by the recipient, consistent with document retention requirements. and must be made available to D01 upon
request. Responses to these qutstions are not ruruired from subrecipients that are eithera tribal
a nonprofit organization, or a private institution ofhigher olucation.

Sui. The recipient may not obligate, expend or draw down funds until the Office ofthe Chief Financial Oli'tce?OCFO) has
approved the budget and budget narrative and a Grant Adjustment Notice (GAN) has been issued to remove this special
condition.

FORM 400012 (REV 4-83!

U.S. Department ofJustiee
Office oflustice Progmms I AWARD CONTINUATION

 

Bureau of Justice Assistance SHEET PAGE 32 0F 22
Grant
PROJECT NUMBER AWARD DATE memo?
SPE CM 

55. Withholding of funds: DHS questions

111:: recipient may not obligate, expend or dmwdown funds until the Of?ce ofJustice Programs his received and
approved the required application described in the program solicitation as ?lni?onnetion regarding
Communication with the Department of Homeiund Security (DHS) newer Immigration and Customs Enforcement
and has issued :1 Grant Nntim: (GAN) releasing this Special condition.

DIP FORM 400012 (REV. 

US. Department of Justice

Of?ce of Justice Programs

 

Bureau of Justice Assistance

 

D. 20m

Memorandum To: Of?cial Grant File
From: Orbin Terry, NEPA Coordinator

Subject: Categorical Exclusion for City of Detroit

The Innovations in Community-Based Crime Reduction Program (CBCR) will target hot spots of crime where a
signi?cant proportion of crime occurs as compared to the overall jurisdiction. CBCR furthers the Department's
mission by leading efforts to enhance the capacity of local and tribal communities to effectively target and address
signi?cant crime issues through collaborative cross-sector approaches that help advance broader neighborhood
development goals. Awards under this program will focus on funding Planning and Implementation efforts.

None of the following activities will be conducted whether under the Of?ce of Justice Programs federal action or a
related third party action:

I) New construction.

(2) Any renovation or remodeling of a property located in an environmentally or historically sensitive area,
including property listed on or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, or located
within a [00-year flood plain, a wetland, or habitat for an endangered species.

(3) A renovation that will change the basic prior use of a facility or signi?cantly change its size.

(4) Research and technology whose anticipated and future application could be expected to have an effect on the
environment.

(5) Implementation of a program involving the use of chemicals.

Additionally, the proposed action is neither a phase nor a segment ofa project that when reviewed in its entirety
would not meet the criteria for a categorical exclusion.

Consequently, the subject federal action meets the Office of Justice Programs' criteria for a categorical exclusion
as contained in paragraph 4(b) of Appendix to Part 61 of Title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

U-S- Denamcntoflusti? GRANT MEMORANDUM, PT. I: .

 

Ol'I'toe ot?Jostice Programs
. I PROJECT SUMMARY 1
Bureau of Justice Assistance 
Grant 
PROJECT NUMBER
PAGE 1 OF I
20l9-BJ-me05
.. A
This pmject is unvaried under - CBCR) Pub. 1. NO. I33 Stat I3. I 


I
I. STAFF CONTACT (Nome Er. telephone number) 2. PROJECT DIRECTOR (Name. Idilress telephone number)
Linda Hill-Franklin TrLtita Stein
(202) Ski-0712 Direetor of Administrative Operations
2 Woodwml Ave. Ste 1 I62
Detroit. MI 45226
(3 I3) 596-1918
3n. TITLE OF THE PROGRAM 3h. POMS CODE (SEE msmucnous
. . . 0N 
BM FY I9 Innovations in Community-Based Crone Reduction Program
00

I
4. TITLE OF PROJECT
FY l9 CBCR Program
5. NAME I: ADDRESS OF ORANTEE 6. NAME t1: ADRESS OF 
City ol?Delroil
Woodward Ave, Ste I126
Detroit. MI 48226
1. PROGRAM PERIOD 3. BUDGET PERIOD
FROM: TO: FROM: TO: 
9 AMOUNT OF AWARD 10. DATE OF AWARD
5 999.860 0933130?
ll. SECOND BUDGET I I2 SECOND BUDGET AMOUNT
I3. THIRD BUDGET PERIOD 14. THIRD BUDGET AMOUNT

SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT (See imtruclion on reverse)

The Innovation: in Community-Based Crime Redmion Program (CBCR)en1tanoeI the enmity of local tribal communities to ell'eetively reduce violent crime
lm in distressed neighbodioodl through coordinated mm amonlm that ore linked with broader neighborhood revitalization elTom.

The gun! of CBCR is to reduce crime. increase mist. and improve commonly safety In part of: mo logy to rebuild and revitalize neighborhoods. I
Him-ugh a bmad trons-sector part nersltip team. including neighborhood residents EBCR grantee-t target neighborhood: with her some and action: mm
and employ data-rhino. cross rector slmtegles to this goal

The grant recipient will we the Planning and fund: to develop and :mwgic collabonlive. and eoimnunilymrientcd plot] to redone
crime in I turner neighborhood and then begin impleme mutton ofllie plan during the project period. Applicant: Will on: Planning and implementation fumb lo

011? FORM 4000!? (REV. +88)


engage in II planning prime Iltnt annually last nine to IE mouths to; identify, verily. Grim: hot Ipnu within the identi?ed work with
arm:- teetne learn and law enforcement partner: to deveinpn multifaceted strategy. drawing on a continuum ol?epptwehee in Men crime driven: tornplete In
early action project. puma: community permmiupt and lead-mini]: that ensures the community is ncliI-?e In the prneml collaborate regularly with local law
mfamernenl and community partners to conduct analysis of crime driven. Ind In useumetu or need: and nvnilnble resources; ml develop I eompreltem'te
implanetunlion plan to reduce crime that inclutht I plan that nrlieuintt-J. the mg: of mute-gin lltal lite BER partner! plan to pursue Upon cumplellutt ul'lltc
plenum; plus: ?militant: will engage in tin plme to: convene regular. ungoing meeting: with emspteetnrperum and the management team.
than: regular with the rematch perineum! new Mum inmlementntinn.? build Ila: capacity afresitlenu and the mumgement team to 
and change in problem mltrinu Ingrown. Mill. and evaltmte strategies. It: approp?etet redirect migrant letivltle: tad-en ongoing analysis indicates
[Hum-am me not being [net ml Identin Ind develop a sustaituh?ity stately for lungerolerm implementation Prognm enteeletnenls. belittling the
mm: rule at com munity stultehultla: 

The pI'Dj??l mil curwm: emu-teeter runnettltip to create and implement it CBCR implementation pitta: re?ne crime in the unset are: by existing
economic plans and strengthening community par?'tcuhips: inmate safety through targeted enfot'eemt: strengthen community cnpeclty.
connectivity. and lumen; and connect resident: to workfotee development opportunities.



. Luci-'3 -



:i'r 

Budget Summary

Note: Any errors detected on this page shouid be ?xed on the corresponding Budget Detail tab.

 

 

Year 1

(if needed)

Year 3

fifneeded)

{If ceded)

Year 5
(if needed)

 

Birdie! Category

Imam-Hon

asanbau

190033


1mm

Imam-nun



Impad'? 0N





Impag 

Inga:

 

 

A. Persannd

5238.136

5321.776

 

In. Fringe Bene?u

$7.553

$30,212

 

lc. Travel

$3.376

$5.151

 

[$5th

Sumo

 

56.750

527.120

 

E. Su lies
F. Construction

333333

333333

333333

333333
333333

 

G. Subawards (Subgranlsy


10

$25,003

50


11')

I0

$100,000

 

H. Procurement Contracts

3

3

3
3

 

 

 

I. 

 

 

 

 

$0

 

 

 

 

333333 3 3 3

3

 

 

1

. Indirect Costs

3 .

 

3
3

 

 

?City of Detroit

COUNCILMAN scorr BENSON

MEMORANDUM

TO: David Whitaker, Director, LPD .
FROM: Scott Benson, City Council District 3 
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

Alexis Wiley, Chief of Staff, Mayor?s Of?ce

Tanvir Siddiqui, Mayor?s Liaison, Dhaka North City Corporation
Ehsan Taqbeem, Bangladeshi American Public Affairs Committee
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison

VIA: Council President Brenda Jones
DATE: 30 Oct 2019
RE: SISTER CITY AGREEMENT BETWEEN DETROIT AND DHAKA

NORTH CITY CORPORATION

My of?ce is requesting LPD utilize the attached Sister City Partnership Agreement
Toolkit to prepare a sister city resolution between Detroit and Dhaka North City
Corporation. Please include language that states the following:

1. Agreement to promote commerce and peace through mutual respect,
understanding, and cooperation.

Provide technical assistance.

Support the garment industry.

Support the automotive industry.

Hosting a diplomatic summit.



On 15 Oct 2019, Dhaka North City Corporation, Detroit City Council, Detroit Mayor?s
of?ce and the Bangladeshi American Public Affairs Committee met and came up with an
outline of deliverables as the foundation for a sister city agreement. While there may be
changes to the draft resolution, the above items will give both cities a good place to begin
the establishment of an of?cial relationship.

Please provide the draft resolution by COB 1 Nov 19. Do not hesitate to reach out to my
of?ce, at 313-224-1198, with any questions.

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave.. Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detr0itmi.gov



rcmeg Partnership Agreement

lat?II-

.SIS

Toolkit

 

Types of Affiliations
Sister CIty Relationship

A Sister City relationship is formed when the mayor or highest elected official (or, if elections
do not take place, highest appointed official) from a US. community and a community in
another country or territory sign a formal agreement on behalf of their communities endorsing a
?sister city/sister cities? relationship. Sister city agreements shall be considered active/valid
unless otherwise indicated by one or both of the respective communities.

Sister Cities International shall formally recognize only those relationships by cities/members in
good standing (i e. who are current on membership dues) in its Membership Directory or on its
website. However, Sister Cities International shall not assert as invalid or otherwise impugn the
legitimacy of those relationships formed by non-members

Friendship City

A Friendship City or Friendship Cities relationship is often formed by cities as a ?stepping
stone? to a more formal ?Sister City? agreement. Typically Friendship City agreements are
referred to as such in the formal documents that are signed. Sister Cities International shall
recognize Friendship City relationships by members in its Membership Directory and website.

As per Sister Cities International Board of Directors:

Sister Cities International will recognize a new sister cities affiliation between a

and an international community, even though another affiliation may exist
between that international community and a different community, only if a
cooperative agreement among all involved communities is filed with Sister Cities
International If a cooperative agreement is denied, or no response to the request
is received within a reasonable amount of time, Sister Cities International will
recognize the partnership as a fr/enC/sh/p C/Ifyand it will be delineated as such
with a symbol in the membership directories

The cooperative agreement must be Mayor/County
Execuf/ve/Govemorof the requesting community, and must be sent 1?0 the
Executive/Governor of each of the existing partnership
communities. Although the Mayor/Coung/ Executive/Governor may request input
from, or may be given input by, the sister cities program, it :3 up to the discretion
of the sign the cooperative eon-cement
Although Sister Cities International will help with the cooperative agreement
process, it is up to the requesting community to get the agreement signed Sister
Cities International will not, in any way, force a community to ?share" and sign
the cooperative agreement

To place a relationship into Emeritus status, the mayor or highest elected official of the 
community must write a letter to the mayor of the foreign city indicating that they wish to
remain sister cities, but understand that the relationship will remain inactive until such time as
both cities are able to sustain an active relationship Sister Cities International should be
informed in writing by the mayor of the US. city of the situation Sister Cities International will



set rCities Partnership Agreement

TEFI ATIONAL I
Toolkit

 

then place the partnership into Emeritus Status and will reflect this status in directories and all
lists of sister city programs.

If a community wishes to terminate a sister city relationship, then a letter from the mayor or
highest elected official of the city should be sent to the mayor of the sister city Sister
Cities International should be informed of this action in writing by the mayor of the US. city
and Sister Cities International will then remove the partnership from its directories and all lists
of sister city programs. We do not recommend terminating a relationship simply because it is
dormant. Many partnerships wax and wane over the years, and in many cases a dormant
partnership may be reinvigorated by local members years after it has been inactive

General Guidelines

In order for a sister city/county/state partnership to be recognized by Sister Cities International
(SCI). the two communities must sign formal documents which clearly endorse the link. This
presumes several key items: that the S. community is already a member of SCI and has
followed proper procedures (e 9 passed a city council resolution declaring the intent to twin
with the specific city); that both communities share a mutual commitment to the relationship;
and that both have secured the necessary support structure to build a lasting relationship You
should check with your local sister city program to see if they have any additional requirements
before pursuing a sister city relationship

SCI often refers to these agreements as a ?Sister City Agreement? or ?Memorandum of
Understanding.? However, as the following examples show, the actual name and format of
your documents is left up to you

A few things to keep in mind as you draft your agreement:

. Your agreement can range from the ceremonial, with language focusing on each city?s
commitment to fostering understanding, cooperation, and mutual benefit to the precise,
with particular areas of interest, specific programs/activities, or more concrete goals
related to anything from numbers of exchanges to economic development

. Don?t try to include everything you plan to do. Some specifics, like particular areas of
interest or participating institutions are good to include. However, there?s no need to
include all the programs you plan to do if it makes the document too or limits
the scope of projects This is a formal document to establish the relationship; specific
tasks, responsibilities, or other nuts?and?bolts text related to implementation or
administration of the partnership can be expressed more fully in a separate
memorandum between the respective sister city committees Your partnership
agreement is a historical document and should not be dated or limited by being aligned
with very specific tasks

- Work with your counterparts. Remember that this is signed by both cities You should
share drafts of your agreement with your international partners and solicit feedback on
what they?d like to see in the agreement. Be flexible to cultural or municipal priorities

. Ask your counterparts to translate the agreement if it is drafted in English. It is
important for the citizens of your partner community to be able to read and understand
the commitment their city has made Have someone in your own community who



SisterCities Partnership Agreement
INTERNATIONAL Toolkit

 

speaks that language check the foreign-language version to make sure it mirrors what
you have in your own agreement.

Keep it to one page. Ceremonial documents such as these partnership agreements
work best if they can be posted in their entirety.

ivlost sister city agreements include some acknowledgement of the founding principles
of the sister city movement?to promote peace through mutual respect, understanding,
and cooperation.

Consider using official letterhead and/or other embellishments such as city seals or
logos to reflect your enhance the document Sister city agreements are often posted at
city hall or other municipal offices and should reflect their historical importance

Look at other agreements your city has signed These agreements may give you an idea
of what is acceptable or possible and they may be in an easily replicable format. If you
cannot access older agreements please contact Sister Cities International, we may
have them on file, although we do not have copies of all partnership agreements

Documents must be signed by the top elected official of both communities.

Check with your mayor, city council, town clerk, et al. to make sure that the agreement
is OK with them The mayor is the one putting his or her name on the paper, and you
don?t want to spend time developing an agreement which will never be signed.

Official documents are usually signed during a formal ceremony recognizing the
partnership. Be sure both communities receive a signed set of the official documents
for their records

Remember to send your signed agreement to Sister Cities International After we
receive your agreement we will post the relationship in the City Directory and make sure
it is included in our Annual Membership Directory

Remember that each city?s sister city program is independent and can impose requirements
like the establishment ofa committee, a review period, sustainability/funding plan, among
others, before sanctioning a sister city agreement. Check with your local program or mayor's
office to see if this is the case.

On the following pages you?ll find a series of partnership agreements to give you an idea of
what is possible. While you should feel free to use some of the formatting and language, we
encourage you to make your agreement your own and be creative with what you produce If
you are unsure about your agreement or want advice you can always solicit feedback by
sending it to our Membership Director at org or contacting us at (202)
347?8630.

Si rCities Partnership Agreement
Toolkit

 

.

AN AGREEMENT FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF
SISTER CITIES RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN
THE CITY OF ABU DHABI U. A.E)
AND
HOUSTON TEXAS U.S.A)

lin- Nun-I i m. .nn. In ?islm iluw 
Hx I'ln'quIu'nl nl [hr Hug-C ul? \Im'llu..1m In ull??lt'l
I: mulrnhudm: Ill?lut'l'll [Inc l'niln'tl .mll nIIu'! [Inn-ugh

Ilunl umlucl: .Iml

In nulrr In I'mn-a [luur \lm lilmlu .uul IIthI-m. .n uralmv n!
hit-minim. um! .12: In i'ullJI-nlulv I?nr the mullml lwnc?l ul' llu'iu'
mnummiuu~ In mI-Im m1: mlm'alimL unl I. uppul 

\qu .Emlumluus :unl

Ilu-mwlu'w Mxh'l? I Iu'ulnniuu nu lln- 13?" ul 31ml.
Iln ulnlc nl ii} 1 in

n-I Ih?t .mn[luv \mlm: um] I 
I .?inylmum. Ii?\l In'mu mlunll} 

Shaikh Mohammad bin Butti Al Hamed Lee P.Brown
Chairman of Abu Dhabi Municipality Mayor of Houston
Iii-Town Planning

ie Partnership Agreement

I A 
?4 Fit}: ?2 Tiifw, (if 

 

Cl?lY on NEW Yonx
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
New YORK. NY. int-Do?

THE NEW YORK SISTER PARTNERSHIP
Memorandum of Understanding

Hit: Slslurt'ily pairmur'sitip New York Kit} and London M. timer 
bene?cml solutions to common challenges for mo grout cosmopolitan entities
("onscqucntiy the Sister Cit): relationship between the ow wt]: ht.- one o! the most
important in their network ot'giulml partnerships. as it srri :75 to:

- Encourage and publicmc existing exchanges benvecn London and New York City :0
tint can ?ourish to benefit Ll idur cross-section of the of both;

- Support and promote the development nz'ncw social. econmnic. .md
community programs to encourage both C'itlers' citizens to aim-o than? experiences as 
medium for leurmnu from one another.

- an emcnt ot? tho ot?tht?: cur-53 muons 
h} setw?ing as .1 conduit of inl'ommtion;

- Identify- themes. common to both. that can new to l'urthur and
nurture the increasingly powerful social and cultuml hem can
the 

0 key mayoral priorities relevant to hath [.nntion anti New York ('ity;

- Provide ?nancial or in kind support to program's that advance the
aims ofthe Sister City painter-ship;

Willi the purposcs in mimL tho Mayor or?thc Fit} of New oik and the. Mayor of
London solcimnly confirm that these two Cities arr: united. by an ot?ricm?: partnership by the
protocol oi?tlns?. Memorandum of Understandirtg

lliis agreement mil go min L?iiCCl from the date or :iunulnros
?s?ignurl in March nt?jltlil



 

LLW I 
Kunl liln?fmm 
Ityor Minot

Now York Citx' ontlon It

ie Partnership Agreement
.1 -, Toolkit

111L111 B1 1111.1

L. {1f 

 

I) .. . 
16,319 1.. ?11153; (2w/

C: of I- :13 8411"!
v!

Cuh'furn 1'11, US :1

II 
("My 11)? Sun Pull in c? .Utzuru
L'ruadttr, Saul}: 

. 1m 1' IL H-erL.? i-?J LJ :2 nil-0m; ?rs. .51,
.M . J. ?5.1.13.1ch
.1 ?Sun; 1' I11. .1lfer'". 15' f1 u. 

 

 

.. I?dmn' for ?L?L'F?il?i?

,rIr.Ir,I: 1 LI 2: ..II - 

(3 VI .: (It! 

MI ume.? L. .:

I I I
In: ?3mm?! "Tv' . 
I . IL
.II.1. Lr.r.;L' . .qu r? cum-run. .- Ivar

.. 1 . . .- 3..-.
.- I .1 uni-1-41 1-.
. . 
:?zac 1-1 EIL-LI.25;


{fr?f- ?n :L'f



('L?JEIormu'. 

. 

I 
o; Ll MENU .'llrurhl


2410?

 





tMrCities Partnership Agreement
Toolkit

 

Wilmbt TION 0F SISTER CITIES DE CLARA TION

adapted by THE HONORABLE RICHARD M. DALEY
MAYOR OF CHICAGO
an: THE HONORABLE ZI-LLNG RONGMAO
MA YOR OF SHENYANG
ON

JUNE 19.95

Um: the tend: anniverxmy of due sl'umz'nv ofa sitter city a greemcn: in. 0rd? to further
the Imdizinnai ?nk: of [Handship between Chicago and Shenyang and to reaf?rm their mama!
aspiration warlc in unimrz for the bene?t of their cities and nations, she Honorable .L'ayar
Richard kl. Daley, Mayor of City of Chicago, and (he Haunt-able ?ung Rangmaa, Mayo:-
nf the City of Shenyang, an Mw?fdl day of June 1995, do hereby aciow Madge and ?uff-W71 the?!
safer am: agnmm! between the City of Chicago and the of Shenyang.

The Cir} of Chicago and the City of Shenyang an the basis of ?'l'en?y cooper-?mm
equa?'xy Md mutual benefit will continue to dzvetap a sister dim mla??nsnip to promote and
broaden economic cauperuubn. and cultural anges between the two cities.

The two cities do hereby declare their wares: in upbring due 5:251:31me of business
and crude rela?hru between Chicagu and Shinyang.

In ada?n?on. exchanges will be in the can of the am: such a: uhibin', 77111522.
dams: and other cultural ac??u?ec.

Mn. exchanges will be pmmted in education and the emb?rfzmen: of contacts-
MIMI: educational Wilkins" encouraged.

In additiom We declare our intention to promote exchange: in Sac}: ?tldr 11-? science and
technology, Sports, health. your}: and any was that cana-Umte to the pmsper?y and {he
?u-Lher development between the people ofaur two cities.1?FJ?u: {hf-I- I I - 
4' - 
?1mg THE mum: RONGMAO

HA YOK 0F MA YOR 0F 

  
 

. J?s 
f?
Ra??Jr

IDczf/W'z?

GABE LELAND
COUNCIL MEMBER

MEMORANDUM

TO: Saskia Thompson, Director
Detroit Land Bank Authority

THRU: Council Member Scott Benson, Chairperson
Public Health and Safety Standing Committee

in

FROM: Gabe Leland 
Councilman District 7

DATE: October 25, 2019

RE: 9691 Ohio Demolition Status

 

Could you please investigate and respond as to what is the demolition status of 9691 Ohio. My
office?s research indicates that this property has been requested to be demolished on at least on
occasion. The neighbors called to share that this property is vacant, open to trespass and is a
nuisance and danger to the community in general.

Thank you in advance for an update and resolution.

cc: Honorable Colleagues
Stephanie Washington Gail Fulton, Mayor?s Liaisons
Ianice Winfrey, City Clerk

glzab

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone (313) 224-2151 - Fax (313) 224-2155

