RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
500 WOODWARD AVE STE 3000   DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-5493
PHONE 313•224•3362   TOLL FREE 800•339•8344   FAX 313•224•9194

MINUTES
Meeting No. 41
Meeting of the General Retirement System Investment Committee
July 15, 2019

  DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-5493

A meeting of the Investment Committee of the General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit was held on Monday, July 15, 2019, at the Retirement System’s office at Ally
Detroit Center, 500 Woodward Avenue, Suite 3000, Detroit, Michigan. Kerrie L. Vanden
Bosch, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 12:02 a.m. A quorum was present.
ROLL CALL:
Attendance was taken by the Committee’s Recording Secretary with the following
Committee Members present: Kerrie L. Vanden Bosch (Chairperson), Kenneth Whipple
(Vice Chairperson), Doris Ewing (Secretary), Nick Khouri, June Nickleberry, Thomas
Sheehan and David Sowerby.
Staff Present: Kevin Kenneally (Deputy Chief Investment Officer), David Cetlinski
(Executive Director), Gail A. Oxendine (Assistant Executive Director)
and Kristi Grden (Investment Analyst).
Committee Members Excused: None
Staff Excused: Ryan Bigelow (Chief Investment Officer) and Michael VanOverbeke
(General Counsel)
Visitors Present: John Naglick; (City of Detroit Chief Deputy Financial Officer and
General Retirement System Ex-Officio Trustee) via telephone
Chairperson Vanden Bosch officially welcomed new Committee member Nick
Khouri to his first in-person meeting.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion #19-41-01: Thomas Sheehan moved to approve the Minutes of Meeting No.
40, held on Monday, May 06, 2019, as prepared by the Committees’ Recording
Secretary. David Sowerby supported. The motion passed unanimously.

-1-

 Minutes – GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 041
July 15, 2019

APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Motion #19-41-02: Thomas Sheehan moved to approve the amended agenda dated
Monday, July 15, 2019 with the addition of “GASB Methodology approval” under the
Deputy Chief Investment Officer’s report. June Nickleberry supported. The motion
passed unanimously.
Presentation/Discussion:
Scott Dickinson of Republic Underwriters, Daniel Aronowitz and Michael Saa of Euclid
Specialty Managers discussed the following with the Committee:


Fiduciary Liability Coverage Discussion

Presentation materials were provided

Motion #19-41-03: Thomas Sheehan moved to eliminate the top ten million dollars in
coverage of fiduciary liability insurance immediately ($10,000,000.00) and request
updated pricing for the bottom fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000.00) to be discussed at
a later Committee meeting. Kenneth Whipple supported. The motion passed
unanimously.
 Committee member Sheehan requested information detailing the pricing
differential for both General City and Police and Fire Retirement System policies.
 Chairperson Vanden Bosch requested to see quote options on the $10 to $15
million difference
Discussion:
Sub-committee Review
Policy and Procedure Committee: Kerrie Vanden Bosch, June Nickleberry and Doris
Ewing; this sub-committee will review the Service Provider policy between now and the
next meeting and will have recommended changes by the next Committee meeting.
Funding Policy Committee has been disbanded and attended currently by the General
City Board of Trustees. The Board will invite Investment Committee members to attend
when meetings/discussions are had.

-2-

 Minutes – GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 041
July 15, 2019
Legal Consultant Review
Motion #19-41-04: June Nickleberry moved to retain General Counsel Michael
VanOverbeke of VanOverbeke, Michaud and Timmony, P.C. until which time the
Committee reviews the legal service provider again (within five years). Kenneth Whipple
supported. The motion passed unanimously.
Presentation/Discussion:
Chief Accounting Officer Ramzee Jackson, discussed the following with the Committee:


Progress on addressing audit findings

Presentation/Discussion:
Representatives Kristin Finney-Cooke, Kevin Leonard and Kim Kaczor from the
System’s Investment Consulting firm, NEPC, discussed the following with the
Committee:
Mr. Leonard introduced Managing Partner Mike Manning to the Committee.
 Capital Market update
 May Flash Performance
 Opportunity Credit Pacing
 International Equity
 Core Fixed Income
Presentation materials were provided

NEPC will come back before the Committee at a later meeting with a recommendation
to change the Asset Allocation to a dedicated safe haven fixed income and the
rebalancing of the traditional portfolio.
 Committee member Nick Khouri excused himself from the Boardroom at
2:09 p.m.
 The Committee recessed for a brief break at 2:11 p.m. and resumed at 2:17
p.m.
 Committee member Nick Khouri re-joined the meeting via telephone at 2:20
p.m.

-3-

 Minutes – GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 041
July 15, 2019
Presentation/Discussion:
Representatives Steve Burns and Greg Kurtz from the System’s Real Estate Consulting
firm, Townsend Group, discussed the following with the Committee:






Role of Real Estate in Investment Portfolio
Risk and Return Profile
Accessing Real Estate
Portfolio Construction
Due Diligence Process

Presentation materials were provided

Deputy-Chief Investment Officer’s Report
Deputy-Chief Investment Officer, Kevin Kenneally, provided the following updates and
discussion items for approval:




Funding/Rebalancing update
CEM Benchmarking Investment Study
GASB Long Term Return Methodology approval

Motion #19-41-05: June Nickleberry moved to approve the GASB Long Term Return
Methodology as presented and recommended by Chief Investment Officer Ryan
Bigelow and Investment Staff. Doris Ewing supported. The motion passed unanimously.
Motion #19-41-06: Thomas Sheehan moved to proceed with the recommendation of
the Deputy Chief Investment Officer with respect to updating the CEM Investment
Benchmarking study; and ask the Police and Fire Retirement System IC to share in the
study. If PFRS declines, the General Investment Committee will move forward with the
study. Kenneth Whipple supported. The motion passed unanimously
-Concludes DCIO’s reportLegal Report
Francis Judd, for General Counsel, provided the following informational item:


Semi-Annual Compliance Report wil be ready for Committee review at the next
meeting.

-4-

 Minutes – GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 041
July 15, 2019
Public/Member Comments
Kathleen Colin, President of NASP Detroit addressed the Committee regarding the
following upcoming events:
 NASP Detroit annual golf outing: 13th Annual Raymond Welborne Memorial Golf
Classic; Friday July 26th, 2019 at the Links at Gateway Golf Club in Romulus
 Pre-golf Pairing Party: “Cigars and Cognac” will be held on July 25th at 6 p.m. at
Central Kitchen in Detroit
Old Business/New Business


None

Thomas Sheehan moved to adjourn meeting #41. David Sowerby supported.
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business before the Investment Committee, Chairperson
Vanden Bosch adjourned the meeting at 3:13 p.m. The Investment Committee’s next
meeting is scheduled for Monday, September 16th, 2019, at 12:00 p.m. in the
Retirement Systems’ Conference Room, 500 Woodward Avenue, Suite 3000, Detroit,
Michigan 48226.

RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED,
______________________________________________
RYAN BIGELOW
CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER

Recording Secretary: TaKneisha Johnson

-5-

 