 



TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

. . . In. a}

r? ,x 1 .13.. 
If-) Iii-Ira? II II. I7r 

SERGEANT DEBRA FEARS

?42 Years of Dedicated Service?
CITY OF DETROIT

On November 1, 2019, SERGEANT DEBRA FEARS, assigned to the Court Liaison Section, is retiring from the
Detroit Police Department after thirty-four years of service as a law enforcement of?cer. Before embarking on her
law enforcement career, she also served as a civilian personnel/payroll clerk for the Detroit Police Department for
eight (8) years. SERGEAN FEARS has performed forty-two years of dedicated service to the citizens of the city of
Detroit; and

POLICE OFFICER FEARS was appointed to the Detroit Police Department on October 28, 1985. While serving as
a Student Police Officer in the Detroit Police Academy, she was the ?rst female to recite the law enforcement code of
ethics. Upon graduation ?om the Detroit Police Academy, OFFICER FEARS was assigned to the Fourteenth
Precinct. She was also assigned out to the Second Precinct; and

On December 14, 1986, OFFICER FEARS was assigned to the Narcotics Section as an undercover Narcotics Of?cer.
On January 14, 1994, OFFICER FEARS transferred to the Management Services Bureau. She served as an
Administrative Clerk for Deputy Chief Rudy Thomas with responsibility for performing all administrative tasks and
assignments. On May 2, 1996, OFFICER FEARS was assigned to Housing Support Services, where she served as a
Patrol Of?cer over the City of Detroit Housing Development Unit. On August 5, 1996, OFFICER FEARS was
assigned to the Recruiting Unit as a Recruiting Of?cer. She performed background investigations, home visits, and
reviewed recruit applicant packets. OFFICER FEARS was also assigned out to the Gaming Division, where she was
instrumental in the development of the new Gaming Division; and

On July 24, 1998, OFFICER FEARS was promoted to the rank of Sergeant and assigned to the Tactical Services
Unit. In this capacity, SERGEANT FEARS served as a Patrol Sergeant directing patrol of?cers and was responsible
for city?wide tactical response deployments. SERGEANT FEARS provided effective quality control and leadership
mentoring to all patrol entities under her command. Her assignments also included: Western Operations, the Fiscal
Management Unit, Management Services Bureau (Police Payroll), Sixth Precinct, the Detroit Detention Center and
the Court Liaison Unit. Throughout her career, SERGEANT FEARS was the recipient of many departmental awards,
including the Ford Fireworks Award, Rosa Parks Funeral Award, MLB All-Star Game Award, the NFL Super Bowl
XL Award, Conclusion of Con?nement Award, and the Conclusion of Consent Judgment Award. In addition, she has
received numerous citations, letters of appreciation and commendations. SERGEANT DEBRA FEARS has served
the City of Detroit, the Detroit Police Department and the citizens of Detroit with loyalty, integrity and
professionalism. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones recognize and commend SERGEANT DEBRA
FEARS for her positive contributions to the Detroit Police Department; working to ensure the safety and well-being
of the citizens of Detroit; and forty-two years of dedicated service.

2M
SIDENT ?Ml
. A?s

p- 7 COUNCI .I




 

 

,1 

 

  

"r 

NCILM 

November 20

DATE

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,



DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
(Bishop Henry Davenport IV

5th Pastoral Anniversary

It is with great pleasure and privilege that we, the members of the Detroit City Council, extend congratulations to
BISHOP HENRY DAVENPORT IV on this momentous occasion celebrating his 5th Pastoral Anniversary at
Solomon?s Temple Church; and

BISHOP DAVENPORT was born and raised in Detroit, Michigan. He attended Detroit Public Schools and
graduated from Pershing High School. BISHOP DAVENPORT is married to First Lady Pamela Davenport and has
one daughter, LaShante. They are the proud grandparents of one granddaughter, Sailor. BISHOP DAVENPORT is
an accomplished musician and has a well-known gospel radio ministry; and

BISHOP DAVENPORT was saved under the pastorate of the late Chief Apostle William L. Bonner, at Solomon?s
Temple Church in 1979. As a young man, he served faithfully and diligently at his home church in many areas of the
ministry. He was later commissioned by Apostle Bonner to travel to Nashville, Tennessee to start a church and begin
a ministry for the Lord. PASTOR DAVENPORT became the Founder and Pastor of True Way Church. In August
2005, PASTOR DAVENPORT was consecrated as Bishop over the Tennessee Diocese; and

On April 30, 2014, Apostle Bonner appointed BISHOP DAVENPORT to the position of Assistant Pastor to serve
along with Bishop William Hall at Solomon?s Temple Church. Then, on November 14, 2014, BISHOP
DAVENPORT was installed as the Pastor. He recognized that he had big shoes to ?ll and vowed to take the church
to the next level. Solomon?s Temple has continued to move forward under BISHOP leadership,
with First Lady Davenport by his side. Along with the spiritual growth of the church, BISHOP DAVENPORT
shared with the congregation his vision of how he sees the church growing and prospering. He also envisioned
renovating the church building and upgrading in phases, in order not to overburden the members. The renovations
included a new roof, expanding the pulpit, new nurses and usher stations, new restrooms to accommodate seniors,
expansion of the Atrium and of?ce of Senior Assistant Pastor Bishop Hall, new internal and external doors, and a
new parking lot. Under the direction of First Lady Davenport, the children?s church and nursery were added. She was
also instrumental in the renovation of the Temple; and

The fact that BISHOP DAVENPORT was born into the Kingdom of God at Solomon?s Temple gave him a special
love for the church. His eagerness to serve in the capacity as its shepherd has got the church on the move. Solomon?s
Temple is still anointed and doing well under the leadership of BISHOP HENRY DAVENPORT. He is a man of
great spiritual depth, faith, obedience and commitment. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones join with family, friends, and members of
Solomon?s Temple Church in honoring BISHOP HENRY DAVENPORT IV on his 5th Pastoral Anniversary.

I

 

 

 

November 2, 2019

 

DATE

TESTIMONIAL RESOLUTION FOR QM arm! 

SUBMITTED BY COUNCILMAN GABE LELAND

WHEREAS Bishop Richard Snead, Sr. received his ministerial training at Solomon?s Temple under the
leadership of Apostle William L. Bonner. In September 1977, after being ordained to the Eldership, he and his
wife, Willa M. Howard-Snead and their three sons, started a work for the Lord at Franklin Wright Community
Center. He and his family have dedicated themselves to ministry and improving the lives of others; and

WHEREAS Bishop Snead is a Licensed Electrician and has been employed with DTE Energy for thirty-one
years. He was a General Supervisor of the Systems Maintenance and Modification Department, and has
worked as an Education Coordinator for Technical Trade at Macomb County Community College and Henry
Ford Community College. He has attended William Tyndale Bible Institute and Lawrence Institute of
Technology. He earned a BS. Degree in Education with a minor in Religion from Madonna College, and a
Masters in Philosophy from the University of Detroit. He studied for his Masters in Theology Degree at Sacred
Heart Seminary; and

WHEREAS The Churches of Our Lord Jesus Christ confirmed him as Bishop in August 1996. He served as
the Financial Secretary of the Junior Bishop?s Board from 1991 1996. He is currently the Michigan Southern
Diocese State Bishop. He is also an accomplished guitarist; and

WHEREAS Bishop Snead is proud of his four sons and their wives and his grandchildren. He is also proud to
be able to have a mortgage burning ceremony for the church on 12th Street. The church stands proud in a new
neighborhood as Greater Ecclesia Temple at 9611 Iris St., Detroit, MI 48227; and

WHEREAS Bishop Snead is an excellent teacher for both Bible Study and Sunday school. He is a visionary
and through his encouragement and the financial support of the membership and the congregation has
sponsored such programs as, Back to School supply giveaways, a basketball facility for the young people and
Harvest Fest for Halloween. The church has offered tutoring, and a Senior Citizen?s Program. NOW
THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED That Councilman Gabe Leland and Members ofthe Detroit City Council hereby express their
gratitude to Bishop Richard Snead, Sr., Pastor ofGreater Ecclesia Temple. For being a man of integrity, leading
by example, having passion and having love to give back to not only your church but the community. May
God continue to bless you as you continue to share the gospel.

10.27.19 

TESTIMONIAL RESOLUTION FOR gm WW 
Rev. Cornelius Davis, Jr. 

SUBMITTED BY COUNCILMAN GABE LELAND

WHEREAS Scott Memorial United Methodist Church was founded by Mr. and Mrs. Harvey F. Henson on April
1, 1909. This year we are proud to honor and celebrate 110 years Of service to the greater Detroit community. The
name Scott was selected to honor Bishop Isaiah B. Scott, the ?rst African American Bishop to the Methodist
Episcopal Church who also served as a Missionary Bishop to Liberia; and

WHEREAS Scott Memorial was one of the leading churches in Detroit in the early twenties and became known as
the ?Mother Church? because it later nurtured and promoted the organization of three other churches namely,
Berea, Second Grace and St. Paul United Methodist Church. Currently, Scott Memorial United Methodist is
pastored by Rev. Cornelius Davis, Jr. The church is a vital part of District 7 and the Green?eld?Plymouth Road
community; and

WHEREAS Scott Memorial United Methodist Church provides a spiritual worship service each Sunday and Bible
Study and Prayer sessions during the week. We believe in community service and we sponsor a food pantry
program; a weekly meeting site for Narcotics Anonymous as well as support to the neighborhood block club. Some
additional projects include an annual Back to School Supplies Program, The Halloween Trunk or Treat Night, and
The Christmas Angel Tree Program. Additionally, we have a non-pro?t outreach agency named Scott Community
Center, Incorporated; and

WHEREAS Scott Community Center, Incorporated sponsored a college bound program in cooperation with
Mackenzie High School for 15 years that enabled numerous students to receive tutoring and college entry skills.
One of the greatest are the outreach programs, in which, makes Scott Memorial one of the leading
religious institutions for the community; and

WHEREAS Scott Memorial United Methodist Church is a member of the United Methodist Church that was
created on April 23, 1968 when the former unit the Evangelical United Brethren Church and the Methodist Church
united to form a new denomination. The United Methodist Church through the power Of connection and
discipleship continues to make a difference in the world and in more than 125 countries. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED That Councilman Gabe Leland and Members of the Detroit City Council hereby congratulate and celebrate
with Scott Memorial United Methodist Church on its 110th Church Anniversary. May God continue to bless and keep your
ministry as you work to further the gospel and spiritual progression of God?s children.

10.27.19 - 

Alpha Phi Alpha Fra remit? Inc., Gamma Lambda Chapter
Centennial Anniversary

WHEREAS Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. was founded on the campus of Cornell University on December 4, llil906 by seven
collegiate men These visionary leaders Henry Arthur Callis, Charles Henry Chapman, Eugene Kinckle ?times, George
Biddle Kelley, Nathaniel Allison Murray, Robert Harold Ogle and Vertner Woodson Tandy recognized a need for a
strong brotherhood among men of African descent. As the ?rst intercollegiate Greek-letter organization established for
African American men, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., has supplied a global voice to the challenges and triumphs of
African Americans and communities of color; and

WHEREAS Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., had established 20 collegiate and 2 alumni chapters throughout the United States when
the Gamma Lambda Chapter was chartered on March 22, 1919 in the City of Detroit by by J.H. Alexander, C.H.
Campbell, U.S. Carey, EJ. Cheeks, P.B. Gamble, C.L. Henderson, J.L. Henderson, LE. Johnson, C.H. Mahoney, M.E.
Morton, C. Rowlette, CH. Roxborough and SD. Sparks. As the is the third alumni chapter established by Alpha Phi
Alpha, Fraternity Inc., Gamma Lambda is home to one of the largest chapters of the organization; and

WHEREAS The positive impact on the City of Detroit and its surrounding municipalities by Gamma Lambda Chapter has been
immeasurable and is exempli?ed through its excellence in execution of the Fraternity?s National Programs: Go?to-High
School, Go?to-College, A Voteless People is a Hopeless People, Brothers Keeper, Project Alpha and March of Dimes.
In addition, members of Gamma Lambda perform countless hours of service through Big Brothers Big Sisters, the Boy
Scouts of America, Alpha Esquires, C.O.T.S., and numerous other organizations helping those in need of resources and
hope. Gamma Lambda Chapter is also home to the Historic Alpha House Michigan Historic Registry #549. This
Neoclassical-style structure located at 293 Eliot St. is the oldest Alpha house in the country; and

WHEREAS In its one hundred year history, Gamma Lambda Chapter has displayed a solid commitment to the Fraternity?s aims of
Manly Deeds, Scholarship and Love for All Mankind?. Most recently, Gamma Lambda served as host to the Fraternity?s
85th General Convention in August 2003 and alumni chapter host for the Midwestern Region?s Convention in 2006. In
recognition for their many years of outstanding service, Gamma Lambda was named the Midwestern Region?s Chapter
of the Year in 2005 and the 2015 Outstanding Alumni Chapter of the Year at the 93rd General Convention; NOW,
THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED That on this day, October 19, 2019, Council Members Bro. James E. Tate, Jr., Bro. Scott Benson and the entire Detroit
City Council do hereby acknowledge and congratulate Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., Gamma Lambda Chapter on its
One Hundredth Anniversary. We wish you continuous prosperity for the next one hundred years and thank you for your
service to our great city. May you continue your commitment and dedica1ion to the City of Detroit through the tenets of
brotherhood, scholarship and love for all mankind.

