SSA #19 Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, September 18, 2019, 8:30 am at The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard St.
In Attendance: Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters (via phone), Commissioner;
Sandi Price, RPBA staff
Absent: Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Gale Howard, Commissioner;
Guests: Torrence Gardner, 49th Ward Economic Development Director; Cindy Plante, resident
1. Meeting called to order by Carrie Sullivan at 8:30 am.
2. There was no community input.
3. August 21, 2019 Minutes – Minutes could not be approved since there was no quorum
4. January – August 2019 Financials were presented, they could not be approved since there
was no quorum
5. Commissioner Seats - Three seats are currently available. Commissioner applications have
been given to Mike Smith of Hariz R Us and Badou Diakhate of Badou Senegalese Cuisine.
Mike has been pursued for over a year and we are going to move on. Sandi will reach out
to Badou again. Cally Radunzel of Curls & Co is interested in returning as a commissioner
after she moves her business. There was a discussion to have diverse commissioners.
Others suggested include Enoch from Buffalo Joes, Kidane from I’m Soul Hungry and
possibly expanding the area to get some local residents. Chuck Patella once Howard Street
Brewery opens. Can we extend the SSA to Western?
6. Events
a. Halloween - A5 is working with Willye White Park to determine the best Halloween
event. We have agreed to purchase candy for businesses and A5 will be creating and
distributing marketing materials.
b. Outdoor Community Event – A5 is suggesting that this event be held in the Spring. At
the meeting, it was decided that maybe a February Indoor/Outdoor event would work
better when everyone is looking to get out of their homes.
c. Live Love Shop – In past years, Howard Street was not represented in Live Love Shop
receipts. We will talk about doing more advertising to promote Howard Street. We will
distribute RPBA’s tip sheet and try to create an experience including verbiage for online
sales/website promotions for businesses with online sales (Factory Theater).
7. New / Closing Businesses – I’m Soul Hungry has reopened. He signed a new 5 year lease
after conversations with the property owner. Cally is waiting for a building inspection. The
Chicago Police Department has signed off on the license for Howard Street Brewing.
8. New Business:
a. 49th Ward will be supporting Sol Café’s liquor license.
b. There is a new proposal for the Howard Ashland site that is in the early stages.
c. SSA #19 commissioners will review the Howard St. Strategic plan in November.
9. Old Business – Charlotte has bought a flag pole for Howard/Greenview/Rogers.
10. Meeting was adjourned 9:50 am.
11. Next SSA Meeting - Wed., October 16, 2019 at 8:30 am, The Factory Theater.

 