#7
gap 1 <5 5



a?PanBt/A .

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

22

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
November 1, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001196 100% City Funding AMEND 1 To Provide an Extension of Time for
Services to Supply Rodenticide for Rat Bait Stations in the City of Detroit.
Contractor: Audio Visual Equipment Supplies dba AVE Location:
25325 Shiawassee Circle Suite 203, South?eld, MI 48033 Contract
Period: Upon City Council Approval through January 15, 2022 Total
Contract Amount: $201,200.00. BUILDING SAFETY ENGINEERING
AND ENVIRONMENT (Previous Contract Period: January 16, 2018 
January 15, 2020)

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001196 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated November 1, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

23

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
November 1, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

3038125 100% City Funding To Provide an Emergency Demolition for the
Following Residential Properties, 14716 Cedargrove, 14646 Hazelridge
and 14660 Hazelridge. Contractor: Inner City Contracting Location:
18701 Grand River, Detroit, MI 48223 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through October 15, 2020 Total Contract Amount:
$44,050.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3038125 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated November 1, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

2.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
November 1, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002423 100% Major Street Funding 4 To Provide Solar Light Pedestrian Crossing
Signs for the Department of Public Works. Contractor: Carrier Gable,
Inc. Location: 24110 Research Drive, Farmington Hills, MI 48335 
Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through October 21, 2021 
Total Contract Amount: $36,130.00. PUBLIC WORKS

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002423 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated November 1, 2019, be hereby and is approved.



OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
November 1, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

6002416 100% City Funding To Provide Salt for the 2019-2020 Season in
Accordance with Contract #1718000000768. Contractor:
Detroit Salt Company, LLC Location: 12841 Sanders Street, Detroit, MI
48217 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through December
1, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $2,683,427.40. PUBLIC WORKS

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002416 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated November 1, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

26:

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

November 1, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6000254 100% Federal Funding AMEND 1 - To Provide an Extension of Time to
Facilitate the Replacement of Existing Unappealing Bus Shelters and
Benches. Contractor: Brasco International, Inc. Location: 32400
Industrial Drive, Madison Heights, MI 48071 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval through October 31, 2024 Total Contract
Amount: $515,325.00. TRANSPORTATION (Previous Contract
Period: November 1, 2016 October 31, 2019)

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000254 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated November 1, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

2?

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
November 1, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

6002161 59% Federal Funding - 41% City Funding To Provide Assistance with
the Development and Implementation of a Pilot Microtransit Service. 
Contractor: Transdev, Inc. Location: 720 Butterfield Suite 300,
Lombard, IL 60148 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval
through October 31, 2021 Total Contract Amount: $1,400,000.00.
TRANSPORTATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Officer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002161 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated November 1, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

2%

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

October 30, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001033 100% City Funding AMEND 1 To Provide an Extension of Time and
Increase of Funds for Vehicle Wash Services for the City of Detroit?s
Police Department. Contractor: Jefferson Car Wash Location: 14615 
Jefferson, Detroit, MI 48215 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through October 31, 2020 Contract Increase Amount:
$66,804.00 Total Contract Amount: $200,412.00. POLICE (Previous
Contract Period: November 1, 201 7 October 31, 2019)

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001033 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated October 30, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
.. 2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500

pg DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550


 Cm 0F Damon FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

  

 

November 1, 2019

Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young
Municipal Center

Detroit, Michigan

Re: Proposed Ordinance to Amend Chapter 23 of The 2019 Detroit City Code, Human
Rights, by amending Article Biased Based Policing and Solicitation of
Immigration Status.

Honorable City Council:

Pursuant to the request of Member Castaneda-Lopez, the above-referenced ordinance is
being submitted to Your Honorable Body for consideration. This proposed ordinance will amend
Chapter 23 of The 2019 Detroit City Code, Human Rights, by amending Article Biased Based
Policing and Solicitation of Immigration Status, to be amended and renamed, Unbiased Provision
of City Services.

We are available to answer any questions that you may have concerning this proposed ordinance.

Thank you for your consideration.
/R??lsec1funy,


Tonjai Long

Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

SUMMARY

This proposed ordinance amends Chapter 23 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Human Rights,
by amending Article Biased Based Policing and Solicitation of Immigration Status, to be
renamed Unbiased Provision of City Services, and by amending Section 23-8?1, Statement of
purpose, Section 23?8-2, De?nitions, Section 23-8-3, Violations and penalties, Section 23-8?4,
Biased-based policing by public servants who are police officers, on the basis of appearance,
English language proficiency, ethnicity, immigration status, manner of dress, national origin,
perceived national origin, age, height, weight, familial status, marital status, disability, physical
characteristics, race, color, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression
prohibited; exception, Section 23?8?5, Solicitation of immigration status by public servants who
are police o??icers prohibited; exceptions, Section 23-8-6, Solicitation of immigration status by
public servants who are not police o?icers prohibited; exceptions, Section 23-8-7, Implementation

of article, and Section 23?8-8, Reporting requirements.

A19-08993 i 11-1-2019

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 23 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Human Rights,
by amending Article Biased Based Policing and Solicitation of Immigration Status, to be
renamed Unbiased Provision of City Services, and by amending Section 23-8-1, Statement of
purpose, Section 23-8-2, Definitions, Section 23-8-3, Violations and penalties, Section 23-8-4,
Biased-based policing by public servants who are police o??icers, on the basis of appearance,
English language proficiency, ethnicity, immigration status, manner of dress, national origin,
perceived national origin, age, height, weight, familial status, marital status, disability, physical
characteristics, race, color, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression
prohibited; exception, Section 23-8-5, Solicitation of immigration status by public servants who
are police officers prohibited; exceptions, Section 23?8-6, Solicitation of immigration status by
public servants who are not police o??icers prohibited; exceptions, Section 23-8-7, Implementation
of article, and Section 23-8?8, Reporting requirements.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1: That Chapter 23 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Human Rights, Article 
Biased Based Policing and Solicitation of Immigration Status, be renamed to Unbiased Provision
of City Services and Sections 23-8-1 through 23?8-8 be amended to read as follows:

CHAPTER 23. HUMAN RIGHTS

ARTICLE WWTKON


UNBIASED PROVISION OF CITY SERVICES

Sec. 23-8?1. Statement of purpose.

It is the policy of the City to respect the rights of, and provide equal services to, all persons
regardless of appearance, English language proficiency ,ethnicity, immigration status, manner of
dress, national origin, perceived national origin, age, height, weight, familial status, marital status,
disability, physical characteristics, race, color, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, or gender
identity or expression; to ensure the enforcement of rights under the United States Constitution,
including due process and equal protection; to promote community safety; to encourage victims
of crime and witnesses to cooperate with law enforcement authority without regard to immigration
status; to prevent bias?based policing; and to promote acceptance. In order to permit members of
immigrant communities to access services that are provided by City government to which they are
entitled, and to ensure that City public servants are acting consistent with federal law regarding
local governments cooperating with federal immigration authorities, the City enacts this article as
an effective way to guide City public servants in adhering to rights under the United States
Constitution, including due process and equal protection, and under federal law, while protecting
the safety and health of all members of the Detroit community.

See. 23-8-2. De?nitions.

For purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings

respectively ascribed to them by this section:

 

City entity means all agencies within and without City government that provide City

programs and services.

Gender identity or expression means a an actual or perceived gender?related identity,

 

appearance, expression, or behavior of an individual, regardless of the designation of gender on
one's birth certificate, driver?s license, or state or municipal identi?cation.

Muntr'fpai identification card means an individual resident?s identi?cation card as de?ned
in Section 23-9?2 of this Code.

Police of?cer means a sworn member of the Police Department, or anyr policing agency

 

within the City.

Public servant means the Mayor, members of the City Council, the City Clerk, any member
of any City agency, board, commissiOn, or other voting body that is established by the Charter or
by this Code, and any appointee, any employee, or any individual who provides services to the
City within or outside of its offices or facilities pursuant to a personal services contract.

Sexual orientation means 
imian a pattern of emotional, romantic and or sexual attraction to men, women,

both, or neither.

Violent criminal a?ense means a violent felony as de?ned in Section 543(b)(h) of the
Michigan Penal Code, being MCL 

Sec. 23-8-3. Violations and penalties.

Where a public servant is alleged to have violated this article, a complaint may he
filed with the Department of Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunitv in accordance with Section
23-2-11 of this Code.

(Q) Where a public servant is alleged to have violated this article, the matter shall be
referred, as appropriate, for review, investigation, and disposition to the City Council in
accordance with Section of the Charter,?er for forfeiture  proceedinat for an
office held by of an elective City of?cer? to the appointing authority in accordance with Section
of the Charter for removal proceedings of a City appointee. Any disciplinary action shall
be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Charter and other laws, City personnel
rules, civil service rules, union contracts, or other departmental or agency rules and regulations.

to) Where a complaint is referred to Citv Council in accordance with Section 2- t07iC)

of the Charter, itv Council shall exercise its powers of investigation pursuant to Sections 4-109
and 4?1 10 of the Charter to hold hearing and investigate the matter.
Sec. 23-8-4. Bias-based policing by public servants who are police officers, on the basis of
appearance, English language pro?ciencv, ethnicity, immigration status, manner of dress,
national origin, perception of national origin, age, height, weight, familial status, marital
status, disability, physical characteristics, race, color, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, or
gender identity or expression prohibited; exception.

A public servant who is a police of?cer shall not exercise differential treatment of

individuals in rendering police services based on a person's appearance, English language



pro?ciency, ethnicity, immigration status, manner of dress, national origin, perceived national
origin, age, height, weight, familial status, marital status, disability, physical characteristics, race,
color, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression.

A public servant who is a police of?cer shall not base reasonable suspicion for an
investigative detention, probable cause for an arrest, or any other police action, on a person's
appearance, English language proficiency, ethnicity, immigration status, manner of dress, national
origin, perceived national origin, age, height, weight, familial status, marital status, disability,
physical characteristics, race, color, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, or gender identity or
expression.

A public servant who is a police of?cer may take into account the reported

manner of dress,  age, height, weight,

 

appearance,
familial status, marital status, disability, physical characteristics, race, color, religions?bth
 for the purpose of identifying a described
individual.

Sec. 23-8-5. Solicitation of immigration status by public servants who are police
of?cers prohibited; exceptions.

A public servant who is a police officer:

(1) Shall not solicit information concerning immigration status for the purpose of

ascertaining a person's compliance with federal immigration law; or
(2) Shall not solicit information concerning immigration status from a person who is

seeking police services, or is a victim, or is a witness.

(3) Shall not subject a person to a higher level of scrutiny or to different treatment
should a person utilize a passport or municipal identification card as a form of
identi?cation.

Notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in Subsection of this section, public

Eel-i

 

servants who are police of?cers are expressly permitted to

 
   

  information concerning immigration status from the subject
of an investigation only when relevant to the investigation or prosecution of a
mill criminal offense, or when processing an arrested person on suspension of
committing a violent criminal offense as de?ned in this article.

Sec. 23-8-6. Solicitation of immigration status by public servants who are not police officers
prohibited; exceptions.

A public servant who is not a police of?cer:

Q) ls prohibited from inquiring into the immigration status of any person, or engaging
in activities designed to ascertain the immigration status of any person, while acting
within the scope of such public servant's authority, or employment, as a public
servant.

Shall not subiect a person to a homer level of or to different treatment

should a person utilize a passport or municipal identification card as a Form of

identification.

Notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in Subsection of this section, public
servants who are not police of?cers are expressly permitted to engage in the following activities;
(1) Solicitation of information concerning immigration status where speci?cally
required by any federal, state, or City law or program as a condition of eligibility

for the service sought; o_r
(2) Solicitation of information concerning immigration status for the purpose of
completing I-9 Forms, and, when relevant, in making hiring and payroll
withholding decisions, including, but not limited to, completing 1-9 Forms,
questioning a person to complete the 1?9 Form, obtaining documents that support
the 1?9 Form, and allowing federal authorities to audit an 1?9 Form in accordance

with lawi 

 

Sec. 23-8-7. Implementation of article.
This article shall be implemented by the Human Resources Department and by any
City entity through training for new public servants, ongoing training and educational programs to

inform public servants regarding its prohibitions and requirements.

Sec. 23-8-8. Reporting requirements.

On or before April 1St of each year, the Human Resources Department and the
human resources division of am; Citv entitv whose duties and responsibilities include training
pursuant to this article. shall provide a report to the City Council detailing the nature. frequency.
attendance requirements, and outreach initiatives undertaken for trainingCitv personnel on the
requirements and prohibitions of this article.

On or before April 1St of each year. the Department of Civil Rights. Inclusion and
Opportunity, and any other City entity whose duties and responsibilities include receipt of
complaints pursuant to Section 29?8?? Of this article, shall issue a report to the City Council,
including the number of complaints of bias in the provision of City services received during the
preceding calendar vear, a general description of the complaints, as well as a description of the
disposition of the complaints.

Secs. 23-8-9?23-8-30. Reserved.

Section 2. All ordinances, parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary for the preservation of the public
peace, health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. Where this ordinance is passed by two thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon publication
in accordance with Section 4?1 18(1) of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is

passed by less than two thirds majority of City Council members serving, it shall become

1 effective thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with Section 4?118(2) of the 2012 Detroit
2 City Charter.
Approved as to form:

W4W

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550

CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-22405505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

November 1, 2019

 

 

Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young
Municipal Center

Detroit, Michigan

Re: Proposed Ordinance to Amend Chapter 17 of The 2019 Detroit City Code, Finance,
Article V, Purchase and Supplies, by adding Division 12, Community Input Over
Governmental Surveillance.
Honorable City Council:
Pursuant to the request of Pro tem Shef?eld, the above-referenced ordinance is being
submitted to Your Honorable Body for consideration. This proposed ordinance will amend Chapter

17 of The 2019 Detroit City Code, Finance, Article V, Purchase and Supplies, by adding Division
12, Community Input Over Governmental Surveillance.

We are available to answer any questions that you may have concerning this prOposed ordinance.

Thank you for your consideration.
?aming .

TowLong

Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

SUMMARY

This proposed ordinance amends Chapter 17 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Finance, by
amending Article V, Purchase and Supplies, to add Division 12, Community Input Over
Government Surveillance, consisting of Sections 17?5-451 through 17-5-459; to define essential
terms, to require submission of a Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report with procurement
requests to City Council and to provide for a public hearing, or waiver of same, to identify the
minimum required contents of the Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report, to require an
annual Surveillance Technology Procurement Report from relevant City departments to City
Council of all new acquisitions of surveillance technology, to require an Annual Surveillance Use
Report from relevant City departments to City Council of government surveillance activities, to
establish a public reporting system for government surveillance procurements, to provide for use
of unapproved surveillance technology in exigent circumstances, to prohibit certain contractual

provisions and provide exceptions to such prohibition, and to establish whistleblower protections.

A19?0483l i 11-1-19



COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 17 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Finance, by
amending Article V, Purchase and Supplies, to add Division 12, Community Input Over
Government Surveillance, consisting of Sections 17?5-451 through 17-5-459; to de?ne essential
terms, to require submission of a Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report with procurement
requests to City Council and to provide for a public hearing, or waiver of same, to identify the
minimum required contents of the Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Report, to require an
annual Surveillance Technology Procurement Report from relevant City departments to City
Council of all new acquisitions of surveillance technology, to require an Annual Surveillance Use
Report from relevant City departments to City Council of government surveillance activities, to
establish a public reporting system for government surveillance procurements, to provide for use
of unapproved surveillance technology in exigent circumstances, to prohibit certain contractual
provisions and to provide exceptions to such prohibitions, and to establish whistleblower
protections.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1: That Chapter 17 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Finance, Article V, Purchases
and Supplies, Division 12, Community Input Over Government Surveillance, Sections 17-5-451
through 17-5-459 be added to read as follows:

CHAPTER 17. FINANCE
ARTICLE V. PURCHASE AND SUPPLIES

DIVISION 12. COMMUNITY INPUT OVER GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE

Sec. 17-5-451. De?nitions.

For the purpose of this division, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Surveillance data means any electronic data collected, captured, recorded, retained,
processed, intercepted, analyzed. or shared by surveillance technology.

Surveillance technology means anv electronic surveillance device, hardware, or software
that is capable of collecting, capturing, recording, retaining, processing, intercepting, analyzing,
monitoring, or sharing audio, visual, digital, location, thermal. biometric. or similar information
or communications speci?cally associated with, or capable of being associated with, any specific
individual or group; or any system, device, or vehicle that is equipped with an electronic
surveillance device, hardware, or software.

Surveillance technolggy includes, but is not limited to:

 

 

 

 

a. International mobile subscriber identity (IMSU catchers and other cell site
simulators

b. Automatic license plate readers:

c. Electronic toll readers; 

d. Except as identi?ed in Subsection (Hill) of this definition, Closed-circuit

 

television camcras,;
e. Biometric surveillance technology, including facial, voice, iris, and gait?

recognition software and databases;

 

 

f. Mobile DNA capture technology;
g. Gunshot detection and location hardware and services;
b. X?rav vans;

 

Video and audio monitoring and/or recording technology, such as
surveillance cameras and wide?angle cameras;

i. Surveillance enabled or capable lightbuths or light fixtures;

k. Tools. including software and hardware. used to gain unauthorized access

to a computer. computer service, or computer network;

 

 

 

 

 

I. Social media monitoring software;

111. Through-the-wall radar or similar imaging technologfy'1

n. Passive scanners of radio networks,

0. Long-range Bluetooth and other wireless-scanning devices,

Radio?frequencv LD. (RFID) scanners, and

q. Software designed to integrate or analyze data from Surveillance

 

Technologv, including but not limited to remote video and/or audio
monitoring, social media monitoring. surveillance target tracking, and
predictive policing software.

Surveillance technology does not include the following devices or hardware. unless

they have been equipped with, or are modi?ed to become or include, a surveillance

technology as de?ned in this section:

a. Routine of?ce hardware, such as televisions, computers, and printers, that
is in widespread public use and will not be used for any surveillance or
surveillance-related functions;

h. Parkng Ticket Devices 

c. Cell phones:

Manually?operated, non?wearable, handheld digital cameras, audio
recorders, and video recorders that are not designed to he used
surreptitiously and whose functionality is limited to manually capturing and
manually downloading video and/or audio recordings:

e. Body worn cameras and in-vehicle video cameras;

f. Closed circuit television cameras, utilized for security purposes, located
inside or upon a (:inr government building or accessory structure other than
a school or a library;

g. Any technology that is procured exclusively For the purpose of controlling
City employee access to, or the use of, a secured City government building
or vehicle, even when used in coniunction with another surveillance
technology.

h. Surveillance devices that cannot record or transmit audio or video or be

 

remoter accessed, such as image stabilizing binoculars or night vision
goggles;

City department databases that do not and will not contain any data or other
information collected, captured. recorded, retained, processed, intercepted
or analyzed by surveillance technology; and

Manually-operated technological devices that are used primarily for internal
City department communications and are not designed to surreptitiously

collect surveillance data, such as radios and email systems.

Surveillance technology procurement means the purchase or acquisition of a surveillance
technologv whether or not the surveillance technology procurement is made through the exchange
of monies or other consideration.

Sec. 17-5452. City Council approval of all surveillance technology procurements:
submission of. and reliance upon, Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Reports. public
hearing, waiver.

Except for Subsection of this section, no Cit_y department may engage in a
surveillance technology procurement until:

l) The Citv department has provided the Citv Council with a Surveillance Technology

Speci?cation Report, as described in Section 175-453 of this Code;

The City Council has conducted a properiv?noticed public hearing regarding the

requested procurement; and

The City Council has voted to approve the surveillance technology procurement.

All applicable Surveillance Technology Specification Reports associated with a
surveillance technology. as well as any other applicable existing policies, stantlartls. and
procedures, shall be submitted to the City Council bv the requesting_Citv department or. in the
case of the Police Department. in coniunction with a copv of any applicable existing governing
policv approved by the Board of Police Conmiissioners, concurrently with any request for the
approval of the procurement 01" a surveillance technology.

Except for Subsection of this section, surveillance Technology Specification
Reports submitted for procurement of new surveillance technology shall be made available to the
public, at a designated page on the City website and. where a public hearing is required under

Subsection of this section, at least [4 days prior to the public hearing. Anv Surveillance

Technologv Specification Report that is submitted with a surveillance technolongrocurcrnenl
approval request approved by itv Council shall be made available to the public for as long as the
related surveillance technology remains in Use by or in the possession of the Citv department.

The Citv Council shall onlv approve a procurement request for a surveillance
technology under this section if the Bodv determines the bene?ts of the surveillance technologv
outweigh its costs, that the will safeguard civil liberties and civil rights, and that the uses
and deplovments of the surveillance technology will not be based upon discriminatory or
vieWpoint-based factors or have a disparate impact on any communitv or group.

Anv Citv Council approval of a procurement request for a surveillance technologv
made pursuant to this division shall he ore-conditioned and done in reliance upon the information,
obligations, and limitations set forth in the Surveillance Technologv Speci?cation Report provided
to the City Council pursuant to Subsection of this section. Where the Police Department wishes
to use a procured surveillance technologv in a manner that is inconsistent with its Surveillance
Technologv Speci?cation Report. and where Section 17?5-457 is inapplicable, it must seek and
receive permission to do so from the Board of Police Commissioners.

Permission to acquire or use a new make or model of a surveillance technology
does not have to be sought where its functionalitv and capabilities do not differ in anv signi?cant
wav from a previously approved version of an equivalent surveillance technologv.

In the event of a non?disclosure agreement, the Citv Department shall submit the
Surveillance Technology Specification Report as a confidential writing to the Citv Council.

The public hearing requirements provided for in Subsection of this section mav

be waived pursuant to a vote of 2/3 of Citv Council members serving.

Sec. 17-5-453. Surveillance Technologv Speci?cation Reports.



The contents of the Surveillance Technologv Report shall reflect the complete and

accurate proposed use of surveillance technologv being submitted.



The surveillance Technology Report shall be a publicly released report, written by

the requesting Citv department or, in the case of the Police Department, in coniunction with the

Board of Police Commissioners, that includes, at a minimum, the following:

ll}



(3)



(5)



Description: Information describing the surveillance technologv and its
capabilities;
Purpose: Any specific purpose the surveillance technologv_is intended to advance:
Deplovment: If the surveillance technology will not be uniformly deployed or
targeted throughout the Citv, what factors will be used to determine where the
technologv is deploved or targeted;

Fist-oi import: The fiscal impact of the surveillance technologv;

Civil Rights/Liberties Impacts: An assessment identifving with speci?citv:

a. Any potential adverse impacts the surveillance technologv. if deployed,

might have on civil liberties and civil rights; and

 

b. What specific, af?rmative measures will be implemented to safeguard the
public from the potential adverse impacts identified in this section:
Authorized Use: Given its l'unctiona-Ilitv, for what purposes will the surveillance

technology be deployed, and what known potential uses will be prohibited;
a. what tvpes of surveillance data will be collected, captured, recorded.

intercepted, or retained bv the surveillance technology;

What surveillance data may be inadvertentl?tr collected during the authorized
uses of the surveillance technologv, and what measures will be taken to
minimize the inadvertent collection of such data; and

c. How will inadvertenth collected surveillance data be expeditiously

identified and deleted:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(7) Data Collection:

at. What types of surveillance data will he collected, captured, recorded,
intercepted. or retained by the surveillance technology;

b. What surveillance data niav be inadvertently collected during the authorized
uses of the surveillance technol_ogv. and what measures will be taken to
minimize the inadvertent collection of data; and

c. How inadvertently collected surveillance data will be expeditiously
identified and deleted;

(8) Data Protection: What safeguards will be used to protect surveillance data from
unauthorized access, including and access control mechanisms.
Data Retention: insofar as the privacy of the public can he severer compromised

 

by the long?term storage of mass surveillance data, what rules and procedures will

govern the retention oi?surveillance data. including those governing:

a. The limited time period. if anv. surveillance data will be retained. Such
information shall include a statement explaining why the designated

retention period is no greater than that which is to

 

achieve the specific purpose(s) enumerated in the Surveillance Technology

Specification Report;

(10)

 

 

b. The specific conditions that must be met to retain surveillance data bevond
the retention period identi?ed pursuant to Subsection (Elma) of this section;
?d

c. The process utilized to regular-Iv delete surveillance data after the retention

 

period stated in Subsection t9)(a) ol?this section has elapsed and the auditing
procedures that will be implemented to ensure data is not improperlv

retained'

 

Surveillance Data Sharing: If a Citv department is seeking authorization to share

access to surveillance technolopv or surveillance data with anv other governmental

agencies, departments, bureaus, divisions, or units, or non-governmental persons or

entities in the absence of a judicial warrant or other legal mandate. it shall detail:

El.

Which governmental agencies, departments, bureaus, divisions, or units, or
non-governmental persons or entities will be approved for:

Surveillance technologv sharing, and

(ii) Surveillance data sharing;

How such sharing is necessary for the stated purpose and use of the
surveillance technologv;

How it will ensure anv entitv sharing access to the surveillance technology
or surveillance data complies with the applicable Surveillance Technoloev
Specification Report and does not further disclose the surveillance data to
unauthorized persons and entities; and

What processes will be used to seek Citv Council approval of future

surveillance technologv or surveillance data sharing agreements;

(ll)

(12)



(14)

Demands liar Access to Surveillance Dam: What legal standard must be met by
government entities or third parties seeking or demanding access to surveillance
dag;

Auditory and Oversight: What mechanisms will be implemented to ensure the
Surveillance Technoloav Specification Report is followed. including what
independent persons or entities will be given oversight authority, if and how regular
audits will be conducted, and in the case of the Police Department, also how the
Board of Police Commissioners will be involved in the auditing and oversight
process:

Training: Would specialized training he required in connection with the use of the
surveillance technoloav;

Complaints: What procedures will allow members of the public to register
complaints or concerns, or submit questions about the dcplovment or use of a

speci?c surveillance technologv. and how the Citv department will ensure each

question and complaint is responded to in a timely manner.

Sec. 17-5-454. Annual Surveillance echnoloav Procurement Report.



Not later than March 31st of each year, any City department, with the exception of

the police department, using a surveillance technoloav must subunit to the Citv Council and make

available on its public website, an Annual Surveillance Technology Procurement Report.



The Annual Surveillance rl?echnoloa,rr Procurement Report shall include the
l'oilowina information for the previous calendar vear:
a. The total dollar value of all contracts associated with procurement of new

surveillance technologv:

10

The total number of contracts entered into for the procurement of new
surveillance technologv; and
c. The number of occasions where surveillance technologv was acquired

 

temporarilv from other iurisdictions or entities. as well as the name(s) of the

applicable iurisdietiont?s) or entitvt's).

Included in the annual report required under Section 7-806 of the Charter. Duties

offhe brief of Police, the Police Department must submit an Annual Surveillance Technologv

Procurement Report.

[ll

The Annual Surveillance Technolon Procurement Report shall include the

following information for the previous calendar vear:

 

 

 

 

a. The total dollar value of all contracts associated with procurement of new
surveillance technoloav;

b. The total number of contracts entered into for the procurement of new
surveillance technology; and

c. The number of occasions where surveillance technologv was acquired

 

temporarilv from other jurisdictions or entities. as well as the name(s) of the

applicable iurisdictiont?s) or entitvts).

Sec. 17-5-455. Annual Surveillance Use Report.



Not later than March 31st of each vear. any CitV Department. with the exception of

the police department. using a surveillance technologv must submit to the Cilv Council. and make

available on its public website. an Annual Surveillance Use Report for each specific surveillance

technologv procured at anv time during the previous calendar vear.

11

(I)

The Annual Surveillance Use Report shall include the following information for

the previous calendar year:

A brief overview of how the surveillance technology collected data;

The total number of days the surveillance technology was used;

The number ol?times surveillance data from the surveillance technology was
shared with external entities, the namets) of all recipient entities, the typetsj
of data disclosed. and the general reason for the disclosure(s);

The number of times surveillance data was acquired from external entities
the namets} of all entities sharing surveillance data, the typets) of data
acquired, and the general reason for acquisition;

The geographic deployment of surveillance technology, by individual
census tract as defined in the relevant year by the United States Census
Bureau. For each census tract. the City department shall report how many
individual days the surveillance technology was deployed:

In the case of social media monitoring only, the number of days the
surveillance technoloav was used to monitor internet activity, as well as the
number of speci?cally targeted people who were monitored;

A summary of complaints or concerns that were received about the
surveillance technology;

The results of any internal audits, any information about violations of the

applicable Surveillance Technology Speci?cation Reports. and any actions

 

taken in response;

12

Total annual costs for the surveillance technologv. including personnel and
other ongoing costs, and the sources ol? funding: for the technolon in the
next ?scal vear; and

Anv misuse of the technologv during the reporting period.

Included in the annual report required under Section 7-806 of the Charter, Duties

of the Chief of Police, the Police Department must submit an Annual Surveillance Use Report for

each speci?c surveillance technology procured at anv time during the previous calendar vear.

The Annual Surveillance Use Report shall include the following information for

the previous calendar vear:

A hriel? overview of how the surveillance technologv collected data;

The total number of days the surveillance technologv was used;

The number oftimes surveillance data from the surveillance technologv was
shared with external entities, the namets) of all recipient entities, the tvpets)
of data disclosed, and the aeneral reason for the disclosurets}, unless
disclosing such information would disrupt the operation of a valid,
con?dential agreement between or among law enforcement agencies;

The number of times surveillance data was acquired from external entities
the namcts} of all entities sharing surveillance data, the typets} of data
acquired, and the genera] reason for acquisition;

The geographic deployment of surveillance technologv, by precinct scout

car area, including-1 how manv individual days the surveillance technology

was deployed;

13

the case of social media monitoring onlv? the number of days the
surveillance [cchnologv was used to monitor internet activity, as well as the
number of specificallv targeted people who were monitored;

A summary' of complaints or concerns that were received about the
surveillance technolong

The results of anv internal audits, anv information about violations of the
applicable Surveillance Technology Specification Reports, and am; actions
Total annual costs for the surveillance technologv, including personnel and
other ongoing costs, and the sources of fundingr for the teehnolopv in the
next fiscal year; and

Any misuse of the technology during the reporting period.

For purposes of this section, ?external entities? shall not include persons acting in

their individual capacities.

Sec. 17-5-456. Public report of government surveillance authorizations.

Not later than April 30th of each year, the CitV Council or its appointed designee. shall

release an annual public report, in print and on the City website, containing the following

information for the precedin calendar vear:

The number of requests for approval submitted to the Citv Council for the 

funding, acquisition, and new uses of surveillance technolog?

(2) The number of times the itv Council approved requests submitted for the (at

funding, acquisition, and to) new uses of surveillance technology;

14

(4)

The number of times the City Council rejected requests submitted for the 

l?unding, acquisition. and (C) new uses of surveillance technology; and

All Annual Surveillance Use Reports issued within the previous year.

See. 17-5-4457. Use of unapproved surveillance technology in exigent circumstances.



A City department may temporarily acquire, or temporarily use, surveillance

technology in exigent circumstances without following the provisions of this ordinance provided

that the City department does all of the following;

ll}



(3)

(4)

Use the surveillance technology to solely respond to the exigent circumstances;

Cease usiy the surveillance technology within seven calendar days, or when the
exigent circumstances end, whichever is sooner, if an exigent circumstance lasts
longer than seven days. the City department shall request an extension from the
City Council. and in the case of the Police Department. also the Board of Police

commissioners'

 

Keep and maintain only data related to the exigent circumstances and dispose of

any data that is not relevant to an ongoing investigation, unless its retention is:

a. Necessary to address the exigent circumstance.

b. Authorized by a court based on a ?nding of probable cause to believe the
information constitutes evidence of a crime; or

c. Otherwise required by law;

Not disclose to any third party any information acquired during exigent

circumstances unless such disclosure is:

a. authorized by a court based on a finding of probable cause to believe the

information constitutes evidence of a crime; or

15

otherwise required by law: and

Within 45 days of the initiation ofthe exigent circumstances submit a written report

to the City Council that acquisition andfor use:

Any technology temporarily acquired in exigent circumstances shall be returned
within seven days following its acquisition. or when the exigent circumstances end, whichever is
sooner. if an exigent circumstance lasts longer than seven days. the City department shall request
an extension from the City Council, and in the case of the Police Department, also the Board of

Police commissioners;

 

Sec. 17-5-458. Certain contracts prohibited; excepting

It shall be unlawful for any City department to enter into any contract or agreement
that conflicts with the provisions of this ordinance.

(1) Notwithstanding the prohibition in Subsection 17-5-458{a) of this section. the

Police Department may enter into a contract or agreement containing a non?

disclosure agreement if:

a. the Police department provides a copy of the proposed contract or
agreement, and related non?disclosure agreement to the City Council:

b. The Police Department provides a confidential writing to the City Council
explaining why the use of a non?disclosure agreement is essential and in the
public interest and why no alternatives to using the non-disclosure
agreement are available or practicable; and

c. The City Council votes to allow the use of the non-disclosure agreement

pursuant to BB vote of City Council Members serving.

16

(2) Where, pursuant to SubsectiOn 17?5?458( 1) of this section, the use of a non-
disclosure agreement is approved, any public disclosures of information required
by this ordinance that would violate the terms of the non-disclosure agreement shall
be provided in a confidential writing to the City Council.

It shall be unlawful for any City department to enter into any contract or agreement
that facilitates the exchange of surveillance data in return for monetary or any other form of
consideration, including the assessment of additional fees or surcharges on unpaid fines or debts.
Sec. [7-5-459. Prohibitions: whistlehlower protections.

It shall be unlawful for any City Department to violate any provision of this
ordinance, including but not limited to. funcmg. acquiring, or um a surveillance technology that
has not been approved pursuant to this ordinance or utilizing a surveillance technology in a manner
or for a purpose that has not been enumerated in a Surveillance Technology Specification Report
that accompanied an approved surveillance technology procurement request submitted pursuant to
Section 17-15-452 of this Code.

City employees or agents shall not use any surveillance technology in a manner that
is inconsistent with or exceeds the terms of the Surveillance Technology Spcei fication Report that
accompanied an approved surveillzutce technology procurement pursuant to Section 176?452 or
Section 17-545? of this Code, and may in no circumstances utilize surveillance technology in a
manner which is diseriminatmy. viewpoint-based, or violates the Charter. State Constitution. or

United States Constitution.

 

Any City employee or agent who violates this ordinance shall be subiect to

appropriate disciplinary measures.

17

City department or anyone acting on behalf of a City department may take or
fail to take. or threaten to take or fail to take, a personnel action with respect to any emplovee or
applicant for employment. including but not limited to discrimination with respect to
compensation, terms, conditions, access to information, restrictions on due process rights,
privileges of employment, or civil or criminal liabililv, because the employee or applicant was
perceived to, about to, or assisted in, any lawful disclosure of information concernint.T the funding,
acquisition, or use of a surveillance technology or surveillance data, to any relevant City
department, Cit},r law enforcement, prosecutorial, or investigatory of?ce, or City Council Member,
based upon a good faith belief that the disclosure evidenced a violation of this ordinance.

Secs. 17-5-460 17-5-470. Reserved.

Section 2. All ordinances, parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary for the preservation of the public
peace, health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. Where this ordinance is passed by two thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon publication
in accordance with Section 4-118(1) of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is
passed by less than two thirds majority of City Council members serving, it shall become
effective thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with Section 4-118(2) of the 2012 Detroit
City Charter.

Approved as to form:

WJW

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

18

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE [026

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT FF PHONE: 313 628-2158
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIALO ICER FAX0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

September 19, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2020 Pedestrian 8: Bicycle
Overtime Enforcement Grant

The Michigan Of?ce of Highway Safety Planning has awarded the City of Detroit Police
Department with the FY 2020 Pedestrian Bicycle Overtime Enforcement Grant for a
total of $45,000.00. The state share is $45,000.00 of the approved amount, and a there
is a required cash match of $11 ,250.00. The total project cost is $56,250.00.

The objective of the grant is to reduce pedestrian and bicyclist accidents with motor
vehicles. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to provide overtime
enforcement personnel costs in order to reduce accidents and educate pedestrians,
bicyclists, and motorists about traf?c safety rules.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20689. with the match amount coming from appropriation number 00380.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding In accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,

41%

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:

Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants

Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department

This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget

if

Office of Development and Grants 

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the Michigan Of?ce of Highway Safety Planning, in the amount of
$45,000.00. to reduce pedestrian and bicyclist accidents with motor vehicles; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS. this request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director for the Of?ce of Development and Grants is
hereby authorized to sign the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and that the
Director or Head of the Department is authorized to execute the grant agreement on behalf of the
City of Detroit, and

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20689, in the amount of $56,250.00. which includes a cash match coming from
Appropriation 00380. for the FY 2020 Pedestrian Bicycle Overtime Enforcement Grant.

Page 1 of1

 



GRETCHEN WHITMER DEPARTMENT OF STATE POLICE COL JOSEPH M. GASPER

cove-anon LANSING DIRECTOR

September 1 1. 2019

Ms. Qiana Rivers

Detroit Police Department - Grants 8. Contracts

1301 Third Street

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Subject: PS-20-04

Dear Ms. Rivers:

The Michigan Of?ce of Highway Safety Planning (OHSP) has approved $45,000 in federal funds for
Highway Safety Project grant number PS-20-04. Pedestrian Bicycle Overtime Enforcement: City
of Detroit.? for the grant period of October 1. 2019 through September 30. 2020.

This grant Is approved with the following conditions:

1. Funding is contingent upon the availability of U.S. Department of Transportation Highway
Safety Funds.

2. A grant orientation meeting is required and Will be scheduled by your OHSP grant coordinator.
3. Quarterly progress and financial reports are due: January 30, April 30. July 30. and October 30.

4. Grantees must comply with the Grant Management Requirements set forth In this grant. Please
consult the grant application for further details.

5. Any changes to the grants objectives. activitiea, andlor approved budget must haVe OHSP approval.

If you have any questions regarding your grant. please contact your OHSP grant coordinator, Emily
Shinevar at 517484-3071. We look forward to working with you during the course of the project.

 

Of?ce of Highway Safety Planning

Enclosures

cc: Ms. Katerii Bounds
Mr. Aharon Elchonen

MICHIGAN OFFICE OF HIGHWAY SAFETY PLANNING I 7150 HA??ls DRIVE 0 DIMONDALE, MICHIGAN 48021
5 "484-3332

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 1A

OHSP-31 (312006)
FISCAL YEAR:

PAGE 1A - FOR OHSP USE ONLY 2020

PROJECT TITLE: GRANT NUMBER:

FY20 Pedestrian Bicycle Overtime Enforcement: City of Detroit PS-20-04

APPLICANT: APPROVED GRANT PERIOD:

Detroit Police Department - Grants Contracts 10/01/2019 through 09/30/2020

. .- . - . Pmmiamsmom. 
FUND TYPEICFDA PAP TASK FEDERAL FUNDS 
COMMITTED
405h-20.616 20-PS 3 $45.000 
Mme yen 
COST CATEGORY FEDERAL NON-FEDERAL TOTAL

PERSONNEL COSTS $45,000 $11,250 $56,250

CONTRACTUAL 0 0

SERVICES

OPERATING COSTS 0 0 0
EQUIPMENT 0 0

INDIRECT COSTS 0

TOTAL APPROVED $45,000 $1 1 .250 $56,250

COSTS

amp APPROVAE
SIGNATURE 7 TITLE DATE APPROVED
Division Director 
I (V 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. SUITE 1026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Cm? or DETROIT - 1 1 -
OFFICE or THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  3:22:80333
OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

September 12, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and ApprOpriate FY 2018 Fire Prevention 8; Safety Grant

The Department of Homeland Security has awarded the City of Detroit Fire Department
with the FY 2018 Fire Prevention Safety Grant for a total of $287,904.76. The Federal
share is 95 percent or $287,904.76 of the approved amount, and a there is a required
cash match of ?ve percent or $14,395.24. The total project cost is $302,300.00.

The objective of the grant is to protect the health and safety of the public and ?re?ghting
personnel against ?re and ?re-related hazards. The funding allotted to the department
will be utilized to purchase smoke detectors for installation in homes in targeted areas, a
portable X-ray device for the ?re inspection team, high rise ?re safety training videos,
and ?re safety campaign literature.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20685, with the match amount coming from appropriation number 00064.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and apprOpriate funding In accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,

In.
1"
1'

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget



Office of Development and Grants emit-?rumor:

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Fire Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the Department of Homeland Security. in the amount of $287,904.76, to
protect the health and safety of the public and ?re?ghting personnel against ?re and ?re-related
hazards; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20685, in the amount of $302,300.00, which includes a cash match coming from
Appropriation 00064, for the FY 2018 Fire Prevention Safety Grant.

Page1 of1

Award Letter

US. Department of Homeland Security
Washington, DC. 20472

Derek Hillman 

CITY OF  
1301 3RD ST - 

DETROIT, MI 48226

EMW-2018-FP-00588
Dear Derek Hillman,

Congratulations on behalf of the Department of Homeland Security. Your application submitted for
the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Fire Prevention Safety Grant funding opportunity has been
approved in the amount of $287,904.76 in Federal funding. As a condition of this grant, you are
required to contribute non-Federal funds equal to or greater than 5% of the Federal funds awarded,
or $14,395.24 for a total approved budget of $302,300.00. Please see the FY 2018 Notice of
Funding Opportunity for information on how to meet this cost share requirement.

Before you request and receive any of the Federal funds awarded to you, you must establish
acceptance of the award through the FEMA Grants Outcomes (FEMA GO) system. By accepting
this award, you acknowledge that the terms of the following documents are incorporated into the
terms of your award:

- Summary Award Memo - included in this document

- Agreement Articles - included in this document

- Obligating Document - included in this document

- FY 2018 Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) - incorporated by reference

Please make sure you read, understand, and maintain a copy of these documents in your of?cial ?le
for this award.

Sincerely,

.. 7'
L2 ,?yqq/?w?a 7a

BndgetBean
Acting Assistant Administrator
Grant Programs Directorate

Summary Award Memo

Program: Fiscal Year 2018 Fire Prevention Safety
Recipient: DETROIT, CITY OF

DUNS number: 058786077

Award number: 

Summary description of award

The purpose of the Fire Prevention and Safety Grant Program is to enhance the safety of the public
and ?re?ghters with respect to ?re and ?re-related hazards by assisting ?re prevention programs
and supporting ?re?ghter health and safety research and development. After careful consideration,
FEMA has determined that the recipient's project or projects submitted as part of the recipient's
application and detailed in the project narrative as well as the request details section of the
application including budget information was consistent with the Fire Prevention and Safety
Grant Program?s purpose and was worthy of award.

Except as otherwise approved as noted in this award, the information you provided in your
application for FY2018 Fire Prevention and Safety funding is incorporated into the terms and
conditions of this award. This includes any documents submitted as part of the application.

Amount awarded

The amount of the award is detailed in the attached Obligating Document for Award. The following
are the budgeted estimates for object classes for this award (including Federal share plus your cost
share, if applicable):

Oblect Class Year 1 Total

 

 

Personnel $0.00 $0.00
Fringe bene?ts $0.00 $0.00
Travel $0.00 $0.00
Equipment $60,000.00 $60,000.00
Supplies $242,300.00 $242,300.00
Contractual $0.00 $0.00
Construction $0.00 $0.00
Other $0.00 $0.00
Indirect charges $0.00 $0.00
Federal $287,904.76 $287,904.76
Non-federal $14,395.24 $14,395.24
Total $302,300.00 $302,300.00

2 C.F.R. 200.308 identi?es the limits to the changes that can be made and when prior approval is
required from FEMA, but this provision does not apply to the breakdown by year. If you have
questions about which changes require prior approval, please contact your Grants
Management Specialist.

Approved scope of work

After review of your application, FEMA has approved the below scope of work. Justi?cations are
provided for any differences between the scope of work in the original application and the approved
scope of work under this award. You must submit scope or budget revision requests for 
prior approval, via an amendment request, as appropriate per 2 200.308 and the FY2018
NOFO.

Approved request details:

Fire prevention and safety activity
Fire 8: Arson Investigation

Fire 8: Arson Investigation

Other (Explain)
X-Ray digital imager

DESCRIPTION

The system combines the advantages of high-end digital X-ray technology with portability
and ?exibility. and is ideally suited for outdoor use.

YEAR QUANTITY UNIT PRICE TOTAL

1 1 $60,000.00 60,000.00
2 0 $0.00 0.00
TOTAL 1 $60,000.00 $60,000.00
BUDGET CLASS

Equipment

etheHEaeplaiH-l
Human Remains Detection (HRD) K-9/handler team

Ineligible

DESCRIPTION

To secure a train the K-9 and handler. initial certi?cations, lodging and transportation
Options: 1. Purchase a commercially bred/trained police dog $30,000 ($20,000 K-9
purchase and K-9 and handler training/ $10,000 lodging/meals)

YEAR QUANTITY UNIT PRICE TOTAL

1 -1-  $307000?00
2 0 $0709 $939
TOTAL 4- $897009200 
BUDGET CLASS

Equipment

CHANGE FROM APPLICATION

Line item marked ineligible

JUSTIFICATION
The award re?ects a reduction from the amount requested in the application. This reduction
removes ineligible costs for the K-9 (live animal) requested in the application.

Community Risk Reduction

Smoke Alarm Campaign

Other (Explain)
High Flise Fire Safety Training Videos

DESCRIPTION

Training tools to provide security, staff, workers and occupants periodic rehearsal of
practices and procedures of ?re safety. Providing them with a state of readiness using hands-
on practice, drills and testing.

YEAR QUANTITY UNIT PRICE TOTAL

1 100 $50.00 5,000.00
2 0 $0.00 0.00
TOTAL 1 00 $50.00 $5,000.00
BUDGET CLASS

Supplies

Other (Explain)
Fire Safety Billboards

DESCRIPTION

Media billboards throughout the City. Would have the ?re safety information and the "Fire
everyone ?ght" logo.

YEAR QUANTITY UNIT PRICE TOTAL

1 30 $3250.00 97,500.00
2 0 $0.00 0.00
TOTAL 30 $3,250.00 $97,500.00
BUDGET CLASS

Supplies

CHANGE FROM APPLICATION

Year 2 quantity from 30 to 0
Year 2 price from $3,250.00 to $0.00

JUSTIFICATION

The award re?ects a reduction from the amount requested in the application. This reduction
is because the amount requested in the application exceeds the amount that can reasonably
be expected to be expended within the grant award's period of performance.

Other (Explain)

Smoke Detectors

DESCRIPTION

Nuisance free and hassle free 10-year smoke alarm. It's two types of protection in one alarm.
Featuring a prolonged lifespan of ten years, this model utilizes a ten year sealed battery that
ensures a decade's worth of uninterrupted awareness. The 10 year sealed lithium battery,
eliminates annoying low battery chirps and costly battery replacements for the 10-year life of
the alarm.

YEAR QUANTITY UNIT PRICE TOTAL

I 5,000 $16.00 80,000.00
2 0 $0.00 0.00
TOTAL 5,000 $16.00 $80,000.00
BUDGET CLASS

Supplies

CHANGE FROM APPLICATION

Year 2 quantity from 5,000 to 0
Year 2 price from $16.00 to $0.00

JUSTIFICATION

The award re?ects a reduction from the amount requested in the application. This reduction
is because the amount requested in the application exceeds the amount that can reasonably
be expected to be expended within the grant award's period of performance.

Other (Explain)

Smoke Alarm Detector Campaign Literature

DESCRIPTION

The Smoke Alarm Campaign Literature is part of our comprehensive smoke detector
campaign to prevent ?res, and if a ?re should occur the means to quickly and safely escape a
?re once the detector sounds. The Smoke Alarm Campaign Literature be purchased and
utilized as follows: Escape Drill in the Home 10,000 Fire Safety Check list 10,000 Smoke
Detector Installation Waivers 8,000 Fire Safety Guides 10,000 Fire Safety Coloring Books

10,000

YEAR QUANTITY
1 24,000

2 0

TOTAL 24,000
BUDGET CLASS

Supplies

CHANGE FROM APPLICATION

Year 2 quantity from 24,000 to 0
Year 2 price from $1.00 to $0.00

JUSTIFICATION

UNIT PRICE TOTAL
$1.00 24,000.00
$0.00 0.00
$1.00 $24,000.00

The award re?ects a reduction from the amount requested in the application. This reduction
is because the amount requested in the application exceeds the amount that can reasonably
be expected to be expended within the grant award?s period of performance.

Other (Explain)

Carbon Monoxide Detector

DESCRIPTION

The Plug-In Electrochemical Carbon Monoxide Alarm with 9V Battery Backup meets
our state's codes for carbon monoxide alarms. This model allows for an easy installation as it
can be plugged in wherever necessary. The detector is the perfect solution because we do
not have the capability to hard wire a carbon monoxide detector. We will be able to protect
more of our residents using this CO detector, because it can simply be plugged in. Equipped
with a 9V battery backup, the CO detector will operate smoothly even during a power outage.

YEAR QUANTITY UNIT PRICE TOTAL

I 1,000 $23.00 23,000.00
2 0 $0.00 0.00
TOTAL 1 ,000 $23.00 $23,000.00
BUDGET CLASS

Supplies

CHANGE FROM APPLICATION

Year 2 quantity from 1,000 to 0
Year 2 price from $23.00 to $0.00

JUSTIFICATION

The award re?ects a reduction from the amount requested in the application. This reduction
is because the amount requested in the application exceeds the amount that can reasonably
be expected to be expended within the grant award's period of performance.

Other (Explain)

Senior Citizen Educations Training

DESCRIPTION

This Community planning and education will provide ?re evacuation safety training at no cost
to Senior Citizen communities in the City of Detroit. To make people aware of ?re prevention
procedures and practices. What emergency situation. The 2 hour
training includes 1 hour of NFPA ?re safety training and 1 hour of evacuation drill training

YEAR QUANTITY UNIT PRICE TOTAL

1 50 $256.00 12,800.00
2 0 $0.00 0.00
TOTAL 50 $256.00 $12,800.00
BUDGET CLASS

Supplies

CHANGE FROM APPLICATION

Year 2 quantity from 50 to 0
Year 2 price from $256.00 to $0.00

JUSTIFICATION

The award re?ects a reduction from the amount requested in the application. This reduction
is because the amount requested in the application exceeds the amount that can reasonably
be expected to be expended within the grant award?s period of performance.

Agreement Articles

Program: Fiscal Year 2018 Fire Prevention Safety
Reclplent: DETROIT. CITY OF

DUNS number: 053786077

Award number: EMW-2018-FP-00588

Table of contents

Article
1
Article
2
Article
3
Article
4
Article
5
Article
6
Article
7
Article
8
Article
9
Article
10
Article
1 1
Article
12
Article
13
Article
14
Article
15
Article
16
Article
17
Article
1 8
Article
19
Article
20
Article
21
Article
22
Article
23
Article
24

Assurances, Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, Representations
and Certi?cations

DHS Speci?c Acknowledgements and Assurances

Acknowledgement of Federal Funding from DHS

Activities Conducted Abroad

Age Discrimination Act of 1975

Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990

Best Practices for Collection and Use of Personally Identi?able Information (Pll)
Civil Rights Act of 1964 - Title VI

Civil Rights Act of 1968

Copyright

Debarment and Suspension

Drug-Free Workplace Regulations

Duplication of Bene?ts

Education Amendments of 1972 (Equal Opportunity in Education Act) Title IX
Energy Policy and Conservation Act

False Claims Act and Program Fraud Civil Remedies

Federal Debt Status

Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving

Fly America Act of 1974

Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990

Limited English Pro?ciency (Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI)

Lobbying Prohibitions

National Environmental Policy Act

Nondiscrimination in Matters Pertaining to Faith-Based Organizations

Article
25
Article
26
Article
27
Article
28
Article
29
Article
30
Article
31
Article
32
Article
33
Article
34
Article
35
Article
36
Article
37
Article
38
Article
39
Article
40
Article
41
Article
42

Non-supplanting Requirement

Notice of Funding Opportunity Requirements

Patents and Intellectual Property Rihts

Procurement of Recovered Materials

Rehabilitation Act of 1973

Reporting of Matters Related to Recipient Integrity and Performance
Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation
SAFECOM

Terrorist Financing

Traf?cking Victims Protection Act of 2000

Universal Identi?er and System of Award Management (SAM)
USA Patriot Act of 2001

Use of DHS Seal, Logo and Flags

Whistleblower Protection Act

Acceptance of Post Award Changes

Prior Approval for Modi?cation of Approved Budget
Disposition of Equipment Acquired Under the Federal Award

Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation

Article 1

Article 2

Article 3

Assurances, Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles,
Representations and Certi?cations

DHS ?nancial assistance recipients must complete either the Of?ce of
Management and Budget(OMB) Standard Form 4248 Assurances - Non-
Construction Programs, or OMB Standard Form 424D Assurances -Construction
Programs as applicable. Certain assurances in these documents may not be
applicable to your program, and the DHS ?nancial assistance of?ce (DHS FAO)
may require applicants to certify additional assurances. Applicants are required to
?ll out the assurances applicable to their program as instructed by the awarding
agency. Please contact the DHS FAQ if you have any questions. DHS ?nancial
assistance recipients are required to follow the applicable provisions of the Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal
Awards located at Title 2, Code of Federal Regulations(C.F.R) Part 200, and
adopted by DHS at 2 C.F.R. Part 3002.

DHS Speci?c Acknowledgements and Assurances

All recipients, subrecipients, successors, transferees, and assignees must
acknowledge and agree to comply with applicable provisions governing DHS
access to records, accounts, documents, information, facilities, and staff. 1. 
Recipients must cooperate with any compliance reviews or compliance
investigations conducted by DHS. 2. Recipients must give DHS access to, and the
right to examine and copy, records, accounts, and other documents and sources of
information related to the federal ?nancial assistance award and permit access to
facilities, personnel, and other individuals and information as may be necessary, as
required by DHS regulations and other applicable laws or program guidance. 3.
Recipients must submit timely, complete, and accurate reports to the appropriate
DHS of?cials and maintain appropriate backup documentation to support the
reports. 4. Recipients must comply with all other special reporting, data collection,
and evaluation requirements, as prescribed by law or detailed in program
guidance. 5. Recipients of federal ?nancial assistance from DHS must complete
the DHS Civil Flights Evaluation Tool within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Notice
of Award or, for State Administering Agencies, thirty (30) days from receipt of the
DHS Civil Rights Evaluation Tool from DHS or its awarding component agency.
Recipients are required to provide this information once every two (2) years, not
every time an award is made. After the initial submission for the ?rst award under
which this term applies, recipients are only required to submit updates every two
years, not every time a grant is awarded. Recipients should submit the completed
tool, including supporting materials to This tool
clari?es the civil rights obligations and related reporting requirements contained in
the DHS Standard Terms and Conditions. Subrecipients are not required to
complete and submit this tool to DHS. The evaluation tool can be found at
.

Acknowledgement of Federal Funding from DHS

Recipients must acknowledge their use of federal funding when issuing
statements, press releases, requests for proposals, bid invitations, and other
documents describing projects or programs funded in whole or in part with federal
funds.

Article 4

Article 5

Article 6

Article 7

Article 8

Activities Conducted Abroad

Recipients must ensure that project activities carried on outside the United States
are coordinated as necessary with appropriate government authorities and that
appropriate licenses, permits, or approvals are obtained.

Age Discrimination Act of 1975

Recipients must comply with the requirements of the Age Discrimination Act of
1975, Pub. L. No. 94-135 (1975) (codi?ed as amended at Title 42, US. Code, 
6101 et seq), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age in any program or
activity receiving federal ?nancial assistance.

Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990

Recipients must comply with the requirements of Titles I, II, and of the
Americans with Disabilities Act, Pub. L. No. 101-336 (1990) (codi?ed as amended
at 42 U.S.C. 12101?12213), which prohibits recipients from discriminating on
the basis of disability in the operation of public entities, public and private
transportation systems, places of public accommodation, and certain testing
entities.

Best Practices for Collection and Use of Personally Identi?able
Information (Pll)

Recipients who collect are required to have a publicalIy-available privacy policy
that describes standards on the usage and maintenance of PM they collect. DHS
de?nes personally identi?able information (Pll) as any information that permits the
identity of an individual to be directly or indirectly interred, including any information
that is linked or linkable to that individual. Recipients may also ?nd the DHS
Privacy Impact Assessments: Privacy Guidance and Privacy template as useful
resources respectively.

Civil Rights Act of 1964 Title VI

Recipients must comply with the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 (codi?ed as amended at 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq), which provides that no
person in the United States will, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be
excluded from participation in, be denied the bene?ts of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal ?nancial assistance.
DHS implementing regulations for the Act are found at 6 C.F.R. Part 21 and 44
C.F.R. Part 7.

Article 9

Article 10

Article 11

Article 12

Article 13

Civil Rights Act of 1968

Recipients must comply with Title of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Pub. L. No.
90-284, as amended through Pub. L. 113-4, which prohibits recipients from
discriminating in the sale, rental. ?nancing, and advertising of dwellings, or in the
provision of services in connection therewith, on the basis of race, color, national
origin, religion, disability, familial status, and sex (See 42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.),
as implemented by the Department of Housing and Urban Development at 24
C.F.R. Part 100. The prohibition on disability discrimination includes the
requirement that new multifamily housing with four or more dwelling units?Le, the
public and common use areas and individual apartment units (all units in buildings
with elevators and ground-?oor units in buildings without elevators)??be designed
and constructed with certain accessible features. (See 24 C.F.R. Part 100, Subpart
D)

Copyright

Recipients must af?x the applicable copyright notices of 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402
and an acknowledgement of U.S. Government sponsorship (including the award
number) to any work ?rst produced under federal ?nancial assistance awards.

Debarment and Suspension

Recipients are subject to the non-procurement debarment and suspension
regulations implementing Executive Orders (E.O.) 12549 and 12689, and 2 C.F.R.
Part 180 as adopted by DHS at 2 C.F.R. Part 3000. These regulations restrict
federal ?nancial assistance awards, subawards, and contracts with certain parties
that are debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for
participation in federal assistance programs or activities.

Drug-Free Workplace Regulations

Recipients must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart (or
Subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of 2 C.F.R. Part 3001, which adopts the
Government-wide implementation (2 C.F.R. Part 182) of sec. 5152-5158 of the
Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8101).

Duplication of Bene?ts

Any cost allocable to a particular federal ?nancial assistance award provided for in
2 C.F.R. Part 200, Subpart may not be charged to other federal ?nancial
assistance awards to overcome fund de?ciencies, to avoid restrictions imposed by
federal statutes, regulations, or federal ?nancial assistance award terms and
conditions, or for other reasons. However, these prohibitions would not preclude
recipients from shifting costs that are allowable under two or more awards in
accordance with existing federal statutes, regulations. or the federal ?nancial
assistance award terms and conditions.

Article 14

Article 15

Article 16

Article 17

Article 18

Article 19

Article 20

Education Amendments of 1972 (Equal Opportunity in Education Act) -
Title IX

Recipients must comply with the requirements of Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972 Pub. L. No. 92-318 (1972) (codi?ed as amended at 20
U.S.C. 1681 et seq), which provide that no person in the United States will, on
the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the bene?ts of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any educational program or activity receiving
federal ?nancial assistance. DHS implementing regulations are codi?ed at 6 C.F.R.
Part 17 and 44 C.F.R. Part 19.

Energy Policy and Conservation Act

Recipients must comply with the requirements of The Energy Policy and
Conservation Act Pub. L. No. 94- 163 (1975) (codi?ed as amended at 42 U.S.C. 
6201 et seq), which contain policies relating to energy ef?ciency that are de?ned in
the state energy conservation plan issued in compliance with this Act.

False Claims Act and Program Fraud Civil Remedies

Recipients must comply with the requirements of The False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C.
3729-3733, which prohibits the submission of false or fraudulent claims for
payment to the federal government. (See 31 U.S.C. 3801 ?381 2 which details the
administrative remedies for false claims and statements made.

Federal Debt Status

All recipients are required to be non?delinquent in their repayment of any federal
debt. Examples of relevant debt include delinquent payroll and other taxes, audit
disallowances, and bene?t overpayments. (See OMB Circular A-129.)

Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving

Recipients are encouraged to adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging
while driving as described in E0. 13513, including conducting initiatives described
in Section 3(a) of the Order when on of?cial government business or when
performing any work for or on behalf of the federal government.

Fly America Act of 1974

Recipients must comply with Preference for US. Flag Air Carriers (air carriers
holding certi?cates under 49 U.S.C. 41102) for international air transportation of
people and property to the extent that such service is available, in accordance with
the International Air Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974, 49
U.S.C. 40118, and the interpretative guidelines issued by the Comptroller
General of the United States in the March 31, 1981, amendment to Comptroller
General Decision B-138942.

Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990

In accordance with Section 6 of the Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of1990, 15
U.S.C. 2225a, recipients must ensure that all conference, meeting, convention, or
training space funded in whole or in part with federal funds complies with the ?re
prevention and control guidelines of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of
1974, codi?ed as amended at 15 U.S.C. 2225.

Article 21

Article 22

Article 23

Article 24

Article 25

Article 26

Limited English Pro?ciency (Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI)

Recipients must comply with the Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C.
2000d et seq.) prohibition against discrimination on the basis of national origin,
which requires that recipients of federal ?nancial assistance take reasonable steps
to provide meaningful access to persons with limited English pro?ciency (LEP) to
their programs and services. For additional assistance and information regarding
language access obligations, please refer to the DHS Recipient Guidance

and additional resources
on 

Lobbying Prohibitions

Recipients must comply with 31 U.S.C. 1352, which provides that none of the
funds provided under a federal ?nancial assistance award may be expended by the
recipient to pay any person to in?uence, or attempt to in?uence an of?cer or
employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an of?cer or employee of
Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any federal
action related to a federal award or contract, including any extension, continuation,
renewal, amendment, or modi?cation.

National Environmental Policy Act

Recipients must comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy
Act of 1969, Pub. L. No. 91-190 (1970) (codi?ed as amended at 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.) (NEPA) and the Council on Environmental Quality (CEO) Regulations for
Implementing the Procedural Provisions of NEPA, which requires recipients to use
all practicable means within their authority. and consistent with other essential
considerations of national policy, to create and maintain conditions under which
people and nature can exist in productive harmony and ful?ll the social, economic,
and other needs of present and future generations of Americans.

Nondiscrimination in Matters Pertaining to Faith-Based Organizations

it is DHS policy to ensure the equal treatment of faith-based organizations in social
service programs administered or supported by DHS or its component agencies,
enabling those organizations to participate in providing important social services to
bene?ciaries. Recipients must comply with the equal treatment policies and
requirements contained in 6 C.F.R. Part 19 and other applicable statues,
regulations, and guidance governing the participations of faith-based organizations
in individual DHS programs.

Non-supplanting Requirement

Recipients receiving federal ?nancial assistance awards made under programs
that prohibit supplanting by law must ensure that federal funds do not replace
(supplant) funds that have been budgeted for the same purpose through non?
federal sources.

Notice of Funding Opportunity Requirements

All of the instructions. guidance, limitations, and other conditions set forth in the
Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for this program are incorporated hereby
reference in the award terms and conditions. All recipients must comply with any
such requirements set forth in the pragram NOFO.

Article 27

Article 28

Article 29

Article 30

Article 31

Article 32

Patents and Intellectual Property Rights

Unless otherwise provided by law, recipients are subject to the Bayh-Dole Act, 35
USS 200 et seq. Recipients are subject to the speci?c requirements governing
the development, reporting, and disposition of rights to inventions and patents
resulting from federal ?nancial assistance awards located at 37 C.F.R. Part 401
and the standard patent rights clause located at 37 C.F.R. 401.14.

Procurement of Recovered Materials

States, political subdivisions of states, and their contractors must comply with
Section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. L. No. 89-272 (1965) (codi?ed
as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6962.
The requirements of Section 6002 include procuring only items designated in
guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 C.F.R. Part 247
that contain the highest percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent
with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition.

Rehabilitation Act of 1973

Recipients must comply with the requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of1973, Pub. L. No. 93-112 (1973) (codi?ed as amended at 29 U.S.C. 794),
which provides that no otherwise quali?ed handicapped individuals in the United
States will, solely by reason of the handicap, be excluded from participation in, be
denied the bene?ts of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or
activity receiving federal ?nancial assistance.

Reporting of Matters Related to Recipient Integrity and Performance

If the total value of the recipient?s currently active grants, cooperative agreements,
and procurement contracts from all federal assistance of?ces exceeds
$10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of performance of this federal
?nancial assistance award, the recipient must comply with the requirements set
forth in the government-wide Award Term and Condition for Recipient Integrity and
Performance Matters located at 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Appendix XII, the full text of
which is incorporated here by reference in the award terms and conditions.

Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation

Recipients are required to comply with the requirements set forth in the
government-wide Award Term on Reporting Subawards and Executive
Compensation located at 2 C.F.R. Part 170, Appendix A, the full text of which is
incorporated here by reference in the award terms and conditions.

SAFECOM

Recipients receiving federal ?nancial assistance awards made under programs
that provide emergency communication equipment and its related activities must
comply with the SAFECOM Guidance for Emergency Communication Grants,
including provisions on technical standards that ensure and enhance interoperable
communications.

Article 33

Article 34

Article 35

Article 36

Article 37

Article 38

Article 39

Terrorist Financing

Recipients must comply with EC. 13224 and US. laws that prohibit transactions
with, and the provisions of resources and support to, individuals and organizations
associated with terrorism. Recipients are legally responsible to ensure compliance
with the Order and laws.

Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000

Recipients must comply with the requirements of the government-wide ?nancial
assistance award term which implements Section 106(9) of the Traf?cking Victims
Protection Act of 2000, (TVPA) codi?ed as amended by 22 U.S.C. 7104. The
award term is located at 2 C.F.R. 175.15, the full text of which is incorporated
here by reference.

Universal Identi?er and System of Award Management (SAM)

Recipients are required to comply with the requirements set forth in the
government-wide ?nancial assistance award term regarding the System for Award
Management and Universal Identi?er Requirements located at 2 C.F.R. Part 25,
Appendix A. the full text of which is incorporated here by reference.

USA Patriot Act of 2001

Recipients must comply with requirements of Section 817 of the Uniting and
Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT Act), which amends 18 U.S.C. 
175?1750.

Use of DHS Seal, Logo and Flags

Recipients must obtain permission from their DHS FAO prior to using the DHS
seal(s), logos, crests or reproductions of ?ags or likenesses of DHS agency
of?cials, including use of the United States Coast Guard seal, logo, crests or
reproductions of ?ags or likenesses of Coast Guard of?cials.

Whistleblower Protection Act

Recipients must comply with the statutory requirements for Whistleblower
protections (if applicable) at 10 U.S.C 2409, 41 U.S.C. 4712, and 10 U.S.C. 
2324, 41 U.S.C. 4304 and 4310.

Acceptance of Post Award Changes

In the event FEMA determines that changes are necessary to the award document
after an award has been made, including changes to period of performance or
terms and conditions, recipients will be noti?ed of the changes in writing. Once
noti?cation has been made, any subsequent request for funds will indicate recipient
acceptance of the changes to the award. Please call the Call Center at
(866) 927-5646 or via e-mail to if you have any questions.

Article 40

Article 41

Article 42

Prior Approval for Modi?cation of Approved Budget

Before making any change to the approved budget for this award, you
must request prior written approval from where required by 2 
200.308. is also utilizing its discretion to impose an additional
restriction under 2 C.F.R. 200.308(e) regarding the transfer of funds among
direct cost categories, programs, functions, or activities. Therefore, for awards with
an approved budget where the Federal share is greater than the simpli?ed
acquisition threshold (currently $250,000), you may not transfer funds among
direct cost categories, programs, functions, or activities without prior written
approval from where the cumulative amount of such transfers exceeds
or is expected to exceed ten percent of the total budget last
approved. You must report any deviations from your approved budget
in the ?rst Federal Financial Report (SF-425) you submit following any budget
deviation, regardless of whether the budget deviation requires prior written
approval.

Disposition of Equipment Acquired Under the Federal Award

When original or replacement equipment acquired under this award by the
recipient or its subrecipients is no longer needed for the original projector program
or for other activities currently or previously supported by you must
request instructions from to make proper disposition of the equipment
pursuant to 2 C.F.R. 200.313.

Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation

funded activities that may require an EHP review are subject to
FEMA's Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation (EHP) review process.
This review does not address all Federal, state, and local requirements.
Acceptance of Federal funding requires recipient to comply with all Federal, state
and local laws. Failure to obtain all appropriate federal, state and local
environmental permits and clearances may jeopardize Federal 
is required to consider the potential impacts to natural and cultural resources of all
projects funded by grant funds. through its EHP Review process, as
mandated by the National Environmental Policy Act; National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966, as amended; National Flood Insurance Program regulations; and, any
other applicable laws and Executive Orders. To access the FEMA's Environmental
and Historic Preservation (EHP) screening form and instructions go to the
website at: 
In order to initiate EHP review of your project(s),
you must complete all relevant sections of this form and submit it to the Grant
Programs Directorate (GPD) along with all other pertinent project information.
Failure to provide requisite information could result in delays in the release of grant
fundsif ground disturbing activities occur during construction, applicant will
monitor ground disturbance, and if any potential archeological resources are
discovered, applicant will immediately cease work in that area and notify the pass?
through entity, if applicable, and 

Obligating document

:1.Agreement No.2. Amendment 3. Recipient 14. Type of 15. Control No.

 

EMW-2018-FP- No. No. Action 
'00588 38-6004606 AWARD 
6. Recipient Name and  Issuing FEMA Of?ce and 8. Payment Of?ce and
Address iAddress Address
DETROIT, CITY OF ?Grant Programs Directorate FEMA, Financial Services
1301 3RD ST {500 Street, SW. Branch
DETROIT, MI 48226 Washington DC, 20528-7000 1500 Street, SW, Room
1-866-927-5646 3723
2 Washington DC, 20742
Name of Recipient 93. Phone :10. Name of FEMA Project 10a.
'Project Of?cer 'No. Coordinator Phone No.
Eric Jones 331359629011Fire Prevention and Safety 31?866-274-
Grant Program 10960
11. Effective Date of i12. Method of 13. Assistance 14_ performance
This Action Payment Arrangement period
09/1 1/2019 to
09/04/2019 OTHER - FEMA COST SHARING 09/10/2020
GO Budget Period
09/11/2019 to
09/10/2020

 

15. Description of Action a. (Indicate funding data for awards or ?nancial
changes)

Amount

:Program AssistanceAccounting Prior Award Current Cumulative

Name ?Listings Total This Ag?on Total Non-Federal

.Abbreviation'No. Code) Award or Award Commitment
12019-F8- 

. 6801 

197.044 $0.00 $287,904.76 $287,904.76 $14,395.24



Totals $0.00 $287,904.76 $287,904.76 $14,395.24
b. To describe changes other than funding data or ?nancial changes, attach
schedule and check here:


?WWee?eek?Hm
address)

This ?eld is not applicable for digitally signed grant agreements

17. RECIPIENT SIGNATORY (Name nd Title) DATE

18. FEMA SIGNATORY OF FICAL (Name and Title) DATE
Bridget Bean, Acting Assistant Administrator Grant Programs 09/04/2019
Directorate

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 AVENUE. some 1026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

cm: 0F DETROIT PHONE: 3 l3 0 628-2158
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Fax: 3 I 3 224 . 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

October 2. 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) 
Oakland County Grant

The Michigan State Police have awarded the City of Detroit Police Department with the
FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) Oakland County Grant for a total of
$55,001.00. The State share is $55,001.00 of the approved amount, and there is a
required cash match of $36,666.00. The total project cost is $91,667.00. The grant
period is October 1. 2019 through September 30. 2020.

The objective of the grant is to implement innovative programs to address auto theft and
fraud in partnership with Oakland County Sheriff's Of?ce. The funding allotted to the
department will be utilized to pay for salaries. fringe benefits and overtime for police
of?cers. This is a reimbursement grant.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept in accordance with the attached resolution.

Sincerely.

Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director, Grants
Parker, Assistant Director. Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department



Office of Development and Grants crewman

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the Michigan State Police, in the amount of $55,001.00. to implement
innovative programs to address auto theft and fraud in partnership with Oakland County Sheriff's
Of?ce; and

WHEREAS. the Grant was adopted in the FY 2020 budget under appropriation 20604; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit.

PagetoH

2020 AUTOMOBILE THEFT PREVENTION AUTHORITY GRANT
SUBRECIPIENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
OAKLAND COUNTY
AND
CITY OF DETROIT

This Agreement is made between Oakland County, a Constitutional Corporation, 1200 North Telegraph, Pontiac,
Michigan 48341 ("County") and City of Detroit, 8 Michigan Municipal Carporation ("Municipality").

PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT. The Parties enter into this Agreement for the purpose of delineating their
relationship and responsibilities regarding the County?s use of Grant funds for eitpenses that it incurs related to
the Oakland County Auto Theft Program (ATPA), a multijurisdictional auto theft prevention and recovery task
force under the direction and supervision of the Oakland County Sheriff's Of?ce 

Under the Parties' separate ATPA agreement, the Municipality is responsible for providing a ?ill-time employee
for participation in ATPA and for all costs associated with that employment.

The County has entered into a Grant agreement (Exhibit A) with the State of Michigan (?State?) where the
County is eligible to receive reimbursement for qualifying ATPA-related costs.

The County intends to use a portion of the Grant funds to reimburse the municipality, as described below, subject
to the terms and conditions of this agreement.

In consideration of the mutual promises, obligations, representations, and assurances in this Agreement, the
Parties agree to the following:

1. QEFINITIQES. The following terms, whether used in the singular or plural, within or without quotation
marks, or possessive or nonpossessive, shall be de?ned, read, and interpreted as follows.

1.1. Claim means any alleged loss, claim, complaint, demand for relief or damages, cause of action,
proceeding, judgment, de?ciency, liability, penalty, ?ne, litigation, costs, and/or expenses, including,
but not limited to, reimbursement for attorney fees, witness fees, court costs, investigation expenses,
litigation expenses, and amounts paid in settlement, which are imposed on, incurred by, or asserted
against the County or Municipality, or the County's or Municipality?s agents or employees, whether
such claim is brought in law or equity, tort, contract, or otherwise.

1.2. Gragt means the 2020 Automobile Theft Prevention Authority Grant, (Exhibit A).

Ix.)

EXHIBITS. The Exhibits listed below are incorporated and are part of this Agreement.
Exhibit A 2020 Automobile Theft Prevention Authority Grant.

2.2. Exhibit Memorandum of Agreement and participating local police departments.

2020 AUTOMOBILE THEFT PREVENTION AUTHORITY GRANT
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
OAKLAND COUNTY
AND
ITY OF DETROIT
Page I ol'5
Rev. 09il6l'20l9

3.

COUNTY ESPONSIBILITIES.

3.l.

3.2.

The County will reimburse the Municipality, up to 60% of the total, for qualifying ATPA-related
overtime including ATPA of?cers? salaries, fringe bene?ts, overtime, vehicle usage, cell phone,
MAATI and dues, as described in the Grant agreement (Exhibit A).

The Municipality will comply with all terms and conditions set forth in the Grant agreement (Exhibit
A), including, but not limited to, the following certi?cation:

The Municipality is not presently disbarred, suspended, pr0posed for debarment, declared
ineligible, sentenced to a denial of federal bene?ts by a state or federal court, or voluntarily
excluded from covered transactions by any federal department or agency;

Has not within a three-year period preceding this application been convicted of or has a civil
judgment rendered against them and are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or
civilly charged by a governmental entity (federal, state, or local) for commission of fraud or
criminal office in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public
(federal, state, or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; violation of federal
or state antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, briery, falsi?cation
or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property;

Have not within a two-year period preceding this application been convicted of a felony
criminal violation under any federal law; and

Have not within a three-year period preceding this application had one or more public
transactions (federal, state, or local) terminated for cause or default.

2020 AUTOMOBILE THEFT PREVENTION AUTHORITY GRANT
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
OAKLAND COUNTY
AND
CITY OF DETROIT
Page 2 of 5

Rev 09ll6l2019

5.

10.

ll.

12.

4.1. This Agreement and any amendments hereto shall be effective when executed by both Parties with

concurrent resolutions passed by the governing bodies of each Party, and when the Agreement is ?led
according to MCL 124.510. The approval and terms of this Agreement and any amendments hereto
shall be entered in the official minutes of the governing bodies of each Party. This Agreement and
any amendments hereto shall end three (3) years from the date the Grant period is closed.

S.
5.1. Each Party shall be responsible for its own acts and the acts of its employees and agents, the costs

associated with those acts, and the defense of those acts.

5.2. The Parties have taken all actions and secured all approvals necessary to authorize and complete this
Agreement. The persons signing this Agreement on behalf of each Party have legal authority to sign
this Agreement and bind the Parties to the terms and conditions contained herein.

5.3. Each Party shall comply with all federal, state, and local ordinances, regulations, administrative rules,

laws, and requirements applicable to its activities perfonned under this Agreement.

TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. Either Party may terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days
notice to the other Party. The effective date of termination shall be clearly stated in the notice.

E0 THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. Except as provided for the benefit of the Parties, this Agreement
does not and is not intended to create any obligation, duty, promise, contractual right or bene?t, right to
indemni?cation, right to subrogation, and/or any other right, in favor of any other person or entity.

DISCRIMINATION. The Parties shall not discriminate against their employees, agents, applicants for
employment, or another persons or entities with respect to hire, tenure, terms, conditions, and privileges of

employment, or any matter directly or indirectly related to employment in violation of any federal, state or
local law.

PERMITS AND LICENSES. Each Party shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining, throughout the
term of this Agreement, all licenses, permits, certi?cates, and governmental authorizations necessary to carry
out its obligations and duties pursuant to this Agreement.

RESERVATION OF RIGHTS. This Agreement does not, and is not intended to waive, impair, divest,
delegate, or contravene any constitutional, statutory, and/or other legal right, privilege, power, obligation,
duty, or inununity of the Parties.

Neither Party shall delegate, subcontract, and/or
assign any obligations or rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Party.

N0 IMPLIED WAIVER. Absent a written waiver, no act, failure, or delay by a Party to pursue or enforce
any rights or remedies under this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of those rights with regard to any
existing or subsequent breach of this Agreement. No waiver of any term, condition, or provision of this
Agreement, whether by conduct or otherwise, in one or more instances, shall be deemed or construed as a
continuing waiver of any term, condition, or provision of this Agreement. No waiver by either Party shall
subsequently affect its right to require strict performance of this Agreement.

2020 AUTOMOBILE PREVENTION AUTHORITY GRANT
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
OAKLAND COUNTY
AND
CITY OF DETROIT
Page 3 ot'5
Rev. 09.162019

13.

I4.

SEVERABILITY. If a court of competent jurisdiction ?nds a term, or condition, of this Agreement to be
illegal or invalid, then the term, or condition, shall be deemed severed from this Agreement. All other terms,
conditions, and provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force.

CAPTIONS. The section and subsection numbers and captions in this Agreement are intended for the
convenience of the reader and are not intended to have any substantive meaning. The numbers and captions
shall not be interpreted or be considered as part of this Agreement. Any use of the singular or plural number,
any reference to the male, female, or neuter genders, and any possessive or nonpossessive use in this
Agreement shall be deemed the appropriate plurality, gender or possession as the context requires.

15. NOTIQEE. Notices given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be personally delivered, sent by

16.

I7.

18.

express delivery service, certi?ed mail, or ?rst class U.S. mail postage prepaid, and addressed to the person
listed below. Notice will be deemed given on the date when one of the following first occur: (I) the date of
actual receipt; (2) the next business day when notice is sent express delivery service or personal delivery; or
(3) three days after mailing ?rst class or certi?ed U.S. mail.

lS.l. If Notice is sent to the County, it shall be addressed and sent to: Oakland County Board of
Commissioners Chairperson, 1200 North Telegraph, Pontiac, Michigan 48341, with a copy to
Oakland County Sheri??s Of?ce, Fiscal Of?cer, I200 N. Telegraph, Bldg. 38E, Pontiac, Michigan

4834].

15.2. If Notice is sent to the Political Subdivision, it shall be addressed to: City of Detroit, 20 Atwater,
Detroit, Michigan 48226

15.3. Either Party may change the address and/or individual to which Notice is sent by notifying the other

Party in writing of the change.

GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed, interpreted, and enforced by the laws of the State
of Michigan.

AGREEMENT MODIFICATIONS OR AMENDMENTS. Any modi?cations, amendments, rescissions,
waivers, or releases to this Agreement must be in writing and executed by both Parties.

ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement represents the entire agreement and understanding between the
Parties. This Agreement supersedes all other oral or written agreements between the Parties. The language of
this Agreement shall be construed as a whole according to its fair meaning, and not construed strictly for or
against any Party.

2020 AUTOMOBILE THEFT PREVENTION AUTHORITY GRANT
SUBRECIPIENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
OAKLAND COUNTY
AND
CITY OF DETROIT
Page 4 of 5
Rev. 09? 620 I9

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, David T. Woodward, Chairperson, Oakland County Board of Commissioners,
acknowledges that he has been authorized by a resolution of the Oakland County Board of Commissioners, a
certi?ed copy of which is attached, to execute this Agreement, and hereby accepts and binds the County to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement.

EXECUTED: DATE:
David T. Woodward, Chairperson
Oakland County Board of Commissioners

 

WITNESSED: DATE:
Printed Name:
Title:
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, . acknowledges that he/she has been authorized by a

 

resolution of the Municipality?s governing body, a certi?ed copy of which is attached, to execute this Agreement,
and hereby accepts and binds the Municipality to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 

EXECUTED: 7 DATE:
Printed Name:
Title:

WITNESSED: DATE:
Printed Name:
Title:

2020 AUTOMOBILE THEI-T PREVENTION AUTHORITY GRANT
SUBRECIPIENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
OAKLAND COUNTY
AN 
CITY OF DETROIT
Page 5 OH
Rev. 09? 6120l9

Bene?ts:

PD -0?icer

PD-Detectlve

Detroit PD-Detentive
Employees Bene?ts:
Overtime

1

VEHICLES

at
1

Cell Phones

Fumlture move - one time

Al. OPERA

BUDGET DETAIL

67

7 704

57.678
15.711
15.278



798
5

57.678

18.711
15.278

14.151

Percent

SHARE

 

COLEMAN A. ?frame Mum-cum: Cli?inj-R
2 Wmuwanu AVENUE. sum; 10va

DETROIT. MICHIGAN 4822f;
CITY HF Dmorr Films: .113 - 6284.158
OFFICE OFTIIE CHIEF FINANCIAL F?"542
0mcem= Dawn-mum GRANTS 



 

 

September 26, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

FIE: Request to Accept and Appropriate FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority
(ATPA) Grant

The Michigan State Police has awarded the City of Detroit Fire Department with the FY
2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) Grant for a total of $178,292.00. The
State share is $178,292.00 oi the approved amount, and a there is a required cash
match of $118,861.00. The total project cost is $297,153.00. The grant period is
October 1, 2019 through September 30. 2020.

The objective of the grant is to implement innovative programs to address auto thelt and
fraud. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to help the department stop
car-jacking. embezzlement, and other auto-related crimes. This is a reimbursement
grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20692, with the match amount coming from appropriation number 00065.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,

I

1

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Office of Budget



Office of Development and Grants 

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Fire Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the Michigan State Police. in the amount of $178,292.00, to implement
innovative programs to address auto theft and fraud; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget: now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director for the Office of Development and Grants is
hereby authorized to sign the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and that the
Director or Head of the Department is authorized to execute the grant agreement on behalf of the
City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20692, in the amount of $297,153.00. which includes a cash match coming from
Appropriation 00065. for the FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) Grant.

Page 1 cl 1

 

GRANTS-043 (04/2019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 1 of 8

AUTO THEFT PREVENTION AUTHORITY (ATPA)
GRANT CONTRACT

AUTHORITY: MCL 500.6105; COMPLIANCE: Voluntary, howeVer, failure to complete will result In cancellation of granUlcss of funds.

Scan and email one complete copy with original signatures to the ATPA by September 30, 2019 at
Do not send a paper copy.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Time of Grantee/Fiduciary Project TlileiAcronym

Detrott Fire Department Combating Vehicle Arson Fraud
Address City State ZIP Code
1301 Third Street Detroit MI 48226
Total Grant AWard ATPA Award Match Requirement

$297,153 $178,292 $118,861

Grant Period Start Date ?Grant Period End Date Project Number

October 1, 2019 September 30, 2020 04-20

Timuized  Project Director i 'PlnanclelContact?

Chief Patrick McNulty Mr. Derek Ms. La Tonya Finley

ii. Contract Conditions and Requirements

Grant Award

The ATPA grant award Is to be utilized solely for the benefit of motor vehicle theft prevention programs and initiatives.
The ATPA will only reimburse expenditures incurred during the grant period of October 1, 2019, to September 30, 2020.

The project number (listed above in Award information) must be included on all correspondence addressed to the ATPA
regarding this grant.

A change in authorized official, project director. financial contact. participating agency, personnel assigned to the team, or
budget line item change requires a Project Modification Request (GRANTS-034), which can be downloaded from the
ATPA Website at 

The authoriZed official and financial officer will serve without compensation from the ATPA grant award.

Any amount of the grant award received, or forfeiture funds generated as a result of motor vehicle theft prevention
activities shall be Used to enhance motor vehicle theft prevention programs or initiatives. Forfeiture funds include, but are
not limited to, forfeiture of cash and receipts from the sale of property.

Public communications materials, news releases, or training announcements that result from this grant must cite the "Auto
Theft Prevention Authority? as the source of funding. Copies of the materials or news releases must be sent to the ATPA
at least five days prior to publishing, and the ATPA reserves the right to make any necessary edits. The ATPA also has
the royalty-free right to copy, publish, and distribute any data or material associated with this grant.

Law enforcement personnel funded by the ATPA grant award shall dedicate 100 percent of their regular work hours
conducting ATPA grant?related duties. Prosecuting attorneys who designate a portion of their time for ATPA activities will
dedicate 100 percent oftheir designated time to ATPA grant related duties. This will be reflected in daily logs which will
be made available for on-site monitoring by ATPA personnel.

The grantee agrees to return all unexpended grant funds to the ATPA within 60 days after the project is compieted. The
check shall be made payable to the "State of Michigan."

Reporting

Failure to comply with any reporting responsibilities identified in this contract may result in withholding grant paymentis) or
the cancellation of the grant award. The grantee's lack of compliance will also be taken into account when considering
future grant applications and awards from the ATPA.

All grantees must comply with the requirements of the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) System Act, 1968 PA 319, as
amended. This act requires county sheriffs' departments, as well as city, village, and township police departments, to
submit UCR data.

 

 

GRANTS-043 

MICHIGAN STATE POLICE

Page 2 of 8

The Progress Report (GRANTS-037). lnancial Report and Expenditure Detail (GRANTS-036). can be
downloaded from the ATPA website at The grantee agrees to submit reports in accordance with
the schedule referenced in this contract.

All grant?funded employees. including employees of subgrantees. will complete and submit an Employee Time
Certification (GRANTS-038). Grantees will submit GRANTS-038 to the ATPA annually via email to

MSPAT A 'chl an. E.

All projects must maintain adequate supporting documentation for financial and progress reports submitted to the ATPA.
allure to provide adequate supporting documentation may adversely affect current?year reimbursements and future
ATPA grant requests.

ATPA Teams

The grantee will serve as the fiduciary for the ATPA grant. The fiduciary will be responsible for receiving grant funds.
distributing funds to participating team members. and receiving and compiling reports from team members. The grantee
will submit grant reports according to the schedule referenced in this contract. as well as those specially requested by the

ATPA.

When an agency withdraws an employee from an ATPA team. the ATPA approved budget for that position will remain
with the ATPA team. The project director mnet inform the ATPA when the withdrawal occurs by completing the Project
Modification Request (GRANTS-034). The vacant position must be replaced within 30 days or the position will be
unfunded unless an extension request has been approved In writing.

Participating agencies are expected to participate on the ATPA team that received the grant award for the entire grant
period. Participating agencies that withdraw personnel from the ATPA team before the end of the grant period will be
reimbursed based upon the percentage of the grant period in which they participated. The ATPA Board of Directors
reserves the right to deny future grant awards based on agency participation.

All personnel who are funded by an ATPA team must have their activities approved by the team commander.
Program and Financial Review
On-Site Monitoring and Payments

ATPA staff will schedule appointments with grantees in order to conduct on?slte monitoring and grantees must accept
these appointments.

Grantees must maintain separate accounting records to document grant revenues and expenditures.

This grant is relmbursementonly (excluding non?profit organizations). Grantees must document that expenditures have
been paid by local sources before requesting reimbursement from the ATPA.

Supporting documentation which must be submitted with the financial report is as follows:

Time and Attendance: Payroll expenditures must be supported by employee's earning history. attendance sheet.
time sheet. payroll register, and duty log. These records must be retained and made avsilable to ATPA staff
during on-slte monitoring.

0 Law Enforcement and Prosecutors Only - Attach the duty logs to the Financial Report (GRANTS-
035) when submitted.

- Fringe Benefits and Overtime: Retain a copy of cost allocations for fringe benefits charged to the ATPA program.
0 Law Enforcement and Prosecutors Only - Each person?s overtime hours must not exceed twenty percent
of the person's actual regular hours worked. For grantees only paying overtime. this limit does not apply.

- All payments for expenditures utilities. office rent. copier use. vehicle leasefrent. cell phones) must be
supported by an actual Wales or the method of determining cost.

- Equipment Procurement Service: Grantees must attach a copy of the actual
invoice or the method of determining cost.

Payment Procedure: For non-profit organizations only. advance payment. with eXCeptlon. will be based on prior
experience and budget limitations. The ATPA agrees to provide the agency with an advance as needed. up to
90 percent of the total ATPA share. Non?profit organizations must submit the Financial Report to
request an advance payment. Nonnproflt organizations acknowledge that upon receipt of this advance. a liability
due to the ATPA will be established. The liability will be reduced as expanded and reported to the ATPA. Any
unexpended funds shall be returned to the ATPA.

Advances are conditional upon receipt of financial and progress reports completed in accordance with grant
conditions. The ?nal payment will be made on a reimbursement basis.

 

GRANTS-043 (0412019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 3 of 8

All grantees must sign up through the online SIGMA Self Service vendor registration process to receive State of Michigan
payments as Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT)/Direct Deposits. as mandated by the Management and Budget Act. 1984
PA 431. MCL 18.1283a. Vendor registration Information Is available on the Michigan Department of Technology,
Management and Budget's (DTMB) website located at 

Should the grantee discover an error in a previous reimbursement request. the grantee shall immediately notify the ATPA
and refund the ATPA any funds not authorized for use under this contract and any payments or funds advanced to the
grantee in excess of allowable reimbursable expenses.

Mileage Expense for Non-profit Organizations: Limited to the grantee's established mileage reimbursement allowance for
non?federally funded activitiesI not to exceed the ATPA approved budget amount. Grantees must provide supporting
documentation for these expenses.

Vehicle Usage/Rental Expenses for Law Enforcement and Prosecutors: Limited to the grantee's established
reimbursement policy for non-federally funded activities, not to eXCeed the ATPA approved budget amount.

IV. Crimin ai or Administrative investigations/Charges

if any employee of the granteeisubgrantee associated with this grant project becomes aware of a criminal or
administrative investigation or charge that directly or Indirectly Involves grant funds referenced in this contract. the grantee
shall immediately notify the ATPA's Executive Director in writing that such an investigation has been initiated or that a
charge has been issued.

V. Debarment. Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters (Direct Recipient)

Pursuant to Executive Order 12549 (Debarment and Suspension) and implemented at 2 C.F.R. Part 2867 for prospective
participants in primary covered transactions as defined at 28 C.F.R. Part 2867. Section 2867.20(a) the grantee certifies

that it and its principals:

- Are not presently debarred. suspended, proposed for debarment. declared ineligible. sentenced to a denial of
federal bene?ts by a state or federal court. or voluntarily eXciuded from covered transactions by any federal
department or agency;

- Have not within a three-year period preceding this application been convicted of or had a civiiJudgment rendered
against them and are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity
(federal. state. or local) for commission of fraud or criminal offense in connection with obtaining. attempting to
obtain. or performing a public (federal. state. or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; violation
of federal or state antitrust statutes; commission of embezzlement. theft. forgery. bribery. falsification or
destruction of records. on making false statements. or receiving stolen property;

Have not within a two-year period preceding this application been convicted of a felony criminal violation under
any federal law; and

- Have not within a three-year period preceding this application had one or more public transactions (federal. state.
or local) terminated for cause or default.

Vi. SuspensioniTermination

The ATPA and/or the grantee may suspend and/or terminate this contract without further liability or penalty to the ATPA
for any of the following reasons:

- Failure to comply with any of the terms of this contract. Suspension requires immediate action by the grantee to
comply with the terms of this contract; otherwise. termination by the ATPA may occur.

- Failure of the grantee to make satisfactory progress toward the measurable objectiVes set forth in this contract.

- Filing false certification in this contract or other report or document.

This contract may be terminated by either party by giving 15-days written notice to the other party. Such written notice will
provide valid. legal reasons for termination. along with the effective date of termination.

This contract may be terminated immediately if the grantee. an official of the grantee. or an owner is convicted of any
activity referenced in Section of this contract during the term of this contract or any extension thereof.

GRANTS-043 (0412019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 4 of 8

Should this contract be terminated by either party, within 30 days after the termination, the grantee shall provide the ATPA
with all financial, performance, and other reports required as a condition of this contract. The ATPA will make payments
to the grantee for allowable reimbursable costs notcovered by previous payments. The grantee shall Immediately refund
to the ATPA any funds not authorized for use and any payments or funds advanced to the grantee in excess of allowable
reimbursable expenditures.

VII. Liability

All liability to third parties; loss or damage as a result of claims; and demands. costs, or judgments arising out of activities
such as direct service delivery to be carried out by the grantee In the performance of this contract shall be the
responsibility of the grantee and not the responsibility of the ATPA if the liability, loss, or damage is caUSed by or arises
out of the actions or failure to act on the part of the grantee, any subgrantee, or anyone directly or Indirectly employed by
the grantee, provided that nothing herein shall be construed as a waiver of any governmental immunity that has been

provided to the grantee or its employees by statute or court decisions.

All liability to third parties; loss, or damage as a result of claims; demands, costs, orJudgments arising out of activities
suoh as the provision of policy and procedural direction to be carried out by the ATPA in the performance of this contract
shall be the responsibility of the ATPA and not the responsibility of the grantee if the liability. loss, or damage is caused by
or arises out of the action or failure to act on the part of any ATPA employee or agent, provided that nothing herein shall
be construed as a waiver of any governmental Immunity by the state of Michigan, its agencies (the ATPA), or employees
as provided by statute or court decisions.

in the event that liability to third parties, loss, or damage arises as a result of activities conducted jointly by the grantee
and ATPA in fulfillment of their responsibilities under this contract. such liability, loss, or damage shall be borne by the
grantee and the ATPA in relation to each party's responsibilities under these Joint activities, provided that nothing herein
shall be construed as a waiver of any governmental immunity by the grantee, the state of Michigan, its agencies (the
ATPA), or their employees, respectively, as provided by statute or court decisions.

It is specifically understood and agreed that, if the State of Michigan or any County is party to this contract, nothing in this
Section will require such party to indemnify any other party or entity in any litigation that may arise from the performance
of this contract. This is not to be construed as a waiver of governmental immunity.

Eligible Expenditures

All eligible expenditures listed below with identified amounts are the ATPA portion; agencies are responsible for
appropriate match as identified in Section i. Any expenditure not detailed below must have approval from the ATPA prior

to acquisition/purchase.

.-

Reguiar salaries.
Longevity costs.

Fringe bene?ts (FICA, unemployment, workers
compensation, retirement, life, medical, dental
and vision Insurance).

Overtime hours. Hours must not exceed 20
percent of the total sworn employees' budgeted
amount. This amount is cumulative
for the team and can be utilized at the teams'
discretion. For grantees only paying overtime,
this limit does not apply.

Travel and meals. Travel outside normal
territory, not to exceed $1,000 per empioyeelper
yeah

Vehicle operation cost. Not to exceed:

0 Law enforcement agency - Calculated at
$10,000 per employee/per year. Costs

are cumulative, not limited per
employee. Only vehicles engaged in
road patrols/Investigations are eligible.

Prosecutor's office - $760 per assistant
prosecuting attorney/per year for
mileage and parking reimbursement.

0 Non?profit organization - $1,500 per
employee/per year for mileage
reimbursement.

Office space or utilities. Requires prior approval.
Office furniture. Requires prior approval.
Copier purchase/Usage. Not to exceed:

0 Law enforcement agency - $1,200 per
yean

Prosecutor's office - $1,200 per year.

0 Non-profit organization - $2,400 per year.

Phone installation. Prior approval is required.

GRANTS-043 (04/2019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 5 of 8

- phone purchase/usage. Not to exceed:

0 Law enforcement agency and
prosecutor's office - $750 per
personfper year.

0 Non-profit organization - $1.500 per year.

- Office supplies. Not to exceed $200 per
yeariper person.

- Investigative supplies for law enforcement
agency (sworn employees only). Not to exceed
$300 per year/per person.

- Computer purchase. Prior approval Is required.
IX. Ineligible Expenditures

Cell phone purchaselusage. Prior approval ls
requlred.

Motor vehicle theft-related association dues.
including dues to the international Association of
Automobile Theft Investigators and Michigan
Association of Vehicle Theft Investigators.

Training or conference for edu0ationa  purposes
relating to vehicle theft/fraud investigations.
Prior approval is required.

This is not an all-Inclusive list. Prior approval Is required for any expenditurels) not listed below.

- Inordinate fringes, Including. but not limited to.
lump sum payments banked sick/vacation
time. bonuses. pensions. health benefits. and
holiday pay).

- Health care benefit waiver bonuses.
- Indirect costs.

- Expenditure(s) incurred before or after the grant
period.

- Any administrative oosts not directly related to
the administration of this grant.

- In-car terminals and system.

- Law Enforcement Information Network (LEIN)
usage fees.

- Vehicle. liability. or professional insurance.

- Non-motor vehicle theft?related membership and
agency dues.

- Entertainment.

- Expenditures in excess of approved budget.
- Clothing/cleaninglgun allowance.

- Emergency response compensation.

- Show-up pay.

- Educational Incentives college courses
and trade schools).

- lrst?class travel.
X. Law Enforcement Objectives

Costs incurred applying for this grant 
consultants. grant writers).

Personnel. including law enforcement officers.
not connected to the project to which this grant
refers.

Fundraising and any associated salaries or
expenses.

Legal fees.

Purchase of promotional items unless prior
approval Is received In writing.

Contributions and donations.

Fines and penalties.

Losses from uncoilectibie bad debts.
Purchases of land.

Military-type equipment such as armored
vehicles. explosive devices. and other Items
typically associated with military arsenal.

Construction costs and/or renovation. including
remodeling.

Expert witness fees.
Weapons. including lasers.

Conducting law enforcement operations with the
intent of generating revenue for personal or
agency gain through deceitfull fraudulent.
unethical, or illegal methods.

- Reduce the number of motorvehicie thefts in your grant area by Investigating cases that have the highest
potential for reducing the demand for stolen vehicles, arresting Individuals who are Involved. and reducing false

motor vehicle theft reports.

by Identifying fraudulent insurance activity.

Reduce the economic gain associated with motor vehicle theft by recovering stolen vehiclesipartslequipment and

- Recover more in stolen vehicles/partsfequipment value than the total approved grant award from the ATPA.

GRANTS-043 (0412019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 6 of 

X.

XI.

Comply with ATPA guideiineslpolicies/conditions and UCR requirements for submission of data.
Maintain clear and reliable documentation for the project's performance activity and financial expenditures.

Following auction, report to the ATPA the dollar amount deposited Into the forfeiture account on the Progress
Report (GRANTS-037).

A team member shall attend regular meetings for area detectives and Insurance investigators, including
participation In the Anti Car Theft (ACT) meetings. Please note that email correspondence will be accepted In lieu
of physical attendance.

Law Enforcement Evaluation Criteria (See Section XVII. Arrest Ranking)

Number of 14 point motor vehicle theft (MVT) - Number of passenger vehicles recovered.

related arrests. 
Number of 12 point MVT related arrests.
Number of ten point MVT related arrests.
Number of eight point MVT related arrests.
Number of six point MVT related arrests.
Number of four point MVT related arrests.
Number of two point MVT related arrests.
Number of Insurance fraud related arrests.

Dollar value of passenger vehicles recovered.

- Number of other Vehicles recovered.

Dollar value of other vehicles recovered.

- Number of parts parts/equipment recovered.

- Dollar value of parts/equipment recOVered.

- Number of commercial vehicles recovered.

- Dollar value of commercial vehicles recovered.
- Dollar amount deposited Into forfeiture account.

Prosecutor Objectives

Provide full-time access to the Judicial system for the ATPA task forces in the grant area and provide opportunities
to informally discuss cases and legal issues.

Vertically prosecute all selected motor vehicle theft related cases.

Maintain a policy of plea bargaining only when absolutely necessary.

Achieve an overall conviction rate of 80 percent.

Achieve a trial conviction rate of 70 percent.

Strive for maximum sentence for defendants.

Maintain clear and reliable documentation of project's ?nancial eXpendliures and performance activity.

Prosecutor Evaluation Criteria



..

Number of cases disposed by trial (Jury/judge).
Number of defendants convicted on original

Number of cases initiated. 
Number of preliminary exams held. 

Number of preliminary exams waived. Chargev
Number of cases dlsposed pre_trlal_ - 3:21;? of defendants on reduced

Number of defendants who pled guilty to original
charge.

Number of defendants who pled guilty to lessor
included offense.

Number of plea bargain dismissals.

- Number of defendants Incarcerated.

- Number of defendants fined/placed on
probation.

- Dollar amount of restitution ordered.

Number of defendants convicted of Insurance

Number of other dismissals. fraud.

XIV. Non-Profit Organization Objectives

Conduct motor vehicle theft awareness education programslsemlnars (minimum of 20 attendees each).

Etch 239 vehicles.

 

GRANTS-043 (0472019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 7 of 8

- Distribute 1,500 ATPA approved auto theft preventative fllersibrochures regarding motor vehicle theft prevention.

- Write and publish no less than 5 articles about motor vehicle theft prevention. The articles cite the ATPA as
a source of funding. Fonlvard article copies to the ATPA.

- Contact _20_0 residences within your community with a door-to-door strategy. Inform them of the most up to date
auto theft prevention strategies.

- Maintain clear and reliable documentation of project's financial expenditures and performance activity.
XV. Non-Profit Organization Evaluation Criteria

Number of programs/seminars conducted. - Number of theft prevention articles written and
pub?shed.

- Number of vehicles etched.
- Number of residences contacted.

- Number of fliers/brochures distributed.
XVI. Reporting Schedule

0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 1?1 to 12-31-1 1 a
Law Enforcement Agency Prosecuting Attorney?s Office 0 '0 0 - 0
Non-Profit Organization 04_01_20 07_31_20
15-2
07-01-20 -

Felony Charges Arrest Points
Altering Vehicle Identification Number with Intent to Mislead 750.415 10
Arson - Owner Involved 750.75 14
Ea?iia?tng 750.529a 8
Chop Shop 750.535a 14 
Continuing Criminal Enterprise 750.159l 14
Counterfeit Insurance Certificates 257.222 6
Embezzlement 750.174 6
Failure to Return Rental Vehicle 750.362 6
False Certi?cation 257.903 12
False Report 750.411a 8
False Pretenses 750.218 12
False Statement In Application for Title 257.254 12
Forged License DocumentsILlcense Plates 257.257 5

Insurance Fraud - Owner Staged ArsonmeTwlT heft 500.4511 14
Interstate Transportation of Stolen Motor Vehicle 750.535 
Larceny by Conversion 750.362 6
Larceny from Motor Vehicle 750.356a 4 
Obtain Personal Identification (ID) Without Permission 257.324 6
Odometer Fraud 257.233a 12
Operating License Forged. AlteredI or False 257.324 6
Possess or Sell Rosette Rivets 750.415 4
Possess Intent to Pass Title- 257.254 10
Repair - Salvage Facility Violation 257.217 4
Receiving and Conceallng Stolen Property 750.535 8
Unlawfully Driving AWay Automobile m" 75?041?3 5
Unlawful Use 750.414 4
Use Fraudulent ID to Lease or Purchase Vehicle I 750.415 12
All Other Charges 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

GRANTS-043 (0412019)
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE
Page 8 of 8

XVII. Arrest Ranking

Note to Arrest Rankings:

Team takes credit for most serious charge against subject and Ignores others.
Team takes credit for original arrest charge. even if reduced later by prosecutor.
- if subject is arrested on three separate warrants. team may count three arrests.
- Attempted crimes or conspiracy to commit crime earns same points as listed.
Special Conditions

This contract is valid upon approval and execution by the ATPA.
This contact is conditionally approved. subject to and contingent upon the availability of funds.

The grantees will not assume any responsibility or liability for costs incurred by the ATPA prior to the full execution of this

contract.
XIX. Contract Signatures

Grant funding will not be released until all requirements of the signed grant contract have been agreed upon. The

undersigned has the authority to accept the rant contract.



 

?Pmick Medal-i7 

 

    

 

 

Printed Name of Authorized Official Signature of Authowl Date
Printed Name of Project Director i nature of Di ector Date
an as; 0/2 
9?
Printed Name of Financial Contact Signature of Financial Contact Data
Mugs] m, Bar 1 may) 4/23/23,
Signatu? of ATPiHE??utlve Director Date

Printed Name of ATPA Executive Director

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 Avenue, s'un'E 1026
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

CITY or DETROIT ., _2
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  132322805138

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

October 2, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority
(ATPA) - Grosse Point East Side Action Team Grant

The Michigan State Police have awarded the City of Detroit Police Department with the FY 2020
Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) - Grosse Point East Side Action Team Grant for a total
of $137,625.00. The State share $137,625.00 of the approved amount. and there is a required
cash match of $91,750.00. The total project cost is $229,375.00. The grant period is October 1,
2019 through September 30, 2020. The grant was adopted in the FY 2020 budget in the amount
of $206,650.00. The grant was awarded at a higher value than was budgeted. We are asking for
an increase in appropriation 20503, in the amount of $20,525.00, in order to re?ect the total
project cost of $229,375.00.

The objective of the grant is to implement innovative programs to address auto theft and fraud in
partnership with Grosse Pointe Park Public Safety and the Harper Woods Police Department.
The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to help the Department stop car-jacking.
embezzlement. and other auto-related crimes. This is a reimbursement grant.

lf approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number is 20603,
with the match amount coming from apprOpriation number 00380.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropn?ate funding in accordance with the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC: Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget

:35"

Office of Development and Grants 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the Michigan State Police, in the amount of $137,625.00, to implement
innovative programs to address auto theft and fraud. in partnership with Grosse Pointe Park
Public Safety and the Harper Woods Police Department: and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget; now

THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to increase the budget
accordingly for Appropriation number 20603. in the amount of $20,525.00. in order to equal the
total project cost of the grant, in the amount of 522937500. which includes a cash match coming
from Appropriation 00380. for the FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) - Grosse Point
East Side Action Team Grant.

Page1of1

Memorandum of Agreement
Between
Grosse Polnta Park Public Safety
and
Harper Woods Police Department
and
Detroit Police Department

PARTIES

This Memorandum of Agreement (Agreement) is entered into by and between Grosse Pointe Park
Public Safety. referred to hereinafter as the Grantee. and Harper Woods Police Department. Detroit
Police Department.

Grosse Pointe Park Public Safety. Harper Woods Police Department. Detroit Police Department. are
collectively referred to hereinaiter as ACTION.

PURPOSE

The purpose of this Agreement Is to set forth the conditions and responsibilities of ACTION as stated
in the Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) Grant Contract.

AGREEMENT

ACTION is committed to accomplishing the following objectives as outlined in the ATPA Grant
Contract between the ATPA and the Grantee.

Grosse Pointe Park Public Safety will:

a. Reduce the number of auto thefts in grant coverage area. as grant coverage area is de?ned In
the ATPA Grant Application, by investigating cases that have the highest potential for reducing
the demand for stolen vehicles. arresting individuals who are involved in auto theft-related
activities. and reducing false auto theft reports.

b. Comply with ATPA guideiines. policies and Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) requirements for
submission of data.

c. Maintain clear and reliable documentation of performance activity and ?nancial expenditures.

d. Attend regular meetings for area detectives and insurance investigators. including participation
in the anti-car theft meetings.

e. Following forfeited property auctions. report to the ATPA the dollar amount deposited into the
designated forfeiture account on progress reports.

f. Receive quarterly progress and reimbursement requests from participating agencies. compile
received reports. and submit compiled data with supporting documentation to the ATPA by the
designated due dates.

Harper Woods Police Department will:

a. Reduce the number of auto thefts in grant coverage area. as grant coverage area is de?ned in
the ATPA Grant Application. by investigating cases that have the highest potential for reducing
the demand for stolen vehicles, arresting individuals who are involved in auto theft-related
activities. and reducing false auto theft reports.

Comply with ATPA guidelines. policies and UCR requirements for submission of data.

c. Maintain clear and reliable documentation of performance activity and ?nancial expenditures.

d. Attend regular meetings for area detectives and insurance investigators. including participation
in the anti-car theft meetings.

e. Following forfeited property auctions. report to the Grantee the dollar amount deposited into
the designated forfeiture account on progress reports.

53'

f.

Submit quarterly progress and reimbursement requests to the Grantee by the designated due
dates.

Detroit Police Department will:

eat:

Reduce the number of auto thefts in grant coverage area by investigating cases that have the
highest potential for reducing the demand for stolen vehicles. arresting individuals who are
involved in auto theft-related activities. and reducing false auto theft reports.

Comply with ATPA guidelines. policies and UCR requirements for submission of data.
Maintain clear and reliable documentation of performance activity and ?nancial expenditures.
Attend regular meetings for area detectives and insurance investigators. including participation
in the anti-car theft meetings.

Following forfeited property auctions. report to the Grantee the dollar amount deposited into
the designated forfeiture account on progress reports.

Submit quarterly progress and reimbursement requests to the Grantee by the designated due
dates.

The Parties mutually agree:

a. To make all reasonable efforts to ensure that all reports are submitted to the Grantee.
compiled. and forwarded to the ATPA by the designated due date.
b. To work cooperatively to ful?ll all grant requirements as stated in the ATPA Grant Contract.
0. To use the Michigan High Intensity Drug Traf?cking Areas' Deconfilction Center on all cases.
when applicable.
CORRESPONDENCE

All notices or other written communications shall be addressed as indicated in this section. or as
speci?ed. by a subsequent written notice delivered by the party whose address or authorized
representative has changed.

Notices or other communications required by. or related to. this Agreement shall be in writing and
shall be delivered in one of the following manners:

a.
b.
c.

in person;
By certified registered mail. return receipt requested. with all postage or charges prepaid; or,
By email to the email address identi?ed for the authorized representative.

Grosse Pointe Park Public Safetv:

Contact:
Address:
City. State.

Zip:

Telephone:

Email:

Harper Woods Police Department:

Contact:
Address:
City. State.

Zip:

Telephone:

Email:

Detroit Police D_epartment:

Contact:
Address:
City. State.
Telephone:
Email:

Zip:

VI.

VII.



TERM

This Agreement is contingent Upon funds being awarded by the ATPA for auto-theft prevention
activities. This Agreement is effective when signed by the Parties. by and through their duly
authorized representatives. for a period beginning October 1, 2019. through September 30, 2020.
unless terminated early, as hereinafter set forth.

TERMINATION

Any party may terminate this Agreement for any reason. provided that at least thirty (30) days
advance written notice of termination is given to the non-terminating parties by the terminating party.

ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND AMENDMENT

This Agreement is the complete and exclusive statement of the Agreement between the Parties with
respect to the subject matter thereof. and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations.
proposals, and other communications bebveen the Parties either oral or written. This Agreement may
only be amended by a written document signed by the Parties, by and through their duly authorized
representatives. Any party may change Its authorized representativels} or address for an authorized
representative during the term of this Agreement by providing written notice to the other parties in
accordance with Section it! above. It is not necessary to amend this Agreement for the sole purpose
of changing an authorized representative or address for an authorized representative.

SIGNATORIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

Grosse Pointe Park Public Safety Date
Harper Woods Police Department Date
Detroit Police Department Date

1 Detroit Polite?

ARK

ACTION TEAM

NED

 

1 Detroit Police-Patrolman


AL

VEHICLES

AL

-20

DET

ATPA STAFF

405

11
63.625

ATPA
SHARE

45 43.00

38,175.00
1

6.40

5.00

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE l026
MICHIGAN 48226

Cr? 0" DETROIT PHONE: 313 - 628-2158
OFFICE OFTHE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER FAX: 3 l3 . 224 . 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

October 2, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention
Authority (ATPA) - South East Auto Theft Team Grant

The Michigan State Police have awarded the City of Detroit Police Department with the
FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) South East Auto Theft Team Grant
for a total of $52,841.00. The State share is $52,841.00 of the approved amount, and
there is a required cash match of $35,227.00. The total project cost is $88,068.00. The
grant period is October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020. The grant was adopted in
the FY 2020 budget in the amount of $86,483.00. The grant was awarded at a higher
value than was budgeted. We are asking for an increase in appropriation 20606, in the
amount of $1,585.00. in order to re?ect the total project cost of $88,068.00.

The objective of the grant is to implement innovative programs to address auto theft and
fraud in partnership with Garden City Police Department, Washtenaw County Sheriff's
Department, and the Michigan Department of State. The funding allotted to the
department will be utilized to help the Department stop car-jacking, embezzlement, and
other auto-related crimes. This is a reimbursement grant.

lf approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20606, with the match amount coming from appropriation number 00380.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,
Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC: Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget



Office of Development and Grants crrvornmour

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS. the Detroit Police Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the Michigan State Police, in the amount of $52,841.00. to implement
innovative programs to address auto theft and fraud, in partnership with Garden City Police
Department, Washtenaw County Sheriff?s Department, and the Michigan Department of State; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to increase the budget
accordingly for Appropriation number 20606, in the amount of $1,585.00. in order to equal the
total project cost of the grant, in the amount of $88,068.00. which includes a cash match coming
from Appropriation 00380. for the FY 2020 Auto Theft Prevention Authority (ATPA) - South East
Auto Theft Team Grant.

Page 1 or 1

ill.

Memorandum of Agreement
Between
State Police
and
Detroit Police Department

and

Garden City Police Department
and

Wanhtenaw County Sheriffs Department

and

Michigan Department of State

PARTIES

This Memorandum at Agreement (Agreement) Is entered into by and between Michigan State Police.
referred to hereinafter as the Grantee. and Detroit Police Department. Garden City Police
Department. Washtenaw County Sheriff Department. Michigan Department of State

Michigan State Police. Detroit Police Department. Garden City Police Department. Washtenaw
County Sherith Department. Michigan Department at State. are collectively referred to herelnafter as

SEATT.

PURPOSE

The purpose of this Agreement Is to set forth the conditions and responsibilities of SEATT as stated in
the Auto Theft Pretrentlon Authority Grant Contract

AGREEMENT

SEATT is committed to accomplishing the following objectives as outlined in the ATPA Grant Contract
between the ATPA and the Grantee,

Michigan State Police will:

Reduce the number of auto thefts in grant coverage area. as grant cottetage area is defined in
the ATPA Grant Application. by investigating cases that have the highest potential for reducing
the demand for stolen vehicles, arresting individuals 1eho are involved in auto thatt-ralatd
activities. and reducing tales auto theft reports.

Comply with ATPA guidelines. poitctes and Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) requirements for
submission of data.

Maintain clear and retlabla documentation of performance activity and ?nancial expenditures
Attend regutar meetings for area detectives and insurance Investigators. including participation
in the anti-car theft meetings.

Following forfeited property auctions. report to the ATPA the dollar amount deposited into the
designated forfeiture account on progress reports.

Receive quarterly progress and reimbursement requests from participating agencies. compile
received reports. and submit compiled date with supporting documentation to the ATPA by the
designated due dates

Detroit Police Department will:
3. Reduce the number of auto thefts in grant coverage area. as grant coverage area is defined in

the MFA Grant Application, by lnvestlgattng cases that have the highest potential for reducing
the demand for stolen vehictee arresting Individuais who are involved In auto theft-related
activities. and reducing raise DJID thall reports.

b. Comply with ATPA guidelines. policies and UCR requirements for submission of data.

can

Garcia
a.

9-9

Maintain clear and reliabEe documentation of performance activity and financial expenditures.
Attend regular meetings for area detectives and insurance investigators. including participation
in the anti-car theft meetings

Following forfeited property auctions. report to the Grantee the dollar amount deposited into
the designated forfeiture account on progress reports.

Submit quarterly progress and reimbursement requests to the Grantee by the designated due
dates.

City Police Department will:

Reduce the number of auto thefts In grant coverage area by investigating cases that have the
highest potential for reducing the demand for stolen vehicles. arresting individuals who are
involved In auto theft-related activities. and reducing false auto theft reports.

Comply with ATPA guidelines, policies and requirements for submission of data.
Maintain clear and reliable documentation of performance activity and financial expenditures.
Attend regular meetings for area detectives and Insurance Investigators, including participation
in the anti-car theft meetings.

Following forfeited property emotions, report to the Grantee the dollar amount deposited into
the designated forfeiture account on progress reports.

Submit quarterly progress and reimbursement requests to the Grantee by the designated due

dates.

Washtenaw County Sheriff's Department will:

9933'

a

9-957

Reduce the number of auto thefts in grant coverage area by Investigating cases that have the
highest potential for reducing the demand for stolen vehicles. arresting Individuals who are
involved in auto theft-related activities, and reducing false auto theft reports.

with ATPA guidelines. policies and UCH requirements for submission of data.
Maintain clear and reliable documentation of performance activity and financial expenditures.
Attend regular meetings for area detectives and insurance Investigators. including participation
in the anti-car theft meetings.

Following forfeited property auctions. report to the Grantee the dollar amount deposited Into
the designated forfeiture account on progress reports.

Submit quarterly progress and reimbursement requests to the Grantee by the designated due
dates.

Michigan Department of State will:

Reduce the number of auto thefts In grant coverage area by investigating cases that have the
highest potential for reducing the demand for stolen vehicles. arresting individuals who are
involved in auto theft-related activities. and reducing false auto theft reports.

Comply with ATFA guidelines. policies and UGR requirements for submission of data.
Maintain clear and reliable documentation of performance activity and financial expenditures
Attend regular meetings for area detectives and insurance investigators. including participation
In the anti-car theft meetings.

Following forfeited property auctions. report to the Grantee the dollar amount deposited into
the designated forfeiture account on progress reports.

Submit quarterly progress and reimbursement requests to the Grantee by the designated due

dates.

The Parties mutually agree:




To matte all reasonable efforts to ensure that all reports are submitted to the Grantee,
compiled. and fonvarded to the ATPA by the des?gnated due date.

To work cooperatively to fulfill all grant requirements as stated In the ATPA Grant Contract.
To use the Michigan High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas' Deconfliction Center on all cases.

when applicable.

IV.

VI.

Vtt.

CORRESPONDENCE

All notices or other written communications shalt be addressed as indicated in this section. or as
speci?ed. by a subsequent written notice delivered by the party whose address or authorized
representative has changed

Notices or other communications required by. or related to. this Agreement shat! be in writing and
shat] be in one of the toilowing manners:
a. In person;
b. By certified registered mail. return receipt requested. with all postage or charges prepaid; or.
c. Ely email to the email address identi?ed for the authorized representative.

Michigan ?tatg Patios: Department of ?tetg:

Contact; Contact:
Address: Address:

City. State. Zip: City. State. Zip;
Telephone: Telephone.
Email: Email:

Detrel Po one artment: 
Contact: mew . E'reyom ill-utter ?putice.

Address. tam Thu-"ct :m?r-a 1 
City. State. Zipoeurfi- n: Ltd-4.. .3 
Tate-phone: gain-afrtr?ato-a '1
Email: rote-51155 Edct-irr-J rm Lily-i

Garden Git}: Eoltge Department:

Contact
Address:

City. State. Zip:
Telephone:
Email:

Washtegaw Cgunu Sheriff's Department;

Contact:
Address:

City. State. Zip;
Telephone:
Email:

TERM

This Agreement is contingent Upon iunds being awarded by the ATPA ior auto-then prevention
activit as. This Agreement is effective when signed by the Parties. by and through their duly,I
authorized representatives. for a period October 1. 2019. through September 30. 2020,
unless terminated early. as hereinafter set forth,

TERMINATION

Any party may terminate this Agreement for any reason. provided that at least thirty (30] days

advance written notice of termination Is given to the non-terminating parties by the terminating party.

ENTIRE AGREEMENT A ND AMENDMENT

This Agreement is the complete and exclusive statement at the Agreement between the Parties with
respect to the subject matter thereof. and supersedes all prior negotiations. representations.



- 

proposals. and other communications between the Parties either oral or written. This Agreement may
only be amended by a mitten document signed by the Parties. by and through their duly authorized
representatives. Any party may change Its authorized representativeis) or address for an authorized
representative during the [arm oi Agreement by providing ertIen notice to the other parties In
accordanco with Section IV above. It Is not necessary to amend this Agreement tor the sets purpose
oi changing an aumortzad representative or address for an authorized representative.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Michigan State Police Date 
Detroit Potioe Department Date
Garden City Police Department Date
Washtenaw County Sheriff?s Department Date

 

 

Michigan Department of State Data

 



 

 

 

SOUTEEAST AUTO TEAM 

 

 

 

 

DETROIT Rp' DETAIL
. 6-17-20
I 
. Percent
2819 2820 60%
BUDGET APPLICATION I 7 ATRA STAFF ATPA
BUDGET 7 MODIFICATION RECOMM SHARE
SWORN EMPLOYEES 
Salaries Wges: 
(1113911811 I?D-Detective 59,383 82,581 . 82.881 37.689
Fringe Bene?ts 19.257 28,985 . 201585 12,411
Over?mg 4,452 4,702 4.702 2,821
TOTAL swam EMPLOYEES 83.072 88.068 - - 88.068 52.841
REIMBURSEMENT PERCENT 60% 60%

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 611
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224?3901 - 

 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (313) 224-1464
ADMINISTRATION DIVISION 

OclOber 2019 

  

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition #1107 Detroit Sports Commission, request to hang approximately I ll banners at Ford
field, Gratiot Ave., Washington Blvd, Michigan Ave, Lafayette Blvd. and St. Antoine St. from
December 2019 to January 2020.

The Department of Public Works, Traffic Engineering Division received the above referenced
petition. This department has no objections to the placement of banners, provided that the banner
installation is in compliance with the banner policy adopted by your Honorable Body on November
30, 2001, and subject to the following conditions:

1. One hundred eleven (111) banners are to be located along Brush St. from Beacon St. to Fisher
Fwy. Service Dr.; E. Montcalm St./ St. Antoine St. from Brush St. to Beacon St.; Beacon St. from
Brush St. to St. Antoine St.; Washington Blvd. from W. Lafayette Blvd. to Park Ave; Gratiot
Ave. from Randolph St. to Brush St.; W. Lafayette Blvd. from 2ml Ave. to Griswold St.; First St.
from W. Fort St. to W. Lafayette Blvd; St. Antoine St. from Monroe St. tO Macomb St.

2. The duration of banner installation shall be from December 2019 to January 2020.

3. Banners shall not exceed thirty?two (32) inches in width by ninety?four (94) inches in height and
should be acrylic or vinyl with standard slitting (also called ?Happy Faces?).

4. Banners shall be affixed to allow minimum of (15) feet clearance from walkway surface.
5. Banners shall not include ?ashing lights that may be distracting to motorists.

6. Banners shall not have displayed thereon any legend or symbol which is, or resembles, or which
may be mistaken for a traffic control device, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic.

7. Commercial advertising is strictly prohibited on all banners; including telephone numbers,
mailing addresses, and web site addresses.

8. A sponsoring organization?s logo and/or name may be included at the bottom Of the banner in a
space no more than ten (10) inches in height by thirty (30) inches in length, and letter size shall be
limited to four (4) inch maximum and placed at the bottom of the banner.

9. Sponsoring organizations may not include messages pertaining to tobacco and related products,
alcoholic beverages, firearms, adult entertainment or sexually explicit products, or political
campaigns.

10. Sponsoring organizations may not include legends or symbols which may be construed to
advertise, promote the sale Of, or publicize any merchandise or commodity, with the exception Of
sponsorship as described in the banner policy (see section 9 Of the policy).

11. Banner placement must be a minimum of 120 feet or every other pole apart, whichever is greater,
including banners that may exist at the time of the installation and is limited to a two thousand
(2000) feet radius area of the event location or within the stated organization?s boundaries.

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL (Cont)
Petition #1107

12. The design, method of installation and location of banners shall not endanger persons using the
highway or unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic.

13. The petitioner SHALL secure an approval from Public Lighting Department to use their utility
poles to hang the banners.

14. The petitioner SHALL secure Right of Way permit from City Engineering Division every time the
banners are changed/replaced.

15. The wording on the banners will be (please see below).

16. Since Gratiot Avenue is a state trunk line in the above location, approval from the Michigan
Department of Transportation is required.

If deemed appropriate by the City of Detroit, The City reserves the right to have the banners removed by
the Petitioner at the Petitioner?s cost prior to expiration date.

Respectfully Submitted,

Mag)

   

    
   

Ron Bruntli


ge. Director
of Public Works

Copy: Arthur Jemison, Mayor?s Of?ce
Linda Vinyard, Mayor?s Of?ce
Caitlin Marcon, DPW
Ashok Patel, DPW Traf?c Engineering Division

 
. 

salod 32 [2101:3 0d

  
 

12V

Bleed-nay Sire-3'. 
. Deopie Mover Simon


k.
arlng he a
3

im, 


r'ie; 
Mann cm

a



 Quicken Loans a 
washmq' - Merldran Health Plar 
Boulevard Builqu ..
?e  
The Westm Book iv;
Cadillac Detrout .,
\i 
.  a 
I a, . I'll IWMle-?f?ib 
?nk-'11Budgmg

'a7


Fun L's-m implem
. r. .  l

 . a

. J.  
.  r.
k.


Ave

Pam-d: McNamara

?eoenl Building

.-
nu

lam-J,

Pm, Muvd 

USDlug 

Admm 

1;:qu: Sunes by
Homw Hum Mm

Pam-R112. hr:

 

PPun

.Id

.Avl-


le?f? gull?n-


1? Hr? hn"d 

1

i I Hulda] mung-'1: 5
I. Sud? Drunul 

((Jurucl. Cam! film

Wm" Club

Cnrru-ncu Dan- I

"We
Made! Slain)?

EB

Mich-gal: Aut- 
(.0 1:1 Inlarm
1" 

I L'nmen: Ham

(mung. .

3

Anyuma H'lnch -
Fume: I 11
rmancmt 015mm :imaue

Dlrm- 11




Plumbing! [1.4mm]

Fom Slalom
Cmpuculu-n

Passpon Agency

Sunocu Gas 5mm
I.

 a 779 


Fuhu Java: 71

[um Sin-r1 Palm;

9 Mo?enmu'n Gang-I

lLocin.
tutu rnlra Bruin].-
?It-n Stan?.



Fecal!
Human-CIqu 


Clown.- Flora Daron
(Mnln-n Hut-I1: Dial

x. .
kg: mics?

Jl 
I 

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 6 ll
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3901 - 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (313) 224-1464
ADMINISTRATION DIVISION 

October?'?, 2015 

  

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition #1108 College for Creative Studies, request to put up banners on Milwaukee Ave.,
Baltimore Ave., Woodward Ave., Ave., Kirby St., John St., Frederick St., Cass Ave. and
Brush St. from December 3rd, 2019 for an indefinite period with the petitioner planning to renew
the permit.

The Department of Public Works, Traf?c Engineering Division received the above referenced
petition. This department has no objections to the placement of banners, provided that the banner
installation is in compliance with the banner policy adopted by your Honorable Body on November
30, 2001, and subject to the following conditions:

1. Eighty three (83) Banners are to be located along CCS Midtown and New Center campus as
shown in the attached map.

2. The duration of banner installation shall be from December 3rd, 2019 through December 3rd,
2020.

3. Banners shall not exceed thirty?two (32) inches in width by ninety-four (94) inches in height and
should be acrylic or vinyl with standard slitting (also called ?Happy Faces?).

4. Banners shall be af?xed to allow minimum of (15) feet clearance from walkway surface.
5. Banners shall not include flashing lights that may be distracting to motorists.

6. Banners shall not have displayed thereon any legend or symbol which is, or resembles, or which
may be mistaken for a traffic control device, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic.

7. Commercial advertising is strictly prohibited on all banners; including telephone numbers,
mailing addresses, and web site addresses.

8. A sponsoring organization?s logo and/or name may be included at the bottom of the banner in a
space no more than ten (10) inches in height by thirty (30) inches in length, and letter size shall be
limited to four (4) inch maximum and placed at the bottom of the banner.

9. Sponsoring organizations may not include messages pertaining to tobacco and related products,
alcoholic beverages, firearms, adult entertainment or sexually explicit products, or political
campaigns.

10. Sponsoring organizations may not include legends or symbols which may be construed to
advertise, promote the sale of, or publicize any merchandise or commodity, with the exception of
sponsorship as described in the banner policy (see section 9 of the policy).

11. Banner placement must be a minimum of 120 feet or every other pole apart, whichever is greater,
including banners that may exist at the time of the installation and is limited to a two thousand
(2000) feet radius area of the event location or within the stated organization?s boundaries.

 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL (Cont.)
Petition #1108

12. The design, method of installation and location of banners shall not endanger persons using the
highway or unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic.

13. The petitioner SHALL secure an approval from Public Lighting Department to use their utility
poles to hang the banners.

14. The petitioner SHALL secure Right of Way permit from City Engineering Division every time the
banners are changed/replaced.

15. The wording on the banners will be (please see below).

16. Since Woodward Ave is a state trunk line in the above location, approval from the Michigan
Department of Transportation is required.

If deemed appropriate by the City of Detroit, The City reserves the right to have the banners removed by
the Petitioner at the Petitioner?s cost prior to expiration date.

Respectfully Submitted,



Ron Brunrlidgu Director
Department of -1Il1 ic Works

   

Copy: Arthur Jemison, Mayor?s Of?ce
Linda Vinyard, Mayor?s Of?ce
Caitlin Maroon, DPW
Ashok Patel, DPW Traf?c Engineering Division

 

CCS BANNER PROGRAM 




I ?v'v?N 
.- v. 

Kaufman.


??mg



9
mm Emmi Chum Kg

.pwas. mn- ?aluminum-SalonIL?Wr'rLl'mmh?unun. Pull
?vPedestrian  r. a. -

Uuw:?llg. IA Vipp'r *n11'n rluw-jll. . 
?7 "gnu; hr?. . 
'dm' 
t? A

. 
 :r I
I131 P. .
on . Haber! H. 

. 
HCG my Mom- - .
Miocmun?l'l . 
. . 2-- .ucur?u; .- -
n' Stun . I i arm-.1 mks-nun 
  . :4

sl. . 3.1? .
FL A Qua-r. - . S?mcuurm

Pun" til? 7.111: I . 9 
0 

. 
.Hmlu': Halon-Jo  
Hakim hummum .  
I I'na 

. . 
0 Light Poles requested for Banner Installation e]

A Pedestrian Light Poles requested for Banner Installation (If in PLAjuristiction)

. . .



TO:

THRU:

FROM:

DATE:

RE:

ditty at Zaetrutt

CITY COUNCIL

 

 



RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

MEMORANDUM

David Bell, Director
Buildings, Safety Engineering, and Environmental Department

Council President Brenda Jones


Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez  

October 31, 2019

Fort Iron and Metal Neighborhood Health Concerns

It has come to my attention that Fort Iron and Metal (9607 Dearborn St, Detroit, MI 48209)
continues to be a neighborhood nuisance, having a signi?cant negative impact on the quality of life
for residents living in the surrounding area.

We have received the following complaints:
1. Excessive dust coming from the facility and, especially for residents directly across the
street, literally covering homes with a ?lm of dust;



Dirty trucks moving through the community on residential streets;

Semis idling and parking on the street;

Tall piles of metal and debris; and

Street sweeping being done occasionally, but no water being used thereby kicking up dust

and putting contaminants into the air.

I am requesting the following action and/or information:
1. What can be done for residents surrounding the business g. tree planting, other vegetative
buffering, etc.) to mitigate noise and adverse health impact?
2. Updates on the business? fugitive dust control plan specifically as it relates to:

a.

$199.90"

Paving the truck driving surface in full, including from the delivery area and the exit
ramps

Laying of rock in the yard to minimize dust, if paving has not yet been completed
Status on installation of a tire washing unit at the yard

Status on installation of rumble strip guards at the yard exit ramp

List of daily street sweeping and water truck records and inspection of trucks to
ensure functionality of both

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


QEity nf ZBetmit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

f. Record of periodic inspection, and maintenance (if it was needed), of tire washing
system
g. Photo con?rmation of posted 10mph limit signs along the plant road
3. How many tickets have been issued to the business?
4. Please conduct an inspection as soon as possible to see what can be done to hold the
business accountable.
5. What is the timeline for hiring a new air quality Specialist?

Please feel free to reach out to my of?ce with questions at (313) 224-2450.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison, Mayor Duggan?s Of?ce
City Clerk'

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


 

TO:

THRU:

FROM:

DATE:

RE:

(titty at Eetrnt?t 0

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

MEMORANDUM
Dave Bell, Director, BSEED
Council President Brenda Jones

Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez

 

October 3 2019

Truck Driving School Concerns

 

My office has received numerous complaints from residents regarding the truck driving school
located at 14] 1 Central Avenue, including reports of large trucks routinely driving carelessly and
parking on residential roads, endangering children and community members, and damaging parked

cars. Further,

Please provide information regarding whether this truck driving school is in compliance with all
zoning and licensing requirements. What authority does the City have to regulate or relocate this
school in order to limit the negative impact on the surrounding community?

Please feel free to reach out to my office with questions at (313) 224-2450.

Cc:

Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison. Mayor Duggan?s Of?ce

City Clerk

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


QEity of ZBetrnit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ

 

COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

MEMORANDUM
TO: David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division
THRU: Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda?Lopez 
DATE: November 1, 2019
RE: Resolution Recognizing Trans Day of Remembrance

 

I am requesting that the Legislative Policy Division work with my of?ce to draft a resolution
recognizing Trans Day of Remembrance, which is November 20, 2019.

Please contact my of?ce for more information. Thank you.

Cc:

Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison

City Clerk

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


