SSA #19 Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, August 21, 2019, 8:30 am
The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard St.
Minutes
In Attendance: Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Gale Howard,
Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, RPBA SSA Manager; Sandi
Price, RPBA
Guests: John Harris & Lizzy Kreindler of A5 Branding & Digital
Meeting called to order by Carrie Sullivan at 8:40 am.
I. Welcome & Introductions.
II. There was no community input.
III. Chalk Howard St Debrief & Marketing
Lizzy Kreindler & John Harris presented the results of Chalk Howard St. In spite of an excessive
heat warning for the day of the festival, 3500 people attended. Social media was utilized to help
spread the word on chalk festival and it worked. We had multiple press coverage which was
presented and generally there has been exceptional positive feedback about the chalk festival.
There was a discussion about the diversity of the attendees and to make an effort for next year
to attract a culturally diverse crowd. Sandi Price said that after the rain at 5pm, people from the
community came out and re-chalked over the squares. We have 2,331 followers on Facebook.
Charlotte Walters moved to approve the Chalk Howard St Festival for 2020. Simone Freeman
seconded it. Motion passed.
John Harris presented a scope of work from Sept. 1, 2019 through Dec. 31, 2019 for Website
Maintenance ($1,000); Social Media with Boosting ($5200); Search Engine Optimization
($4,000); Art Direction of Photography ($2,000); Halloween Event ($2500); Community Building
Outdoor Event ($1200). There was a discussion to use social media boosting funds for Howard
St businesses and give them approx. $100 to boost their post on their business. A5 will reach
out to businesses and design a program that would include this. Businesses can fill out a form
and attend a social media workshop on Howard St. Charlotte Walters moved to approve A5’s
scope of work. Simone Freeman seconded it. Motion passed.
IV. July 3, 2019 Minutes
Gale Howard moved to approve the July 3, 2019 minutes. Simone Freeman seconded it. Motion
passed.
V. January – July 2019 Financials
Simone Freeman moved to approve the financials. Gale Howard seconded it. Motion
passed.
VI. Commissioner Seats
Three seats are currently available. Commissioner applications have been given to Mike Smith
of Hariz R Us and Badou Diakhate of Badou Senegalese Cuisine. Cally Radunzel of Curls & Co
is interested in returning as a commissioner after she moves her business. There was a
discussion to have diverse commissioners.

 VII. New Business
Sandi Price discussed having the commissioners review the Howard St. Strategic plan in
November 2019. The job description has been posted to replace Cynthia Ryan. Currently Sandi
is conducting interviews. In the interim Sandi Price will be the SSA manager. RPBA continues to
host the Glenwood Sunday Market, working on Devon Ave SSA#43 and has reached out to
Hamburger Mary’s in Andersonville to relocate to Rogers Park.
VIII. Adjournment
Meeting was adjourned 10:00 am.
IX. Next SSA Meeting - Wed., September 18, 2019 at 8:30 am, The Factory Theater.

 