Alton James @ity of metro it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson

Vice Chair-"Secretary
Marcell R. Todd Jr.

Damion W. Ellis

?mm" CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Espnm, m, LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 
Detroit, Michigan 48226 9? - ?55? . r.

Director

Angy Webb
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336

e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC DISCUSSION

A public discussion for informational purposes will be held by the City Planning Commission in
the Erma L. Henderson Auditorium, 13'? ?oor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2
Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226 on

THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 21.. 2019 AT 6:20 PM

with reSpect to a proposed ordinance to amend Chapter 4 of the 2019 Detroit City Code,
Advertising and Signs, relative to signs.

This amendment to Chapter 4 of the City Code provides the substantive provisions relative
de?nitions, procedures, and regulations for signs that are preposed to be removed from Chapter
50 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Zoning. as part of the text amendment, which is the subject of
the November 215?, 5:15 PM statutory public hearing. This discussion will be held
concurrently with the 5:15 public hearing.

Most signi?cantly, this Chapter 4 amendment:

0 would bring two major sign classi?cations?on-premises business signs and off-premises
advertising signs?into one chapter of the Detroit City Code outside of Zoning;

0 would newly allow the display of 60 advertising signs in the Central Business District
(CBD) subject to duration and dimensional limitations (35 super advertising signs, 25
local advertising signs);

I would establish unique standards for a newly created entertainment district within the


0 would subject advertising signs that are currently nonconforming to amortization and
required to compliance with Chapter 4 standards by the year 2030.

Other major features of the Chapter 4 amendment include the following:

I The permissibility and dimensional speci?cations for the several sign types will be based on
sign district classi?cations that build on the Master Plan?s future general land use
classi?cation for a speci?c property rather than on a zoning district or overlay classi?cation.
The sign districts and their underlying Master Plan designations are:

Low-density residential sign district includes land classi?ed for low-density
residential (RL) or lowimedium-density residential (RLM).

 Low-density commercial/institutional sign district includes land classi?ed for
mixed-town center (MTC), institutional (INST), thoroughfare commercial (CT),
retail center (CRC), or mixed residential-industrial (MRI).

:1 High-density residential/mixed use sign district includes land classi?ed for medium-
density residential (RM), high-density residential (RI-I), neighborhood conunercial
(ON), or mixed residential-commercial (MRC).

High-density commercial/industrial sign district includes land classi?ed for major
commercial (CM), special commercial (CS), light industrial (IL), general industrial
(IG), distribution/port industrial (IDP), or airport (AP) and the entire Central
Business District (CBD) regardless of Master Plan designation.

0 The ?purpose? statement for sign regulation is expanded to be more appropriate to the times
and the city?s size.

a Painted wall graphics will be generally favored over other wall signs.

0 Monument signs are generally favored over pole signs.Provisions related to obsolete,
vacant, neglected and abandoned signs are broadened and clearly stated.

0 Dynamic-"digital signage is speci?cally regulated in a comprehensive manner.
0 Portable signs in the right-of-way are newly permitted.

0 Landscaping will be required rather than allowing placement of a ground advertising sign
(billboard) on a vacant lot.

- Adjustments to sign speci?cations and limitations would be considered by the Director of
the Planning and Development Department rather than by the Board of Zoning Appeals.

0 Appeals of administrative determinations and rulings adverse to the applicant resulting from
public hearings would be heard by the Department of Administrative Hearings rather than
by the Board of Zoning Appeals; appeals ?'om parties other than the applicant would no
longer be considered.

0 Advertising signs outside of the Central Business District would newly be permitted in areas
where previously prohibited such as within the Grand Boulevard Overlay Area, along
Gateway Radial Thoroughfare overlay areas, and on land zoned R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6,
Bl, SD2, SD4, PC and PCA, in the Low-Density Commercial/Institutional sign
district and High-density residential/mixed use sign district where compliant with setback
and spacing speci?cations.

Comments for the public discussion are invited. You may present your views on this proposal
by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior
to the hearing, 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-
4336).

