MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE
2119 FIELD STREET
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
Monday, October 28, 2019
The Commons
7900 Mack Ave.
Detroit, MI 48214
5:30 PM
In attendance were:
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Adam Schloff (K8 Partners, LLC)
Elizabeth Masserang (PM Environmental)
Wally Gilbert (Church of the Messiah)
Mac Farr (Villages CDC)
M. Kimble (Genesis Hope)
Belinda Gilmore (Black Bottom Businesses)
Larry Durr (Field Street Block Club)
Jennine Spencer (Field Street Block Club)
Amy Senese (Charlevoix Villages Association, Field Street resident)
Toyia Watts (Charlevoix Villages Association)
Tristan Taylor (Charlevoix Villages Association)
Brian Silverstein (Charlevoix Villages Association, Fischer Street resident)
Michelle Lee (DBRA-CAC)
Daisy Jackson (Field Street Block Club)
Mr. Vosburg called the meeting to order at 5:41 PM.
Mr. Vosburg and Ms. Capler informed the hearing of the tax increment financing request per the Brownfield
Plan and provided an overview of the project. Mr. Schloff and Ms. Masserang provided details regarding
the redevelopment plan for the project location, the experience of the developer in the Islandview
neighborhood, the financial need of the project, the discussions between the developer and the Church of
the Messiah regarding the hiring of residents of the community to work on the project, the selection of a
property management company for the project (Villages Property Management) and the availability of
affordable residential units to be included in the project.

Question and Answer
The following are questions that were asked by those present at the public hearing and answered by Mr.
Vosburg, Ms. Kanalos, and Mr. Schloff:
Q: Does the developer plan to retain ownership of the property for the life of the Brownfield Plan?
A: (Mr. Schloff) Yes, the developer plans to maintain ownership of the property for the life of the brownfield
plan and sees this as a long-term investment in the neighborhood.

 Q: Has the developer retained ownership of the single-family home and duplexes that the developer
has purchased and renovated in the Islandview neighborhood over the last five years?
A; (Mr Schloff) Yes, the developer has maintained ownership of those properties in partnership with other
developers who are not involved in the project at 2119 Field Street.
Q: Why is this project different (pursuing tax incentives) from the other projects the developer
completed in the neighborhood?
A: (Mr. Schloff) This project is a larger project than the others that the developer has completed in the
neighborhood and has a need for the tax increment financing due to the conditions present at the property.
(Ms. Kanalos) The purpose of the brownfield program under Act 381 is to promote the rehabilitation of
existing structures with brownfield conditions present which is the case of this project.
Q: Where will the parking be located for the future residents of the property?
A: (Mr. Schloff) The parking for future residents will be located in the rear of the building and will be
accessible to the residents through the rear entrance of each residential unit.
Q: If the developer does decide to sell the property, will the new owner be required to keep the
affordable units at the same rental rate? Will be new owner receive the tax incentive(s)?
A: (Mr. Vosburg) The developer will enter into an agreement with the City of Detroit for the Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation Act tax abatement which will require the property to have twenty percent (20%) of
the residential units available at eighty percent (80%) of the Area Median Income (AMI) for the life of the
abatement, which in this case is anticipated to be twelve years. Should the developer sell the property, as
part of the sale it will be determined if the tax increment financing will be assigned to the new owner and
such assignment will be presented to the DBRA Board for review and approval.
Q: Is there a plan to have affordable units available for the project after the abatement has expired?
A: (Mr. Schloff) The availability of affordable units after the abatement has been expired has not yet been
determined.
Q: Is there a written agreement between the developer and the Church of Messiah regarding the
plans to hire residents from the community to work on the project?
A: (Mr. Schloff) There has not been a written agreement drafted or signed at this point, the developer has
been in discussions with the Church of the Messiah regarding the plans to hire residents from the
community to work on the project.
Q: Does the developer have any plans to meet with a broader group of neighbors in the
neighborhood or other block clubs regarding the project?
A: (Mr. Schloff) The developer has met with the Villages CDC, Five Alive, and the Church of the Messiah
regarding the project and would be willing to meet with other groups to discuss the project.
Q; Who determines the level of affordability required for projects receiving a tax abatement?
A: (Mr. Vosburg) Detroit City Council has set the affordability requirements for projects receiving tax
abatements, in this case the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act tax abatement, at twenty percent (20%)
of the residential units available at eighty percent (80%) of the Area Median Income (AMI) for the life of the
abatement and that AMI is a federal standard and is a common measurement used to determine levels of
affordability and that the ‘area’ of the AMI for Detroit is the Detroit-Livonia-Warren metropolitan area.

 Formal Public Comment
Ms. Lee stated that she believes the public hearing has been helpful in providing information and an
understanding to the community regarding the project and tax increment financing. Ms. Lee also stated that
she would like to see a Memorandum of Understanding between the developer and the Church of the
Messiah regarding the hiring of local residents for the project.
Ms. Jackson stated that there have been multiple contractors in the neighborhood fixing up homes and
some have caused damage to her property and neighboring properties during the renovation process.
Mr. Gilbert stated that he supports the project and would like to see the vacant building renovated into
residential units and would like to see equitable development in the neighborhood.
Mr. Taylor stated that he would like to see a legal contract with the community, he supports the jobs on the
project for residents of the community but would like to see a Memorandum of Understanding between the
developer and the Church of the Messiah regarding the plan for hiring residents, and he does not support
the project until those agreements are in place. Mr. Taylor also stated that he would like to see the affordable
units for the project available at 30-60% of the AMI as opposed to the planned 80% of the AMI and he
would like to see more tangible benefits for the community.
Mr. Durr stated that he supports the project and is happy to see plans for the long-vacant building to be
renovated and he would like to see more families moving into the area.
Ms. Spencer stated that that she would like to see a written agreement with the Church of the Messiah
regarding the hiring of local residents for the project, she would like to see at least two of the residential
units available for low to moderate income levels, and that she would like the information regarding the
public hearing for the Brownfield Plan distributed in a different way in order to reach a broader set of
residents.
Mr. Silverstein stated that many developers have abandoned projects after receiving tax incentives and
have not fulfilled their promises to the community and that he would like to see a community benefits
agreement between the developer and the Islandview neighborhood residents and he does not support the
project.
Ms. Watson stated that she is a member of the Charlevoix Villages Association and there have been homes
purchased by developers in the Islandview neighborhood and the developer then leaves the neighborhood
and does not provide a benefit to the current residents and that there may be some residents that would
like to return to the neighborhood and the neighborhood needs schools and libraries.
Marcia stated that there have been homes that have burned in the neighborhood after being purchased
and then left as a hazard to the neighboring homes and the community and that she believes that
developers doing projects in the neighborhood should be giving back to the community.
Mr. Farr stated that in light of recent experiences with other projects the Villages CDC has revised its
process of engagement with developers regarding their projects and support from the Villages CDC and
that Villages CDC works with the Five Alive program through the Church of the Messiah and the Villages
CDC Board approved a support letter for the 2119 Field Street project. Mr. Farr also stated that there isn’t
a single, central community organization in the neighborhood which makes it challenging for a developer
to perform community engagement and that the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation does a good job
distributing notices for public hearings for brownfield plans.

 Ms. Senese stated that she will not support the project until there is a signed agreement between the
developer and the Church of the Messiah and a contract between the developer and the community.

Paper copies of the Brownfield Plan, renderings for the project, and the attached handout were provided.
A slideshow with a map of the project location, images of the property in its current state, and renderings
for the project was shown.
Three people indicated their support for the project and four people indicated their opposition to the project
on the sign-in sheet.
Mr. Vosburg closed the public hearing at 6:55 PM.

 