Illinois Lottery Control Board Special Meeting
Open Meeting Minutes
October 09, 2019
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603

Board Members in attendance:
• Elba Aranda-Suh
• Sarah Alter
• Tarrah Cooper Wright
Lottery Staff in Attendance:
• Harold Mays, Acting Director
• Cornell Wilson, General Counsel
• Jessica White, Deputy General Counsel
• Scott Gillard, Chief of Staff
• Jason Schaumburg, Communications Director
• Nora Iniguez, Lottery Control Board Secretary
Camelot Staff in Attendance:
• Sandi Raphael, Senior Counsel
Other Attendees:
• Kathy Gilroy, member of the public
• Paul Haberstad, member of the public
Call to Order
The Lottery Control Board Chairman, James Floyd, was not in attendance and meeting was conducted by Jessica White,
Deputy General Counsel. The meeting was called to order at 3:00pm with above members in attendance and a quorum
was met. All others in attendance stated their names for the record.
Public Comment
None
Vote on Proposed Bylaw Changes
Jessica White went over Bylaws with each proposed change individually. Motions to vote for approval of all Bylaw
changes were passed by all board members in attendance. Bylaws with proposed changes can be viewed at the Illinois
Lottery Website under Lottery Control Board.
Discussion Regarding LCB Committees
Jessica White opened the meeting for discussion on what areas of business the board members would like to have more
involvement and could give input. Each member gave her suggestions:
1. Tarrah Cooper Wright- communication/marketing, community outreach committee
2. Elba Aranda-Suh-marketing outreach & advertising, reports to state legislator, private manager
3. Sarah Alter-private manager partner and technology
Elba Aranda-Suh stated that there was no direction in the Bylaws regarding the composition of a committee. Jessica
White stated that right now the Lottery is requesting ideas. Sarah Alter gave a suggestion on having outside individuals

 Illinois Lottery Control Board Special Meeting
Open Meeting Minutes
October 09, 2019
122 S. Michigan Ave., 19th Floor
Chicago, IL 60603

that can come in and give expert advice and guidance with at least one board member heading the committee. Elba
Aranda-Suh reminded that the committees would have to abide by the Open Meeting Act. Harold Mays, Acting Director,
stated that the Bylaws do not give any direction on how the committees should be formed. Cornell Wilson stated that
Bylaws would have to be amended and state which committees would be formed. The director also brought up the time
allocation and timing on the participation of the board members. Board member Tarrah Cooper Wright suggested that
it should be left up to the board chair of each committee.
Cornell Wilson addressed the board members to confirm which committees they would like formed. He listed them as
following:
1. Communications/marketing outreach
2. Legislative
3. Finance
4. Technology
5. Governance
6. Audit
Acting Director Mays stated that the Lottery has information on all these areas of interest and that board members are
free to request. This information can be set up with a share point site. Elba Aranda-Suh also stated that the board
members can also request for information that the Lottery has not been able to receive as quickly.
Director’s Comments
Harold Mays, Acting Director, said that the Lottery will do everything they can to mature the relationship with the board
members. He asked board members to think about meeting more than just quarterly. Cornell Wilson added that the
Lottery will provide descriptions and structure on formation and membership of the committees and it will be emailed
to the board members, so they can vote on them.
Adjournment
With business concluded, Jessica White moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was seconded by Elba Aranda-Suh
and unanimously carried. Meeting was adjourned at 3:40pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Nora Iniguez, LCB secretarty

 