STAFF REPORT: 11-13-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6534
ADDRESS: 1554-1558 HUBBARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT: HUBBARD FARMS
APPLICANT: ROBERT HOCHSTADT
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 10-16-2019
DATE OF STAFF SITE VISIT: 11/7/2019

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS

SCOPE: INSTALL SOLAR PANELS AT ROOFTOP
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The building located at 1554-1558 Hubbard is a two-story, duplex that was erected ca. 1910. The resource
is rectangular in plan and is clad with brick. The primary roof is hipped and is topped with a hipped-roof
dormer. Asphalt shingles cover the roof. Windows are double-hung, leaded-glass, wood-sash units. A
partial-width, flat-roof entry porch with Ionic wood columns/supports and masonry stoop shelters the
home’s primary entrance.

PROPOSAL
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to install solar panels at the

 building’s roof. Specifically, as per the attached, the applicant proposes to undertake the following work
items:
Solar Array
• Install a seventeen-panel, 22’-1”x x17’-4” x 47’-9” x 18’-9” array and associated flush-mounted
rail system, at the south-facing roof surface
Solar Edge Inverter
• Install equipment/solar edge inverter near the utility meter at the rear of the house (specific location
is unclear/photos of specific location has not been submitted)
STAFF OBSERVATIONS AND RESEARCH
• The solar array will be visible from the public right-of-way
• As per HDC resolution, HDC staff has the authority to approve new solar panel installations under
the condition that the y are not visible from the public right-of-way. Staff forwarded this
application to the HDC for review because the solar array will be visible from the public right-ofway
• The application outlines the presence of two solar panel installations in the neighborhood (1551
Hubbard and 1520 Hubbard). The installation at 1551 Hubbard was approved by HDC staff on 101-2019 because the installation would not be visible from the public right-of-way. A review of the
project files for 1520 Hubbard revealed that the Commission did not issue an approval for the
installation of solar panels at 1520 Hubbard
• The Commission recently approved two applications for solar panel installations which are visible
from the public right-of-way for the following reasons:
o 4444 Second (Warren Prentis) - The building is industrial in nature, the prevailing character
of the immediate environment is commercial in nature, and the panels were compatible
with the diverse physical appearance of the adjacent architectural resources. The panels
were minimally-visible from the right-of-way as they were pushed back 7’-0” from the roof
edge, behind a 3’ -0” -high parapet. Finally, a solar panel array which was installed at the
building roof in 2010 (also visible from the public right-of-way) established a precedent for
solar panels at the building.
o 479 Prentis (Warren Prentis) – The building is located in a residential neighborhood,
however, the array was set back 14’-9” from the house’s front face, behind a chimney. The
applicant’s initial submittal did propose to install the array directly north of the chimney, in
a location which would be highly visible from the public right-of-way. However, after
discussion with HDC staff, the applicant repositioned the array to a less-visible location,
behind the chimney/14’-9” from the house’s front face. Also, the adjacent 4-story apartment
building served to further minimize the visibility of the western roof slope and the proposed
array. Staff therefore felt that that the installation would be minimally
visible/inconspicuous and would not detract from the building’s or districts historic
character.
• It is staff’s opinion that the solar array will be visible from the public right-of-way. See the
National Park Service Bulletin entitled “Interpreting the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for
Rehabilitation, # 52 Subject: Incorporating Solar Panels in a Rehabilitation Project”:
https://www.nps.gov/tps/standards/applying-rehabilitation/its-bulletins/ITS52-SolarPanels.pdf

 This bulletin notes that “properties with a hipped or gabled roof are generally not good candidates
for a rooftop solar installation. Solar panels on historic buildings should not be visible from the
public right of way such as nearby streets, sidewalks or other public spaces.” However, the below
National Park Service publication entitled “Illustrated Guidelines on Sustainability for
Rehabilitating Historic Buildings” does cite two examples of solar installations that are “…visible
but not conspicuous…” and thus meet the standards:
https://www.nps.gov/tps/sustainability/new-technology/solar-on-historic.htm
•

Finally See the below link to the National Park Service publication entitled “Illustrated
Guidelines on Sustainability for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings” which outlines the
“Recommended” and “Not Recommended” treatment re: the installation of new solar panel
equipment at the exterior of historic buildings
https://www.nps.gov/tps/standards/rehabilitation/guidelines/solar-technology.htm

ISSUES
• It is staff’s opinion that the proposed seventeen-panel array will be conspicuous/visible from the
public right-of-way and is not appropriate within the building’s residential context/general environs
• When staff received the initial proposal, staff did counsel the applicant to seek an alternative
location which might minimize the array’s appearance. It is unclear if the applicant undertook such
analysis and exhausted all other options
RECOMMENDATIONS
As noted above, it is staff’s opinion that the proposed solar array will be conspicuously/visible from the
public right-of-way and is not appropriate within the building’s residential context/general environs. Staff
therefore recommends that the Commission deny the issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness (COA)
for this project because the work does not meet the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation,
standard # (2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of
historic materials or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided and
standard # (10) New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be undertaken in such a
manner that if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic property and its
environment would be unimpaired.

    #5- 1554 Hubbard
All Sides of Property Photos
Solar Panels

Solar Panel Array

 It appears Solar has already been approved in the District.

Solar Installation?
1554-58 Hubbard

1550 Hubbard

1551 Hubbard

 Examples of Black-Framed-on-Black-Backed
Solar Panels on Black Racking Mounting
System’

 Description of Existing Conditions
A two story Asphalt Shingle Roof on the home that faces
Southwest, with the optimal placement for collecting sunlight and energy
efficiency are the Southeast facing surfaces that are not visible from the
right of way.

 REPORT

Description of Project/ Scope of Work
●

Installation of Solar Panels for Green Alternative Energy source.

●

Work to include

●

Mounting of Flush Mounted Black Painted Rail System for Solar Panels
(IronRidge)

●

SolarEdge rail mounted Optimizers

●

(8) 310W Black Framed and Black Backing Tier 1 Solar Modules

●

Conduit connections

●

SolarEdge Inverter Mounted Near the utility meter at the rear of the house

●

AC Disconnect

●

System monitoring including mapping solar panels and app set up for owners.

●

Ensuring that the system is NEC compliant.

 Solar Panel Installation

 Materials Spec Sheets
Inverter
Optimizers
Solar Modules
Flush Mount Racking System

       