 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

COMMITTEE ON STANDARDS AND TESTS

February 21st, 2017

Attn: Matt Kelly
Earles Architects and Associates
Suite 100, 566 West Lake Street
Chicago, Illinois 60661
Re: Committee on Standards and Tests
Issue: The Use of Fire Shutters to provide enclosure for a convenience stair at 320 North Elizabeth
Street (A Heavy Timber Building).
Case: 
Dear Matt Kelly,

In response to your, August 17th, 2016 presentation to the Committee on Building Standards Tests, the
Committee has voted to approve your request for the use of Fire Shutters to enclose the convenience stair at 320
North Elizabeth Street. This approval is subject to the following requirements:

I.

10.

11.

At the 2nd ?oor level - The existing ?Cookson? 2 hour ?re rated ?re shutters and sprinkler water curtain
system (with sprinklers at O.C.) will be maintained.

3 new ?Cookson? ?re shutters will be installed at the ?rst ?oor as presented on Sheet 

All of the ?Cookson? ?re shutters will be provided with the ?Firefly? release device tied into the ?re
alarm panel which will initiate the closing of the ?re shutter upon water ?ow in the sprinkler system or
any alarm condition.

The ?re shutters will also be equipped with fusible links to initiate closure.

The shutters shall be drop tested a minimum of 2 times per year.

A one hour ?re rated in?ll gypsum board partition will be provided above the ?re shutters to provide a
full enclosure of the stair.

3 additional hard wired system smoke detectors will be provided at each level in proximity to the ?re
shutters.

Additional hard wired smoke detector will be provided over the stairs.

A ?Trudoor? 90 minute ?re rated self-closing man door assembly will be provided at the ?rst ?oor to
prevent entrapment. This door will normally be in an open position on a magnetic hold open but will
close upon water ?ow or any alarm condition from the ?re alarm panel.

Permanent and legible signage will be provided at the columns on both ?oor levels stating: DO NOT
BLOCK THE OVERHEAD FIRE The ?oor material under the ?re shutters shall be a
different material to help visually clarify the area where the ?re shutters will close.

The existing ?re alarm panel currently located in the exit stair will be re-located to the main entry
lobby. 

121 NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60602

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

COMMITTEE ON STANDARDS AND TESTS

February 21?, 2017

Attn: Matt Meyer
Hill Fire Protection
11045 Gage Avenue
Franklin Park, Illinois 60131

Re: Committee on Standards and Tests

Issue: The Use of Flexible Sprinkler Heads as Manufactured by ?Vitualic? at the Apple Store
401 North Michigan Avenue.

Case: 

Dear Mr. Meyer,

In response to your, February 2017 presentation to the Committee on Building Standards Tests,
the Committee has voted to approve your request as presented, for the use of ?Vitualic? flexible head
sprinklers for the Apple Store under construction at 401 North Michigan Avenue.

This approval is subject to the following requirements:

1. These sprinkler heads shall be installed and maintained in conformance with the
manufacturer?s product listing and installation requirements.

All other Building Code requirements shall be met. This installation is site speci?c and shall not be
viewed as a precedent. A permit is required for this work.A signed hard paper copy of this
communication will be mailed to you at a later date. Please contact your project administrator for
further assistance.

Very truly yours,

Robert 

Manager of Regulatory Review

Chair of the Committee of Standards and Tests
For Judith 



121 NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906 CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

All other Building Code requirements shall be met. This installation is site speci?c and shall not be
viewed as a precedent. A permit is required for the installation of the glass. Please contact your
project administrator for further assistance.

A copy of this letter shall be scanned to the cover sheet of plans which will be submitted to the Department of
Buildings for the in?ll glass enclosure around the convenience stair.

Vet truly rut'st

i 
Robert 

Manager of Regulatory Review

Chair of the Committee of Standards and Tests
For Judith Commissioner

12] NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

