 (if, a; 1/ f6; 51/
A51. 

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

 

 

Submitted by Council
Member Castaneda-Lopez Cw
11/7/2019

 

[2.9

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL



 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED



1?

In Memoriam

Freddie B. Yelder

July 15, 1934 November 1, 2019

Freddie B. Yelder was born on July 15, 1934 in Mosses, Alabama. She moved to Detroit, Michigl?li?i early
in her adult life and established herself at the First Union Baptist Church in the 50?s, Mt. Calvary
Missionary Baptist Church in the 60?s and joined Sharon Missionary Baptist Church in 1976; and

Mrs. Yelder was an active and dedicated member of Sharon Missionary Baptist church for forty-three
years. She held numerous positions within the church including: Church President; Board of Trustee
President; Kitchen Committee President; Soup Kitchen Manager; and, Supervisor: ?Meet Up Eat Up
Children Lunch Program?, ?mded by the State of Michigan; and

Mrs. Yelder initiated the organizing of a church mission in the basement of the church with family and
friends. Two years later, the mission decided to purchase the permanent structure of the current Sharon
Missionary Baptist Church. She was a savvy negotiator. One of her proudest church accomplishments was
when she successfully negotiated favorable purchase conditions and reduced the selling price with the
original church owner and title holder/lender. Still active to the end, she wanted to implement a fundraiser
with her family and church members to renovate the men and women?s bathrooms. In her honor, the
program will still take place at a future date; and

Mrs. Yelder loved her community. She was a past business owner of Yelder?s Party Store that assisted
the community. She provided credit, fed the needy and gave free supplies when there was a genuine
community need. She and her decreased husband opened their three bedroom home and or real estate
properties at no cost or low cost'to hundreds of southern relatives coming to Detroit seeking a better life.
Always taking care of others, she was a caregiver to her disabled brother until his death; and

Mrs. Yelder was a civil rights activist and active community member. She attended numerous community
meetings and was not afraid to ask political ?gures for assistance for her church and community; and

Freddie B. Yelder made her transition on November 1, 2019. She was a widower and the mother of four.
Two infants and one adult child preceded her in death. Mrs. Yelder was the Matriarch of the Yelder/
Bain/Patton Family. She leaves to celebrate her life and works a host of grandchildren, great-
grandchildren, nephews, nieces, family, friends, Sharon Missionary Baptist Church and her community.
THEREFORE BE IT

Council Member Raquel Castaneda?Lopez and the entire Detroit City Council extend our sincere
sympathy to the family, friends and community of the late Freddie B. Yelder. We give tribute to a
woman who did not let the trials of life turn her but let her faith in God order her steps. Thank you
Freddie B. Yelder for your commitment to the city of Detroit. We commemorate your life on this day,
November 9, 2019, Rest in Heavenly Peace.

 

4? X1.- A. (96C 7



COUNCIL ,fight. 

at can?? 
Novemb 2019

DATE

 

 

 

Submitted by Council
Member Casta?eda-L?pezC
11/7/2019

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 

 

 

Christ Cathedral Baptist Church

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

HI

 

n- EN 


r- cr.



on, MEMBER 

.r 
co v: - 1

November

Twenty-Fifth Anniversary

Christ Cathedral Baptist Church will celebrate 25 years of service to God and the community on Novemll'ei~
8, 2019. The church was established by Concerned Members of New Light Baptist Church looking to move in a
different direction. In March of 1994, the Concerned Members voted to change direction and incorporate as
Christ Memorial Baptist Church; and

In January 1996, Christ Memorial moved to 10731 W. McNichols. On May 26, 1996, the Reverend Alfred
M. Nicholson was installed as the ?rst pastor of Christ Memorial Baptist Church. After great study and
meditation, Rev. Nicholson appointed a committee to research the name of the church. He based the discussion
and research on serving a living God not a memory. On November 23, 1996, the church met and voted to change
the of?cial name of the church to Christ Cathedral Baptist Church; and

The church named changed and an active search was conducted for a new location. On January 5,1997 Pastor
Nicholson led the Christ Cathedral Baptist Church congregation into its permanent home at 6115 Hartford
Ave, DetrOIt Michigan 48210; and . .-

God Opened the windows of heaven and showered the church with abundant blessings. Under Pastor
Nicholson?s leadership the church and ministries ?ourished. The church became engage in a Community Meal
Program; Substance Abuse Awareness Ministry; newly remodeled Fellowship Hall; additional staff; new sound
system; new Hammond Organ; and several new and vital Ministries. The church was able to burn the mortgage
on 6115 Hartford in March of 2005 after just eight years. Even Pastor Nicholson?s military service was a
blessing and an opportunity to minister to those that served in the Armed Services. It was his extensive military
service that lead Reverend Alfred M. Nicholson to resign his post at Christ Cathedral rather than subject the
church to another extended absence; and

On November 15, 2009, Reverend George R. Williams, Jr. accepted the call to be the pastor at Christ
Cathedral Baptist Church. Rev. Williams preached his ?rst sermon as pastor on November 22, 2009 and was
installed as the second pastor of Christ Cathedral Baptist Church on January 17, 2010; and

A love affair between the pastor and congregation began. ?Each One, Reach One? was adopted as the church
slogan and membership has more than doubled. A Women?s Ministry and Couples Ministry was implemented.
Community Friends and Friendship Ministry was expanded to include food distribution. The Nehemiah
Project was initiated to make major improvements to the church and the congregation continues to grow. NOW
THEREFORE BE IT

Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez and her colleagues on the Detroit City Council congratulates
Christ Cathedral Baptist Church, Reverend George R. Williams, Jr., of?cers and members on 25 years of
service to God and the community. May God continue to bless your Ministry with Purpose, Faith without
Fear.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

