 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

COMMITTEE ON STANDARDS AND TESTS
June 21st, 2017

Attn: Jeremy Franklin
Perkins and Will
Suite 1600 ?the 'Wrigley building
410 north Michigan Avenue
Chicago, Illinois 60611

Re: Committee on Standards and Tests

Issue: Extension of an existing 3 story convenience stair from the 43rd to the 42nd floor at One
North Wacker Drive.

Case: 

Dear Jeremy Franklin,

In response to your, June 215?, 2017 presentation to the Committee on Building Standards Tests, the
Committee has voted to approve your request (as presented) to extend the existing 3 story
convenience stair which currently runs from the 45m ?oor down to the 43rd ?oor at One North Wacker
Drive in the of?ces of Barnes and Thornburg. With this permission, the convenience stair may be
extended down from the 43rd ?oor to the 42nd floor.

This approval is subject to the following conditions:

1. All side swinging egress doors which serve the convenience stair shall have self?closing
devices.

2. The activation and closing of the overhead ?re shutters located at the 42?, 43 and 44th floor
will be initiated by the following:
Water ?ow or other ?re alarm signal originating from ?oors 41 through 46.
Hardwired smoke detectors located on each side of the ?re shutter at a maximum distance

of from the shutter. The smoke detectors shall be connected to the ?re alarm
system.
Fusible Link.

3. The gate to prevent access from the 44?] to the 45th ?oor shall be located at the midpoint of
the intermediate stair landing located between the 44th floor and the 45?1 ?oor and shall swing
in the direction of egress and swing to the open position against the backside of the
intermediate stair landing. The gate shall be equipped with store room hardware and may
latch but shall not be lockable.

12] NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60602

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

4. As presented, the convenience stair at the 45m ?oor will be enclosed on all sides with 2 hour
?re rated partitions running tight and ?re stopped to the structural deck above.

5. The architect shall consider whether switched lighting is required to illuminate the portion of
the stair and stair enclosure above the intermediate landing between the 44th and 45th ?oor.

6. Permanent warning signage shall be provided on all ?oor levels with ?re shutters stating ?Do
Not Block or Obstruct the Overhead Fire Shutter?

7. Visual warning lights and an audible signal shall be provided for the ?re shutters when the
?re shutters are activated and begin to close.

8. As presented, the existing steel stud and gypsum board partitions, ?re shutters, and side
swinging doors currently protecting the convenience stair shall be inspected, evaluated for
conformance with the Chicago Municipal Code and repaired or replaced as required to fully
meet all Code requirements.

All other Building Code requirements shall be met. This installation is site speci?c and shall not be
viewed as a precedent. A permit is required for this work. A signed hard paper copy of this
communication will be mailed to you at a later date. Please contact your project administrator for
further assistance.

Very truly yours,

Robert 

Manager of Regulatory Review
Chair of the Committee of Standards and Tests
For Judith Commissioner

12] NORTH LASALLE. ROOM 906. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

