STAFF REPORT: 11-13-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6503
ADDRESS: 15343 WARWICK
HISTORIC DISTRICT: ROSEDALE PARK
APPLICANT: JIM HALL, JAY-BILT CONSTRUCTION
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 10/30/2019
DATE OF STAFF SITE VISIT: 10/29/2019

PREPARED BY: A. DYE

SCOPE: DEMOLISH EXISTING GARAGE, ERECT NEW GARAGE, TREE REMOVAL
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The two-story English Revival-style house at 15343 Warwick was erected in 1936. Wood siding within the
top of each gable gives visual relief to the predominately brick-faced house. The asymmetrical design,
wood front door with offset window and stone surround, and adjacent leaded glass windows are hallmark
features of this architectural style. The house fills the majority of the lot, causing the driveway to narrow as
it goes by the house.

HDC STAFF VISIT 10/29/19

 PROPOSAL
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval for the following work
items:
DEMOLISH EXISTING GARAGE
• Demolish the existing 20’ x 20’ garage.
• Applicant notes the front left corner has dropped 2.5” and the rear left corner is being lifted by an
old tree, causing the entire garage to lean to the right towards the neighbor’s garage.
• Applicant states much of the wood is rotted.
ERECT NEW GARAGE
• A 20’x20’ garage will be constructed in the same location as the existing garage. New concrete
floor and foundation will be poured.
• The roof will have a reverse gable, identical to the existing garage as well as the house.
• A single overhead door will be installed, similar to existing - Safe-Way Garage Doors; design and
color not specified
• Materials: Roof - Asphalt dimensional shingles, Onyx Black; Siding – Vinyl, Mastic, Ovation
panel (specific style not specified), Clay color.
• Exterior lighting not specified.
STAFF OBSERVATIONS & RESEARCH
• The existing garage’s design, while not displaying architectural detail similar to the house, does
have some character-defining features for the property. The exaggerated overhang and shed roof
extending from the gable roof is supported by unadorned angled wood supports. Coupled with
mulled windows that create a strong horizontal line, the garage is a straightforward style which
evokes a feeling of suburban/countryside vernacular architecture that gained popularity in the 1940s
and 1950s.
• The garage is visibly leaning to the right.
• The wood siding on the front of the house is a much lighter brown than the rear house siding and
existing garage.
ISSUES
• The applicant mentions adjacent trees being the cause for some of the garage’s structural issues, but
doesn’t say if the trees will be removed. Staff noted trees near the front left corner of the existing
garage; they are not impactful to the historical nature of the property.
• The new garage, being of similar (but more simplified) design, size, and placement to the existing
garage, will not visually conflict with the house. As the garage is partially hidden behind the house
and has a reverse gable, the dominant feature on the front elevation is the overhead door.
• Vinyl siding is not an appropriate material for new construction as it is does not match the wood
siding (on the existing garage and house) in design, color, texture and width. Fiber cement siding
offers suitable plank widths and the flexibility for paint colors that can match the painted wood
siding on the house.
• During the staff visit the bricked-in rear porch was identified. Google maps shows it enclosed as
early as October 2007. As this was only a few months after Rosedale Park’s historic designation
(February 2007), staff concludes this enclosure was completed prior to district designation.

 HDC STAFF VISIT 10/29/19

RECOMMENDATION
1. Demolish existing garage
It is staff’s opinion the existing garage, due to its visible leaning, is significantly deteriorated. Its
demolition will result in the removal of historic materials or the alteration of features and spaces that
characterize the property. Therefore, staff recommends the Commission issue a Notice-to-Proceed for the
garage demolition based on:
Condition #1) The resource constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public or the occupants.
2. Erect new garage
It is staff’s opinion the design of the new garage is compatible with the massing, size, scale and placement
of the existing garage and retains the historic character of the property. Therefore, staff recommends the
Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for the construction as the scope of work meets the
Secretary of the Interior Standards for Rehabilitation, Standards:
#2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic
materials or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
#9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic
materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and
shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
However staff recommends the Commission issue the COA with the following conditions:
The exterior siding will be wood or fiber-cement board and will match the width of the house
siding. A paint color from Color System D (for English Revival style buildings) will be selected.
• If trees are to be removed, a site plan marking the trees, along with photographs identifying them,
will be created.
• The applicant will select the door panel and color. Should windows be selected, they shall have
solid glass, or a rectangular muntin pattern.
• If exterior lighting is planned, a catalog cut that confirms the design, dimension, material and color
and wattage will be selected.
The above information will be submitted for staff review.
•

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

09557 0.95.97 7595157
5.91997 6959/ ?989Ham 
5?9} 0959f #5357 I m.

I Wire







53d3 Warv lick Street

HI

.1

'1

     

Piedmont 51

?fl . . IV


I

ESQS :mC/ ODE

.

I: .

 

.

$9.5 x2352, mammr

 

 

 

 

"x APPLICANT PHOTO

 

 

APPLICANT PHOTOS

 

 

 

m.
.n










 

APPLICANT PHOTOS

1 1 

 

.J

 

Sec. 21-2-199. - Rosedale Park Historic District.
(a)

An historic district to be known as the Rosedale Park Historic District is established in accordance with the
provisions of this article.

(b)

This historic district designation is certified as being consistent with the Detroit Master Plan of Policies.

(c)

The boundaries of the Rosedale Park Historic District, as shown on the map on file in the Office of the City
Clerk, are as follows:

Beginning at a point, that point being the intersection of the west line of the right-of-way of the west service drive of
the Southfield Freeway with the center line of Lyndon Avenue; thence west along the center line of Lyndon Avenue to its
intersection with the center line of Westwood Avenue; thence north along said center line of Westwood Avenue to its
intersection with the south boundary of Rosedale Park No. 4 Subdivision (L43 P76 Plats, WCR); thence west along the
south boundary of Rosedale Park No. 4 Subdivision to its intersection with the center line of Auburn Avenue; thence
north along the center line of Auburn Avenue to its intersection with the center line of West Outer Drive; thence west
along the center line of West Outer Drive to its intersection with the center line of Evergreen Road; thence north along
the center line of Evergreen Road to its intersection with the center line of Fenkell Avenue; thence east along the center
line of Fenkell Avenue to its intersection with a line lying 110 feet east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue;
thence northerly along the line 110 feet east of the east line of Minock Avenue to its intersection with the northerly line
of Lot 62 of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR); thence westerly along the north line of Lot 62 to its
intersection with a line lying 108 feet east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue; thence northerly along the
line 108 feet east of the east line of Minock Avenue to its intersection with the northerly line of Lot 61 of Edward J.
Minock's Subdivision; thence westerly along the northerly line of Lot 61 to its intersection with a line lying 100 feet east of
and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue; thence northerly along the line 100 feet east of the east line of Minock
Avenue to its intersection with the northerly line of Lot 59 of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision; thence easterly along the
northerly line of Lot 59 to its intersection with a line lying 115 feet east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue;
thence northerly along the line 115 feet east of the east line of Minock Avenue to its intersection with the northerly line
of Lot 58 of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision; thence westerly along the northerly line of Lot 58 to its intersection with a
line lying 100 feet east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue; thence northerly along the line 100 feet east of
the east line of Minock Avenue to its intersection with the northerly line of Lot 57 of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision;
thence easterly along the northerly line of Lot 57 to its intersection with a line lying 110 feet east of and parallel to the
east line of Minock Avenue; thence northerly along the line 110 feet east of the east line of Minock Avenue to its
intersection with a line 88 feet north of and parallel to the southerly line of Lot 55 of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision;
thence westerly along the line 88 feet north of and parallel to the southerly line of Lot 55 to its intersection with a line
lying 100 feet east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue; thence northerly along the line 100 feet east of the
east line of Minock Avenue to its intersection with a line lying 82 feet north of and parallel to the southerly line of Lot 52
of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision; thence easterly along the line lying 82 feet north of and parallel to the southerly line of
Lot 52 to its intersection with a line lying 101 feet east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue; thence northerly
along the line lying 101 feet east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue to its intersection with the northerly
line of Lot 52 of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision; thence easterly along the northerly line of Lot 52 to its intersection with a
line lying 114 feet east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue; thence northerly along the line lying 114 feet
east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue to its intersection with the northerly line of Lot 51 of Edward J.
Minock's Subdivision; thence westerly along the northerly line of Lot 51 of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision to a line lying
100 feet east of and parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue; thence northerly along the line lying 100 feet east of and
parallel to the east line of Minock Avenue to its intersection with the northerly line, extended southeasterly, of the
triangular Lot 48 of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision; thence southeasterly along the northerly line of Lot 48, as extended,
to its intersection with the center line of West Outer Drive; thence northerly along the center line of West Outer Drive to

 its intersection with the center line, extended northwesterly, of the alley lying 100 feet southwest of, and parallel to,
Grand River Avenue; thence southeasterly along the center line of said alley to its intersection with the east line,
extended north and south, of Lot 1507 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1, (L37 P73 Plats, WCR); thence northerly along
the eastern line of Lot 1507 as extended to its intersection with the center line of Grand River Avenue; thence
southeasterly along the center line of Grand River Avenue to its intersection with the westerly line, extended northerly
and southerly, of Lot 1444 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Lot 1444
to its intersection with the center line of the alley southwest of Grand River Avenue running northwest-southeast; thence
southeast along the center line of said alley to its intersection with the east line, extended north and south, of Lot 1435 of
Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1; thence northerly along the eastern line of Lot 1435 as extended to its intersection with
the center line of Grand River Avenue; thence southeasterly along the center line of Grand River Avenue to its
intersection with the westerly line, extended northerly and southerly, of Lot 1383 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1;
thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Lot 1383 as extended to its intersection with the center line of the alley
southwest of Grand River Avenue running northwest-southeast; thence southeast along the center line of said alley to its
intersection with the east line, extended north and south, of Lot 1374 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1; thence
northerly along the east line of Lot 1374 as extended to its intersection with the center line of Grand River Avenue;
thence southeasterly along the center line of Grand River Avenue to its intersection with the westerly line, extended
northerly and southerly, of Lot 1332 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1; thence southerly along the westerly line of Lot
1332 as extended to its intersection with the center line of the alley southwest of Grand River Avenue running northwestsoutheast; thence southeast along the center line of said alley to its intersection with the east line, extended north and
south, of Lot 1323 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1; thence northerly along the east line of Lot 1323 as extended to its
intersection with the center line of Grand River Avenue; thence southeasterly along the center line of Grand River Avenue
to its intersection with the westerly line, extended northerly and southerly, of Lot 1280 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No.
1; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Lot 1280 as extended to its intersection with the center line of the
alley southwest of Grand River Avenue running northwest-southeast; thence southeast along the center line of said alley
to its intersection with the east line, extended north and south, of Lot 1271 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1; thence
northerly along the east line of Lot 1271 as extended to its intersection with the center line of Grand River Avenue;
thence southeasterly along the center line of Grand River Avenue to its intersection with the westerly line, extended
northerly and southerly, of Lot 1235 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of
Lot 1235 as extended to its intersection with the center line of the alley southwest of Grand River Avenue running
northwest-southeast; thence southeast along the center line of said alley to its intersection with the east line, extended
north and south, of Lot 1226 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1; thence northerly along the east line of Lot 1226 as
extended to its intersection with the center line of Grand River Avenue; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Grand River Avenue to its intersection with the westerly line, extended northerly and southerly, of Lot 1202 of Rosedale
Park Subdivision No. 1; thence southerly along the westerly boundary of Lot 1202 as extended to its intersection with the
center line of the alley southwest of Grand River Avenue running northwest-southeast; thence southeast along the center
line of said alley to its intersection with the east boundary of the Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1; thence south along the
eastern boundary of the Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1 to its intersection with the center line of Fenkell Avenue; thence
east along the center line of Fenkell Avenue to its intersection with the center line of Grand River Avenue, thence
southeast along the center line of Grand River Avenue to its intersection with the west line of the right-of-way of the west
service drive of the Southfield Freeway; thence south along the west line of the west service drive of the Southfield
Freeway to the point of beginning.
Legal Description: Lots 57-1197 of Rosedale Park Subdivision (L37 P74 Plats, WCR); Lots 1203-1225, Lots 1236-1270,
Lots 1281-1322, Lots 1333-1373, Lots 1384-1434, Lots 1445-1506, and Lots 1518-1554 of Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 1
(L37 P73 Plats, WCR); Lots 2596-2781 of Rosedale Park No. 4 Subdivision (L43 P76 Plats, WCR); and Lot 62, except the west

 110 feet thereof and except Outer Drive as widened of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR); Lot 61 except
the west 108 feet and except Outer Drive as widened of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR); Lots 59 and
60 except the west 100 feet and except Outer Drive as widened of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR);
Lot 58 except the west 115 feet and except Outer Drive as widened of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats,
WCR); Lot 57 except the west 100 feet and except Outer Drive as widened of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94
Plats, WCR); the east 94 feet of Lot 56, except Outer Drive as widened, of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats,
WCR); the south 88 feet of Lot 55, except the west 110 feet and except Outer Drive as widened, of Edward J. Minock's
Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR); the north 44 feet of Lot 55 except the west 100 feet and except Outer Drive as widened,
of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR); Lots 53 and 54 except the west 100 feet, and except Outer Drive
as widened, of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR); the south 82 feet Lot 52 except the west 100 feet,
and except Outer Drive as widened, of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR); the north 50 feet of Lot 52
except the west 101 feet, and except Outer Drive as widened, of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR); Lot
51 except the west 114 feet, and except Outer Drive as widened, of Edward J. Minock's Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR);
Lots 48, 49, and 50, except the west 100 feet thereof, also except Outer Drive as widened, of Edward J. Minock's
Subdivision (L28 P94 Plats, WCR); and south of Fenkell part of NE¼ of Section 23, T1S, R10E, described as follows:
beginning at the northwesterly corner of Lot 690 of Rosedale Park Subdivision (L37 P74 Plats, WCR), thence S0°51'30"E
247.16 feet, thence S88°44'30"W 311 feet, thence N0°51'30"W 247.16 feet, thence N88°44'30"E 311 feet along the south
line of Fenkell Avenue to the point of beginning (a/k/a 18751 Fenkell).
(d)

The elements of design, as defined in Section 21-2-2 of this Code, are as follows:
(1)

Height. The height of the single-family residential structures in the Rosedale Park Historic District range
from one story to 2½ stories tall, the half-stories contained within the roof. The standards, as defined in
original deed restrictions, shall be met by new single-family residences. Additions to existing buildings
shall be related to the existing structure. Garages are generally one-story tall. The three apartment
buildings on West Outer Drive near Grand River Avenue are two-stories tall on a high basement. The red
brick church on Fenkell at Stahelin has a slightly vaulted sanctuary section that is nearly three stories in
height and two single-story wings.

(2)

Proportion of buildings' front façades. The typical front façades of residential buildings in the Rosedale
Park Historic District are often wider than tall or as wide as tall to their eaves. Tall half-stories with
dormers provide additional height.

(3)

Proportion of openings within the façade. Proportion of openings varies greatly according to the style of
the building. Typical openings are taller than wide, but individual windows are often grouped together to
fill a single opening which is wider than tall. Windows are often subdivided; buildings designed in English
Revival styles frequently display leaded glass in casement windows and transoms. In buildings derived
from classical precedents, double-hung sash windows are further subdivided by muntins. A variety of
arched openings and bay windows exist throughout the district. Modernistic-style residential buildings
have large openings with a variety of proportional relationships. Dormers projecting from the front roof
slopes of many houses in the district add to the window area. Openings range from 20 percent to 75
percent of the front façades, most falling into the 25 percent to 35 percent range.

(4)

Rhythm of solids to voids in front façades. In buildings derived from Classical precedents, voids are
usually arranged in a symmetrical and evenly spaced manner within the façades. In buildings of other
styles, particularly those of English Revival substyles, voids are arranged with more freedom, but usually
result in balanced compositions. Voids often dominate the design of the front façades of modernistic
style houses.

 (5)

Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally determined by the lot siz
setbacks from side lot lines. There is a general regularity in the widths of subdivision lots from one block to
shared rhythm and cadence along the streetscapes. Generally, all residences or parts thereof, including corn
pergolas and porches, are not nearer than three feet to the side lot line, or as defined by specific subdivision
restrictions.

(6)

Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Entrance and porch types usually relate to the style of the
building. Generally, entrances and porches on buildings of English Revival precedents exhibit freedom of
placement and orientation, while buildings of Classical inspiration typically have porches and entrances
centered on the front façade. A common entry arrangement on vernacular English Revival houses is that
of a slightly projecting, steeply-gabled vestibule or gabled wall punctured with an arched opening. On
smaller-scaled buildings of later building styles, such as the Garrison Colonials, minimalist traditionals
and ranches, entrances and porches are positioned on one side of the front façade. Some houses have
entrances that recede while others have porches, steps, and/or entrances that project. Most porches
occupy a single bay while others, particularly on Arts-and-Crafts and Bungalow style houses, span the
length of the front façade. Side and rear secondary entrances and porches, and enclosed sunrooms, are
common. A rhythm of entrances and porches is not discerned due to the variety of house designs in the
district.

(7)

Relationship of materials. Masonry is the most significant material in the majority of houses in the
Rosedale Park Historic District in the form of pressed or wire cut brick, often combined with wood, stone,
and/or stucco. Wood is almost universally used for window frames, half-timbering, and other functional
trim. Windows are commonly either of the metal casement or wooden sash variety. Aluminum siding and
aluminum canted windows on later buildings are sometimes original; vinyl siding and vinyl windows,
where they exist, are replacements. Glass block exists as an original material in some window openings
of buildings in "modern" styles. Roofs on the majority of the houses in the Rosedale Park Historic District
are asphalt shingled, while several original slate roofs still exist. Garages, where they are contemporary
with the residential dwelling, often correspond in materials.

(8)

Relationship of textures. The major textural relationship is that of brick laid in mortar, often juxtaposed
with wood or smooth or rough-faced stucco and/or stone elements and trim. Textured brick and brick
laid in patterns creates considerable interest, as does half-timbering, leaded and subdivided windows,
and wood-shingled or horizontally-sided elements. Some Arts and Crafts style buildings have stone as
their major first floor material, providing a rustic, organic appearance, and stucco or wood at second
story level. Slate roofs have particular textural values where they exist; asphalt shingles generally do not.

(9)

Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors, such as red, yellow, brown or buff, dominate in wall surfaces.
Natural stone colors also predominate: where stucco or concrete exists, it usually remains in its natural
state, or is painted in a shade of cream. Roofs are in natural slate colors and asphalt shingles are
predominantly within this same dark color range. Paint colors often relate to style. The buildings derived
from Classical precedents, such as the Neo-Dutch Colonials and Garrison Colonials, generally have
woodwork painted in the white or cream range. English Revival style buildings generally have painted
wood trim and window frames of dark brown, gray, buff, or shades of cream, depending on the main
body color. Half timbering is most frequently stained or painted dark brown. Stained and leaded glass,
where it exists as decoration visible on the front façade, contributes to the artistic interest of the
building. The original colors of any building, as determined by professional analysis, are always
acceptable for a house, and may provide guidance for similar houses. Colors used on garages should
relate to the colors of the main dwelling.

 (10)

Relationship of architectural details. The architectural elements and details of each structure generally relat
Contributing residential buildings, constructed between 1917 and 1955, were designed in styles identified as
Revival, Arts-and-Crafts, Bungalow, Colonial Revival, Dutch Colonial Revival, Foursquare, Prairie, French Rena
Garrison Colonial, Minimal Traditional, and International, or hybrids of these styles. Characteristic elements
displayed on vernacular English Revival-influenced dwellings include arched windows and door openings, st
gables, towers, clustered chimneys, and sometimes half-timbering. Classically-derived styles display modest
architectural elements, mostly in wood in the form of columned porches, shutters, cornices, and keystones.
of dormer types (shed, gabled, hipped, round-arched, and wall dormers), complimentary to the style of prebuildings, are very common throughout the district. Porte cocheres and archways adjoining the main body o
architectural interest, where they exist. Modern styles are generally characterized by smooth, relatively una
surfaces, horizontal bands of windows, and simplicity. The bank building at the corner of Grand River Avenu
18203 Ashton was designed in a pared-down Neo-Classical style typical of its period. The red brick church on
Stahelin features a triple set of double doors, stylized cross, and substantial stone piers demarcating its prin
In general, the district is rich in early to mid-20th Century architectural styles.

(11)

Relationship of roof shapes. A variety of roof shapes exists, relating to the style of the dwellings.
Common on English Revival buildings are steeply sloped pitched or hipped roofs with complex
arrangements of secondary roof shapes, including steeply sloped gables, clipped gables, and shed roofs.
These roofs are commonly interrupted by gabled, shed, and multi-sided dormers, and substantial
chimneys which are sometimes clustered. Bungalows feature low-slung, side-facing gable roofs with shed
dormers. Classically-inspired buildings display pitched or hipped roofs with less slope, with or without
dormers. Roofs of houses built later in the period of development of the district, such as those of
modern inspiration, tend to have significantly lower slopes. Flat roofs are not typical, except on porches,
sunrooms, and other small extensions of a primary building with a pitched roof, with the exception of the
International-style building facing Stoepel Park No. 1 at 14901 Minock. Flat roofs, as the main roof of a
primary building, are generally not appropriate in the district.

(12)

Walls of continuity. The common setbacks of houses on straight residential streets create strong visual
walls of continuity. This is augmented by the landscaped features in the public rights-of-way, such as the
traffic islands and tree lawns planted with mature trees.

(13)

Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. Monumental features mark the
entrance to Rosedale Park near Grand River Avenue at Ashton Boulevard and Fenkell with an elaborate
set of brick and stone piers; at Glastonbury with brick piers and masonry globes, bearing a plaque
identifying the area's developers; and at Piedmont, the more modest of the three, with its very squat
brick piers bearing masonry globes. The flat terrain of the area is divided with principal streets oriented
north-south and alternating 80 feet and 100 feet in width, and five east-west streets 50 feet in width. The
district is separated from the Grand River Avenue commercial lots by an alley. The typical treatment of
individual residential properties is that of a dwelling erected on a flat or slightly graded front lawn. The
front lawn area is generally covered with grass turf, subdivided by a straight or curving concrete or brick
walk leading to the front entrance and a single-width side driveway leading to a garage. There is variety in
the landscape treatment of individual properties. Lack of front yard fencing, in all but the western part of
the district, is a result of subdivision restrictions that prevent fences near to the front line of the
properties. Fences are allowed at the rear of buildings. The placement of trees on the tree lawn between
the concrete public sidewalk and masonry curb varies from block to block or street to street. Lots in
Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 4, on Auburn, Minock and Plainview, have no curbs, and feature wide tree
lawns. Replacement trees on the public right-of-way should be characteristic of the area and period.

 Original street lighting standards throughout the district have tall fluted poles with crane's necks and
replacement lanterns. Many have been replaced by tall, modern steel poles. A specific light standard was
designed for Outer Drive, and many still exist.
(14)

Relationship of open space to structures. The curbed landscaped traffic islands in the center of the northsouth streets require that the road curves around them. Minock, Auburn, and Plainview on the western
end of the district do not have the landscaped islands in the public right-of-way, although West Outer
Drive has some wide medians. Public sidewalks line each side of the street and are set back from the
road by a tree-lawn that widens when not opposite a landscaped traffic island. All houses have ample
rear yards as well as front yards. Wider lots in Rosedale Park permitted side drives with garages at the
rear of the lots. Where dwellings are located on corner lots, garages face the side street. Garages, when
original, often correspond in materials to the main body of the dwelling, but are of modest, one-story,
simple box design with single- or double-doors. Some later houses in the western part of the district
were originally built with garages that were integrated into the main body of the dwelling. About half of
the original garages in the district have been removed and/or replaced. Fences of metal, wood, or stone
separate individual properties from the alley behind the Grand River Avenue commercial frontage. While
there are a few hedges between properties in front, hedges and backyard fences are common along the
east-west streets, and backyard fences are common throughout the district. Stoepel Park No. 1, outside
the district's southern and western edge, preserves open space, as does Flintstone Park, outside of the
district at its southeastern edge.

(15)

Scale of façades and façade elements. The Rosedale Park Historic District comprises a single-family
residential neighborhood of moderately scaled dwellings. Houses erected in the 1940s and 1950s are
generally smaller in scale than those built in the earlier phase of development. Three multi-unit
apartment buildings, on the west side of West Outer Drive near Grand River Avenue, are also moderately
scaled. Elements and details within are appropriately scaled, having been determined by the style, size,
and complexity of the individual buildings. Window sash are usually subdivided by muntins and
casement windows are leaded, affecting the apparent scale of the windows within the façades.

(16)

Directional expression of front elevations. The houses in the Rosedale Park Historic District are horizontal
or neutral in directional expression. Large architectural elements within façades are frequently vertical in
directional expression, such as multi-storied projecting gables sections, clustered chimneys, or columns.
The three apartment buildings on West Outer Drive are horizontal in directional expression.

(17)

Rhythm of building setbacks. Front yard setbacks are generally consistent on each residential street in
the Rosedale Park Historic District, as prescribed by the deed restrictions, although porches, entrance
arrangements, window projections, and irregular massing result in the appearance of variety.

(18)

Relationship of lot coverages. The lot coverage for single-family dwellings ranges generally from 25
percent to 35 percent, including the garage, whether freestanding or attached.

(19)

Degree of complexity within the façades. The degree of complexity has been determined by what is
typical and appropriate for a given style. Overall, there is a higher degree of complexity in the English
Revival style buildings, where their façades are frequently complicated by gables, bays, irregularly-placed
openings and entrances, and irregular massing, than those of other styles. The façades of Classicallyinspired buildings and modernistic buildings are more straightforward in their arrangement of elements
and details.

(20)

Orientation, vistas, overviews. The orientation of buildings is generally toward the north-south streets,
with the exception of the house at 14901 Minock, which faces Stoepel Park No. 1. The primary vistas are
created by the landscaped traffic islands. Because of the standard setbacks and lack of front yard

 fencing, the streetscape appears as an unbroken greenbelt.
(21)

Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Front façades of buildings range from completely symmetrical to
asymmetrical, but balanced compositions. English Revival style buildings are irregular in layout and
asymmetrical in appearance. The Classically-inspired buildings are generally symmetrical. The
modernistic buildings are not symmetrical but result in highly-ordered compositions.

(22)

General environmental character. The Rosedale Park Historic District is a solid, fully developed large
residential area of just under 1,600 moderately-scaled single-family dwellings, built-up in the period
between World War I and World War II and complemented with typical examples of compatible houses
from the 1950s. The landscaped features within the public rights-of-way results in a park-like setting.
Located approximately 12 miles from the City's center, the Grand River Avenue commercial strip is to its
north; the surrounding area features several other substantial residential subdivisions, including North
Rosedale Park and Grandmont.

(Code 1984, § 1(25-2-163); Ord. No. 03-07, § 1(25-2-163), eff. 2-19-2007)

 

ONSTRUCTION

DESIGN BUILD - REMODEL



734-421 -5900 PHON 

   

734?421-5975 FAX

     

LIVONIA, Ml 48150

 

34038 GLENDALE

 

Historic District Commission

Attn: Brendan P. Cagney
October 3rd, 2019
Re: Property located at 15343 Warwick, Detroit

Scope of work: To remove old 20 20 garage and build new 20 20 garage

To remove existing concrete floor and ratwall and pour new concrete.

-To build a 20 20 garage to Michigan building code, using 2x4x8 (precut) walls, and a
reverse gable design.

Rafters will be 2x6 16" oncenter. Header over front door will be 2-2x12 with 2x6 back
jambs, Ridge to be 2x8x20.

Siding will be by ?Mastic? Ovation panel .042 thickness, Clay color

Roofing will be ?Owens Corning? Oakridge Shingles Onyx Black

Description of existing garage:
1- Garage is dilapidated, the front left corner has dropped 2.5" the foundation has
moved if there is a foundation at all.

2? the rear left corner is being lifted by an old tree which has lifted the corner upward

3? complete right side is leaning at the top toward the right side leaning toward
neighbors side garage

Description of project
4- There is a fair amount of rotten wood

The cost involved to even attempt to make a repair to existing garage would be too cost
prohibited to attempt. Therefore new construction is required.

Jim Hall
Jay-Bilt Construction Co.

 

DELIVER WHAT WE PROMISE 
COMPLETE HOME MODERNIZATION

ADDITIONS GARAGES KITCHENS 0 BATHS 0 ROOFING SIDING WINDOWS

HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. ROOM 808. DETROIT. Ml 48226 DATE:

 

 
   

PROPERTY INFORMATION
ADDRESS: AKA:

HISTORIC DISTRICT: 274/3047]

APPLICANT IDENTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Property Tenant or Architect/
Owner/ contraCtor Business Englneer/
Homeowner Occupant Consultant
. .x . a
NAME: ., /i COMPANY NAME: - [3g Cg.? c, Ls:

 

 

- -
ADDRESS: 51/038 CITY: STATE: ZIP: 

. - a at.?
PHONE: ?790 ?35 l) EMAIL: ,1 

PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST CHECKLIST

Please attach the following documentation tO your request:

 

 

 

Photo ra hs Of ALL Sides Of existin buildin or site I -

a .NOTE. 
I Based on the scope Of work. addItional

Detailed photographs of location Of proposed work I documentation may be required.

(photographs to show existing condition(s), design. color, material)

 

I
I See for

I scope-specific requirements.

I. 

 

Description of existing conditions
7 \(including materials and design)

 

 

Description Of project (if replacing any existing material(s). include an explanation as tO why
i replacement--rather than repair--Of existing and/0r construction Of new is required)

 

 

Detailed scope of work (formatted as bulleted list)

 

 

 

 

Brochure/cut sheets for proposed replacement material(s) and/or products). as applicable

 

Upon receipt Of this documentation. staff will review and inform you of the next steps toward obtaining your building permit
from the Buildings. Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) to perform the work.

SUBMIT COMPLETED REQUESTS 


ONSTRUCTION
DESIGN 0 BUILD 0 REMODEL


MI #81510? ijONEi

 

34.038 GLENDALE

         

LIVONIA,

       

  

FAX

 
   
 

[?52551]: 

 

 

 

3? Mum/l .00 my

 

 

 

?Kala; :me died 

2 c, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.. 
a -

 

View

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hp X7 005A
2 a 

 

 

 

 

DELIVER WHAT WE 
COMPLETE HOME MODERNIZATION

ADDITIONS GARAGES KITCHENS BATHS 0 ROOFING 0 SIDING WINDOWS

 

. . 1?aw.

a. ..

34038.GLENDALE



. .. 1?5? 
- 


.1-






.5


1-748150
Q0 770 

It;
531Ln'. 4,

av:-
1' I-

T:
IxDESIGN - BUILD - REMODEL


    

Illa-5rCOMPLETE HOME MODERNIZATION

DELIVER WHAT WE PROMISE 

 

 

. almanac: . . RATHQ . ROOFING - SIDING - WINDOWS

 


??aw?wmr?i?wg. 4: .
?Md?Imamfix 

734-421-5975 FAX

  

faunasdf? 
i n1
x.

 

34038 Glendale
Livonia, MI 48150

LICENSED, BONDED 8. INSURED

STATE LICENSE NO. 2102177541

Complete Modernization and Custom Garage Builders

  

Mi I a

CONSTRUCTION



Page Of
Job 

Main'Of?ce (734) 421-5900
Fax (734) 421-5975

Toll-Free 1?856-460-9700


 

ORIGINAL CONTRACT DATE:

 

NAME: SIi?fjiIi?I 
ADDRESS: 

1?
,1



DATE:

 

 

CITY:

 

 

THIS SKETCH-IS NOT TO SCALE. ALL WORK INSTALLED TO DIMENSIONS SHOWN.

 

 

 

 

km 

 

 

 



I

'2 '20 GRTAIJQ: . .. ..

mm 

2012

 

 

 

Canada} 3_
lbw-II . 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

135?

 



 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 







No paint. No stain. No hassles. That?s the beauty of Ovation?" 

 

 

 

Available in 21 colors and five panel styles. including a new -042 COLOR LEADER 

beaded profile. Ovation is engineered for strength and durability. 
With vivid color throughout, and strength across the board,
Ovation more than earns its name.

21 COLORS

.042 THICKNESS
Greater s?rength. greater rigidity
and a parel that hangs straighter

   
  

 

V.I.P. LIMITED LIFETIME WARRANTY

Premium guarantee of lastiig and peace of
IretJ by Mastlt a iritliistiy leads.?
for 50+ yi-ars {see warranty for details)

DOUBLE TRIPLE DOUBLE 4" ?i
AND DOUBLE 4 1/2" DUTCH LAP

Easier ins'aI?atio': - more please and
secure fa' tening

WIND SPEED RATED UP T0195 MPH



43% Mastic proprietary design and 

~44; delivers a panel that achieves: superior
m.

    
    
  

ROLLOVER, REINFORCED NAIL HEM 
I

TRIPLE 3" DOUBLE 4"

. DOUBLE SINGLE 6-1/2?
SMOOTH WOODGRAIN Wind resistance

DUTCH LAP TRADITIONAL

.de BEADED g1. 
.. WOODGRAIN LOCKING SYSTEM
- - ?71? Grips tigrr so panels lock securew

and stay :iuf even in high vim-not.

 

. 9/16" PANEL PROJECTION
5 Enhanced shadow lines replicate The

appearan: of real wood siding

TRADITIONAL BEADED

 

 

 

ADVANCED LOCKING SYSTEM AND NAIL HEM
-. PreCIse. secure fastening. easm?r installation
and tighti fit combine to dellv?t?l added
strength Ind even in high Winds

 

I WIND SPEED -
RATED up T0165 MPH

 

 

 

.55 THIS PRODUCT HAS BEEN CERTIFIED BY
In HOME INNOVATION RESEARCH LABS.

is . :75: 
NOW ll 

AVAILABLE HOMO lnnovatior 3"??th Wl?h snail? greet 

II .- l' ?r i hi? the :Jatii'iri.i  ELI dint; 
- K. i 
INGBS: 'v'isi' Hort-elhricwation ram."
.- Ir n; I for i-"dre detai 

 

  

 

 

 

 

5'1 .2. v. 'ii 

Beam-m come

 

Explore the possibilities.
DESIGNED With our tool. you 

0 different combi'iations of colors and

StUle products to see how they look. Bring yoJr 

Vigion to life at mastic com/getstarted

 

 

 

 


Boo-96275973 - 

. ?i GEM
Tht'UeslanedEKtenor mPIyG-em . - :Zi'wl I.-. :1 . .-

 

7 1? l?ifil anLaridge Flagsh . 

 

. . .1 .
of H10. Cm'r mg Tm?. r?r -

Oakridge 

