 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

COMMITTEE ON STANDARDS AND TESTS
September 22, 20] 7

Attn: David Schoning
ML Group
3424 Oakton Street
Skokie, Illinois 60076

Re: Committee on Standards and Tests

Issue: The Installation and Use of a ventless combination LG Model WM3884 Condensing
Washing Dryer In lieu of Meeting the CBC Requirements fOr Dryer Exhaust.

 

Case: (Continuation)

Dear David Schoning, .. 

Because you were unable to attend the Wednesday September 201h Meeting ofthe Committee on
Standards and Tests please note that we have re-scheduled your hearing to the Wednesday October
18lh Meeting of the Committee on Standards and Tests at the 1:30 time slot. You will not be
charged an additional fee for this meeting. The meeting will be held in the Commissioner?s
Conference Room (906) at City Hall (l 21 North LaSalle Street).

As we discussed:
l. You must bring the project Illinois Licensed Professional Engineer to this meeting to
discuss HVAC issues related to use ofthe LG Washer Dryer unit.
2. Your Engineer shall be prepared to discuss:
Alternate approaches to meet or exceed the requirements for mechanical ventilation such
as use of transfer air grills to Spaces with exhaust fans or other potential solutions.
How is the condensed water disposed of and through what plumbing fixtures-and
appurtenances?

If you prepare any new plans, sketches or diagrams to illustrate your case, please make sure to hard
copy messenger them to the Committee members by October lSIh of next month. If you have any
further questions please feel free to reach out to myself or Hugo Chavez.

Ver trul yours.

Robert ?Manager of Regulatory Review
Acting Chair of the Committee of Standards and Tests for Judith Commissioner.

 

12] NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

COMMITTEE ON STANDARDS AND TESTS

September 22nd, 2017

Attn:

Re:

Issue:

Case:

l-lemal Purhoit

Purhoit Architects

2020 E. Algonquin Road ?Suite 302
Schaumburg, Illinois 60l 73

Committee on Standards and Tests

The Use 0f2 Ventless ?Wells? Cooking Hoods at the Ground ?oor ofa residential high
rise located at 44-1 East Erie Street.



Dear Hemal Purhoit,

In response to your, September 20'l1520l 7 presentation, to the Committee on Building Standards
Tests, the Committee has voted to approve the use of 2 ventless cooking hoods as manufactured by
Wells (Model NumbersWVU-96 and WVU-48) to be located at the ground floor of 441 East Erie
Street. This approval is in lieu of meeting the specific requirements of Code Sections 18-28-
507.2.l(Type land Type ll Hoods) and 18?28?5072 (Where required). This approval is subject to the
following conditions:

For the Department of Buildings Permit plans submittal for thislproject the Architect and
their MEP Engineer shall provide the following on the permit plans:

The mechanical plans shall locate the Outside Air (0A) unit intended to provide extra cooling
and ventilation air to compensate for the Wells Hoods on the plans with all associated duct
work and appurtenances and clarify where the OA unit is drawing in its intake air.
Additionally, the Mechanical Plans shall clarify all exhaust grills and associated ducts and
that empty or vent into the triangular parcel of land adjacent to the kitchen location or
adjacent to the OA air intake. The MEP shall consider the location of Exhaust registers to
0A to verify that there will be no 311011 cycling or circuiting of the 0A and that a proper
separation is provided as required by Code Section 18?28-501 .4.

Provide a building Section through the triangular parcel to illustrate how the air intake and
exhaust risers will provide the Code required separation from operable windows and other
intake devices on the building. Photographs ofthese conditions may also be provided.

12] NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO, ILLINOJS 60602

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

2. When the 2 ventless hoods have been installed and are operable, a technical representative
from the Wells Company shall be present onsite to demonstrate their operation and
maintenance to Department of Buildings Ventilation Inspectors. The general contractor may
coordinate this inspection with Bob Bernacki (Acting DOB Chief Ventilation Inspector)
at 312?743-3573 or .

All other Building Code requirements shall be met. This installation is site speci?c and shall not be
viewed as a precedent. A permit is required for this work. A signed hard paper copy of this
communication will be mailed to you at a later date. Please contact'your project administrator for
fuither assistance.

Ver truly yours.

Mia/(J52: Fm?
obert Faiilstrom

Manager of Regulatory Review

Chair of the Committee of Standards and Tests
For Judith rydl'and, Commissioner

 
 

12] NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60602

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

COMMITTEE ON STANDARDS AND TESTS
September 22nd, 2017

Attn: Christopher Chwedyck
The Code Group
1 1 West Washington Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602

Re: Committee on Standards and Tests

Issue: The use ofa 2 hour fire rated Exit Connection Corridor to meet corridor dead end travel
distance requirements.

Case: 

Dear Chris Chwedyck,

In response to your, September 20th, 2017 presentation to the Committee on Building Standards Tests, the
Committee has voted to allow the use of a two hour fire rated exit connection corridor/ lobby to provide dead
end corridor distances acceptable to the Department of Buildings and the Chicago Fire Department in lieu of
meeting the speci?c requirements of Code Section 13-160-160.

(Maximum Distance from the End of the Corridor) As presented to the Committee, this exit connection corridor
will be provided on floors 2 through 10.

This approval is subject to the following additional conditions:

1. The residential exit corridor walls will be upgraded to a~2 hour (120 Minute) fire rating and the
residential unit entry doors will be upgraded to 1-1/2 hour (90 Minute) fire rating.

2. System smoke detectors shall be provided throughout the residential corridors and tied into the
buildings high rise ?re alarm system.

3. A door shall be provided to restrict access to the small corridor vestibule leading from the main
residential corridor to Elevator #2 Permanent signage shall be provided for this door stating Access
to Elevator #2 - Not An Exit?

All other Building Code requirements shall be met. This installation is site specific and shall not be viewed as a
precedent. A permit is required for this work. A signed hard paper copy of this communication will be mailed
to you at a later date. Please contact your project administrator for further assistance.

Ve? truly yours,


Robert . 
Manager of Regulatory Review

Chair of the Committee of Standards and Tests

For Judith Commissioner

121 NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

