 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

COMMITTEE ON STANDARDS AND TESTS

March 20th, 2017

Attn: Ken DeMuth
Pappageorge and Haymes Partners
640 North LaSalle Street
Suite 400
Chicago Illinois, 60654
Re: Committee on Standards and Tests
Issue: Height Limitations and Construction Classi?cation for the Armour Institute at 3300
South Federal Street.
Case: 
Dear Ken DeMuth,

In response to your, March 16th, 2017 presentation to the Committee on Building Standards Tests, the
Committee has voted to approve your requests as presented to the Committee:

1.

To allow the proposed renovation and change of use (Office and Assembly to multi-family
residential) for the Armour Institute (a Landmark Building - 3311 South Federal -) to re?
classify the building Construction Classi?cation as Type 3A (Heavy Timber) Construction.
To allow a 3A Residential Building to exceed the height limitation of table 13-48-030
(Footnote d) which limits the height of a 3A building to 120 feet. (The Armour Institute is
122?-0? high).

This approval is subject to the following requirements:

The building will be protected as a high rise building in conformance with Chapter 13-76
including the building will be provided with a full sprinkler system a Fire Command Panel,
?reman?s elevator, emergency generator and a 1 way voice communication system.

The building will provide a smoke detection system tied into the Fire Command Panel for
common areas and public spaces.

A 2 way voice communication system will be added for the Areas of Rescue Assistance.

A new code conforming stair will be added to the building resulting in the building being
provided with 3 separate egress stairs.

The Central ornamental (Historical Stair) will be provided with its own enclosed 2 hour rated
compartment. Access to individual dwelling units will not take place through this central
stair compartment.

I21 NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

The building is currently separated into 3 compartments (approximately 3,500 S.F. by
masonry bearing walls. Each of these 3 compartments will be provided with an egress stair.
Openings through these adjoining compartments will be protected with 90 minute self-closing
?re rated doors.

The Existing exposed steel roof trusses will be ?reproofed.

The 2 existing Fire Escapes will be removed.

All other Building Code requirements shall be met. This installation is site speci?c and shall not be
viewed as a precedent. A permit is required for this work. A signed hard paper copy of this
communication will be mailed to you at a later date. Please contact your project administrator for
further assistance.

. truly yours,


Robert 

Manager of Regulatory Review

Chair of the Committee of Standards and Tests
For Judith Commissioner

121 NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

