BUD GET,
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

November 7, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6000576 100% City Funding AMEND 3 To Provide Increase of Funds to Supply the
City of Detroit with Of?ce Supplies and Related Materials. Contractor: Staples
Business Advantage Location: 18670 Coastal Highway, Rehoboth Beach, DE
19971 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through June 30, 2021 
Contract Increase Amount: $1,280,844.26. Total Contract Amount:
$4,480,844.26. CITYWIDE

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER MCCALISTER

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000576 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
November 7, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

 its: COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 1026
a DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT PHONE: 313 . 628-2158
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AX: 313 . 224 0542

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

 

October 15, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council

ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

Detroit MI 48226 

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2019 Financial Empowerment Center
Implementation Grant

The Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund, Inc. (CFE Fund), has awarded the City of Detroit Mayor's
Office Department of Neighborhoods with the FY 2019 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Grant, for a total of $141,000.00. The grantor share is $141,000.00 of the approved amount. The Wayne
County Treasurer's Office will directly receive up to $334,000.00 under this agreement. The total grantor
share, including the amount for Wayne County, is $475,000.00. The grant period is April 26, 2019 through
August 26, 2021.

Grant disbursements are contingent upon proof of committed match of $150,000 in year 1 (beginning
April 26, 2019), and $200,000 in year 2 (beginning August 26, 2020). The year 1 committed match has
been demonstrated to the grantor?s satisfaction, and consists of:

0 $112,500 from JPMorgan Chase, for which CFE Fund is acting as fiduciary
- $45,000 from Skillman Foundation, sub-awarded to the City by DESC (appropriation number
20660)

The objective of the grant is to implement the Financial Empowerment Center initiative with one-on-one
financial counseling services to residents across the City of Detroit. The funding allotted to the
department will be utilized to pay for the Financial Empowerment Center Manager's salary, marketing,
travel, administration and operating expenses. This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number is 20681.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with the attached
resolution.

Sincerely,

Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department

This request has been approved by the Office of Budget



Office of Development and Grants cwvommon

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Mayor?s Office Department of Neighborhoods is requesting authorization to
accept a grant from Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund, Inc. (CFE Fund), in the amount of
$141,000.00, to implement the Financial Empowerment Center initiative with one-on-one financial
counseling services to residents across the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, year one funding in the amount of $97,225.00 is secure; and

WHEREAS, year two funding in the amount of $43,775.00, is contingent upon additional
fundraising; and

WHEREAS, The Wayne County Treasurer?s Office will also directly receive up to $334,000.00 under this
agreement; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation number
20681, in the amount of $141,000.00, for the FY 2019 Financial Empowerment Center
Implementation Grant; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the budget for appropriation 20681 will be set up for year one in
the amount of $97,225.00 until such time as the year two fundraising target has been met, on or before
August 26, 2020.

Page 1 of1

Detroit Financial Empowerment Center
Partnership Structure

As the part of the Financial Empowerment Center (FEC) Initiative the City of Detroit will partner with the
Wayne County Treasurer?s Office, and Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency. This document is
to memorialize each partner?s responsibilities towards accomplishing the Scope of Work of the FEC.

Partners
City of Detroit, Department of Neighborhoods (Lead)
Wayne County Treasurer's Office

Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency (Financial Counseling Provider)

Partnership Responsibility Structure
The City of Detroit, FEC Manager, will be the lead partner to supervise and monitor the implementation

of all FEC initiatives in accordance with the model requirements and Scope of Work (Exhibit and C1 in
the Implementation Grant Agreement.

The Wayne County Treasurer?s Office will be responsible for contracting with the Wayne Metmpolitan
Community Action Agency, the Financial Counseling provider.

Wayne MetrOpolitan Community Action Agency, Nonprofit Manager, will recruit, hire and supervise the
FEC counselors. Wayne Metro is responsible for all data collection and regular reporting to the local
governments and the CFE Fund.

The City of Detroit will be the lead partner on data collection supervision and reporting, with assistance
from the Wayne County Treasurer?s Of?ce and Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency

All partners will adhere to CFE Fund Marketing and communication guidelines.

  

Bv
Mime; Carl( Stafford 
Title: Director of SpEClai Projects
Wayne County Treasurer's Of?ce

 

8v: 
Programs Officer - CED
Title: Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency,

 

Cities for
FINANCIAL
EMPOWERMENT
Fund

 

GRANT AGREEMENT

This Grant Agreement (the ?Agreement?), dated as of April 26, 2019 (the ?Effective Date?) is by
and between the Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund, Inc. (the Fund?), a Delaware
non-stock, non-pro?t corporation quali?ed as exempt from federal income tax under section
50 of the Intemal Revenue Code of l986, as amended (the with its principal office
located at 44 Wall Street, Suite 605, New York, NY l0005, the City of Detroit (the a
Michigan municipal corporation acting through its Department of Neighborhoods, with of?ce
located at 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1 126, Detroit, MI 48226, and the Treasurer of the Charter
County of Wayne, Michigan (?Wayne County Treasurer") with of?ce located at 400 Monroe
Street, Floor, Detroit, Michigan 48226. The City of Detroit and the Wayne County Treasurer
may be referred to herein individually by their respective of?ces or collectively as the ?Grantees?.

WHEREAS, the CFE Fund works to support municipal engagement to improve the ?nancial
stability of low and moderate income households by embedding ?nancial empowerment strategies
into local government infrastructure (the urgeses").

WHEREAS, the CFE Fund has determined that the support of the Grantees in the work
contemplated by this Agreement furthers the exempt purposes of the CFE Fund.

WHEREAS, the Grantees have agreed to use the Financial Empowerment Center
Implementation Grant funds provided by this Agreement (the ?Grant?) to support the Purposes
by managing the implementation and operation of the activities set forth in Exhibit A (the ?Reguest

for Proposal Grantees Prgposal?), Exhibit (the cope of Work") and Exhibit (the ?Model?)
(Exhibits A, and collectively, the ?Program?).

 

WHEREAS, the Grantees and the CFE Fund have agreed that the City of Detroit will serve as the
lead Grantee in accomplishing the Scope of Work.

WHEREAS, the Grantees have agreed to separately memorialize an agreement with each other to
identify each party?s responsibilities towards accomplishing the Scope of Work. This agreement
will identify the City of Detroit as the lead partner.

WHEREAS, the CFE Fund and the Grantees desire to enter into this Agreement to provide for the
terms and conditions of the Grant and the Program.

NOW, THEREFORE, the CFE Fund and the Grantees agree as follows:

44 Wall Street. Suite 605 NewYork. NY 10005 I 

1. Grant.

The CFE Fund pledges and agrees to provide the Grantees a match Grant in the form of
cash in the amount of $277,725 (TWO HUNDRED SEVENTY SEVEN THOUSAND,
SEVEN HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS) for the ?rst ?fteen (I5) months
based on written proof that the Grantees have met their $ 50,000 fundraising obligation
and demonstrated proof of the actual funding in hand or provided commitment letters
demonstrating funds secured to the CFE Fond.

Provided the Grantees meet all programmatic and fundraising requirements detailed in this
agreement, the Grantees may be eligible for a Year 2 Grant of up to $197,275 (ONE
HUNDRED NINETY-SEVEN THOUSAND, TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS), upon the Grantees demonstrating their ability to secure at least $200,000 in
outside funding. Grantees will be expected to raise Year 2 funds by April 22, 2020.

2. Use of Grant.

The Grant is to be used only for the purposes outlined in the Program and in accordance
with the speci?c allocations identi?ed in the Grant budget included in Exhibit (the
?Grantees Budget?). The work detailed in the Request for Proposal should be executed in
accordance with the Sc0pe of Work. The Grantees must obtain the prior written consent
of the CFE Fund before using the Grant for goods or services outside the Sc0pe of Work;
the failure to comply with this provision may constitute breach of this contract.

3. Term.

The period of this Grant (the ?Term") will begin as of the Effective Date and end
no later than August 26, 2021. This includes an estimated 4-month build phase and
two years of FEC Operations. Any funds not used by the end of the Grant Term
tOWard the purposes of this Grant will be returned to the CFE Fund within thirty
(30) days after the end of the Grant Term unless otherwise agreed upon by both
parties in writing in advance.

 

This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to its scheduled expiration as
set forth above:

By either the CFE Fund or the Grantees without cause by giving the other
party sixty (60) days? prior written notice;

(ii) Immediately by a non-breaching party following a material breach of this
Agreement by the other party and the expiration of a ten (l0) clay ?cure?
period after the non-breaching party shall haVe given notice to the breaching
party of such breach; or;

immediately by the CFE Fund when its objectives can no longer be
advanced through the relationship set forth in this Agreement, without
limitation, by the Grantees? administration of any Vendor Contract (as
de?ned below).

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 2

(C)

If the Agreement is terminated by either party for any reason, CFE Fund will have
no further obligation to make any payments to the Grantees, except for work
already completed but not yet paid for prior to the termination; provided, that 
such work is within the Scope of Work or (ii) if such work is beyond the Scope of
Work, the prior written consent of the CF Fund has previously been obtained.

4. Vendor(s)





(C)

The CFE Fund hereby appoints the Grantees as its exclusive agents with respect to
any community-based 50l(c)(3) organizations, governmental organizations,
consultants, or other private entities (each a ?Vendor") engaged by the Grantees to
support the implementation of the Program. Each Vendor may rely upon the
direction and instruction of the Grantees.

The Grantees shall administer all aspects of each contract entered into with any
Vendor for purposes of this Agreement (the ?Vendor Contracts"), including,
without limitation, payment of Vendor(s)? invoices, managing and overseeing the
performance of each Vendor under the Vendor Contracts and monitoring such
Vendor?s adherence to its duties, obligations and responsibilities thereunder,
including appropriate insurance.

Notwithstanding the above, Grantees shall notify CFE Fund in a timely, written
manner of any Vendors, other than Wayne Metmpolitan Community Action
Agency, engaged for the purposes of this Agreement.

5. Conditions of Disbursement of Grant.

(21)



Grantees shall be eligible to receive funds upon the ful?llment of the following
conditions:

Year I funds (beginning April 26, 20l9):

a. Receipt by the CFE Fund of a countersigned copy of this Agreement,
which includes Scope of Work and Grantees Budget, and commitment
letter(s) for the $150,000 or more raised by Grantees for Year 1.

(ii) Year 2 ?mds (beginning August 26, 2020):

a. Satisfactory contract deliverables as defined in the Scepe of Work at the
end of Year I, submission of a Year I status report through the CFE
Fund?s grant interface, and proof of the actual funding in hand or
commitment  etter(s) for $200,000 or more raised by Grantees for Year
2.

Disbursements of the Grant shall be subject to the ful?llment of the following
conditions:

Timely receipt of all Grantees reports as detailed in the Scope of Work.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 3

(ii) Satisfactory performance of this Agreement in accordance with the Scope
of Work.

The Grantees covenant and agree that they shall take no action, omit to take
any action, or engage in any activity that could impair or endanger, either
directly or indirectly, the CFE Fund?s exempt status under the Internal
Revenue Code, or which could hinder the CFE Fund?s ability to ful?ll its
charitable mission.

Grant Payout Schedule:

Year I funds: Payment ofthe year one grant of277,725, pending Grantees
meeting requirements in will be made in the amount of $97,225
disbursed to the City of Detroit and $180,500 disbursed to the Wayne
County Treasurer. Terms of payments for Year I funding:

a. l00% of funds to the City of Detroit ($97,225) will be available for
payment upon execution of this Agreement and submission to the CFE
Fund of commitment letters for the funds identi?ed in Section 
herein.

b. 100% of funds to the Wayne County Treasurer ($l80,500) will be
available for payment upon execution ofthis Agreement and submission
to the CFE Fund of commitment letters for the funds identi?ed in
Section 5(a)(ii) herein.

(ii) Year 2 funds: Payment ofthe Year 2 grant of $l97,275, pending Grantees
meeting requirements in will be made in the amount of $43,775
disbursed to the City of Detroit, and $ 53,500 disbursed to the Wayne
County Treasurer. Terms of payments for Year 2 funding:

a. lnitial 80% of funds to the City of Detroit ($35,020) will be available at
the start of Year 2 (August 26, 2020), upon proof ofthe actual funding
in hand or written commitment letters demonstrating funds secured by
the Grantees.

b. lnitial 80% of funds to the Wayne County Treasurer ($l22,800) will be
available at the start of Year 2 (August 26, 2020), Upon proof of the
actual funding in hand or written commitment letters demonstrating
funds secured by the Grantees.

c. Final 20% of funds to the City ofDetroit ($8,755) will be available
Upon the satisfactory submission of ?nal contract deliverables as
de?ned in the Scope of Work.

d. Final 20% of funds to the Wayne County Treasurer ($30,700) will be

available Upon the satisfactory submission of final contract
deliverables as de?ned in the Scope of Work.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 4

City of Detroit:
Initial Here for
Electronic Payment and to
Authorize Employee

 

 

 

 

City ul?DetruiI:
Initial Here for
Payment by Check

R65

 

 

 

 

Payment of Grant.

Subject to the ful?llment of the conditions set forth in Section 5:





(0)

ii.

The CFE Fund may increase the Scope of Work and correSponding outcome
requirements and make concomitant payment adjustments as funds become
available to expand services. Any increase in the Scope of Work and subsequent
outcome goals would be made in consultation with the Grantees and the Vendor(s).

Services provided by the Grantees to clients beyond the Grant Term shall not be
within the Scope of Work under this Agreement and shall not be included in the
Grant.

The CFE Fund can make payment to the City of Detroit in one of two ways.
Please initial in ONE of the boxes to select the requested payment option:

For electronic payment: The CFE Fund will make an electronic payment to the City
of Detroit through the CFE Fund?s payment system, bill.com. The City of Detroit
authorizes the below employee to create an account and enter the City of Detroit?s
appropriate bank routing and account number into bi  .com. The City of Detroit will
ensure that account information in bill.com is accurate throughout the life of the
Grant.

For payment by check: The CFE Fund will issue a check to the City of Detroit at
the address provided:

Ray Solomon, General Manager1 Department of Neighborhoods

2 Woodward Ave. Suite 126

Detroit Ml 43206

solomonr@detroitn1i.gov

Checks made payable to: Treasurer. City of Detroit

 

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 5

Treasurer of the Charter County

of\Vaync, Michigan:
Initial Here for
Electronic Payment and
Authorize Employee



 

Treasurer of the Charter County

ol'Wnyne. Michlgan:
Initial Here for
Payment by Check



 

(cl) The CFE Fund can make payment to the Wayne County Treasurer in one of two
ways. Please initial in ONE of the boxes to select the requested payment option:

i. For electronic payment: The CFE Fund will make an electronic payment to the
Wayne County Treasurer through the CFE Fund?s payment system, bill.com. The
Wayne County Treasurer?s Of?ce authorizes the below employee to create an
account and enter the Wayne County Treasurer?s Office?s appropriate bank routing
to and account number into bill.com. The Wayne County Treasurer will ensure that
account information in bill.com is accurate throughout the life of the Grant.

 

 

 

ii. For payment by check: The CFE Fund will issue a check to the Treasurer of the
Charter County of Wayne, Michigan at the address provided:

Treasurer of the Charter Countv of Wayne. Michigan
500 Monroe Street. 5'h Floor
Detroit. Mi 48226

The CFE Fund?s ability to pay out this Grant is dependent on the timely receipt of'
Grant funding from institutional Grantors. In the event that the CFE Fund has not
received suf?cient or timely funding from these Grantors, the CFE Fund may elect
to postpone, reduce, or eliminate this Grant prior to disbursement.

COVenants.

During the term of this Grant, the Grantees are eXpected to adhere to the terms and
conditions below and outlined in the Exhibit? (the ?Stage of War or as set forth in

Exhibit A (the ?Request for Proposal Grantees Proposal?). Failure to adhere to these

conditions will constitute result in the Grantees? obligation to return part or all of the
Grant funds to the CFE Fund and the termination of any obligation of the CFE Fund to pay
subsequent invoices submitted after such default. In such a case, the CFE Fund will
determine in its reasonable discretion the percentage of any disbursed Grant funds that
must be returned. Cessation or reclamation of Grant funding by the CFE Fund may also
result in the Grantees? elimination from consideration for investment from the CFE Fund
in any other form. In the event that the CFE Fund terminates the Grant as provided herein,
the Grantees shall return Grant funds to the CFE Fund within the time period specified by
the CFE Fund upon termination.

During the Grant Term and beyond as applicable, the Grantees under this Agreement agree
to:

Coordinate the overall implementation of the Program.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 6

The Grantees will oversee and direct the work of all partner organizations with
respect to the Program, including its nonpro?t, referral, integration and training
partners and Vendor(s). in particular, the Grantees will monitor and manage any
Vendor(s) to ensure proper implementation in conformance with the Scope of Work
and will serve as the main point of contact with the Vendor. The Grantees and their
Vendor(s), if any, will draft and sign an agreement that will memorialize this

Understanding and submit a timely, written copy of such subagreement to CFE
Fund.

Adhere to the uses of the Grant detailed in the Request for Proposal.

This Grant is made only for the purposes of implementing the Scope of
Work pursuant to the Request for Proposal and this Agreement. Any Grant
funds not expended or committed for these purposes within the Grant Term
will be returned to the CFE Fund. Any prospective changes in the use of
this Grant totaling over ten percent of any individual budget line must
be submitted in writing to and approved in advance by the CFE Fund.

(ii) The Grantees will provide immediate written noti?cation to the CFE Fund
if signi?cant changes or events occur during the Grant Term which could
potentially impact the progress or outcome of the Grant, including, without
limitation, changes in the Grantees? or any Vendor(s)? management
personnel, loss of funding or other extenuating circumstances which could
affect the Grantees Budget or any Vendor(s)? budget. The CFE Fund, in its
sole and absolute discretion, will determine if requests for budget
modi?cations are Warrantcd.

To the extent that any Vendor is a tax-exempt entity, to con?rm the tax-exempt
status of such Vendor at the time of each payment, and ensure that that each such
Vendor is maintaining all authorizations, ?lings, exemptions, insurance, etc.
required of a Vendor to perform its duties within and outside this Agreement.

The Grantees also agree to provide immediately any correspondence from the
Internal Revenue Service or other related agencies regarding the above.

Cooperate in the monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of work, as detailed in the
Scope of Work and as set forth in Exhibit 

Adhere to the CFE Fund ?nancial compliance stipulations.

The Grantees will maintain ?nancial records to clearly account for the Grant
funds from the CFE Fund and proper exPenditures in furtherance of the
Grant. The Grantees shall retain and maintain adequate records to
substantiate such expenditures according to generally accepted accounting
practices. The Grantees shall retain original substantiating documents
related to the Speci?c Grant expenditures and make these records available
to the CFE Fund and Bloomberg Family Foundation (?Foundation") upon
request.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 7

(ii) The CFE Fund reserves the right to audit the Grantees' ?nancial and other
records to ensure the proper utilization of its Grant funds. During, and at
least three years following the end of the Grant Term, the Grantees must
maintain records showing, separately from other accounts kept in its books
and records, the receipt and expenditure of the CFE Fund Grant funds.

(0 Adhere to the CFE Fund?s marketing and communications guidelines.

The Grantees agree to adhere to the marketing and communication guidelines
of the CFE Fund as set forth in Exhibit (as it may be amended, modi?ed,
supplemented or otherwise revised), and any Grant-relevant CFE Fund
partners, including the Foundation, as provided by the CFE Fund and as
applicable.

(ii) Execution of this Grant agreement provides the CFE Fund and its institutional
investors the right to disseminate any products, outcomes, or other information
related to the Grantees? efforts in any media of its choosing. Whenever feasible,
the CFE Fund will share these materials with the Grantees prior to publication
and give appropriate credit to the Grantees as the provider of this information.
The Grantees and their Vendor(s), if any, will be expected to cooperate in any
public education or outreach effort undertaken in connection with this Grant,
which may include other CFE Fund programs.

(3) Adhere to the following prohibitions on the use of the Grant.

Under no circumstances will the Grantees or any other organization receiving the
CFE Fund?s Grant funds use these funds directly or indirectly for the following
purposes or activities:

Make a Grant to an individual for travel, study or other similar purpose, as
described in section 4945(d)(3) of the Code.

(ii) Promote or engage in violence, terrorism, bigotry, or the destruction of any
state, nor will it make sub-Grants to any entity that engages in these
activities.

In?uence legislation, especially for the bene?t of the CFE Fund or any of
its affiliates or funders, including by publishing or distributing any
statements, or any campaign in sapport of or opposition to any pending
legislation.

(iv) Any other purposes outside what is stated in the Request for Proposal
without express written permission from the CFE Fund.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 8

Insurance.

(8)



(C)

Agreement to Insure.

Unless determined inapplicable and/or unnecessary as evidenced in prior written
approval obtained from the CFE Fund and the Grantees, the Grantees shall ensure
that the Grantees and any Vendor shall not commence performing services under
this Agreement unless and until all insurance required by this Section is in effect,
and shall ensure continuous insurance coverage in the manner, form, and limits
required by this Section thronghout the term of the Agreement.

Self Insurance.

In lieu of other requirements set forth in this Section, the Grantees and any Vendor
may satisfy the insumnce requirements of this Agreement through its self-insurance
program. To be effective for purposes of this Agreement, any self?insurance
program with regard to any insurance required under this Section must be certified
by the form provided in ExhibitJ and approved in writing by the CFE Fund. Any
such self-insurance program shall provide the CFE Fund and the Grantees with all
rights that would be provided by traditional insurance required under this Section,
including but not limited to the defense obligations that insurers are required to
undertake in liability policies

Commercial General Liability Insurance.

The Grantees shall ensure that the Grantees and any Vendor shall maintain
Commercial General Liability Insurance covering themselves as the named
insured and the CFE Fund and the Grantees (as applicable) as additional
insureds in the amount of at least One Million Dollars {$l,000,000) per
occurrence. Such insurance shall protect the CFE Fund, the Grantees and the
Vendor from claims for property damage andfor bodily injury, including death
that may arise from any of the operations under this Agreement. The
Commercial General Liability Insurance should also provide the CFE Fund, the
Grantees and the Vendor with coverage against abuse or molestation claims that
may arise from any of the Operations under this Agreement. Coverage under
this insurance shall be at least as broad as that provided by the most recently
issued Insurance Services Office Form CG OOUI and must be
?occurrence" based rather than "claims-made."

(ii) Such Commercial General Liability Insurance shall name the CFE Fund,
together with their officials and employees, as additional insureds with
coverage at least as broad as the most recently issued ISO Form CG 20 10.

Grantees shall ensure that any sub-Vendor, to the extent applicable, adds
the CFE Fund and the Grantees (as applicable), together with their of?cials and
employees, as additional insureds under all Commercial General Liability
Insurance policies obtained by a sub-Vendor covering work performed by such

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 9

sub-Vendor under this Agreement with coverage at least as broad as the most
recently issued ISO Form CG 20 26.

Professional Liability Insurance.

The Grantees shall ensure that if the Grantees and any Vendor provides
professional services pursuant to this Agreement for which professional
liability insurance is reasonably commercially available, the Grantees and any
Vendor shall maintain and submit evidence of Professional Liability Insurance
appropriate to the type(s) of such services to be provided under this Agreement
in the amount of at least One Million Dollars ($l,000,000) per claim. The
policy or policies shall include an endorsement to cover the liability assumed
by the Grantees and any Vendor under this Agreement arising out of the
negligent performance of professional services or caused by an error, omission
or negligent act of the Grantees and any Vendor or anyone employed by the
Grantees and any Vendor.

(ii) The Grantees shall ensure that all sub-Vendors of any Vendor providing
professional services under this Agreement for which Professional Liability
Insurance is reasonably commercially available shall also maintain such
insurance in the amount of at least One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per claim,
and the Vendor shall provide to the Grantees, at the time of the request for sub-
Vendor approval, evidence of such Professional Liability Insurance on forms
acceptable to the CFE Fund and the Grantees.

policies will be accepted for Professional Liability Insurance. All
such policies shall have an extended reporting period option or automatic
coverage of not less than two (2) years. If available as an option, the Grantees
shall ensure that the Grantees and any Vendor shall purchase extended reporting
period coverage effective on cancellation or termination of such insurance
unless a new policy is secured with a retroactive date, including at least the last
policy year.

Workers? Compensation, Disability Bene?ts, and Employer?s Liability Insurance.

The Grantees shall ensure that the Grantees and any Vendor shall maintain. and
ensure that each sub-Vendor maintains, Workers' Compensation Insurance,
Disability Bene?ts Insurance, and Employer?s Liability Insurance in accordance
with the laws of the State of Michigan on behalf of, or with regard to, all employees
providing services under this Agreement; provided, that the requirements in this
clause may be waived if determined inapplicable and/or unnecessary as evidenced
in prior written approval obtained from the CFE Fund and the Grantees.



To the extent required by law, the Grantees shall ensure that the Grantees and any
Vendor shall provide Unemployment Insurance for its employees.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 10

 Business Automobile Liability Insurance.

The Grantees shall ensure that the Grantees and any Vendor utilizing
vehicles in the provision of services under this Agreement shall maintain
Business Automobile Liability insurance in the amount of at least One
Million Dollars ($l,000,000) each accident combined single limit for
liability arising out of ownership, maintenance or use of any owned, non-
owned, or hired vehicles to be used in connection with this Agreement.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as [80 Form ed. lO/Ol.

(ii) If vehicles are used for transporting hazardous materials, the Business
Automobile Liability insurance shall be endorsed to provide pollution
liability broadened coverage for covered vehicles (endorsement CA 99 48)
as well as proof of MCS-90.

Cyber Liability insurance.

Without limiting any of the obligations or liabilities of the Grantees and any
Vendor, the Grantees shall ensure that the Grantees and any Vendor shall carry and
maintain, at its own expense including any applicable deductibles or retentions, as
long as respective, applicable statute(s) of limitation or repose are in effect relating
to the speci?c purposes of this Agreement, insurance policies of the kind and limits
listed below and with insurers with an A.M. Best's Rating of not less than at
all times. Accordingly, the Grantees shall ensure that the Grantees and any Vendor
will maintain the following insurance requirements:

Cyber Liability insurance with limits of not less than One Million Dollars
,000,000) for each occurrence and an annual aggregate of One Million
Dollars ($1,000,000) covering claims involving privacy violations,
information theft, damage to or destruction of electronic information,
intentional and/or unintentional release of private information, alteration of
electronic information, extortion and network security. Such coverage is
required only if any products and/or services related to information
technology (including hardware and/or software) are provided pursuant to
this Agreement and for claims involving any services for which Grantees
and any Vendor is engaged in connection with this Agreement with Insured
for such length of time as necessary to cover any and all claims; provided,
that the requirements in this clause may be waived if determined
inapplicable and/or unnecessary as evidenced in prior written approval
obtained from the CFE Fund and the Grantees.

General Requirements for Insurance Coverage and Policies.

All required insurance policies shall be maintained with companies that may
lawfully issue the required policy and have an AM. Best rating of at least
A-Vll or a Standard and Poor?s rating of at least A, unless prior written
approval is obtained from the CFE Fund and the Grantees.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 1 1

(ii) All insurance policies shall be primary (and non-contributing) to any
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CFE Fund or the Grantees.

The Grantees and any Vendor shall be solely responsible for the payment
of all premiums for all required insurance policies and all deductibles or
self-insured retentions to which such policies are subject, whether or not the
CFE Fund and the Grantees are insureds under the policy.

(iv) The limits of coverage for all types of insurance required under this Section
shall be the greater of the minimum limits set forth in this Section or (ii)
the limits provided to the Grantees and any Vendor as named insured under
all primary, excess and umbrella policies of that type of coverage.

All insurance policies required pursuant to subsections and above
shall contain an endorsement substantially in the form as follows: ?This
policy may not be cancelled, terminated, modi?ed or changed for any
reason other than non-payment unless thirty (30) days prior written notice
is sent by the insurance company to the named insured, the CFE Fund, and
to Grantees. For non-payment, at least ten (l0) days written notice must be
provided.?

Proof of Insurance.

For Workers? Compensation Insurance, Disability Bene?ts Insurance, and
Employer?s Liability Insurance, the Grantees shall ensure that the Grantees
and any Vendor shall ?le one of the following within ten (10) days of
execution of this Agreement. ACORD forms are not acceptable proof of
workers? compensation coverage:

(A) C-l05.2 Certi?cate of Workers? Compensation Insurance;

(B) U-26.3 -- State Insurance Fund Certificate of Workers?
Compensation Insurance;

(C) Request for Exemption (Form 

(D) Equivalent or successor forms used by the New York State Workers?
Compensation Board; or

(E) Other proof of insurance in a form acceptable to the CFE Fund and
the Grantees.

(ii) For each policy required under this Agreement, except for Workers?
Compensation Insurance, Disability Bene?ts Insurance, Employer?s
Liability Insurance, and Unemployment Insurance, the Grantees and any
Vendor shall ?le a Certi?cate of Insurance with the Grantees and the CFE
Fund (as applicable) within ten (IO) days of execution of this Agreement.
All Certi?cates of Insurance shall be in a form acceptable to the CFE Fund

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT I 2

and the Grantees and certify the issuance and effectiveness of such policies
of insurance, each with the speci?ed minimum limits and evidence of the
compliance with the Additional Insured provisions of this Section, if
applicable. All Certi?cate(s) of Insurance shall be accompanied by either a
duly executed ?Certi?cation by Broker" in the form attached to this
Agreement or copies of all policies referenced in the Certi?cate of
Insurance. If complete policies have not yet been issued, binders are
acceptable, until such time as the complete policies have been issued, at
which time such policies shall be submitted.

Certi?cates of Insurance con?rming renewals of insurance shall be
submitted to the Grantees prior to the expiration date of coverage of policies
required under this Section. Such Certi?cates of Insurance shall comply
with the requirements of subsections and above, as applicable.

(iv) The Grantees and any Vendor shall provide the CFE Fund and the Grantees
with a copy of any policy required under this Section upon the demand for
such policy by the CFE Fund or the Grantees.

Acceptance by the CFE Fund and the Grantees of a certi?cate or a policy
does not excuse the Grantees and any Vendor from maintaining policies
consistent with all provisions of this Section (and ensuring that sub-Vendors
maintain such policies) or from any liability arising from its failure to do
so.

0) Miscellaneous.

Where notice of loss, damage, occurrence, accident, claim or suit is required
under a policy maintained in accordance with this Section, the Grantees
shall ensure that the Grantees and any Vendor shall notify in writing all
insurance carriers that issued potentially responsive policies of any such
event relating to any operations under this Agreement (including notice to
Commercial General Liability Insurance carriers for events relating to the
Grantees and any Vendor?s own employees) no later than twenty (20) days
after such event. Such notice shall be in substantially the following form
and specify that ?this notice is being given on behalf of the CFE Fund and
the Grantees as additional insureds as well as the named insured.? Such
notice shall also contain the following information: the number of the
insurance policy, the name of the named insured, the date and location of
the damage, occurrence, or accident, and the identity of the persons or things
injured, damaged or lost. The Grantees and any Vendor shall
simultaneously send a copy of such notice to the CFE Fund and to the
Grantees.

(ii) The Grantees and any Vendor?s failure to maintain any of the insurance
required by this Section shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement.
Such breach shall not be waived or otherwise excused by any action or

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT [3

inaction by the CFE Fund or the Grantees at any time. The Grantees shall
be responsible for notifying the CFE Fund of any such failure by the
Grantees and any Vendor to maintain any of the insurance required by this
Section. Upon such noti?cation, the CFE Fund and the Grantees shall have
no further obligation to honor any invoice submitted by such Grantees and
any Vendor.

Insurance coverage in the minimum amounts required in this Section shall
not relieve the Grantees and any Vendor or its sub-Vendors of any liability
under this Agreement, nor shall it preclude the CFE Fund from exercising
any rights or taking such other actions as are available to it under any other
provisions of this Agreement or law.

(iv) The Grantees shall ensure that any Vendor waive all rights against the CFE
Fund or the Grantees, including its of?cials and employees for any damages
or losses that are covered under any insurance required under this Section
(whether or not such insurance is actually procured or claims are paid
thereunder) or any other insurance applicable to the operations of the
Grantees and any Vendor and/or its sub-Vendors in the performance of this
Agreement.

9. Indemni?cation.

The CFE Fund shall release any Vendors and sub-Vendors of the Grantees, from
any and all claims, demands, costs, judgments or liabilities to which they may be
subject because of any acts or omissions of the CFE Fund, its of?cers, directors or
trustees, employees, agents, representatives, Vendors or sub-Vendors, or because
of any negligence or fault of the CFE Fund, its of?cers, directors or trustees,
employees, agents, representatives, Vendors or sub-Vendors. This obligation shall
survive and continue beyond any termination or expiration of this Agreement.

The Grantees shall ensure that all Vendors and sub-Vendors indemnify and hold
harmless the CFE Fund, including its staff, and its of?cers, directors or trustees,
employees and agents from such claims. Nothing in this paragraph should be
construed as waiving any immunities the City may have from such claims. This
obligation shall survive and continue beyond any termination or expiration of this
Agreement.

Each of the parties hereto shall take all steps necessary to ensure that its staff,
of?cers or trustees, employees, agents, representatives, vendors and sub-vendors
are covered under all insurance policies necessary to effectuate the provisions of
this Section.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT [4

10.

ll.

12.

13.

I4.

15.

Con?dentiality.

All reports, information or data furnished to or to be prepared or assembled under this
Agreement are to be held con?dential, unless otherwise herein provided or subject to
disclosure by law, including but not limited to the Michigan Freedom of Information Act,
PA 442 of [976, as amended, being MCL 15.23I et seq.

Intellectual Property.

All ownership, title, interest, and intellectual property rights of documents, templates, and
other materials provided by the CFE Fund shall remain solely the Grantors. Nothing in this
section or agreement is intended to, and shall not be construed to, transfer any property
rights to Grantees or any intellectual property rights to materials developed by the CFE
Fund. The Grantees may use the CFE Fund?s intellectual property for internal planning
processes; (ii) in furtherance of the Scope of Work; and otherwise expressly authorized
by the CFE Fund. Any unauthorized disclosure of the CFE Fund?s intellectual property
without expressed authorization shall be considered a breach of this agreement.

Non-Assignability.

The Grantees shall not assign, transfer, subcontract, convey or otherwise dispose of this
Agreement or of its rights, obligations, responsibilities or duties hereunder or under any
Vendor Contract, either in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the CFE
Fund.

Compliance with Anti-Discrimination Rules.

In its use of Grant funds provided by the CFE Fund, and in the course of all development,
marketing and operation activities, the Grantees shall fully comply with all applicable

federal, state, local (and any other governmental), anti-discrimination laws, executive
orders, rules and regulations.

Severability of Provisions.

Each provision of this Agreement shall be considered severable and if for any reason any
provision or provisions herein are determined to be invalid, unenforceable or illegal under
any existing or future law, such invalidity, unenforceability or illegality shall not impair
the operation of or affect those portions of this Agreement which are valid, enforceable and
legal.

Entire Agreement.

This Agreement contains the entire understanding between the parties hereto with respect
to the subject matter of this Agreement and replaces and supersedes all prior agreements

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT l5

l6.

17.

18.

19.

and understandings of the parties. This Agreement may be amended or modi?ed only by a
writing executed by the parties hereto.

Binding Agreement.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the parties agree that this
Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of each party, and is
enforceable against each party in accordance with its terms.

Governing Law.

THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT
GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF.

Arbitration.

ANY CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM ARISING OUT OF, OR RELATING TO, THIS
AGREEMENT, OR THE BREACH THEREOF, SHALL BE SETTLED BY
ARBITRATION ADMINISTERED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, OR ANOTHER
LOCATION MUTUALLY AGREEABLE TO THE PARTIES, BY THE AMERICAN
ARBITRATION ASSOCIATION UNDER ITS COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION
RULES, AND JUDGMENT ON THE AWARD RENDERED BY THE
MAY BE ENTERED IN ANY COURT HAVING JURISDICTION
THEREOF. ANY AWARD RENDERED THEREUNDER SHALL BE FINAL AND
BINDING ON ALL PARTIES THERETO.

Service of Process.

EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO THE
SERVICE OF THE SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT AND ANY OTHER PROCESS IN
ANY OTHER ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THE TRANSACTIONS
CONTEMPLATED HEREBY, ON BEHALF OF ITSELF OR ITS PROPERTY, BY
PERSONAL DELIVERY OF COPIES OF SUCH PROCESS TO SUCH PARTY.
NOTHING CONTAINED IN THIS SECTION WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY
PARTY TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR
COMMENCE LEGAL PROCEEDINGS OR OTHERWISE PROCEED AGAINST ANY
OTHER PARTY IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 16

20.

21.

22.

Amendment.

The CFE Fund shall consider, but is not obligated to agree to, requests by the Grantees to
amend the terms of this Agreement. Amendments to this Agreement may be made only
after the CFE Fund has received written request from the Grantees stating the nature of
the amendment request, and (ii) the CFE Fund and the Grantees have executed a written
agreement describing the terms of the amendment.

Counterparts.

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, including by facsimile or
other electronic means of communication, each of which shall be deemed an original of
this Agreement and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

Notices.

Any notices required to be delivered hereunder shall be in writing and personally delivered,
mailed or sent by electronic mail, telefacsimile or other similar form of rapid transmission,
and shall be deemed to have been duly given Upon receipt at the respective party?s
address listed on Exhibit (?Notices?) or at such other address as may be designated
by written notice to the other party.

 

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT l7

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
duly executed by their respective of?cers as of the day and year ?rst above written.

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT

CITIES FOR FINANCIAL EMPOWERMENT
FUND, INC.

By: 

Name: Jonathan Mintz
Title: President and Chief Executive Of?cer

03/1 9/201 9
Date:

CITY OF DETROIT

By:Na?e: {ea/LI Nd 17:

Title: 4W 
Date:

TREASURER, CHARTER COUNTY OF WAYNE,
MI

By: its?7%

Name: Eric R. Sabree
Title: Su rer'

Date: 4?41?" ?10/ 7

 

 

 

 

l8

Request for Proposal 8.: Grantees Proposal

CFE FUND GRANT AGREEMENT EXHIBIT A

Exhibit A

19

Chelsea Neblett Clty of Detroit

City of Detroit

 

2018 Financial Empowerment Center
Impiementation Grant

City of Detroit
Chelsea Neblett

2 Woodward Ave, Ste 1126 0: 313-224-2285
Detroit, MI 48226

 

Chelsea Neblett

 

2 Woodard Ave neblettc@detroitrni.gov
Detroit. MI 48226 0:111-111-1111

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Application Form

 

Instructions

Summary

The Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund (CFE Fund) invites successful FEC Public Planning Grantees to apply for
Implementation phase funding. The focus of the implementation phase is the actual launch of the local Financial
Empowerment Center (FEC). if selected, the Grantee will receive matching funds and significant technical
assistance for two years to launch and operate its Financial Empowerment Center initiative.

 

The CFE Fund will only review submissions from Planning Grantees who are eligible to apply, as detailed in the
Implementation Grant Eligibility Checklist.

Proposal Timing
Implementation Proposals will be accepted from successful Planning Grantees on a rolling basis based on their
launch timeline, as agreed upon with CFE Fund.

General Applicant Information

Local Government Entity?
City ofDetroit

 

Please provide the primary contact information for the Implementation Phase, if different than the user submitting
this application:

Primary Contact Name
Chelsea Nebleti:

Primary Contact Phone
3135183826

Primary Contact Email
neblettc@detroitmi.gov

Fiscal Sponsor

If chosen to receive this grant, will your organization use a fiscal sponsor to receive funds? If yes, please provide
the name. organization type, EIN and contact information for your fiscal sponsor.


2018 Financial Empowerment Center implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Questions

 

Projected Program Scope

Please provide estimates for each ?eld below that reflect current thinking on program scope. The CFE 9und
anticipates these numbers will change during the course of further planning.

Question 1*
Total number of nonprofit (or local government) financial counseling providers

7

Question 2*

Total number of full-time equivalent counselors
3

Question 3*

Total number of clients served in Year 1
770

Question 4*

Total number of partnerships in place by launch (ii of organizations/agencies either serving as referral, co-Iocation,
or programmatic integration partners)

8

Question 5*
Total number of FEC locations

5

Question 6*
Total match funding secured

470000

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Question 7*
Total annual budget

371500

Local Government Program Oversight

Question 8*
Please indicate if the FEC work will remain with the local government entity currently overseeing the Planning
Grant

Yes

If no, please provide an overview of the new government entity, an explanation for why and how the FEC will fit
within this entity and plans for the transition.

Question 9
Name of the Local Government Program Manager who will oversee all aspects of the Financial Empowerment
Center work.
Chelsea Neblett
If a Manager has not yet been identified, describe the recruitment strategy and projected timing for the hire.
{Unanswered}

If the Manager is an existing staff person, with currentJob responsibilities, describe in detail how the FEC work will
be incorporated into the person's workload and the percentage of time that will be dedicated to the FECs. Please
provide a resume (as an attachment). Please note this person will need to ful?ll all the responsibilities, described
in the Local Government Program Manager job description.

ChelseaNeblett_Resume_2019.pdf

ChelSea Neblett will the Local Government Program Manager for the Detroit FEC. At the end of 2018,
Chelsea has transitioned rolls as Volunteer Coordinator to the Financial Empowerment Manager. 100% of

Chelsea?s role will be overseeing the responsibilities of managing the Detroit Financial Empowerment Center.
BankOn and Summer Jobs Connect.

Question 10*

Describe the roles of other City/County staff members who will provide support for the Financial Empowerment
Center initiative.

2018 Financial Empowerment Center ImplementatiOn
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Chelsea Neblett, the Detroit Financial Empowerment Center Manager (FEC), will oversee the overall
management of the FEC which includes partnership development. program integration with existing and new
Mayoral initiatives, working alongside the Nonpro?t Manager to hire, train and monitor the performance of
the FEC counselors, and oversee all of program requirements, fundraising and reporting. In order to support
the FEC manager, numerous city and county leaders will support the initiative.

The FEC Manager will report directly to Ray Soioman, General Manager of the Department of
Neighborhoods and Jimmy Settles, Group Executive for Neighborhoods. Jimmy Settles will be the liaison for
the FEC and all ?nancial empowerment initiatives to Mayor Duggan. Mr. Settles will communicate directly
with the Mayor weekly about FEC updates and schedule time for the City FEC Manager to meet with the
Mayor on an as needed basis. The Department of Neighborhoods Leadership team, including Mr. Settles. Mr.
Solomon and Vicky Kovari will meet weekly to ensure ?nancial empowerment initiatives milestones and
progress toward goals are being met. Victoria Kovari. Director of Detroit 2020 Census, and previous General
Manager of the Department of Neighborhoods will serve in an advisory role for the Detroit Financial
Empowerment Center, lending expertise as the initiator of ?nancial empowerment efforts in Detroit
neighborhoods for Mayor Duggan and will meet regularly with the FEC Manager to ensure a seamless launch.
and implementation.

The Of?ce of Development and Grants, led by Ryan Friedrichs, Sirene Abou-Chakra and Katerli Bonds will
assist in fund development, grant Writing. reporting and compliance for the FEC. There are two development
staff assigned directly to FEC fundraising activities in addition to the leadership previously mentioned.

The Civil Rights Inclusion and Opportunity Department (CRIO), Kimberly Ballor. will assist with the
translation needs and interpretation services needed for the FEC. CRIO Director, Charity Dean, will assist with
the FEC Counselor Training to provide a local context for FEC initiatives in Detroit.

The Wayne County Treasurer's Of?ce. as partner to the FEC will be heavily vested in the progress and
outcomes of the EC. Wayne County Treasurer, Eric Sabree, Deputy Director, Roy Freij and Director of Special
Projects. Phil Cavanagh will provide support to the FEC Manager. The WCTO Team will be responsible for the
contract with the Nonprofit Provider(s] and will assist the FEC Manager and Nonpro?t Manager in the
monitoring of performance by the FEC counselors. Ramesh Ranati. Director of information Management for
the WCT Of?ce will offer data support to the FEC for residents facing property tax foreclosure. a high priority
for FEC counseling.

Question 11*

Provide an overview of how the Local Government Partner anticipates coordinating efforts with and managing the
performance of the nonprofit counseling provideris).

The local government partner. City Manager. is responsible for the overall program coordination,
including coordinating efforts and managing the performance of the nonpro?t connseling provider, Wayne
Metro. Managing the performance on the nonpro?t counselor provider ensures that the service provision is
FEC model compliant. This includes an audit of the one-on-one counseling sessions and program
implementations including the ?nancial health assessment. relationship building, diagnostics, goal setting and
action planning. The City Manager and the Nonpro?t Manager will work in tandem to ensure all activities.
outputs and outcomes are on target for the prelaunch and implementation phase through year two.

Managing the performance of the nonprofit counseling provider begins with ensuring a strong local
training plan to equip the ?nancial counselors with the necessary education to provide client service plans,
and how to properly use the client database. This is extended to continued mandatory continued education of
the nonpro?t counselors. The continued education will be determined by the City and onprofit Manager
based upon areas of service delivery that need improvement. The City Manager will be responsible for all
training requirements.

2018 Financial Empowerment Center implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Qualitative data analysis will show where improvement can be made. In addition to using the data. the
Managers will work with the counselors to gain an understanding of what additional training they feel would
be bene?cially for service delivery.

in order to ensure strong coordination, the following activities will be implemented:
1. Weekly meeting with Nonpro?t Manager
0 Review activities. outputs, and outcomes. Discuss any barriers or improvements to program
partnerships or effective counseling services. and make necessary changes as needed to ensure the FEC
model is successfully implemented.
2. data meeting to review and measure progress toward goal
City Manager to pull weekly and data reports to review with the Nonpro?t Manager.
Establish speci?c output and outcome targets for each counselor.
Establish speci?c output and outcome targets for the Detroit FEC.
Monitor clients who are close to meeting outcome goals or milestones.
data meeting used to benchmark progress.
staff meeting with the Nonprofit Manager and nonpro?t counselors
Counselor report outs, sharing of best practices and lessons learned.
identify gaps in training and potential areas for growth.
Identify trends in client's needs from Speci?c integration partners
. Quarterly meeting with Nonpro?t Manger and program integration partners
Review shared goals as outlined in the partner MOU.
Assess outcomes.

Question 12*

Describe the roles of any additional partners (government, nonprofit. funders, etc.) during this next phase of work.
Specifically, those who have been part of the Planning process. including the Advisory Group.



0048000930000

The FEC Advisory Committee will repreSent a strong cross section between public and private
stakeholders including;

- Mayor's Of?ce, Department of Neighborhoods

- Wayne County Treasurer's Of?ce

- City of Detroit Treasurer's Of?ce

- Detroit at Work, Workforce Development Returning Citizens

- Detroit Employment Solutions Corporation. Grow Detroit's Young Talent Program
- Detroit Land Bank Authority

- Wayne County Land Bank Authority

- Accounting Aid Society

- Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency

- United Community Housing Coalition

The FEC Advisory Committee comprises co-location, referral based. or integrated partnerships and well
as Mayoral priority initiatives that will be integrated into the EC. It is important to seek their input and
feedback on goal setting. and program outcomes for clients who fall within their program area of expertise.
The FEC Advisory Group will meet quarterly with the City Manager and Nonpro?t Manager.

The Financial Empowerment Network. a cohort of 32 non-pro?ts, which provide direct and/ or indirect
service for residents will play an important role during the next phase of work. The FEN is convened by the
City four times a year. and this provides an opportunity for the City and Mayor's Of?ce to learn directly from
the place based non-pro?ts emerging needs of community members. This conversation can inform future
integration points. and assist the FEC in being re5ponsive to resident needs.

2013 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Director lev'el staff in city departments are familiar with the Financial EmpoWerment Center Initiative.
The FEC City Manager will present to critical department employees, to ensure they are aware of the free.
professional one-on-one counseling services offered by the FEC. The Planning Department, Housing and
Revitalization Department, Treasury Department. Assessor's Of?ce, Bridging Neighborhoods, among others,
have staff that interact with the public regularly. These city employees interact with residents in the target
integration population indirectly and can be an additional referral path for residents to FEC counseling.

Question 13*

Briefly describe how the sustainability of the FEC as a free local government public service will be prioritized from
the onset of the program.

During the initial planning phase in early 2018, the City of Detroit created a Financial Empowerment
Manager as a permanent position with multiple grant sources, instead of tying the position to a single grant
that would have to be renewed annually. The position is within the Mayor's Of?ce, Department of
Neighborhoods and was approved by City Council. Also during the planning phase. we began discussions with
a range of city departments to explore embedding ?nancial counselling into various programs and grants. In
addition to the Department of Neighborhoods. where the program began, other City departments agreeing to
integrate ?nancial counselling into their services and grants include: Workforce Development, General
Services (returning citizens). Foreclosure Prevention and Grow Detroit?s Young Talent. The Wayne County
Treasurer is a joint partner in the FEC and early on agreed to embed the FEC into their foreclosure prevention
programs and strategies.

Question 14*

What are any anticipated program oversight challenges and proposed ways that the local government entity
overseeing the FEC will overcome them?

One ofthe oversight challenges relates to the Wayne County Treasurer's Of?ce and their role as the
contracting entity for the financial Counselors. In that the City of Detroit has no authority over a County
contract. the challenge will be for the FEC City Manager. a Mayoral appointee, to ensure that the counselors
receive the proper training and are using the FEC model. are properly supervised and are collecting and
reporting their data to the FEC. Part of how we address this challenge is by providing speci?c language in the
grant agreement between CFE Fund. the City of Detroit and the WCTO. specifying the required counselor
training and use of approved contractor, the required data sharing with not only the CF but with the City of
Detroit and the manner and type of data collection and use of the approved platform.

The City of Detroit's role in the overall management. coordination and integration of the FEC also needs to
be con?rmed in the CFE grant language and language to this effect will need to be included in a separate MOU
between the City and County Treasurer. The City of Detroit will also need to look into executing a separate
MOU with the nonpro?t counselling agency contracted to provide counselling services to con?rm the FEC
program manager's role.

Another challenge that the FEC will continue to face, in terms of its oversight authority. is by United Way
of SE Michigan. The UWSEM has been the major funder of ?nancial counselling in the Detroit. They have
questioned the role of the City in creating the FEC and the Financial Empowerment Network in
particular. They continue to quietly push this narrative to funders and other partners, particularly other
United Way funded organizations involved in the FEN. We have addressed this challenge by keeping in
regular communication with UWSEM, and speci?cally carving out a niche for the FEC that does not conflict
with their ?nancial empowerment programing, emphasizing our target populations. focusing on banking
access. and using the FEN as a sounding board for policy development and networking across a much broader

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On. 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

range of counselling organizations. We have also received the support of LISC. the CWF sponsor of United
Way's ?nancial empowerment portfolio.

Question 15*
Provide an updated strategy of how the FEC will be aligned with the Mayor's priorities.

in the beginning of his ?rst four-year term in 2014. Mayor Mike Duggan stated: ?i believe that we should
be judged by one standard. is the population of this city going up or going down." At its peak. the City's
population in 1955 was 1.8 million. It now sits at 630,000, losing over 300.000 just since 2000.

Although property Values have increased signi?cantly in four years. echoes of the housing crisis continue
to reverberate in Detroit. Nearly 35% of Detroit residents live in poverty, 20% are totally unbanked. 66%
have subprime or no credit scores. and 68% of residents are delinquent on debt. including 61,000 households
who are delinquent in their property taxes. This level of ?nancial instability. combined with one of the highest
property tax rates in the country. has resulted in over a third ofall Detroit properties foreclosed upon in the
last decade. To reverse these trends. the FEC has focused on occUpants of tax foreclosed properties as the
primary target population for counseling. The Detroit FEC is speci?cally designed to keep residents in their
homes by providing one-on-one counselling to residents at risk of foreclosure and to new owners who
acquired their property through the Land Bank or the City?s Right of Refusal program. Both the ROR and Land
Bank's Buy Back programs are creating new ownership opportunities for renters in tax foreclosed properties.
The other Mayoral priority. speci?cally for the Dept. of Neighborhoods is to ?ght blight. The FEC is a
?ghting blight tool by keeping owner occupants from losing their home to tax foreclosure and thus

preventing the home from being vacant. open to the elements and eventually vandalized and stripped of most
of its value.

Financial Counseling Provider

Question 16*

Name of Financial Counseling Provider(s):

Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency [Wayne Metro] will be the financial counseling provider
for the Detroit FEC in phase one.

Question 17*
Are the providerisl a nonpro?t or government entity?

Wayne Metro is a nonpro?t entity. and serves as the Community Action Agency for Wayne County
designed by the State of Michigan in 2015.

Question 18a*

Explain the process to date for selecting this providerisl. key factors for their selection and their comparative
advantage to other providers that may have been considered.

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On. 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency [Wayne Metro], the selected ?nancial counseling
provider, has an exemplary reputation in the City of Detroit and Wayne County for their robust direct service
program offerings for low to moderate income Detroit and Wayne County residents. Their work spans from
financial coaching, foreclosure prevention, utility assistance, head start, healthcare access, employment
assistance and much more, they are perfectly positioned to provide ?nancial counseling for the Detroit FEC.

Wayne Metro was one of the ?ve nonpro?t partners selected for the Detroit FEC Process Pilot. The
process pilot nonpro?t providers were selected through a competitive RFP process. The Cities for Financial
Empowerment Fund drafted the RFP, and it was edited by the Department of Neighborhoods and the Wayne
County Treasurer's Of?ce. All twenty-two organizations that responded to the initial Financial Empowerment
Network survey, plus additional ?nancial counseling providers were invited to apply. Twelve organizations
submitted a ?nal proposal for the Detroit FEC Process Pilot.

During the Process Pilot, Wayne Metro was easy to work with; this included prompt responses to all
phone call and emails. Additionally, they were eager to advocate for their clients and pushed to meet with the
WCT of?ce about reduced payment plan agreement amounts for their clients who were unable to afford the
standard 2% of back taxes owed per month. Their initiative to help improve the system and process for their
clients was aboVe the scope of the Process Pilot.

Wayne Metro is a trusted local organization with deep community roots that works city and county-wide,
this was an advantage as not all of the service providers' work throughout the City of Detroit and Wayne
County. They have name recognition, and implement many programs in-house that would bene?t from one-
on-one counseling such as utility assistance. Additionally, they provide a different model of ?nancial
counseling currently. Wayne Metro is also the permanent Community Action Agency as designated by the
State of Michigan which makes them more ?nancially stable than other nonpro?ts and speaks to their
longevity as an organization.

The most important competitive advantage of Wayne Metro over the other four process pilot participants
is the Connect Call Center. The call center is a state-of-the-art locally operated call center designed to
optimize client intake, appointment scheduling, and referral services. This service will allow for easy program
referrals fram partner organizations. Additionally, they collocate throughout the city for many of their service
programs now, limited additional infrastructure will be needed to ensure the geographic coverage needed for
the Detroit FEC counselors.

Question 18b

lithe selected ?nancial counseling provider(s) contract has not been finalized, provide a detailed overview of the
process underway and next steps to finalize procurement with the selected provider(s), including the projected
timeframe. Providers must be selected before this application is submitted.

A contract with Wayne Metro has not been ?nalized. The Wayne County Treasurer's Of?ce will procure
the ?nancial counseling services from Wayne Metro as the joint partnership between the City of Detroit and
the Wayne County Treasurer's Of?ce. The WCTO will need an executive order to fund the nonpro?t
counseling provider contract, no approval is needed from the Wayne County Commission, as the contract falls
under 'professional services? in the WCT budget. A funding submission has been submitted to the Wayne
Connty Budget and Management of?ce, and is pending approval. Wayne County Legal Department has drafted
a service contract. Funding approval takes tum to four months, and the contract will be executed after.

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Question 19*

Provide a cover letter signed by the Executive Director of the nonprofitls) or the comparable person at the local

government provider asserting a commitment to the program and identifying the key staff who will be managing
and operating the FEC.

LOS for CFE Implementation Plan.pdf

Question 20*
Organizationis) mission and overview

Mission: Guided by our belief that no one should live in poverty. Wayne Metro empowers people and
communities to be strong, healthy and thriving.

Vision: Through our work to diminish pOVErty, we envision communities where all people have hope and
opportunities to realize their full potential.

Overview: Founded in 1971, Wayne Metro Community Action Agency (Wayne Metro] provides essential
services, diversi?ed programming. and community to low? and moderate-income individuals and
families throughout all of Wayne County. Over the last four decades, the Agency?s budget has grown from
$100,000 to over $30 million while continuing to maintain a low administrative rate that allows $.92 of
every funded or donated dollar to be utilized for direct client services.

As a result of this outstanding programmatic and ?scal track record serving Out-Wayne County, the State
of Michigan named Wayne Metro the interim Community Action Agency for the City of Detroit in spring 2013,
with the designation becoming permanent in 2015. Today, Wayne Metro supports all of Wayne Connty with
more than 50 programs with over 300 employees. and is proud to be one ofthe most innovative Community
Action Agencies in the entire country.

Question 21*

Explain how the selected providerls) has the organizational capability {financial and operational) to perform the
administrative and programmatic responsibilities related to the delivery of the financial counseling, including the
responsibility of hiring and supervising financial counselors. community outreach, data tracking, partnership
development. and collaborative partnership with the Local Government, that are necessary to meet FEC
benchmarks outlined In this proposal.

Guided by the belief that no one should live in poverty, Wayne Metro empowers people and communities
to be strong, healthy, and thriving. They envision communities where all people have hope and opportunities
to realize their full potential. Wayne Metro delivers a collective impact to create social and economic mobility
through advocacy, resources, and collaborations for people and communities with low incomes. An
investment of over in federal, state, law! and private funds are committed to alleviating the causes and
conditions of poverty for people and communities with low incomes and provide over 35,000 client services
in the primary service area of Wayne County Michigan.

Wayne Metro is an adaptive and mobile service provider with satellite of?ces across Wayne County.
Multi-lingual, interactive communication tools and staff assist individuals with limited English-speaking skills
to bridge the communication and accessibility gaps. Collaborative partnerships with various stakeholders
representing coalitions, education, government, community groom, and sister agencies expand outreach and
streamline service delivery guiding those in need on a pathway to connect. engage, build, and thrive for
sustainable solutions.

2018 Financial Empowerment Center implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 10

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

2016 comprehensive Community Needs Assessment for Wayne Metro for conducted. ?nancial
empowerment was indicated as one of ?ve areas the Wayne Metro could have a critical impact. Currently,
Wayne Metro offers the following services related to ?nancial capabilities services; tax preparation.
foreclosure intervention, ?nancial education and coaching. and a savings program.

- OPERATIONAL SUPPORTS: Administrative and support services work with Wayne Metro departments
to develop, implement. and evaluate strategies. Operational supports work diligently to provide an ef?cient
and effective infrastructure assisting with the work of programs, services, and other functional areas. This
focus on operational capacity will support the organizational capability.

- Data Quality: The DQ Committee reviews internal data collection and shares information with
departments for continuous improvement of capturing data including client satisfaction and program data.

- Partnership: Wayne Metro currently works with 55 federal. state and location stakeholders to create
robust program partnerships. Their existing partnerships will help to deepen the FEC partnerships and
program integration points through their current and past relationships.

Wayne Metro understands that the Financial Empowerment Center uses a distinct ?nancial counseling
model from the ones we currently use. The staff identi?ed for the FEC will be fully trained in the CFE model.

Question 22a
identify the Nonprofit Program Manageris) who will oversee all aspects of the Financial Empowerment Center.

Shama Mounzer. currently the Community Navigation Manager, will serve as the Nonpro?t Program
Manager. Ms. Mounzer has worked at Wayne Metro for 8 years starting in the Head Start Early Childhood
Education Service as a Family Advocate doing community outreach and providing wraparound supports to
families. She moved to Basic Needs Services where she led two successful pilot programs from Iune 2017
through October 2018. One pilot focused on ?nancial counseling for clients who were enrolled in DTE's Low
Income Self Suf?ciency Program The team outreached to 1,500 potential participants in 15 months and
successfully guided 586 of them to successful completion of their LSP agreements. Her second pilot was the
CFE Detroit Financial Counseling] Coaching where her team outreached to 250 people facing foreclosure. Staff
coached 42 homeowners to achieve housing stability. Ms. Mounzer re?ned her management skills in the
Leadership institute of the Michigan Community Action Association.

Question 22b
If a Manager has not yet been identi?ed, describe the recruitment strategy and projected timing for the hire.
Not applicable. Shama Mounzer, Community Navigation Manager, meets the quali?cations and has the

experience to work alongside the Local Government Program Manager for successful operation of the
Financial Empowerment Center.

Question 22c

lithe Nonprofit Program Manageris) is an existing staff person, with current job responsibilities, describe in detail
how the FEC work will be incorporated into the person's workload and the percentage of time that will be
dedicated to the FECs. Please provide a resume (as an attachment). Please note this person will need to fulfiil all
the responsibilities, described in the Nonprofit Program Manager job description.

Shama resume 2.27.19 (3].doc
The FEC will be the priority of Shame Mounzer?s work. Ms. Mounzer will incorporate current duties into
the PRC using her strategic thinking and team approach. Shame incorporated the Detroit Financial

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 11

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Counseling] Coaching pilot from April to October 2018 into her workload with no interruption to other duties
so this continuation of the FEC will not be new duties. The percentage of time Ms. Mounzer will dedicate to
the operation of the FEC is expected to be 25% at the onset. and may require more time later as the project
grows. Herjob duties will be shifted as the project grows.

Ms. Mounzer currently coordinates staff who do agency community engagement. utility assistance case
management. and resource navigation to address service gaps. Her current duties that support the FEC
include:

Organizing Community Assistance Days or outreach events. Wayne Metro conducted 67
outreach events during 2018, including Customer Assistance Days (CAD) that target families in crisis facing
utility/water shutoffs and foreclosure. Ms. Mounzer will be able to create CADs as needed to support the
speci?c work of the FEC with wraparound services.

Training staff in MI Bridges as well as compliance processes and systems. Ms. Mouzer provides
ongoing direction and training in Mi Bridges (the state?s portal for online bene?ts]. She also trains staff on
intake and aSSESSment, eligibility review. and ?le documentation.

Supervising day-to-day activities of 8 staff who will provide wraparound supports to the clients of the
the FEC.

Problem-solving internal operations and client needs. Ms. Mounzer works closely with administrative
and program staff to solve service delivery issues and ensure compliance. She also regularly problem-solves
for clients. seeking out and securing additional supportive services for people seeking assistance.

These aspects ofher current position aligns with the role of the Nonpro?t Finance Manager.

Question 23*

Provide an overview of the providers' eXperience with the delivery of financial counseling or coaching {if the
organization has no experience, then provide details on relevant experiences that support their capability to
effectively deliver the FEC model).

Wayne Metro is simultaneously implementing several ?nancial counseling/coaching models. These
models are used to better respond to the diverse needs of our clients. build internal ?nancial capability
capacity, and improve client outcomes.

Recently, we started the integration of ?nancial counseling across our Basic Needs programs. Staff from
these programs are trained on the Mi Bridges system through our partnership with the State of Michigan. The
same staff is trained in coaching skills through our partnership with Central New Mexico Community College
and in the Your Money Your Goals toolkit from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Each trained
employee has the ability to carry out multiple counseling topics simultaneously, including crises and barriers.
income support. community resources, and ?nancial capability. Providing a warm handoff to internal and
external job readiness and navigation services is a key to the seamless integration. Staff focus on solving the
most pressing and immediate issue presented by the client helping them access income support and bene?ts
while setting goals and developing a budget that allows them to pay bills on-time and reduce debts. The
counseling is client-centered and solution-based with short, soft-touch contacts lasting from 2 months to up
to 12 months. Wayne Metro successfully used this model with programs including a DTE Low-income Self-
suf?ciency Plan pilot. the Cities for Financial Empowerment Detroit Short-term Foreclosure pilot,
and Water Residential Assistance Program (WRAP) payment plan assistance.

Another counseling approach we use is the stand-alone model developed by the United Way for Southeast
Michigan's Community Financial Center (CFC) where specialized ?nancial coaches help clients improve
credit. increase net worth and income. Wayne Metro uses this model in support of ?nancial products: Twin
Accounts, individual Development Account and Pay Yourself First/Save for Match programs. Twin
Accounts are essentially credit-builder loans with a matched savings component. lDAs are matched savings

2018 Financial Empowerment Center implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 12

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Nehlett City of Detroit
accounts for long-term goals such as purchasing a home, starting a business, or saving for higher education.
An individual can be enrolled in an savings program for as long as five years. making it a very effective
way to improve Savings habits and impact credit. Pay Yourself First and Save for Match are matched savings
programs offered to Wayne Metro clients who have received other services and are working toward a savings
goal, mostly saving for an emergency.

Wayne Metro is integrating this ?nancial counseling with income supports and resource navigation
coaching while making warm handoff referrals to internal and external job readiness/navigation coaching
services. internally, ouriob readiness programs integrate ?nancial counseling within job skills and training.

Our counseling philosophy is that all people, even those in crisis, should drive the counseling relationship.
Our efforts on integrating ?nancial counseling within multiple services has shown enCouraging results with
clients facing an immediate crisis. in the CFE Detroit Short-Term Foreclosure Pilot, 74% of clients who were
at immediate risk of losing their homes, Were successful in retaining their homes. 97% of them were
reinstated in payment plans avoiding immediate foreclosure, and within 5 months accumulated $11,475 in
aggregate savings for emergencies and to reduce debt.

Wayne Metro understands that the Financial Empowerment Center uses a distinct ?nancial counseling
model from the ones we currently use. The staff identi?ed for the FEC will be fully trained in the FEC model.

Question 24

If the already provides similar services, please identify how services will be merged (or kept separate)
and how multiple services models will coexist.

All of the ?nancial counseling tools Wayne Metro uses coexist as part ofour integrated service delivery
strategy. Staff has the ability to carry out multiple distinct counseling roles simultaneously, including
coaching on crises and barriers, income supports, community resources, and ?nancial capability. They
provide a warm handoff to internal and external programs and services. Depending upon the goals of the
client, counseling can last anywhere from 2 months to 60 months.

While Wayne Metro will continue to integrate the approaches we currently use. we will adhere to the CFE
financial counseling FEC model for the Financial Empowerment Center. Staff assigned to this project will be
fully trained in the FEC model to provide clients with free. one-on-one professional counseling assistance
with money management, budgeting, debt reduction, improving or establishing credit. connecting to Safe and
affordable banking services, building savings, and wraparound services or referrals to other services and
organizations serving Detroit residents. The counselors will guide FEC clients through complex ?nancial
challenges and choices, helping them identify and meet challenges and plan for the future.

Question 25*

Provide an overview of the providers' experience with data tracking, managing and reporting on critical program
and client data points.

Wayne Metro is a $35 million organization that manages multiple grants and contracts. We have a
dedicated Grant Management team of six, supervised by the agency's Controller to provide a direct link to our
financial record-keeping. Grant Managers provide data assurance. grant compliance and reporting for federal.
state. and local government funders as well as private and foundation grants. In all, this team oversees
approximately 150 grants and contracts per year.

2018 Financial Empowerment Center implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 13

EXHIBIT A

Chelsaa Neblett City of Detroit

Community Action Agencies use a Results-Oriented Management and Accountability (ROMA) system to
collect outputs and outcomes and work on quality improvement. Grant Managers collaborate with program
staff to create logic models for each program we offer and collect outcomes to determine if changes to
program service delivery are required.

Wayne Metro currently uses several systems to collect and report data. Our main systems are FacsPro,
Service Point, and Efforts to Outcomes (ETD). These systems track data regarding ?nancial coaching and case
management outcomes.

Wayne Metro has embarked on an agency-wide technology and data strategy assessment to better track.
report and integrate services. We are working with Civiila, a Detroit-based design studio, on a research
project to generate user insights and measure the effects of simplifying and scaling a digital application
enrollment process for utilities. Civilia was responsible for the successful redesign and launch of the Michigan
Department of Health and Human Services Bridges bene?t application. As part of our strategic planning
process, we are exploring the use of other enterprise solutions as a means of removing the silos created by
funding Sources and their tracking systems, creating a more client-centered and outcome-driven approach to
data tracking.

A Wayne Metro Grants Manager will be assigned to work directly with the Nonpro?t Program Manager
and the other team members to ensure accurate data collection and reporting to the City of Detroit, Wayne
County Treasurer and CFE Fund. We can provide reports on appointments, demographics, ?nancial
characteristics, outcome metrics, and aggregated data on clients? ?nancial well-being or satisfaction surveys.
Record-level data can be pulled for interim analysis.

Wayne Metro will work with CFE, the City of Detroit and the Wayne County Treasurer during the training
process to understand the method for tracking data for the FEC, and to ensure counselors are trained and
ready to implement the new system for client management and data tracking.

Question 26*

What is the staf?ng plan for the FECs, including number of counselors, hiring strategy, languages needed,
counselor supervision, and data collection oversight?

The proposed staf?ng plan will consist of four Wayne Metro employees. Shaina Mouzer, Community
Resource Navigation Manager, will be the Nonpro?t Program Manager. She will be supported by a team of
three full-time FEC Financial Counselors. The three counselors will be fully trained and immersed in the 
CFE model and dedicated to achieving the outcomes of the FEC: safe, affordable banking. increased savings,
reduced debt and improvements in credit.

The FEC Financial Counselor position will be posted for applicants both internally and externally. Wayne
Metro posts open positions on indeed, the Michigan Nonpro?t Association, and through network list-serves
depending on the position. Several existing Wayne Metro employees have the credentials, skills and
experience necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the Counselor position. We anticipate that they will
be excited about the opportunity to hold one of these new positions, and they may be re-assigned to this
project to allow the work to move forward quickly. Efforts will be made to encourage quali?ed candidates
who speak Spanish. Bengali and Arabic, as these languages are often needed when serving Detroit families.
The City of Detroit Civic Right. inclusion, and Opportunity Department offers translation and interpretation
Services if there in a client or organizational need. These language services will be processed by Chelsea
Nebiett, City Manager.

in addition, Wayne Metro proposes to create a Task Force approach to support the team both during its
infancy and as it matures. The Task Force will consist of the following Wayne Metro staff: Karen MacDonald,
Director of Economic Opportunities, Michelle Robinson, Director of Basic Needs, Grant Manager assigned to

2018 Financial Empowerment Center implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 14

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

the FEC project, as well as the Dannielle Laura, Homeownership Services Manager, Angela Aaron-Bene?eld.
Financial Empowerment Services Manager, Lindsay Westin, Foreclosure Coordinator. Stephanie Marchese.
Workforce Development Manager, and Shame Community Resource Navigation Manager
(Nonpro?t Program Manager) who will be the lead on the project. The Task Force will meet regularly to
assist the FEC team in carrying out its activities. This group will bring ?nancial products and systems
knowledge to the table for improved service delivery to clients of the FEC. The Local Government Program
Manager is welcome to participate in the meetings.

Data collection is a team effort at Wayne Metro. The Nonpro?t Program Manager in coordination with the
City Manager will be responsible for ensuring that data collected within the client management and database
system is complete and accurate. The project will be assigned a Grant Manager that will assist the Nonpro?t
Program Manager to collect. aggregate, and prepare any programming reporm for the City Manager. the
funders and other partners. The Grant Manager will have primary responsibility for any online reporting
required by CFE. Oversight of the grants management process is the role of Wayne Metro's Controller, Katie
Crank. Since lanuary 2017. Ms. Cronk has overseen the agency budget. grant compliance and reporting
functions. She prepares for and assists with the ?scal year-end closing procedures, year-end audit and
monitoring visits by funders. She trains the accounting. grants and program staff in new compliance or
accounting changes that impact the business of Wayne Metro. Her role in overseeing the grant management
team allows for better coordination between accounting. budget and outcome compliance.

Programmatic Partnerships

Identify all secured program partners. Please upload a completed Partnership Overview Grid to answer the
following questions. For each partner, please provide:
0 Name 8: Description: Name of the partner and organization description

- Partnership Type: indicate the type of partnership - referral. co-location or programmatic integration

- Specific partnership within the organization: Indicate if the partnership is for the entire organization or a
speci?c program/service

- Database: If available, list the databaseis) currently being used by the partner to collect client data

- Data Points (for integration partners only): Describe the data points that will be tracked to measure
potential impact of the financial counseling on clients of the integration partner

. Data-Sharing Agreement: Indicate if there is (or will be) a data-sharing agreement

0 Number of Clients Referred: Indicate the projected number of FEC clients referred per year from the
partner

0 Cross-Training: Indicate if and how the partner staff will be trained on the FEC model and processes
Space: Describe the space available for the FEC counselor

- Hours: For partners that will host a counselor on site, note if plan is for it to be full- or part-time

Question 27*
Partnership Overview Grid Template



2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 15

EXHIBIT A

Chelsaa Neblett City of Detroit

Question 28*

Provide a signed letter of Intent from each partner organization. The letter should answer the following:
0 How do you plan to integrate financial counseling into your services?
a How will the financial counseling benefit your clients?
I At what point in your program would you anticipate financial counseling being most effective?
- Describe how you envision your clients being referred or connected to an FEC counselor?

- If you will be hosting a counselor on-site, what challenges do you anticipate experiencing in integrating
the FEC counselor within your organization?

How will you ensure a sufficient volume of clients are referred to and receive counseling?
0 How will promote the FEC in your programs or sites?

?Merge all letters into a consolidated PDF
Partner_0rg_L0l.pdf

Question 29*

Provide a brief overview for how partnerships will be managed. including approaches to monitoring numbers and
readjusting services and client recruitment and engagement strategies.

The City FEC Manager will be responsible for identifying and developing Detroit FEC partnerships. Once a
partner has been identi?ed, the City Manager will work with the partner to develop shared goals. and an
MOU. The MOU, which is nonbinding, will be put in place as a good faith effort to adhere to establish
partnership goals and will create a formal document in which to evaluate program outcomes by. The MOD
will identify organizational points of contact. procedures including partnership procedures, client referrals.
incentive structures and evaluation.

The City Manager and Nonpro?t Manager will conduct quarterly meetings with program partners. to
ensure MOU goals are being met. These meetings will include an evaluation of data. where speci?c reports
will be pulled for the partner to demonstrate client outcomes for the referral. colocation or integration point.
These meetings will provide benchmark data to compare progress, and will allow for realignment and
outcome adjustment as needed. During the quarterly program partner meetings, client recruitment and
engagement practices will be analyzed. The FEC has a marketing and outreach budget. earned media and paid
media will be re-evaluated based upon effectiveness through referral data collection.

The City Manager will create a three-tier partnership structure based upon FEC Model best practices as
outlines in the FEC Three Year Evaluation Plan; Referral Based Partnerships. Co-Location Partnerships and
integration Partnerships. Co-Location and integration partnerships will require more intensive management
than referral based partnerships. Referral based partnerships can be converted to a higher level partnership
by demonstrating the qualitative achievement of their clients referred to the FEC.

Due to the high priority of programs that are current integration points, we expect to the FEC to be in high
demand.

2013 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 16

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Nebiett City of Detroit

FEC Operations

Question 30*

Please provide an overview of initial thinking on how to deploy counselors based on the program partnerships
secured, speci?cally addressing needs based on geography, language, target population, accessible hours, local
government priorities, etc.

Detroit FEC counselors will be deployed based upon the City of Detroit/ Wayne County program
integration points which include property tax foreclosure prevention, Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), and
workforce development. Tax foreclosure prevention, and workforce development are mayoral
priorities, and have been identifying as high priority integrations for phase one. or the ?rst two years, ofthe
Detroit FEC.

Specially, within property tax foreclosure prevention we focus on the following programs: Right of First
Refusal Wayne County payment plans including SPA and for individuals who are delinquent
on their City of Detroit property taxes, occupied buyback programs for both the Wayne County Land Bank
and the Detroit Land Bank Authority. and Homeowner Property Tax Assistance Program for low-income
Detroit residents eligible for property tax relief. in order to ensure strong integration, the Detroit FEC
counselors will be located at the Wayne County Treasurer's Of?ce, United Community Housing Coalition and
the Land Bank Of?ces. We will also locate at City of Detroit Recreation Centers where Workforce program are
located.

The Recreation Centers are spread geographically across the City, to ensure access for those with
transportation barriers, and access via bus lines. The Recreation Centers have late and weekend hours to
accommodate a variety of work schedule for program clients, multiple private of?ces to ensure client
con?dentiality and host a variety of programming to protect the program clients reason for visiting the center
to avoid the stigma of know "public assistance" locations.

Total number of FEC locations to start with is ?ve; the Northwest Activities Center (west side], Samaritan
Center (east side), Wayne County Treasurer's Of?ce (downtown), Wayne Metro, and United Community
Housing Coalition. These location are based upon partnerships in place and program integration points. The
Northwest Activities Center and Samaritan Center are two of the main Recreation Center hubs for the west
and east side of the City both locations have Workforce development, and other social services including a
health clinic, and a host of community based programs that are accessed regularly by residents. 1,000 of
residents visit these two recreation centers weekly, and are part of the population that is included in the FEC
integration points.

Wayne Metro as the nonpro?t service provider has three locations throughout Detroit and Wayne County
where clients can meet the FEC counselors. Additionally, Wayne Metro co-iocates with other place-based
nonpro?ts for a variety of services, meaning that further locations could be available to clients with real
transportation barriers that will not be met by existing locations. These locations also offer language services.
in addition. the City of Detroit's Civil Rights inclusion and Opportunity Department can provide
interpretation services at off-site locations when scheduled in advance.

Question 31*

Detail plans for referrals from the FEC to other supportive services (employment, housing, access to benefits, tax
preparation, legal, etc.).

As part of the Detroit Financial Empowerment Network, a network of 32 non-pro?ts that meet quarterly
as part of the Detroit Financial Empowerment initiatives through the Mayor's Of?ce, a resource grid is being
developed. At the November 2018 FEN meeting, a resource grid was proposed by the City FEC Manager as a
way to better connect clients to resources and direct services throughout the City of Detroit and Wayne
County. The FEN Was receptive to the idea, and a subcommittee will be formed in the second quarter of 2019.
The subcommittee will ?rst create a questionnaire for the nonpro?t participants to complete in order to best

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 17

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

document which nonpro?t provide which services. A detailed grid will be created for Nonpro?ts to use to
refer clients. The resource grid will allow the FEC counselors to be aware of all supportive service providers
in the city, and will create a seamless pathway for referral to ensure that clients do not get "lost? during the
process. United Way for SE Michigan, Accounting Aid Society, and Wayne Metro already have a "warm
handoff" referral based system in place that the FEC will utilize. This service is provided through 2-1-1 and
their respective call centers.

Question 32*

How will the FECs equipment and telecommunications needs be met? A typical FEC has a desktop/laptop. filing
cabinet, scanner, landline or mobile telephone and high-speed internet.

in the Detroit FEC budget. there is a line item for administrative, equipment and supply costs for both the
City Manager, and the nonpro?t provider. This includes but is not limited to laptops. and cell phones. The
recreation centers have of?ce space, desks. ?ling cabinet, etc. The Department of Neighborhoods has a
Facilities Manager that assists other department staff in of?ce spam and technology needs (each District
Manager has a district of?ce located at a Recreation Center) making equipment and telecommunication needs
an easy requirement to meet. The Facilities Manager assists with networking cell phones, laptops. printers
and more, and has deep relationships with the Recreation Center Managers.

For non-Recreation Center locations such as the WCT Of?ce, United Community Housing Coalition, etc.
each lo-location partners will have an understanding of the FEC space and equipment needs and will provide
for those per the partner MOUs.

Funding and Projected Budget

Question 33*

Please complete the Secured Match Funding template for all match funding that has been secured. Upload this
along with con?rmation letters from each funding source as a consolidated PDF. For each funding source, include:

a Source Name

0 Dollar Amount

- Funding term (start date, end date)

0 Whether the funding is in-hand or committed

I Whether funding will be held by the local government or a fiscal sponsor

- tetter from funding source confirming grant award to support FEC. If committed. include the estimated
date the funding will be ln-hand.



2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 13

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

Question 34*

Funding Prospects

What is the overall strategy to secure Year 2 funding? If there are specific prospects. please mention the name of
the funding source, any amounts already requested and the next step.

Year two of the Detroit FEC in funded all but $50,000. The City of Detroit is committed to raising the
$50,000 needed for the funding gap. Currently. the Department of Neighborhoods. in conjunction with the
Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund has 3 Concept Paper into the Ballmer Foundation for $2.5 million and
the Skillman Foundation for $200,000. Detroit at Work has submitted a lPMorgan Chase Advancing Cities
Grant that includes funding for the FEC for $75,000, but was not awarded. The City is pursuing a WellsFargo
US Conference ofMayor's Grant for Returning Citizens integration.

The City of Detroit Development and Grants Management Team has the FEC as a Department of
Neighborhoods funding priority and is looking for funding sources for year two and beyond and additional
requests are in development. The Grants team is working closely with CFE to set up future meetings with
funders such as the Ford Fund, Kresge Foundation. and others.

Question 35*
Funding Sustainability
Please provide any preliminary plans for funding sustainability beyond Year 2.

On December 15, the Mayor's Of?ce and CFE staff met with the Ballmer Group to discuss long term
funding for the Detroit FEC. A $2.5 million ask (over ?ve years] was put on the table. Following the meeting.
the Mayor's of?ce was asked to submit a concept paper to Ballmer. Given the receptivity ofthe Ballmer
program officers, we are optimistic that longer term funding will be approved for the FEC. The second path
for sustainability beyond year two has to do with writing the FEC into several grant proposals for other
departments. The ?rst of these perDSals was getting the Workforce Development Dept. to include FEC
funding in their IPMC Advancing Cities proposal. Although not awarded, Workforce is starting to involve the
City FEC Manager in grant conversations. Other similar partnerships with workforce are being contemplated,
as a result of our successful Bank On project with the Detroit Employment Solutions Corp. (DESCJ and their
summer youth jobs program. Another avenue we are exploring relates to State funding under the Community
Action Agency. Wayne Metro is the CAP agency for both City of Detroit and Wayne County. We will be
looking at ways to leverage these CAP funds into expanding the FEC counselling program in years three and
four.

Question 36*

Please review the FEC Sample Budget Overview and upload a local budget that includes the projected costs of
operating the FEC in Year 1. Use the text box below to provide a brief narrative. Note: in-Kind contributions should
be included in the budget, but do not count towards match requirement.

Detroit FEC Budget Year Dne.xlsx

Please see the attached year one budget for Detroit. Personnel costs contribute to the largest portion of
the budget including the City FEC Manager, and the Nonpro?t FEC Manager and ?nancial counselors. Training
which is included in the year one budget will reduce signi?cantly in year two due to the counselors
onboarding needs to the FEC model. Additional notes are included in the budget overview.

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 19

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Nebiett City of Detroit

Marketing and Outreach

Question 37*

Detail the FEC outreach and marketing plan, specifically how general awareness for the FECs will he developed,
and how outreach will be done in specific neighborhoods or to target populations. Please note the CFE Fund will be
providing branding guidelines, as well as marketing templates.

Dee Marx-Prosi, Rose Love and Graham Davis, Communication Specialists for the Mayor's Of?ce will
assist the City Manager with the Detroit FEC Marketing and Outreach Plan. The focus will be on client
recruitment from Detroit neighborhoods, targeting residents eligible for the program integration points such
as tax foreclosure prevention, EITC, and Workforce Development. Additionally, the nonpro?t service provider
Wayne Metro has a robust marketing team to assist in the public awareness campaign. The public awareness
campaign will include print, earned media, social media and electronic communication.

The Detroit FEC will rely heavily on referral, integration and co-iocation partners to promote the program
and conduct outreach within their client population for the FEC. The Detroit FEC will ensure all program
partners have printed and electronic materials to assist in their communication efforts. The most signi?cant
program partner, and co-leader is the WCT Of?ce. We will rely on the WCT, and a data sharing agreement. to
mail information to residents facing property tax delinquency and property tax foreclosure targeted mailings.
We will target this population based on preventative and emergency assistance: residents who are one or two
years delinquent will receive information prior to entering foreclosure or preventative information, residents
who are subject to foreclosure or who have fallen off their payment plan will receive emergency outreach.

The Department of Neighborhoods District Managers will utilize the robust Block Club network
throughout the City of Detroit to help disseminate ?yers and program information electronically and door to
door. The seven AmeriCorp VISTA members will implement our ?Grassroots" outreach to barber/beauty/nail
salons to disseminate flyers and information to organic gathering spaces through the City.

- Printed marketing materials will include; ?yers, brochures, door hangers and posters

- Electronic communication ill include: social media, email, and text message outreach

- Earned media will include: print and radio

- "Gra55roots? outreach will include: block clubs, neighborhood association, beauty and barber parlors,
nail salons, Greek organizations and the faith based community

Question 38*

What are the available local government public communications platforms and how will they be leveraged in
support of the 

The City of Detroit, Detroit at Work and The Neighborhoods will utilize their web presence including the
official websites and social media platforms to promote the Detroit FEC to Detroit and Wayne County
residents.

The City of Detroit has a Digital Media team that manages the City's and department?s social media
presence. The Digital team works with the City of Detroit Media Services to develop creative and access video
and photography services. The Digital team has a wide social media presence and access to the social media
platforms listed below:

- Mayor Duggan Facebook: 16,400+

- Mayor Duggan Twitter: 34,000+

- Mayor Duggan lnstagram: 2,200+

- City of Detroit Government Facebook: 21,000+

- City of Detroit Government Twitter: 14,200+

- City of Detroit Government instagram: 13,400+

2018 Financial Empowerment Center implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 20

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett City of Detroit

- Detroit at Work Facebook: 11,000+

- Detroit at Work Twitter: 1.7004-

- The Neighborhoods Facebook: 1,400+
- The Neighborhoods Twitter: 2,500+

- The Neighborhoods lnstagram: 1,000+

in addition the website, and social media. the City of Detroit utilizes various other communication
platforms such as Gov Delivery and new this year. a city-wide quarterly newsletter. Gov Delivery is an
enterprise management tool that allows for electronic communications to residents. Each District Manager
collects and maintains a dedicated district email list that can be utilized to spread communication, ?yers, and
information about the Detroit FEC. The City of Detroit newsletter is managed by the Mayor's Communications
Team (including Dee and Rose listed above) and can include important information related the FEC such as
location, times, how to schedule an appointment, etc. The newsletter is mailed quarterly to every residential
property in the City of Detroit.

Counselor Training

As part of the FEC Implementation Proposal, eligible applicants are required to submit a Local Training Plan that
details how counselors will be trained in accordance with the requirements and competencies detailed in the FEC
Counselor Training Standards. This is a separate application that can be accessed on CFE Fund's grants portal by
entering the access code "Training" on the top right-hand corner of the screen.

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant 21

EXHIBIT A

Chelsea Neblett

File Attachment Summary

City oi Detroit

 

Applicant File Uploads
ChelseaNeblett_Resume_2019.pdf

L05 for CFE Implementation Plan.pdf
Shama resume 2.27.19 [3).doc

Partner_0rg_L0l.pdf

Detroit FEC Budget Year One.xlsx

2018 Financial Empowerment Center Implementation
Printed On: 22 March 2019 Grant

EXHIBIT A

22



734.323.2487

8

Chelsea neblett@gma1l.com



16772 Sunderland Dr.
DetrOIt, MI 48219

 

EXPERIENCE

FINANCIAL EMPOWERMENT MANAGER
DEPARTMENT OF NEIGHBORHOODS, OFFICE, JAN. 2018 - paessm

Manages Financial Empowerment Initiatives for the City of Detroit. Department of Neigh-
borhoods. Mayor's Of?ce; Financial Empowerment Center. BankOn. Tax Foreclosure
Prevention Workgroup. Earned Income Tax Credit Workgroup. Supports Financial
Empowerment Initiatives through partnership development. fundraising. supply procure-
ment. marketing and communications. and project management.

SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES PROGRAM MANAGER
GRANDMONT ROSEOALE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION. FEB. 2013-Jm. 2010

Manage Sustainable Communities Program: Crime Prevention Task Force. Vacant
Property Task Force. Community Engagement Task Force. Beauti?cation Task Force. and
the Northwest Detroit Farmers' Market. SUpports the Sustainable Communities Program
through volunteer recruitment and outreach. vendor management. supply procurement,
marketing and communications. project management and fundraising for sustainable
communities initiatives. and as directed by the Grandmont Rosedale Strategic Quality of
Life Plan. The Sustainable Communities Program is a comprehensive approach to
community development to keep neighborhoods safe and vibrant. and preserve and
improve the quality of life for all residents.

ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE
ALPHAGRAPHICS CHICAGO. JULY 2010 -Aususr 2012

Responsible for printing ful?llment for major advertising. marketing and business ?rms
while adhering to clients' budgets and timelines to produce marketing and communications
materials. Managed 25 client accounts with teams up to ten individuals. Fostered
relationship development within accounts, resulting In the acquisition of printing and
marketing needs for four new departments.

- PROJECTS

CO-FOUNDER
LOTS OF LOVE DETROIT

Co-founded Lots of Love Detroit. a free tool lending library on wheels. Service available to
residents who need help with community improvement projects; Clearing and maintaining
vacant lots. creating public spaces. etc. but don't have access to tools or transportation
needed to complete the task. Mission is to promote resident engagement and community
care in Detroit neighborhoods through the tactical transformation of vacant lots.

BOARD MEMBER
NORTH ROSEOALE PARK CIVIC ASSOCIATION

Board member and Membership Secretary for the North Rosedale Park neighborhood

association. Reaponsible forwp??ngfaid memberships. managing the North Rosedale
Park social media accoums an ectronic communications.

a EDUCATION

WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY. DETROIT, MICHIGAN
Master of Urban Planning - in process

MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY, EAST LANSING, MICHIGAN
Bachelor of Public Policy and Public Administration 2010

MACCORMAC COLLEGE, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
Associate of Paralegal Studies 2006

Adobe Creative Suite
Fundraising

Partnership Building

Time Management
A Data Handling


Project Management



Community Engagement



734.323.2487



Chelsea.neblett@gmaal.com



16772 Sunderland Dr. EXHIBIT A
Detroit? MI 48219

 

7310 Woodward Ave. Suite 800

I Wayne Metropolitan Detroit.?Ml48202

Cor? fmunil?y Action Agency Main: (313) 873-6000
Fax: (313} 873-6066

 

March 14. 2019

Cities for Financial Empowerment
44 Wall Street. Suite 605
New York. NY 10005

Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency (Wayne Metro) fully supports the
City of Detroit in its implementation of a Financial Empowerment Center that will support
families with no?cost professional ?nancial counseling.

Wayne Metro has the mission to empower people and communities to be strong.
health and thriving. As the Community Action Agency serving Wayne County. Michigan.
we have been offering many services to Detroit and its residents since 2013. The majority of
the families served by our agency are experiencing one or more ?nancial challenge or
emergency. To assist these families. Wayne Metro offers services that include short-term
emergency ?nancial coaching around payment plans. foreclosure intervention services,
and income and asset-building products with ?nancial education and coaching. In ?scal
year 2018, we served more than 300 families with foreclosure intervention assistance.
including some facing mortgage and property tax foreclosure and some enrolled in the
Detroit Land Bank Buy Back program. In addition. we served more than 1.000 Wayne
County with counseling and asset-building products to help them achieve financial goals.

Wayne Metro is fully committed to the establishment of the Financial Empowerment
Center program in the City of Detroit and is excited to take on the role of the Center's
Nonpro?t Partner. In SUpport of our role. we have identified the following staff:

- FEC Operation:

0 Shama Mounzer. Community Navigation Manager, will act as the Nonpro?t
Program Manager. Ms. Mounzer led our efforts during the CFE Detroit Financial
Counseling/Coaching pilot during 2018.

0 Three Financial Counselors selected for the project will be trained and fully
immersed in the CFE counseling model with the goal of serving 1.440 clients
during the ?rst two years of operation.

- Wayne Metro FEC Task Force:
0 Karen MacDonald. Director of Economic Opportunities. oversees program
areas of Financial Capability. Homebuyer Counseling. Foreclosure intervention.
Matched Savings. Tax Preparation. and Family Self?Suf?ciency. Ms. MacDonaid

EXHIBIT A

will provide the operations team with program design and coordination
assistance.

0 Angela Aaron-Bene?eld. Economic Opportunities Manager, leads a team of
three highly trained ?nancial coaches. These coaches possess tools and
products to help their clients save. reduce their debt. increase income, and
improve their credit.

0 Dannielle Laura, Homeownership Counseling Manager. Ms. Laura has led
Wayne Metro's Foreclosure Intervention program for more than 10 years. She is
an expert in tax foreclosure. She and her staff provide services for Detroiters
attending the Wayne County Treasurer's Show Cause hearings every year.

0 Michelle Robinson, Director of Basic Needs, directs programs in the area of
emergency assistance for water. electricity and gas. Her staff serves more than
9,000 residents per year administering assistance and payment plans with soft-
touch counseling. Ms. Robinson will sUpport linking the FEC clients to
wraparound supports.

0 Lindsay Westin, Foreclosure Coordinator. will be standing by to assist the FEC
Financial Counselors with tax foreclosure clients who are eligible for specialized
assistance.

0 Stephanie Marchese. Workforce Development Manager, will participate in the
task force to help support job readiness and soft skills training initiatives that
arise as part of the project.

a Grant Manager to be identi?ed. The grant manager will work with the team to
ensure compliance and reporting to the local government and funders.

Shama Mounzer will lead the task force as the direct link to the Local
Government Program Manager.

We appreciate the opportunity to partner with the City of Detroit. the Wayne County
Treasurer. and Cities for Financial powerment on this exciting project.

 

ecutive Of?cer

EXHIBIT A

 

 

Shama
Mounzer

4711 Westland ST,

Dearborn, Mi 48l26
313-478-004I

0uchi82@yahoo.com

KEY COMPETENCIES

Building effective Teams
Motivating others
Delegation

Program Development
Relationship Building
Time Management
Training

Coordinating
Decision Making
Facilitating Meetings
Planning

TRAITS
Fluent in English and
French
Adaptable
Approachable
Collaborator
Communicator
Contributor
Dependable
Detail Oriented
Flexible
Passionate
Professional
Organized
Reliable
Self-Starter
Strong Learning Agility
Timely

SOFTWARE
PROFICIENCIES
Word
Excel
PowerPoint
Microsoft Of?ce
Outlook
Facspro

 

 

JOB EXPERIENCE

Community Navigation Manager (10/18-Present)

Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency-Detroit,



1- Coordinate, with the assistance of the Director and agency
planning staff, community engagement events, case
management and community resource navigator programming
to be implemented by the agency.

I Seek and secure sopportive services for people with low income
seeking assistance through the provision of information and
referral services whether the services are directly provided by
Wayne Metro or other community.

I Provide on-going direction and training to include Mi Bridges,
Financial coaching and self- sufficiency planning, to Case
Managers and Community Resource Navigators.

I Seek and secure supportive services for people with low income
seeking assistance through the provision of information and
referral services whether the services are directly provided by
Wayne Metro or other community resources.

LSP Program Coordinator (06/17-09/18)

Wayne Metropolitan Community Action A gentry-Detroit, MI

. Project management oversight for LSP Self-Suf?ciency
Program and CFE Program.

0 Seek and secure supportive services for LSP and CFE clients to
curate a diverse offering of services, resources, and activities for
clients.

0 Maintain up-to-date knowledge of available services; increase
the services available to clients; and better coordinate existing
services to help clients meet social, physical, and economic
needs.

I- Train new employees and provide technical assistance to
problems.

Direct Service Specialist (09115-06117)

Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency-Detroit, MI

I Interviews clients to obtain information necessary to make
eligibility determinations and conducts initial intake interviews.

I Process clients for assistance and verifying documentation and
paperwork.

Maintains accurate ?les by processing application, keeping case
history ?les current and responding to client inquiries.

EXHIBIT A

 

 

Shama
Mounzer

EDUCATION

Lebanese University
B.A.J.-Journalism (Equivalency
available)

MCA Leadership Institute
Non-pro?t Leadership
Certi?cate

MI Bridges Train the Trainer
Certi?cate

Neighbor Works America
Credit counseling certi?cate

Neighbor Works America
Financial Coaching Certi?cate

Bank of America
Financial Coaching Certi?cate

REFERENCES

Abir Bazzi

(313) 424-3262

Early Childhood
Specialist/Director

Star International Academy

Azza Ahmad, MSW

(313) 610-4l14

Family Service Worker,
Wayne Metropolitan
Community Action Agency

Nada Zorkot
(313) 522-7322
Case Manager
Access

 

 

Family Service Worker (06/14-09/15)
Wayne Metropolitan Community Action A MI

Recruit, enroll and obtain appropriate records of children and families
to ensure full enrollment and waitlists.

Actively participate in parent or group meetings, community
collaborations and af?liations in order to advocate for head start
children and families.

Refer families and children to resources within SHS and community
organizations for social service needs as necessary.

Outreach Worker (03/10-06/14)

Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency ?5 Development
Department-Detroit, MI

Educating and enrolling most of Wayne County residents who receive
Medicaid into a managed care program.

Develop and maintain relationships with staff of local agencies that
work directly with the Medicaid population.

Provide case management services for low- income people.

Teacher (09/07?03/ 10)
Children ?3 Garden Development Center-Dearborn MI

Implement curriculum plans.

Ongoing communication with parents regarding children's activities,
behavior, and development, and responded to all parents concerns as
they arise.

Journalist 
Aliwaa Newspaper-Beirut Lebanon

Covered political and social issues.

Reported on a variety of stories citywide. Provided daily coverage of
major local events.

Wrote several stories cOVering social, economic, and political issues.

EXHIBIT A

 

1-3?5325 

 

Eit- loll"

 

luau-all.

I?ll-?ii 


[lull-I in! inf-IE3 Elli 

El

 

 


O??ait?l 
I
villa-.335
pugs-.533} aid?Iii..- idl Evita-I

 

 

 

?3.55 Fan}: .: .o??uia? .: .1 inf-IT; rials

 

 

.Ei??algl
Elng-?uai

 

 

iilillilul


 

?lilalnII-EE



ill

Iii?ti'

Sig-.1: it: pi r: E13 al.33-

 

3915? it .2i9??13-I i3 33 yr. 

 

9.512.391 0:51.
is; 1.5.le

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mil?m2. 

ERIC R. SABREE
Wayne County Treasurer

MELANIE KERSEY


 

February 19, 2019

Cities for Financial Empowerment
44 Wall Street] Ste. 605
New York, NY 10005

Financial Empowerment Center:

This letter is to document the sUpport and participation of the Wayne County Treasurer's Office in
the creation, establishment and continued support of a permanent Financial Empowerment Center
(FEC) In Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan. This will be a loint venture of the Wayne County
Treasurer?s Of?ce and City of Detroit, Mayor's Of?ce.

i agree, as Treasurer of Wayne County, to administer the program through the Wayne Metro
Community Action Agency and contribute $200,000 (two-years at $100,000 per year) to fund the
Financial Empowerment Center. The funds will he 'used to contract four financial counselors for the
FEC. The remaining budget of $570,000 will be contributed by the Cities for Financial
Empowerment Fund and the City of Detroit.

The purpose of this letter is for the required Financial Empowerment Center implementation plan,
to be submitted by the City of Detroit Mayor?s Office Department of Neighborhoods, as requested
by the Cities for Financial Empowerment.

Sincerely,

7 

Eric ii Sabree,
Treasurer

400 Monroe . :5"1 Floor - Detroit. Mlchigan 43225
ww.b'easurer.wayneeounly.com

EXHIBIT A

Community Action Agency MEI: 813; gig
a 

. 7310 Woodward Ave. Suite 800
Wayne Metropolitan Detroit. MI 48202

March 14. 2019

Cities for Financial Empowerment
44 Wall Street, Suite 605
New York. NY i0005

Wayne Metropolitan Community Action Agency [Wayne Metro) fully supports the
City of Detroit in its implementation of a Financial Empowerment Center that will support
families with no-cost professional ?nancial counseling.

Wayne Metro has the mission to empower people and communities to be strong.
health and thriving. As the Community Action Agency serving Wayne County. Michigan.
we have been offering many services to Detroit and its residents since 2013. The maiority of
the families served by our agency are experiencing one or more financial challenge or
emergency. To assist these families. Wayne Metro offers services that include short-term
emergency ?nancial coaching around payment plans. foreclosure intervention services.
and income and asset-building products with ?nancial education and coaching. In ?scal
year 2018. we served more than 300 families with foreclosure intervention assistance.
including some facing mortgage and property tax foreclosure and some enrolled in the
Detroit Land Bank Buy Back program. in addition. we served more than 1.000 Wayne
County with counseling and asset?building products to help them achieve ?nancial goals.

Wayne Metro is fully committed to the establishment of the Financial Empowerment
Center program in the City of Detroit and is excited to take on the role of the Center's
Nonpro?t Partner. in support of our role. we have identi?ed the following stall:

. FEC Operation:

0 Shama Mounzer. Community Navigation Manager. will act as the Nonpro?t
Program Manager. Ms. Mounzer led our efforts during the CFE Detroit Financial
Counseling/Coaching pilot during 2018.

a Three Financial Counselors selected for the project will be trained and fully
immersed in the CFE counseling mode! with the goal of serving 1.440 clients
during the ?rst two years of operation.

. Wayne Metro FEC Task Force:
0 Karen MacDonald. Director of Economic Opportunities, oversees program
areas of Financial Capability. Homebuyer Counseling. Foreclosure intervention.
Matched Savings. Tax Preparation. and Family Self-Suf?ciency. Ms. MacDonald

EXHIBIT A

.will provide the operations team with program design and coordination
assistance.

0 Angela Aaron-Bene?eld. Economic Opportunities Manager. leads a team of
three highly trained ?nancial coaches. These coaches possess tools and
products to help their clients save. reduce their debt. increase income. and
improve their credit.

0 Dannielle Laura. Homeownership Counseling Manager. Ms. Laura has led
Wayne Metro's Foreclosure Intervention program for more than 10 years. She is
an expert in tax foreclosure. She and her staff provide services for Detroiters
attending the Wayne County Treasurer?s Show Cause hearings every year.

0 Michelle Robinson. Director of Basic Needs. directs programs in the area of
emergency assistance for water. electricity and gas. Her staff serves more than
9,000 residents per year administering assistance and payment plans with soft-
touch counseling. Ms. Robinson will support linking the FEC clients to
wraparound supports.

0 Lindsay Westin. Foreclosure Coordinator. win be standing by to assist the FEC
Financial Counselors with tax foreclosure clients who are eligible for specialized
assistance.

0 Stephanie Marchese. Workforce Development Manager, will participate in the
task force to help support job readiness and soft skills training initiatives that
arise as part of the project.

a Grant Manager to be identi?ed. The grant manager will work with the team to
ensure compliance and reporting to the local government and tunders.

Shama Mounzer will lead the task force as the direct link to the FEC's Local
Govemment Program Manager.

We appreciate the opportunity to partner with the City of Detroit. the Wayne County
Treasurer. and Cities for Financial powerrneni on this exciting project.

       
 

Chief ecutive Of?cer

EXHIBIT A

gg?icctoVZ/hitaker, Esq. ?it? of Ect?r?it

Irvin Corley. Jr.

Fun 0 Point CITY, COUNC 

gets? l" LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
cmor City Planner .

Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Mumcrpal Center

Deputy Director Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

-

TO: Honorable Detroit/1' C'o ieil

  
 
   

FROM: David Whitaker, Direct 

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel llurt, Esq.

Kimnui .lell're}

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashlev A. Wilson

Legislative Policy Divi at'f
DATE: November 4, 2019
RE: Supplemental Report No. to Report on Resolution Submitting Bond Proposal and

Authorizing the Issuance of Not to Exceed $250.000.000 in Unlimited Tait General
Obligation Bonds. Series 2020 for the Purpose of Paying the Cost of Eliminating
Blight in the City of Detroit through Demolition and Other Blight Remediation

Activities

On October l4. 20W. your Honorable Body received a report from the Legislative Policy

Division on a resolution submitted by the Of?ce of the Chiel' Fin

ancial t?ti cer 

regarding the proposed issuance ol? to $250 million in Unlimited Tar-t General Obligation
bondsI to ?nance the cost of eliminating blight in the City of Detroit through
demolition and other blight remediation activities. including the demolition of the remaining
abandoned houses and the rehabilitation at some houses (?blight eliminationfdemolition
program?) by end of ?scal year (FY) 2025. in addition. the OCFO proposed placing this bond
issue on the March 2020 Presidential Ballot for voter approval. The up to $250 million in UTGO
blight bonds. it approved by City Council and the citizens of Detroit. would be paid off from

property taxes based on the City of Detroit?s propert tax debt millage.

in addition. October 14?? report indicated that the Administration desired to complement
the $250 million in UTGO blight bonds with $250 million in general fund surplus dollars over
the course of ?ve years ending in FY 2025. a total of $500 million. for the blight
e1iminationfdeniolition program. Given the enormity of this program. the Legislative Policy

 

1 Unlimited tax general obligation (UTGO) bonds are voter?authorized bonds paid off from property taxes based on
the City of Detroit?s property tax debt millage. In contrast. limited tax general obligation (LTGO) bonds are non-
voter bonds and paid for out of the City?s general fund and are Lot paid for out of property taxes based on the

property tax debt millage.

Division along with City Council Members, had many questions on the UTGO blight
bonds and on the merits ol?the blight eliminationfdemolition program. LPD?si0ctoher 1411? report
included a number oi" attachments representing the responses to
on the lj'ltit} liliglil bonds as null as a number ul? Item the
OCFOJ?Administralion on the UTGO blight bonds.

The primary purpose of this supplemental report is to provide additional responses from the
OCFOfAdministration to additional questions raised by LPD and City Council Members on the
UTGO blight bonds. This supplemental report also provides additional presentations from the
OCFO/Administration on the UTGO blight bonds as well as additional reports from LPD on
issues associated with the UTGO blight bonds.

The following is a list of attachments, with their respective titles, regarding the additional
responses, LPD reports and presentations that are inclusive in this supplemental report:

9 Attachment 1 Responses to Council Member Raquel Castaneda?Lopez?s Questions
Regarding the Blight Removal Bond Ballot Question Timing

I Attachment II OCFO?s/Adrninistration?s ?City Council Blight Removal Bond Concerns
Addressed? Presentation

0 Attachment Responses to Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez?s Questions
Regarding the Blight Removal Bond Removal Proposal

0 Attachment IV Report on the Deadline for Ballot Language
- Attachment - Report on the Dissolution of the Detroit Land Bank Authority

I Attachment VI Responses to Council Member Raquel Castaneda?Lopez?s Questions
Regarding the Blight Removal Bond Ballot Question Timing

0 Attachment VII Responses to Questions Regarding the Use of Salesforce for Tax
Compliance

0 Attachment Responses to Council Member James Tate?s Questions Regarding the
Blight Removal Bond

0 Attachment IX Responses to Council Member Scott Benson?s Questions Regarding the
Blight Removal Bond

0 Attachment Responses to Council Member Gabe Leland?s Questions Regarding the
Blight Removal Bond

- Attachment XI OCFO?s/Administration?s Report on Council Actions on Demolition in
Next 12 Months

Attachment Supplemental Resolution Con?rming the
Administration?s Commitment to Certain Actions Regarding Implementation of ?Bond
Proposal Funds" and Policies Governing Related Property, dated October 22, 2019

Attachment Responses to Council President Brenda Jones?s October 23, 2019
Requests on Blight Removal Bond

Attachment XIV OCFO?s/Administration?s Supplemental Resolution Con?rming the
Administration?s Commitment to Certain Actions Regarding Implementation of ?Bond
Proposal Funds? and Policies Governing Related Property. revision as of October 28, 3019

Attachment XV OCFO?s/Administration?s ?Blight Removal Bond Proposal City Council?
Presentation

Attachment XVI Responses to Questions from October 29, 2019

Please let us know if we can provide any more information.

Attachments

CC:

David Massaron, Chief Financial Of?cer

John Naglick, Chief Deputy CFO Finance Director

Katherine Hammer, Chict?Deputy CFO Policy 8; Administration Director
Tanya Stourlemire, OC?FO-Deputy CFO. Budget Director

('Jt'?ce ol?tlic Auditor General

Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

Attachment I

to Council Member Raquel untuhetlu?l..opezb QLlellOllb Regardmg
the Blight Removal Bond Ballot Question Timing

 bidiialui?lmu'iqu 5 law rai 313 .224 .1135

Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

MEMORANDUM
TO: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez
FROM: David Massaron, Chief Financial Officer. City of Detroit
Arthur Jemison. Group Executive for Planning, Housmg and Dave opment
DATE: October 11, 2019
RE: Responses Questions about Blight Removal Bond Ballot Question Timing

 

This memo is in response to questions you provided at the Budget Finance and Administration
hearing about the timing of the Blight Removal Bond Ballot Question At the table you
suggested that we move the ballot question to the November election because you protect there
will be greater voter turnout. After speaking with the demo team, we are concerned about the
impact on small contractors it we do not conduct a summer procurement

In the plan laid out by the Mayor, the City will let contracts for 2 400 residential demolitions this
winter, 1.900 residential demolition this summer (July, 2020}, and 2.400 next winter (January
2021). See the proposal in the table below. Delaying the Ballot Bond Question to next
November would cance the summer 2020 procurement and greatly hurt small companies that
staffed up for our program potent ally putting them out of bus ness These crews would be busy
for 2?0 days but then work would cease for over 100 days before the next procurement

FY2020 FY2020 FY2021 FY2021 FY2021 FY2021
Jan-Mar Apr-Jun luly-Sep Oct-Dec Jan-Mar Apr-Jun
Proposal 2,400 1,900 2,400
Delayed 2,400 2,500

You also suggested that we set aside all of the 2 400 residential demolitions from the winter
procurement for small compan es After conducting analysis with our demo team, we found that
there are not enough small companies to complete all 2 400 demolitions Based on the new
procurement methodology 2? crews are required for 2400 demolitions (1 crew for each 90
house package) Even with the new small businesses OCP prequaitled this summer. we
believe small businesses can contribute at most 18 crews Again, even if all these crews
received work in the procurement, therr work would cease for over 100 days prior to the
next procurement What we have heard from many contractor meetings is that small businesses
need consistent work with longer times to complete that work. We have heard from contractors
that this semiannua approach will help them plan and prov de consistent employment for their
workers.

Thus we believe bringing the bight remove bond question to voters in the March election is
critical to maintaining and growing Detroit's small demolition contractors

Attachment II

IL) Blight Removal Bond Loneems
Addressed? Presentation

Us [\dmm

 Councrl Blight Removal Bond
Concerns Addressed

October 16, 2019

 

CITY OF

DETROIT

 

 

 

'sfheAdmmIstrationis Supporting ?Pay As You Stay" Legislation?Pay as You Stay? would help approximately 31,000
homeowners avoid foreclosure:

1) Once you enroll, all interest, penalties and fees would be
eliminated.

.2) The balance due would be limited to back taxes only or
10% of a home?s taxable value whichever is less.

 

 

 

 

Payment Example 1:

BaCkTaxe5.Taxahle Value Meet: C:

3) The remaining balance would be paid back over three
years at zero percent interest. lfliadil'amme:gamma

Curran: Taxable Value: $10,400
Current Tax Debt: 51L702

Homeowners who qualify for a full or partial Property Tax -. 7,
Exemption and enroll in future years would be eligible for the 

program. 



Th??AdmImstratIon is Supporting ?Pay As You Stay" Legislation



 
    
 

l:
.
- 2i - .- it?.

 

 

 

 



Payment Example 2: Payment Example 3:

Nc 'axalz evafueCap A :Fees 95:?

 

 

 

 

 

LC.: 35d El- 655! Ll": v-lc'i'cE cl:
Spencer Street

Income: 2018 PTE Qualified
Cu"ent ?51-.ab 17:
Cuv'ent ?a~.3eb: 553?.

Melbourne Street
Income; 2018 PTE Qualified
Cunen: ?anb a a we 5; 97'.

Current?313$ 599;;

SSO?Inunzll?l- -

'3 l?f'rlifli?ll for f, 

 

  

The Administration will propose a new Demolition Division,

?anal

Under the proposal, the Detroit Building Authority will no longer be part of
demolition.

Instead, the Housing and Revitalization Department will gain a new Demolition
Division that will oversee the demolition program.

The new Demolition Division will work with OCFO divisions (OCP, ODFS, OB, and
Treasury) to budget, procure, pay for and monitor use of bond proceeds for
demolitions.

The Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) will
continue to inspect.

The Administration will prepose an Executive Organization Plan change prior to
the end of City Council?s session in November, and will propose the funding
change with the FY2020-2021 Budget Recommendation.

  
 

*?jDelaying? the bond question would hurt contractors and

FY2020 FY2020 FY20

potentially increase our cost of borrowing

21 FY2021 FY2021 FY2021

Jon-Mar Apr-Jun July-Sep Oct-Dec Jon-Mar Apr-Jun
Proposal 2,400 ,900 2,400

Delayed 2,400

2,500

Delaying the Ballot Bond Question to next November would cancel the summer
2020 procurement and greatly hurt small companies that staffed up for our
program, potentially putting them out of business.

- These crews would be busy for 270 days, but
days before the next procurement.

then work would cease for over 100

:344-i- bond question would hurt contractors and 
gro?otentiailv increase our cost of borrowing -

   



 

Spreads remain reiativeiy stable as rates tumbte toward 2 yr 

i Rates Down

  

Sara:Wg .
1 R. 2

05

 

Attachment 

Responses to Council liaqucl Qucstions Regarding
the Blight Removal Bond Proposal

 . .I?u 
2 Woodward Avenue. suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224?2135

 

 

Detroit. Michigan 48226 
MEMORANDUM
TO: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez
FROM: David Massaron, Chief Financial Officer. City of Detroit

Arthur Jemison. Group Executive for Planning. Housing and Development
DATE: October 16. 2019
RE: Responses Questions about Blight Removal Bond Proposal

 

This memo is in response to questions you submitted on October 15. 2019 regarding the Blight
Removal Bond Proposal.

1. Provide a detailed description of the review process for determining whether a
structure is eligible for demolition, including:

a. Details of site review performed by field inspector

b. Weight given to neighborhood data such as sales history and alignment
with City initiatives

c. Process for soliciting resident feedback

There are a variety of selection criteria as part of the City of Detroit's residential demolition
strategy. All demolition candidates currently in the pipeline were selected by the DBA data team
due to one or more of the following:

A) Neighborhood Characteristics 8t Amenities. Properties close to parks. schools, recreation
centers. or other neighborhood amenities are given priority for demolition. Neighborhood
characteristics. such as density. are aiso taken into account.

B) Request by City Departments or Agencies. lvlany demolition targets are owned by the
Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA). The DLBA uses on?site field inspections to determine the
structural integrity and feasibility of repair for every property as it is considered for demolition or
sale. Presently. the organization's interior inspections include an assessment of the condition of
the foundation. internal support structure. roof. systems. and other general repair needs. These
findings are weighed against neighborhood data including on~market sales data. DLBA sales
history. housing vacancy. location of nearby amenities. occupancy trends. and relationship with
City~led initiatives as well as all recorded public inquiries to understand the market and
preferences of each community. The DBA also inciudes requests made through the DEA Demo
hotiine (1 -844JDET-DEMO). and other city departments such as City Council, BSEED.
Department of Neighborhoods. and DWSD in the selection process.

C) Special Protects. Demolitions help supplement other City or DLBA initiatives. such as 20?
minute neighborhoods. DLBA sales. road resurfacing. etc.

D) Geographic Clustering. Demolition candidates near properties already in the pipeline are
also targeted. Spatial ef?ciencies make demolition more effective.

 - I. - common A mung l?.lunii.?ipal cunt-er Phone its we?d-3333

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224?2135
I

Detroit, Michigan 48226 

I
I


 

E) Z'g Codes. In the City?s top five (5) zip codes for elevated blood lead levels, demolitions
may only occur during the cold months of the year, October through April. In all other zip codes,
demolition may occur at any time.

2. Ideally, I would like to see the process proceed as follows: 1) preserve each home
by boarding up the entire structure. 2} thoroughly assess each home to determine
the cost of repairs and whether the structure can be salvaged, 3) evaluate
potential for sale of each property, including through non-traditional financing
methods such as land contracts, and 4} demolish remainder.

a. Request that the City conduct a deconstruction pilot to determine the
feasibility of incorporating deconstruction into the demolition program on a
larger scale. Please share data from previous efforts.

Currently, the General Services Department and Land Bank are working to secure every
accessible opening of every vacant and dangerous home in the city.

As properties are secured. the Land Bank inspects the physical condition and structural integrity
of each home, and after comparing these findings with available housing market data, public
feedback, and alignment with City initiatives. determines the feasibility of rehabilitating each
property.

Earlier this year, the Land Bank also formed a Strategic initiatives unit charged with identifying,
evaluating. and piloting innovative and non~traditional sales techniques for the organization.
The sales opportunities developed by the Strategic Initiatives team are also considered in the
property evaluation process to ensure that every avenue for preservation is contemplated.

The DLBA's Strategic Initiatives team will work with the City to evaluate a land contract sales
model and implement a deconstruction pilot.

3. Given the City?s inability to use bond proceeds for foreclosure prevention
activities, what commitments will be made within the City budget for funding
programs aimed at housing preservation?

a. What amount of funding will be allocated in the FY 2020l'2021 budget for
home repair grants? Can this program be made available for residents who
are not seniors?

b. Please provide a commitment to purchasing every occupied home in
foreclosure.

We agree that the City's investment in foreclosure prevention is critical to our future, and we
need to continue to push out the City?s programs aimed to help residents stay in their homes.

Since 2015, occupied foreclosures have decreased by 94% in part due to the work of the City
and philanthropies have done to help people stay in their homes. Under the Mayor?s leadership,
the City ended the Emergency Manager?s practice of placing water bills in the property tax
foreclosure system. in partnership with UCHC, we organized volunteers from neighborhoods to
knock on doors to offer help to those facing foreclosure. And we led the effort to pass House Bill
5882 that allowed delinquent taxpayers to enter into payment plans to avoid foreclosures: 15,000
signed up first year alone.

This month, the Mayor partnered with Wayne County Executive Warren C. Evans, Wayne
County Treasurer Eric Sabree, and State Representative Wendell to propose "Pay As You

 

lWoodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 224-2135



 

- um? Detroit, Michigan 48226 
LE I

Stay?, a sweeping new approach that. if approved by the state legislature. would assist tens of
thousands of Detroiters and Wayne County residents who owe back property taxes avoid
foreclosure. Under the "Pay as You Stay? plan. homeowners who qualify for and enroll in a full or
partial Property Tax Exemption would be eligible for the program. For those that enroll:

1. All interest. penalties and fees would be eliminated;

2. To reduce an undue burden on homeowners. the balance due would be limited to back
taxes only or 10% of a home?s taxable value whichever is less.

3. The remaining balance would be paid back over three years at zero percent interest.

This proposal amounts to a significant investment in those at risk of foreclosure because. if
approved by the legislature. we anticipate the City of Detroit will see lost revenue collection. ln
addition. the City will continue to fund the poverty tax exemption program (currently estimated at
$1.8 million annually in a tax expenditure). which we anticipate will grow due to the PAYS
program.

The Operating Budget is determined each year by the Administration and City Council based on
the available resources: The Four Year Budget forecasted that the Home Repair Program would
be funded at over $2 million between General Fund and CDBG in FY2021, The four year plan
also included $2.5 million to recapitalize of the 0% Home Repair Program and $1 million in
matching funds for the City? 5 ongoing and special lead hazard Prevention grants for FY2021. In
early 2020. the City expects to identify reforms to the all of our Home Repair programs to make
them available to more homeowners. In order to maximize impact on low income seniors. we
recommend that the program rules for the Senior Home Repair program remain as currently in
place. Once reforms have been implemented we will review progress and see if we can expand
the program to non?seniors.

We have used our Right of First Refusal and City general fund in a partnership to remove over
1000 people from the occupied foreclosure list. This past year that number was just over 500
down from over 9.000 in 2014. We commit to continuing to use ROR and City resources to keep
this number at a "functional zero" but there unfortunately will always be cases that have to go to
foreclosure.

4. I support the citywide neighborhood strategic planning program that has been
proposed, however the City should have detailed programs in place for residents
to review and from which they can select. Please commit to developing the
following land disposition policieslprograms:

a. First right of refusal for neighboring property owners
b. Priority bidding period for neighbors who reside on the block

c. Land contract options to expand purchase opportunities to those who may
not have access to traditional financing

Our sales platforms are designed to be blind. in that staff does not touch the bidding process
until a winning bidder is identified through online interface. We believe this is the fairest process
and protects all bidders by not allowing opportunities for preferential treatment. We are
sympathetic to the need for near neighbors to be involved in the process. For this reason. we
have implemented Building Blocks. This is a coordinated effort where the DLBA partners with a
non-profit. faith-based group. or neighborhood association to sell many homes at once in a
concentrated area. Neighbors are invited to participate in advance of the listing date so they are
aware of every property that will be made available for sale. Building Blocks also coordinates

common A roung Municipal Center Phone 313 ?523-253:
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 ?224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

sales with other efforts. including demolition and property maintenance, and promotes
collaboration with other agencies to coordinate additional neighborhood activities, such as lawn
mowing and street sweeping prior to the event.

Our voluntary. post-sale survey shows 69% of buyers lived in Detroit at the time of purchase,
and 67% plan to live in their DLBA home after renovation. Additionally. SW: of respondents
indicate they were renters before buying from the DLBA. demonstrating our unique ability to
make the dream of homeownership a reality for those systematically excluded from the
traditional real estate market.

5. Provide a detailed ti meline and cost estimate for conducting strategic planning in
all Detroit neighborhoods over the next five years.

Over the next 5 years. the Planning Development Department intends to complete the
planning of all areas of the city. Specifically. this entails implementing planning processes for
approximately 15 additional areas of the city. in addition to the 15 plans already completed or
currently undenlvay. This next phase of planning will focus on:

1) Lower density residential areas that will be impacted the most by blight removal
2) What follows once the abandoned and dangerous structures are removed

3) Industrial and commercial land uses

4) Updating of master plans

For the most part. PDD can complete these plans with existing PDD budget and reflects a
continuation of the pace of current department work. However. PDD is evaluating what
additional funds may be needed and from where they can be sourced. The department has
traditionally used a combination of City GE Capital and non~City resources to complete its
planning work. Through the budget process we will evaluate and recommend
resources that are needed to meet these goals. subject to available resources.

5. It was indicated that each demolition would cost approximately $17,000. Does this
estimate account for all costs, including administrative. pro-demolition surveys,
abatement and fugitive dust mitigation. post?abatement veri?cation. site
preparation and cleanup, sidewalk repair. utility shut-off. etc? Provide a
comprehensive breakdown of actual costs.

in the past 12 months. the costs paid to demolition contractors is approximately $20,000 per
residential property. This average cost includes:

- The abatement of all safely accessible hazardousr'reguiated materials
. The demolition of the structure and the removal and disposal of all debris
- The backfill, grading. and seeding of the lot.
Other demolition-related costs, including:
. Hazardous/regulated materials survey approximately $1,300 leach property
- Post-abatement verification approximately $107/each property

 i. .
i .i 

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135

'Chlof?nari'dildf?cor 
Detrort, Michigan 48226 

   

;m

- We are holding contractors responsible for excessive damage to sidewalks, and we are
working with DPW and DWSD to coordinate underground work and prioritize repairs.

In addition, there are annual operating costs of the demo team, procurement staff, etc. These
overhead costs have not been included in the average cost per property because these costs
don?t change per property and so we are measuring it consistently with the way previous
administrations have calculated demo costs.

7. Provide a detailed description of how the record-keeping and tracking will be
performed in order to ensure that demolitions meet the public purpose
requirement of the tax exempt bonds.

See memo attached.

8. Explain why the Administration is proposing to maintain decentralized
demolitions operations, versus establishing a centralized demolition department
(exclusive of the Office of the Chief Financial Officer divisions, such as the Office
of Contracting and Procurement.)

We have heard concerns from members of City Council, and we are evaluating ways to
streamline the teams.

9. Disclose any ongoing litigation or investigations into the Detroit Building
Authority and the Detroit Land Bank Authority.

The Special inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program and the City
of Detroit Office of the Auditor General are currently conducting audits of the Detroit Demo
Program.

The following are DLBA pending litigation. Cases in red font denote litigation arising from the
Demolition Program.

 

 

Case Caption Case No. Court

 

 

Daniel Murray DLBA, Rebecca Camargo, Craig Fame at 16-009806- 3rd Circuit

 

 

 

al CH
Farrow Group Inc. DLBA 17-002792- 3rd Circuit
CK

 

Pamula Sharp DLBA, Reginald Scott, Robert Hillary and 17?015844- Court of Appeals
Stacy Hillery CH

 

 

Tim Dralreford 8. Direct Construction Services DLBA, 18-12356 Eastern District of

Tammy Daniels, lrene Tucker et al. Michigan

 

 

 

 

 

 



ommh-?r' 
i 

Loleman A. Young Municrpal Lenter

Phone 513 -b?3-2535

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Law Detroit, Michigan 48226 
HM
Khalil Barakat DLBA 18-011926? 3rd Circuit
CH
Den-Man Contractors, Inc. DLBA et al. 19-004685- 3rd Circuit
CK
Lawanda Turner DLBA 19-006431- 3rd Circuit
CD
Anthony Eboni Parker DLBA et al. 19?006708? 3rd Circuit
CZ
Joy Rahaman DLBA 19-241197- 36th District Court
SC
MacDonald DLBA et al 19-12183 Eastern District of
Michigan
DLBA 5005 32nd Street Detroit Michigan 48210 350231 Michigan Court of
Appeals
Green Way Environmental and Bill Scu/ly DLBA and City 19-013334- 3rd Circuit
of Detroit CZ
BBEK and Kevin Woods DLBA and City of Detroit 19-013361- 3rd Circuit
CZ

 

 

 

 

 

10. How will the demo tracker be enhanced to provide easily available information to

the public, given the inaccessibility of the salesf

orce platform? How will you

ensure that data provided to the public is accurate and inclusive of all demolition

I 
CDEIS 

We are always looking for ways to enhance the demo tracker. The first version was launched in
the summer of 2016* only after heavy input from the residents and members of the Eastside
Community Network. DEE-A staff attended many meetings at ECN with mock ups of the tracker

and engaged the residents on what they wanted to see on it They

wanted to see, in a very

simple format. when a demolition near them will happen or has happened, by what contractor

and how much was paid to that contractor.

 

       
 

acre-man A rec-ct; Mammpal center anoint.- 315 762.5 2533
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

rm . mil-Iowan-?

A few months later and based on additional meetings, an enhanced version of the tracker was
released. This version had additional details from DLBA programs. The clear goal is to show
residents the work being done around them.

The tracker is synced every morning from Salesforce, the operational platform of the demolition
program. Contractors are required by contract to enter data directly into Salesforce, like a
"Planned Knockdown Date" for example. That data is automatically shared the next day on the
demo tracker the demolition data includes all demolitions for which the has the date
that the structure was knocked down, the cost of the demo and abatement paid to the contractor
listed, and the contractor since 2014. This count includes all buildings that have been knocked
down but may not necessarily have been final graded yet.

For residents that may not have access to the website, a texting service was developed. By
texting an address they care about to 313-254-DEMO (3366), residents will receive a text
message listing the addresses of structures within 500 feet that are scheduled for demolition and
the approximate date of demolition.

We will continue to rely on community feedback to drive updates and changes to the demo
tracker.

11. Provide any demolition-related contracts that the Detroit Building Authority has
entered into under their own authority, and for which they are currently fully
responsible for administering.

- Gayanga (de-watering)
. ATC, PSI, and NTH (environmental services)
. AKT Peerless (backfill monitoring and testing)

- GTJ Consultants, Premier Group, and Detroit Grounds Crew (general supportive
services)

     
   

Loleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313 628-2535
Office of the.

     

chiafrlnanclalofflcer 2Woodward Avenue,suite 1100 Fax: 313-224-2135

. Detroit, Michigan 48226 
MEMORANDUM
TO: David Massaron, Chief Financial Officer, City of Detroit
FROM: Valerie Agolli. Debt Manager and

Donnie Johnson, Capital Budget Manager

DATE: October 15, 2019
RE: Plan to Monitor Use of Demolition Bond Proceeds for Compliance with

Federal Tax Laws

To support the proposed sale of $175 million in tax exempt bond proceeds to fund City
demolitions, this memo documents the Office of the Chief Financial Officer?s (OCFO)

plan to monitor the use of the tax-exempt demolition bond proceeds.

Tax-exempt bonds issued by state and local governments are subject to ongoing
compliance with federal tax requirements. Under federal tax law, if bonds are classified
as ?private activity bonds? (as of the issue date or any time during which the bonds are
outstanding), then the interest on the bonds becomes includable in the federal taxable
income of the holders of the bonds, the bonds are no longer tax?exempt but instead
are taxable. The determination of whether bonds are private activity bonds depends on
two tests - (1) the private business test, and (2) the private loan financing test. The latter
test includes both a private business use test and a private security or payment test.
The private payment test is met when more than five percent of the present value of the
debt service on the bonds is secured by privately used property or private payments.
Private payments include direct or indirect payments with respect to bond-financed
properties. in the context of the blight remediation program, private payments could
consist of amounts received from either the sale or lease of any properties that were
improved with the tax?exempt bonds.

     
 


Chld? Financlal Officer

Coleman A. Young Center Phone; 313 4328-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

     
 

To monitor the use of the tax?exempt bond proceeds, and to continue to confirm that the
private activity test has not been met (and the bonds therefore remain tax-exempt), the
OCFO will establish a system to track how each of the properties that was improved
with the bond proceeds are ultimately used. For each parcel, which will be identified
using the legal parcel number, the OCFO will track:

a) the total amount of bond proceeds spent on improving the property,

b) the type of expenditures made with bond proceeds demolition cost,

preliminary expenditures to prepare for demolition, site preparation)
c) ownership of the property at time of demolition,
d) any other city, state, or federal funds used to improve the property, and

e) the total amount received from the sale or lease (if any) of the property.

The City will track this information in the Saiesforce database. The Housing and
Redevelopment Department (H RD) and Detroit Building Authority (DBA) will be
responsible for entering the expenditure data for each demolition into the database. The
Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) will be responsible for entering the ownership and
the total amount received from the sale of any residential property. HRD will be
responsible for entering the total amount received from the sale of any commercial

property into the database.

Attached to this memo, please find an example of a Saiesforce case (or parcel) that
included a demolition and disposition. The OCFO will work with HRD, DBA and DLBA to
add additional fields to Saiesforce that will meet reporting needs. In the
attached document, please find examples of the current fields that will assist with
reporting:

. Cost: Asbestos Survey

- Cost: Asbestos Abatement

- Cost: Knock Down

. Cost: Dirt (greening)

Lolerna Hung Mummpal Le iter Phone, 313 -628-2535

    

l? 

I . 
'chli?trfn?zalol?cer ,1 2 Woodward Avenue, sunte 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Ill . . - -
DETROIT DetrOIt, Michigan 48226 
?hwf

Cost: Grade (greening)

. Cost: Seed (greening)

. Cost: Sidewalk (greening)
. Knockdown Date

- Demo Contractor

. Acquisition Method

. Acquisition Date

The OCFO, DLBA, HRD and DBA will add additional fields to meet the 
reporting needs, such as:

. Total Expenditures from Tax-Exempt Bond Proceeds

- Total Expenditures from Taxable Bond Proceeds

- Total Expenditures from City General Funds

. Total Expenditures from Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)

- Total Expenditures from Other Funds

. Total Sale Proceeds

- Total Lease or Other Proceeds for Use of Property

. Ownership Status at Demolition

- Current Ownership Status

The DLBA and DBA will sign a compliance agreement with the City covenanting to
complete these responsibilities. As part of this agreement, the DLBA will covenant to

maintain the information in a database over the life of the bonds.

The OCFO will design and extract a report with this information on a quarterly basis,

and at least often enough to measure compliance with the de minimis limitation for the
private payment test. In this report, the OCFO will aggregate the total amount received
from the sale or other disposition of all of the parcels improved with the bond proceeds

and compare that amount to the present value of debt service to be paid on the bonds.

 
   

  
 

Coleman A. Young MunICipal Center Phone: 313 628-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

. hate-i pig?- 
Chlliilnaritlal Offl?er

     

DJ

DET R01 I.

  

It

This will allow the City to determine if the five percent limit for the private payment test is

exceeded.

Because Oracle is the system of record for contracted financial data for the City, the
OCFO will extract similar information about expenditures from the Oracle database to
ensure the standardization of the compliance system. The Auditor General will be

invited to audit the compliance system at their convenience.

The OCFO will maintain this compliance tracking system until the earlier of one of the
following: (1) the maturity date of the bonds (or any tax-exempt bonds which refund the

bonds) or (2) the end of the useful life of the properties financed with the bonds.

10/14/2019

g;

Search.
Eulinlnq

Home Ch mar AIJCULFIS
Case
Show Feed
'4 "111
Case Detail
Property
Parcel ID

Transfer Case

Grant Program

Property Class (Acct)

Archived Case URL

MSHDA Demo Lien

Sate Prep Activity

Cane Record Type (ref)

PTA Date Filed

Contact Name (Compliance rot)
Compliance DNG Email
Sidewalk Replaced Date

Case Details
(ref) 0T Recorded Date
Quiet Title Batch

5150 Waiver Date
Numher of Attempts to Sell

Project Batch
Description

BSEED Legal Authority

Acquisition Information
Acquisition Method

Acquisition: Date

Donor Name

Signoff Details

GTJ Survey
GTJ Batch
GTJ Survey Complete
GTJ Address
GTJ Photo Link
GTJ Structure
GTJ Structure Type
GTJ Notes

Case' 00120834 - Salesforce - Enterprise Edition

Search 9 Switch to Lightning Experience

 

Subject

Closeout Reason

FIE Amount Withetd

ODM
Transfer-WCT Transfer Agreement
11131'2017 Acquisition Amount
Concession Amount
Concession Designation
Signoff Date
GTJ Occupancy
12i21i2016 GTJ Property Secure

GTJ Overall Condition
GTJ Neighborhood Condition

18901 Huntington

enamel-W - zeweemnwu we
Yea GTJ Survey Assessment
Single Family GTJ Deconstruction Candidate
openings. fire damage .

PhotoRev GTJ-MGM Pass Dt

Demo Recommendation Decision

Blight Letter Batch

Blight Letter Received Date
Blight Letter Requested Dale
Blight Letter Address

Blight Letter Status

Asbestos Survey

HHF5 Belch 2 NTP Batch
4.1101201? NTP Date
311312017

Received



Brian Farkas Help 5. Training

Casi-Ital: trde MJDAmtnIr?g whu C84 mire: i l '3qu Inuu r'ei CI l?lr?l :Wr u-
Cuslor?tize Pagei Printebie View Help 'nr Page
I teen-13a ill I 1 some: I oi'athmn-Itslti I I momentum I I Item"emu I meanwhile I mmtmi IQI
Edit? 'Delete' Close Case Sharing ?up
1 ED 1 gm Status For 8313
22089799 Pipeline Side Lot
Status Date 012019
Program Side Lot
Priority High
Case Record Type DIsp - Side Lot
Residential-Lot Interested Entity
BB Failed Date
YES BB Failed Reason
A-19311Q Latest Listing 711112019
Disp_Side_Lot Final Grade Approved 81912018

Demo 18901 Huntington 12016-
03-29

$0.00

Vacant
No

3

Seivege
No
21'181'2017

HHF5 NTP 2.2
4i11i2017

1/5

10/14/2019
ASE Survey RFFI Group
ASB Survey Contractor Name

ASB Slur. to St Hus

6 23 17A


Corripioiod

Asbestos Abatement Estimate 8. Certi?cation

ASE Abatement Wnlicao. 
Conbamm

ASB VerifierName
Asb Abatement EstiCert RFP

Utilities
Util: Cut Request Cancel Date

Util: Cut Status
Ulil Cut issues

Demo Contractor Details
Demo RFP Group

Demo Contractor

Demo Contractor Proceed Date

As bestos Abatement RFP Group

Asbestos Abatement Contractor
ame

Bid Price: Abatement
Bid Price. Demolition

Bid Price: Abatement Demo
Single Cost

Bid Price: Total Demo Contractor
Amt

Socrnta Flaported I?rice

Knock Down Date

Open Hole Requested

Open Hole InSpection Scheduled

Demo Returned by Contractor
Returned by Contractor: RFP
HHF Non-Recoverabie Cost

Demo Cost Details
Cost: GTJ Inspection
Cost: Utility Cut

Cost: Asbestos Survey

Cost: Asbestos Abatement
Estimate

Cost: Asbestos Abatement
Certification

Cost: Asbestos Abatement

Cost: Knock 5. meaning
lcurnb-ned)

Cost: Knock Down

Cost: Din (greening)
Cost: Grade (greening)
Cost: Seed (greening)
Cost Sidewalk (greening)

5T9 LLQ

Charles D. Gheen

5 2317A

Double Cut

10.17170

full-:11 axing-3.9 :i t- 1? rlLiIJEs
3122i20?iB

$391 00
$9010.00

511.513 23

$11 81323

7l24l2018

7/241201 8

$1500

$892 50

$25 00

$125.00

$391 00

39.42048
$934.50
$311.50
$155 75



Case 00120834 Saiesforce - Enterprise Edition

ASE Survey Date
ASE Document URL
ASE Survey Report Date

VI 1 

ASE Abatement Estimate Min

ASB Abatement Estimate Max

Util: Gas Cut Date
Util: Gas Clearance Type
Util: Electric Cut Date

Util: Electric Clearance Type

Utii Hazard ?Ictification Data

Util: Hazard Notification
Description

Socrata Projected Knocked By
Date

Plunnod Knock Down Dale

Asbestos Abatement Date

Asbestos Abatement Document
Link

Eackfiil Complete

Winter Grade Requested
Winter Grade 2nd Request

Winter Grade inau-r- on
5 :iIr?uldd

Final Grade Requested
Final Grade 2nd Request

Final Grade Inspection Scheduled

Demo Contractor Hydrant ..cg

DEA Field Notes

Sidewalk Contractor

invoice: GTJ
invoice Utility Cut
invoice: Asbestos Survey

Invoice: Asbestos Surveylnewi

ca: Asb Abatement Estimate

Invoice: Asb Abatement
Certification

J'i. merit-a"- 

invoice: Asbestos
Remediationinewi

invoice: Demo Contractor
invoice: Demo Contractorinowi
Winter Grade Withholding
Invoice Winter Grade Payout

ln-Jolce' Winter Grade
Payoulinewl

Total Dunno Contriizrt-Ir Amt
thin-mile)

Bid-Invoice Difference

61252017
Flarygg?p?
917/2017

 

$424 43

$1,061 09

5117:9017
Ofiice Clear
7I5i2017
Field Verified

7i31i2015

71241201 8

81732018

re 

MAT 

3  Surwqg?hl?i t' I

fi Esrm?msl'g luv 

Saleem-Sn ir-gg?aigg

 

$11,813.23

$0.00

2/5

1011412019
Demo Change Order AMT
Demo Change Order 

Hydrant Change Order inVolce
D. "1Ill,l'il

I?Jeino \?lisc Loire

Demo Misc Cost Description
Demo Misc Costs 2

Demo Misc Cost Description 2
Demo Misc Costs 3

Demo Misc Cost Description 3
Cost: clean Fill

Cost: Lot Maintenance

Cost: Project Management

MATT Cost Details
MATT Status
MATT DE Number

Miscellaneous Demo Details

Demo Pull Requests
Demo Pull Requested Reason

Demo Pull Sta" Recommendation

Demo Pull Executive


Pipeline History
Damoiished

Rewewed by Demo

NAP

Drug House

Standard Fields

Case Origin

System Information
Created By 1.15:.
Last Modified By

    

Socrata: BSEED Socrata: BSEED Help
Action Socmta: BIEED Aotlon Description inspection Date Inspection Reeults GSA Notes CSA Updated Building Permit Description Permit Statue
BEL ELL-.1. 11.33;; 3812016 OK FIG CALL FINAL GRADE ACCEPTABLE. BI10I201B
. . . Open Hole Demo OH IDALL Wit-1.6 DOWN DEERIS REMOVED
MM inspection 0" sewer: REC, on TO FILL 
ai1ai201e
WRECK AND REMOVE
DEBRIS OPEN
inquiries New lmtl-IW Inquiries Help
Action enquiry Name Inquiry Date-gory Inquiry Sub-?atequry Inquiry Date Contact Name In quinr Elation Follow-Up Inquire Count Priority Created By
Edit Property Maintenance Restoration eizmoi'r Edam Closed 0 Medlurn 12:15 pm
Edit Property Mmtienonce Debris. Clem Up Mutt Closed 0 Mediim .. . 
Edit trim-c". "ii Dnmeiition Demo Timing sizmnie PM I345 Closed CI Medium 1-315- 15AM
Edi; Dme?iion Demo Tinting eminent Lilr Closed 0 High 519.4 ilm- ?r - "qtii?i'zitlt? 50PM
Fdit tiP-f'i-t'H'ur Property Maintenance BoardiiSnune 3122i20?i? i Closed ct High 5191'. 11' swag. $225013 101 PM
Edit [104337-8514 Demolition Report Property Homage 4.1151015 Escalator: 0 Medium ?i?gmilg, 6.41 PM

Case: 00120834 Salesforce - Enterprise Edition

Stage 7 - Post Funding
Huntington

It! momma 2:26 PM
aizoizoia 1'33 PM

Demo Jlunge Order Description

Demo Change Order Descriptionz

inmicu 73mm) Cost 

Invoice Misc Demo Cost 3

Invoice. Clean Fill

Total All Demo Costs $12,970 73

Total: MATTinvoicu $14,095 73
Credit: FIE Funds

MATT llt'loi?e Adjustment ($1.125 00)

MATT Invoice Adjustment l?ictes

FDD Source

Demo Pull Request Notes

Demo Poll Starr Recommendation
Dal:

Demo Pull Executive
Deterrmnation Dale

Demo Pulled Date
Demo Pull Failed

Sold - Side Lot
Sold - Direct Sale

Sold - Aunt on

Contact Name
Contact Account Name

Contact Phone

Darci'?me Opened
Datei'Time Closed

Edit Delete Cluoollui- Stimuli! Mot:



Pelt
General Citizen

3I29i'2015 2:26 PM

 

3/5

1011412019

Edi! Mtg-013531 Demolition

DLBA Activities
Aer on Jean 4.11m;
l?cd?jg?
A-tsgt?
Comments

No records to display

Attachments

No records to display

Open Activities

No records to display

Activity History

No records to display

Case History

Date
711012019 5:14 PM
7110120194.13 PM

61312019 9:53 AM

512812019 2120 FM

91712013 9:06 AM
91512010 9104 AM
712412018 4:10 PM

71191201012212 PM

Approval History

No records to display

Ru-zrd 
Side Lot Sale

Case 00120834 Saiesforce - Enterprise Edition

Demo Requesi 11111900 5:11;le Closed 0 Medium lid?$3M- 61312016 9:55 AM
Sldr.? Lot ?iale luni?
3121mm 19-: Sill: ufatu?i 2 deEI' .itm. . A .II. t, a" at, Slat :5 Cafe until Aetwrt/ Date
For Sale On Site NO SELECTED BUYER 711112019 Scheduled 0
1011012018 Scheduled 0

Sale Preparation

User



Sagan 1'11? 

Irzk Benedict

It?

i


My As any Jr
teed; 

Amber?ir-e

Contractor Violations: Properties

No records to display

DLBA Field Surveys

No records to display

Post Abatement Verifications

No records to dlspiay

Sidewalk Repairs

No records to display

Sidewalk Repairs 1Related Case)



New Comment Comments Help

Attach File Attachments Help

Open Activities Help

Mail Merge Compliance Email Aclirilv History: eip

Case History Help
Action
Changed Statue irom Sales Review to For Sale
Changed Status Date from 61312019 to 711012019
Deleted Reset in Transfer Case
Changed Transfer Case from Disposiuon - Side Lot to Reset
Changed Status from Vacant Land to Sales Review
Changed Case Record Type from DLBA - Inventory to Disp - Side Lot
Changed Transfer Case to Disposition - Side Lot.
Changed Status Date from 512012019 to 61312019
Changed Status lrorn Intake Review to Vacant Land
Changed Status Date from 7124/2018 to 512312019.
Deleted Reset in Transfer Case
Changed Transfer Case from DLBA - intake Review to Reset
Changed Status from Demolished to Intake Review
Changed Case Record Type from Demo - HHF to DLBA - inventory
Changed Tt'anater Case to DLBA - intake Review
Changed Case Owner from DLEIA Admin to Demolition Team.
Changed Owner (Assignment) from Demolition Team to DLBA Admin
Changed Status Date from 31221201 3 to 712412010
Changed Status from Demo Contracted to Demolished
Changed Knock Down Date to 712412018
Changed Planned Knock Down Date to 712412018

Submit tor Approval Approval History Help

New ContractorVioiations: Property Contractor \Aolalions Properties Help

DLBA Field Surveys Help

New Post Abatement Verification Post Abatemanl Help

New sidewalk Rapair Sidewalk Repairs Help

Sidewalk Racers (Related Case) Help

415

10/14/2019 Case 00120834 Salcsforce - Edltion

New Sidewalk 

No 10 display

5f5

Attachment IV

Report on the Ballot Language

David Whitaker. Esq.

(Kitty at Eettoit

lnin Carley-In CITX COUNCIL

Erecun've Policy Manager
?dd- LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
emor City Planner . .
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Janese Chapman
Deputy Director
Phone: (313)224?4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclit?t, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger. AICP
Elizabeth Cabot. Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Dru mb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

T0: The Honorable City Council

FROM: David Whitaker, Directo
Legislative Policy Divis? St t'f

DATE: October 18, 2019

RE: DEADLINE FOR BALLOT LANGUAGE

Christopher Gulock. AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt. Esq.

Kimani JelTrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers. 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashlev A. Wilson

The Legislative Policy Division was asked to con?rm whether December 17". 2019, is the
deadline for submission of a ballot question for the March 10, 2020. Presidential Primary.

According to a schedule created by the Michigan Department ofState1
day for ballot wording submitted by the City of Detroit to be 
Of?ce. A complete listing ol?all deadlines applicate to this specific Primary

your information.

lune-In thin-p 

December 17?" is the last
by Detroit City Clerk's
has been attached for



STATE OF MICHIGAN
Joceum BENSON, SECRETARY or STATE

DEPARTMENT OF STATE


 

 

March 10, 2020 Presidential Primary
- Dates and Deadlines 

 

Refer to Michigan election law (MCL 168.1?992) for referenced statutory provisions.

 

 

 

By 4:00 Secretary of State issues a ?list of the individuals generally .1
November 8, 2019 advocated by the national news media? as potential Republican
Party and Democratic Party presidential nominees. (614a)

 

 

 

 

By 4:00 State chairpersons of the Republican Party and Democratic Party
November 12, 2019 submit a list to the Secretary of State of individuals their

respective parties view as potential presidential nominees. (614a)

 

November 13, 2019 Secretary of State noti?es potential presidential nominees of legal
provisions relating to Michigan?s presidential primary. (614a)

 

 

 

Petitions to place proposals on ballot ?led with county and local

By December 3, 2019 clerks. (646a)

 

 

By 4:00 Potential presidential nominees appearing on lists compiled by
December 13, 2019 Secretary of State and state party chairpersons who do not wish to
have their names printed on Michigan?s presidential primary
ballot or who wish to change their political party af?liation ?le
an af?davit with the Secretary of State. (615a)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By 4:00 Individuals not listed as potential presidential nominees by
December 13, 2019 Secretary of State or state party chairpersons who wish to appear
on Michigan?s presidential primary ballot ?le a nominating
petition with the Secretary of State. (615a) (Petitions cannot be
circulated prior to October 1. 2019. Signature requirements:
Republican Party candidate: 1 1,398; Democratic Party candidate:
11,343).

 

 

 

BUREAU OF ELECTIONS
RICHARD H. AUSTIN BUILDING FLOOR 430 W. ALLEGAN LANSING. MICHIGAN 48918
Minama??a?m?. '1517l335-3234

B) L'thlt'emt ti . . 
December 17, 2019 primary certified to proper clerk; local clerks receiving ballot
wording forward to county clerk within two days. (64621)

By January 10, 2020 1 Final date cities and townships can establish, move or abolish a

 

 

 

 

polling place for the Presidential Primary. (662) I

January 10, 2020 Constitutional amendments and legislative referendums which
the legislature wishes to place on presidential primary ballot
1 presented to Secretary of State. (Art. 12, Sec. 1)
1 By January 25, 2020 3 County clerks deliver absent voter ballots for the Presidential
Primary to local clerks. (7 l4)
I 
By January 25, 2020 Dclitcry of military and oversees AV ballots must begin for the i
I Presidential Primary by this date. All requests received since
1 November 5, 20 0 from a military or overseas voter must be
honored for all 3.020 elections. {750a}
i] January 30, 2020 i Precinct inspectors for Presidential Primary appointed by city and
through February 18, township election commissions. (674) 

lzozo 

- -

 

Notice of voter registration for Presidential Primary published.

i By February 10, 2020
One notice required. (498)

By February 10, 2020 Clerk shall post and notify the Secretary of State of hours the 
clerk?s of?ce will be open on the Saturday or Sunday or both

immediately before the election to issue and receive absent voter 

ballots. {761b)

By February 10, 2020 Clerk shall post and notify the Secretary of State of any
additional locations and hours the clerk will be available to issue
and receive absent voter ballots, if applicable. (761b)
- . a . 
February 24, 2020 Last day to register in any manner other than in?person with the

local clerk for the Presidential Primary election. (497)

1 February 25 through 8:00 In-person registration with proof of residency with the local clerk. 
i p.m. March 10,2020 (497) i



l? 
By 4:00 1 . . . .
February 28, 2020 Write-In candidates file Declaration of Intent forms. (737a)
i By February 29, 2020 1 County clerks deliver remainder of ballots and election supplies
1- for presidential primary to local clerks. (714) I



I By March 3, 2020 i?voticc oi ri'esiucntiat I link?); pommicu Uin.? notice reqancu

 

 

(653a)
- 
Public accuracy test must be conducted. (R 168.778) Notice of
By March 5? 2020 I test must be published at least 48 hours before test. (798)
Up to 5:00 I Electors may obtain an absent voter ballot via First Class mail. [759)
March 6, 2020
Up to 4:00 Electors may obtain an absent voter ballot in person in the clerk?s
March 9, 2020 of?ce. (761)
-
Up to 8:00 Election Deg. registrants with resadcney may obtain and
March 10, 2020 vote an absent voter ballot in person in the clerk?s of?ce or vote in 
person in the proper precinct. (761) -
Up to 4:00 Emergency absentee voting for Presidential Primary. 

March 10, 2020

March 10, 2020 Presidential Primary (613a)

 

 

 


- - -- 
9:00 Boards of County anvassers meet to canvass presidential 
March 12, 2020 primary. (821)
By March 24, 2020 Boards of County Canvassers complete canvass of presidential I
primary; county clerks forward results to Secretary of State
I. within 24 hours. (381, 822. 828March 30, 2020 Board of State Canvassers meet to canvass presidential primary.
(58 l)
- - 
1 May 20,2020 Deadline for the Secretary of State to make available to the public
i the names, addresses, quali?ed voter number and political party
1 ballots selected by each elector at the presidential primary. (615C)
i By June 8, 2020 County. cit}. and township clerks submit reimbursement requests
i with veri?ed costs for the conduct of the presidential primary.
(624g)

. .. 

Attachment 

Ll?lfs Import 011 the Utmuiutmn 01 the Detroit Land Bunk Authot?tty

 City of metroit

Irwin Curlew. ir.

Ewen? Putts) Mann 1' 111 0 UN C114

g?a'ce" LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
emor try Planner . .

June? Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Mumctpal Center

Deputy Director Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313)224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

John Alexander

Barclil't, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Dru ml)

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

TO: Detroit City Council

FROM: David Whitaker, Direct
Legislative Policy Div" ton

DATE: October 18, 2019

RE: Disolution of the Detroit Land Bank Authority

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt. Esq

Kinmni Jeffrey

Anne Marie Lnngan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Annline Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashley A. Wilson

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has been requested by Council President Pro-Tempore,
Mary Shef?eld and Councilman Andre Spivey to provide information regarding the dissolution
of the Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) and to address how the City receives assets,
particularly the vast swaths of vacant real prOperty in its inventory, back from the DLBA a?er
dissolution.

As indicated in prior LPD reports the DLBA is created under an intergovemrnetal Agreement
between the City of Detroit and the Michigan Land Bank Fast Track Authority (MLB), pursuant
to Public Act 258 of 2003, Land Bank Fast Track Act. Under the Second Amended and Restated
lntergovemmental Agreement between the City and the MLB (hereinafter the Agreement the
?initial Term? of the agreement will end on or about December l9, 2023. Pursuant to Section
9.01 of the Agreement, after the Initial Term the DLBA shall continue until terminated by joint
action of the Parties and the City Council and Mayor or withdrawal by a Party under Section
9.02 which provides:

Either Party may withdraw from this Agreement after the initial term upon six (6)
months notice in writing to the City Authority and Parties as provided under
Section 9.01; provided, however, that withdrawal by the City requires the
approval of the City council and Mayor.

Prior to the DLBA dissolution, Section 9.03 of the Agreement provides that the DLBA
must wind up its affairs as follows:

(at All 05th::- F?ity Authority's limb-t; litb ?4 mi t'l
expenses incurred in connection with tennination of the City Authority and
distribution of its assets shall be paid ?rst.

The remaining assets, it" any shall be distributed to any successor entity unless
otherwise agreed by the Parties, provided, however, that approval by the City
requires the approval of City Council. In the event that no successor entity exist,
the remaining assets shall be distributed as directed by the City unless otherwise
agreed by the Parties.

As provided in the Intergovernmental Agreement, if the City Council and Mayor approve the
withdrawal from the Agreement, the DLBA would be required to wind up all its affairs. In doing
so, all of the obligations to creditors and any expenses incurred in undertaking the
DLBA's dissolution must be paid ?rst. If no successor exist, the remaining assets shall go to the
City unless otherwise agreed by the Parties. Once the remaining assets are distributed, the 

would no longer exist.

LPD notes that should the DLBA be dissolved there is the likely possibility that tens of
thousands of parcels of property will remain. Some strong consideration should be given to the
fact that clouds may well exist on the title to much of the properties the DLBA will be expected
to turn over after dissolution. In addition, one of the main functions of the DLBA includes the
assembly, disposition, and quieting of title to property acquired by the DLBA. The DLBA is
provided special tools granted under the Land Bank Fast Track Act to quiet title. The expedited
quiet title tool enables the DLBA to provide a clear title to purchasers. This tool allows for the
properties to be placed back into productive use in a much more ef?cient manner than the City
could provide. Therefore, a process should be developed to legally clear the titles prior to any
mass transfer of properties to the City after dissolution.

LPD has attached its prior report regarding the Dissolution of Quasi Govenrnental Authorities for
additional reference. If we can be of further assistance please call upon us.



332:0? hitaker. @it? WBtt??
CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone; (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

Irvin Carley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcel! R. Todd, Jr.
SeniorCity Planner

Lakisha Barclil't. Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Timothy Boscarino, MCP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.
Janese Chapman

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

  
 

Deborah 
Christopher Gulock
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy
Analine Powers, 
Sabrina Shockley
Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas
Underwood

George Etheridge
TO: Detroit City Council
FROM: David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Divis'on If
DATE: September 24, 2018
RE: Supplemental Report to Dissolution of Quasi-Governmental Authorities

Created by State Enabling Acts

On September 20, 2018, the Legislative Policy Division (LPD), submitted a report regarding the
method of dissolution of quasi-governmental entities. LPD is submitting this supplemental report
to correct and provide further clari?cation regarding its initial ?ndings regarding the Detroit

Land Bank Authority (DLBA).

In the September 20th report, LPD indicated the time provided in the Intergovernmental
Agreement in which the City Council and the Mayor could consider the dissolution of the DLBA
after the initial term was on or about September 15, 2018. Upon receiving further information
and clari?cation regarding the minimum ?ve-year duration of the Original Intergovernmental

Agreement; the minimum ?ve-year duration of the First Amended and Restated
Intergovermnental Agreement; and the minimum ten-year duration of the Second Amended and
Restated Intergovernmental Agreement, LPD is correcting its initial report to reflect that the
correct end of the Initial Term should be on or about December 19, 2023.

LPD initially reported that the City Council and Mayor could consider dissolution of the City
Authority (DLBA) with six-month?s notice, after the end of the Initial Term of ten years. It was
initially believed that the Initial Term which is defined to begin on the Effective Date was the
original date of the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of Detroit (City) and
the Michigan Land Bank Fast Track Authority, being September 15, 2008. Although that was the
effective date of the Original IGA, the ?Effective Date? and the Initial Term was changed in the
First Amended and Restated IGA, and the Second Amended and Restated IGA.

To further clarify, the Original lG under Article Dirititm nrole-cs

This Agreement and the City Authority shall commence on the Effective Date and
shall continue in effect for an initial term of ?ve (5) years and after that until
terminated by joint action of the Parties and the City Council or withdrawal by a
Party under Section 8.02.

Section 1.07 of the Original IGA identi?es the Effective Date as the date in which the
Agreement is approved and entered by the Parties. The Original was entered into on or
about September 15, 2003, which is the Effective Date ofthat Agreement. The initial term of
?ve years would have eitpired on September 15, 2013.

On or about July 18, 2013 the Parties entered into the First Amended IGA which provided under
Article Duration of Agreement:

The City Authority shall commence on the effective date of the Original
Agreement and this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date. The City
Authority and this Agreement shall continue through the Initial Term and a?er
that until terminated byjoint action ofthe Parties and the City Council and Mayor
or withdrawal by a Party under Section 8.02

This provision indicates the City Authority commenced on September 15, 2008, upon the Parties
entering the Original IGA. The Effective Date is then identified as a separate and distinct time
frame regarding the underlying Agreement (First Amended IGA). The Effective Date here refers
to the First Amended lGA?s commencement and is defined in Section 1.09.

Section 1.09 of the First Amended IGA identi?es the Effective Date as the date that the
Agreement (First Amended 16A) is approved and entered by the Parties. The Effective Date of
the First Amended is on or about July 18, 2013. The First Amended IGA provides in
Section 1.14 that the Initial Term for the Agreement is ?the period ending on the date that is five
(5) years following the Effective Date. The initial Temt under the First Amended would
have expired on or about July 18. 2018. However, on December 19, 2013 the Parties entered the
Second Amended IGA.

The Second Amended IGA under Article IX, Duration of Agreement, Section 9.01 provides:

The City Authority shall commence on the effective date of the Original
Agreement and this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date. The City
Authority and this Agreement shall continue through the initial Term and after
that until terminated by joint action of the Parties and the City Council and Mayor
or Withdrawal by a Party under Section 9.02.

Just as provided in the First Amended IGA, the language in the Second Amended IGA makes a
distinction between the ?effective date of the Original Agreement?, the date the City Authority
versus the ?Effective Date? the date the Second Amended IGA commenced.

Section 1 08 ofthe Second Amended WA indicates; the Effecti?w: Date i the date that the
and CtilJlel the l'uztics. More signi?cant is Lilc nuiguagc 111 Section
1.12 which provides:

?Initial Term? means the period ending on the date that is ten (10) years following
the Effective Date

The Effective Date would be the date in which the Second Amended was entered, on
December 19, 2013. According to Section 1.12 the Initial Term would end ten (10) years after
the Effective Date or on December 19, 2023. Understanding that at the time the Second
Amended IGA was being executed, the City was anticipating receiving federal dollars under the
Hardest Hit Funding program and would have wanted to extend the life of the DLBA
beyond the minimum ?ve-year term. LPD believes based on the language in the three
agreements regarding Duration of Agreement, December 19, 2023 is the correct end date ofthe
Initial Term and not September 15, 2013 as previously reported.

LPD also provides clari?cation regarding page 2, footnote 1, ofthe September 20th report in that
the 90,000 properties the DLBA received consist of the 53,558 form the City and Lhe 44,402

received from the Wayne County Treasurer, as reflected in the DLBA's 2018 Quarterly
Report.

Finally, LPD provides clari?cation regarding page 3, footnote 2, of the September 20th report,
that the $2 million provided for title insurance was not delivered to the DLBA, but to an escrow
account on the DLBA's behalf.

If we can be of further assistance, please call upon us.

LIJ

Attachment VI

Responses to Council Member Raquel Questions Regarding
the Blight Removal Bond Question Timing

 

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 ?224-2l35
Detroit, Michigan 48226 
MEMORANDUM
TO: Council Member Raquel Casta?eda-L?pez
FROM: David Massaron. Chief Financial Officer. City of Detroit
Arthur Jamison, Group Executive for Planning. Housing and Development
DATE: October 21, 2019
RE: Responses Questions about Blight Removal Bond Ballot Question Timing

 

This memo is in response to questions you provided at the Budget, Finance and Administration
hearing about the timing of the Blight Removal Bond Ballot Question. At the table, you
suggested that we move the ballot question to the November election because you project there
will be greater voter turnout After speaking with the demo team, we are concerned about the
impact on small contractors if we do not conduct a summer procurement.

In the plan laid out by the Mayor. the City will let contracts for 2.400 residential demolitions this
winter, 1.900 residential demolition this summer (July. 2020). and 2.400 next winter (January
2021). See the proposal in the table below and in the attached Gantt chart. Delaying the Ballot
Bond Question to next November would cancel the summer 2020 procurement and greatly hurt
small companies that staffed up for our program. potentially putting them out of business. These
crews would be busy for 270 days, but then work would cease for over 100 days before the next
procurement.

As you can see in the chart below and in the attached Gantt chart, if we miss the summer
procurement. we would procure 1.800 fewer demolitions over this period of time than in the
proposal. The demo team projects that currently there isn?t enough contractor capacity to
perform more than 2.500 demolitions efficiently.

FY2020 FY2020 FY2021 FY2021 FY2021 FY2021
Jan-Mar Apr-Jun July-Sep Oct-Dec Jan-Mar Apr-Jun
Proposal 2,400 1,900 2,400
Delayed 2,400 2,500

You also suggested that we set aside all of the 2.400 residential demolitions from the winter
procurement for small companies. After conducting analysis with our demo team, we found that
there are not enough small companies to complete all 2,400 demolitions. Based on the new
procurement methodology, 27 crews are required for 2.400 demolitions (1 crew for each 90
house package}. Even with the new small businesses OCP prequalified this summer, we
believe small businesses can contribute at most 18 crews. Again. even if all these crews
received work in the first procurement, their work would cease for over 100 days prior to the
next procurement. What we have heard from many contractor meetings is that small businesses
need consistent work with longer times to complete that work. We have heard from contractors

.4

color r? Armpt. we 313 62372333
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 111m Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

Va:



    

ethat this semiannual approach will help them plan and provide consistent employment for their
workers. . -

Thus we believe bringing the blight removal bond question to voters in the March election is
critical to maintaining and growing Detroit?s small demolition contractors.

Asbestos Surveys
Procurement
550 Budget Amendment

Abatement and Demolition

March 2020 Ballot

Rating Agency Meetings and Ratings
Investor Meetings

Pricing of Bonds

Bond Closing

Asbestos Survey
Procurement

Abatement and Demolition

Asbestos Survey
Procurement

Abatement and Demolition

2019
Jan Feb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec


I:

 

Proposed Schedule with March Ballot

2020

:l
:l

  

Contractors Demolishing ?2.400 Houses

  

Contractors Demolishin-

 

 

 

?1,900 Houses

2021

Jan Feb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec

   

 

   

Contractors ?2.400 Houses

2022
Jan Feb Mar Apr MayJun Jul Aug Sep 0.

 

Dec

Delayed Schedule with November Ballot

   
  

2019 2020 2021 2022
Jan Feb Mar Apr Mavlun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov En: Jan Feb Mar Apr Mavlun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec In Feb Mar Apr MavJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb MarApr MavJun Jul Aug Sep Oct Lie:


I
I
I
I


Asbestos Surveys I I

Procurement

550 Budget Amendment

      

I
I
I
I.

I



Abatement and Demolition Contractors Demolishing ?2,400 Houses

 
 

l? 

I- Dcmu Contractors Without City Work



  

November 2020 Ballot 
Rating Agency Meetings and Ratings
Investor Meetings

Pricing of Bonds

Bond Closing

. Asbestos Survey I


 

 

Procurement

Abatement and Demolition Contractors Demoilshing "2,500 Houses

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313 -628-2535

Office of the

 

ChlefFlnanclal mm" 2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224?2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 
MEMORANDUM
TO: David Massaron, Chief Financial Officer, City of Detroit
FROM: Valerie Agolli, Debt Manager and
Donnie Johnson, Capital Budget Manager
DATE: October 15, 2019
RE: Plan to Monitor Use of Demolition Bond Proceeds for Compliance with

Federal Tax Laws

 

To support the proposed sale of $175 million in tax exempt bond proceeds to fund City
demolitions, this memo documents the Office of the Chief Financial Officer?s (OCFO)

plan to monitor the use of the tax-exempt demolition bond proceeds.

Tax?exempt bonds issued by state and local governments are subject to ongoing
compliance with federal tax requirements. Under federal tax law, if bonds are classified
as "private activity bonds" (as of the issue date or any time during which the bonds are
outstanding), then the interest on the bonds becomes includable in the federal taxable
income of the holders of the bonds, the bonds are no longer tax-exempt but instead
are taxable. The determination of whether bonds are private activity bonds depends on
two tests - (1) the private business test, and (2) the private loan financing test. The latter
test includes both a private business use test and a private security or payment test.
The private payment test is met when more than five percent of the present value of the
debt service on the bonds is secured by privately used property or private payments.
Private payments include direct or indirect payments with respect to bond-financed
properties. in the context of the blight remediation program, private payments could
consist of amounts received from either the sale or lease of any properties that were

improved with the tax-exempt bonds.

         

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313 4528-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

m" 
omen 
To monitor the use of the tax-exempt bond proceeds, and to continue to confirm that the
private activity test has not been met (and the bonds therefore remain tax-exempt), the
OCFO will establish a system to track how each of the properties that was improved
with the bond proceeds are ultimately used. For each parcel, which will be identified
using the legal parcel number, the OCFO will track:

a) the total amount of bond proceeds spent on improving the property,

b) the type of expenditures made with bond proceeds demolition cost,

preliminary expenditures to prepare for demolition, site preparation)
c) ownership of the property at time of demolition,
d) any other city, state, or federal funds used to improve the property, and

e) the total amount received from the sale or lease (if any) of the property.

The City will track this information in the Salesforce database. The Housing and
Redevelopment Department (HRD) and Detroit Building Authority (DBA) will be
responsible for entering the expenditure data for each demolition into the database. The
Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) will be responsible for entering the ownership and
the total amount received from the sale of any residential property. HRD will be
responsible for entering the total amount received from the sale of any commercial

property into the database.

Attached to this memo, please ?nd an example of a Salesforce case (or parcel) that
included a demolition and disposition. The OCFO will work with HRD, DBA and DLBA to
add additional fields to Salesforce that will meet OCFO's reporting needs. In the
attached document, please find examples of the current fields that will assist with
reporting:

. Cost: Asbestos Survey

. Cost: Asbestos Abatement

- Cost: Knock Down

. Cost: Dirt (greening)

 

Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone: 313 -628-2535
Office of the

I?m" Detroit, Michigan 48226 

chlef ?much; am?, 2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 424-2135

DETROIT

Cost: Grade (greening)

Cost: Seed (greening)
Cost: Sidewalk (greening)
Knockdown Date

Demo Contractor
Acquisition Method

Acquisition Date

The OCFO, DLBA, HRD and DBA will add additional fields to meet the OCFO's

reporting needs, such as:

Total Expenditures from Tax-Exempt Bond Proceeds

Total Expenditures from Taxable Bond Proceeds

Total Expenditures from City General Funds

Total Expenditures from Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
Total Expenditures from Other Funds

Total Sale Proceeds

Total Lease or Other Proceeds for Use of Property

Ownership Status at Demolition

Current Ownership Status

The DLBA and DBA will sign a compliance agreement with the City covenanting to

complete these responsibilities. As part of this agreement, the DLBA will covenant to

maintain the information in a database over the life of the bonds.

The OCFO will design and extract a report with this information on a quarterly basis,

and at least often enough to measure compliance with the de minimis limitation for the

private payment test. In this report, the OCFO will aggregate the total amount received

from the sale or other disposition of all of the parcels improved with the bond proceeds

and compare that amount to the present value of debt service to be paid on the bonds.

    

       
 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313 -628-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

?07me orlhe I -
Chief Flnanclal Officer



This will allow the City to determine if the five percent limit for the private payment test is

exceeded.

Because Oracle is the system of record for contracted financial data for the City, the
OCFO will extract similar information about expenditures from the Oracle database to
ensure the standardization of the compliance system. The Auditor General will be

invited to audit the compliance system at their convenience.

The OCFO will maintain this compliance tracking system until the earlier of one of the
following: (1) the maturity date of the bonds (or any tax-exempt bonds which refund the
bonds) or (2) the end of the useful life of the properties financed with the bonds.

10/14/2019 Case: 00120834 - Salesforce - Enterprise Edition
LA.)
Building Search. Search a} Switch to Lightning Experience Brian Fariras Help a. Training
Cetrort
. - out silicon}; alum All top-ms L.Lr.tr -: . udA Dumas ii qtn? llti Contractor {In
6:61 20834 Customize Pagcl Printable Help for ihls Page
Show Feed
E"lilii I i i MIDI 51W IN Wilma?NIB] 1 Will! I Aem?lsnrigi i
"canto -.-- r. viral'il melt-jetsam! Weill-thine utimi
Case Detail i_EdltH Beg: close Cato stirring M-llt
Property WM Status For Sale
Parcel ID 22039799. Pinellne Slda Lot
Status Date 711012019
Transfer Case Program Sida Lot
Grant Program Priority High
Case Record Type - Side Lot
Property Class  Acct  Residential-Lot Interested Entity
Archived Case URL BB Failed Date
MSHDA Demo Lian YES BB Failed Reason
Sula Prep Activity AM Latest Listing 7111:9019
case Record Type trot) EISEED: Final Grade Approved 31912018

PTA Dale Filed

Contact Name [Compliance ren
Compliance DNG Email
Sidewalk Replaced Date

Case Details
[ref] DT Recorded Date
Quiet Title Batch

5l50 Waiver Date

u?tuntn-Ir alltt?milt'. in 

Project. Belch
Description
BSEED Legal Authority

Acquisition lnforrnation
Acquisition: Method

Acquisition Date

Donor Name

Signoff Details

GTJ Survey
GTJ Batch
GTJ Survey Complete
GTJ Address
GTJ Photo Link
GTJ Structure
GTJ Structure Type
GTJ Natal

Disp__5ido_Lot

Subject

Closeout Reason

I It Lire ilil 

ODM
Transfer-WOT Transfer Agreement
1113r?2017 Acquisition Amount
Concession Amount
Concession Designation
Signoti' Date
GTJ Occupancy
12/21i2016 GTJ Property Secure

GTJ Overall condition
GTJ Neighborhood Condition

10901 Huntington
WWQlIJWM-tiuu?xm?zg
Yes

Single Family

10 tire damage .

GTJ Survey Assessment
GTJ Deconstruction Candidate

PhotoRcv GTJ-MGM Pas: Dt

Demo Recommendation I. Decision

Blight Latter Batch

Blight Letter Received Date
Blight Latter Requested Date
Blight Letter Address

Blight Letter Sll'ttll

Asbestos Survey

HHFS Batch 2 NTP Batch
4? 012017 NTP Dale
3I1312017

Received



Demo - 18901 Huntington 2015-
03-29

$0.00

Vacant
No

3
Salvage
No
211612017

HHF5 NTP 2 2
#1112017

15

1011412019
ASE Sunley RFP Group 6.23.17A
nae Sumo-,1 Contractor ?Jnme GEE We: 

1:1'u\ 

Asbestos Abatement Estimate It Certi?cation
1. 

ASB Abatement Vii .it-?allon
contractor

ASE Veri?er Name Charles Gheen
Acb Abatement EstiCert 6 23.17A
Utilities

Utll: Cut Request Cancel Date

Utli: Gut Status Double Cut

Ulii: Cut issues

Demo Contractor Details
Demo RFP Group 1017.170

Demo Contractor .. 11-9.1052.

 

Demo Contractor Proceed Date 312212018

Asbestos Abatement Group

Asbestos Abatement Contractor

Name
in 1 Mute 'I::ul $891 00
?3-1 Urinal-l 1' $9,010.00
.U 1. 'i-t ur In
Single Cast
Bid Price: Total Demo Contrailoi; 511.513 23


Secreta Reported Price $11,313.23

Knock Down Data 712412013

open Hole Requested 712412013
Open Hole Inspection Scheduled

Demo Returned by Contractor
Returned by Contractor: RFP
HHF Non-Recoverabie Cost

Demo Cost Details
Cast: GTJ Inspection $15 00
Cost: Utility Cut
Cost: Asbestos Survey $892.50

Cost: Asbestos Abatement $25.00
Estimate

Cost: Albasiol Abatement $125.00
Centiicatlen

Cost; Asbestos Abatement $091.00

Cost: Knock 5. Cleaning
(contained)

Cost: Knock Down $9,420.43
Cost: Dirt (nreening) $934.50
Cost: Grade {greeningl $311.50
Cost: Seed $155.75

cost: sidewalk [greening]

htips:11na1 

Case: 00120834 Salesforce - Enterprise Edition

ASB Survey Date

A SH Dot urn-"rt will

\h twin. II 

A53 Abatement Estimaio Mas

Util: Gas cut Date

Util'. Gas Clearance Type
Uill: Electric Cut Date

Util: Electric Clearance 'lype

Ulil Hazard Notification Date

Ulil. Haaurti Nolilicntion
Description

Secrets Projected Knocked By
Date

Planned Knock Down Date

Asbestos Abatement Date

Asbestos Abatement Document
Link

Asbestos Abatement Notes

Backiill Complete

Winter Grade Requested
Winter Grade 2nd Request

Winter Grade Inspection
Scheduled

Final Grade Requested
Final Grade 2nd Request

Final Grade inspection Scheduled

Demo Contractor Hydrant Log
DEA Field Notes

Sidewalk Connector

introica GTJ
Invoice: Utility Cut
Invoice: Asbestos Survey

inVolee'. Asbestos surveylnew 

Invoice' Asb Abatement Estimate

. ,1 .n Aunt-Hileni
Certi?cation

Invoice: Asbestos Remediation

Invoice; Asbestos
Remediationlnewl

Invoice: Demo Contractor
Invoice: Demo Contractorlnew]
(it Ivl-l 
invoice: Winter Grade Payout

Involce: Winter Grade
Payoutlnewl

Total. Demo Conlractor Amt
{formula}

Bid-invoke 

312312017
mimics 

$424 43

31.061.09

511712017
O?ice Clear
71512017
Field Verified

713112018

71241201 8

51712018

5 . .IQZDEISZQ

-1




31s I silica 1 H3.

511.813.23

$0.00

1011412019
Demo Change Order AMT
Demo Change Order AMTZ

Change Order Invoice
Ann n.rit

Demo Misc Costs

Demo Misc Cost Description
Demo Misc Costs 2

Demo Mlec Cost Description 2
Demo Misc Costs 3

Damn Misc Cost Description 3
cost: Clean 

Cost: Lot Maintanan ce

Cost: Project Management

MATT Cost Details
MATT Status
MATT DE Number

Miscellaneous Demo Details

Demo Pull Requests
Demo Full Requested Reason

Demo Puli Staff Recommendation

Demo Pull Executive
Determination

Pipeline History
Demolished

Reviewed by Demo

NAP

Drug House

Standard Fields
Case origin

System information
Created By
Last Modi?ed By

Secrets: BSEED

Action SocrstazasEED Action Description

- Final Grade

-r ?1

Inspection 81912018 OK

Open Hole Demo
easement 712512015 OK
3113:2013
E??ED-jiig?g?
inquiries New Inqulry
Actlon inquiry Name lnqulryCateqory InquirySub-Categnry

Siege 7 - Post Funding
D5-22072-18901 Huntington

?ngn E31355. 312912015 2:26 PM
25053 Eelgg?ig. 812012019 1133 PM

Edit

Edit Property Maintenance BoerdlSecure

Edit - 3 9 Property Maintenance Debris. Clean Up

Edit Demolition Demo Timing

Edit Demolition Demo Timing

Edit W0 Property Maintenance BoardiSecure

Edit W211 Demolition ReportProperty Damage



Delete

Case: 00120834 - Salesforce - Enterprise Edition

inquiry Date Contact Name

812212017
812212017
512112018
81812018

312212018
411612016

Close (inn

inspection Date inspection Results CSA Notes

Sturing

Demo Change Order Description
Demo Change Order Description2

Invoice: Misc Costlnewt

Involce: Misc Demo Cost 2
Invoice: Misc Demo Cool 
Invoice: Clean Fill

Total: All Demo Costs

Total: MATT Invoice

Credit: FIE Funds

MATT invoice Adjustment
MATT Invoice Adlustment Notes

PDD Source

Demo Pull Request Notes

Lit-mo T'ull 
Date

Demo Pull Executive
Determination Date

Demo Pulled Date
Demo Pull Failed

Soid - Side Lot
Bold -Direct Sale

Sold - Auction

Contact Na me
Contact Amount Name

Contact Phone

Datet'l'tme Opened
DatelTIrne Closed

Mil a

FIG CALL FINAL GRADE ACCEPTABLE.

OH CALL EMILG DOWN DEEIFIIS REMOVED
SEWER OK TO FILL

ransom
decent:
tsunami:

Ciosed
Closed
Closed

WW Closed
1 ng Mgrigngog Closed

Bita?cnit

Escalated

inquiry Status Follow-Up Inquiry Count

312.970.73

014.096.73

125.00)

L15 {Jul-?are i 
General CitIZen

312912018 2:26 PM

Eacraie: Help
GSA Updated Building Permit Description Permit Status

811012018

71271201 8

WRECK AND REMOVE

DEBRIS 

Inquiries Help

Priority Created By

Medium MW. 812212017 12:45 PM
Medium Mam 812212017 12:49 PM
Medium 111mm. 51211201810:18 AM

High W9. 61812018 4:50 PM

High 530mg. 312212018 2:01 PM
Medium 1115511012. 81112016 8:41 PM

000000

315

10/14/2019

Edit [095113.591 Demolition

DLBA Activities

Action DLBA Activity Record Type
3.356291: Side Lot Sale
a-iaatjg Sale Preparation

Comments

No records to display

Attachments

No records to display

Open Activities

No records to display

Activity History

No records to display

Case History
Date User
7/10/2019 5:14 PM 
711 012019 4 13 PM I 
51312019 9:53 AM 
512312019 2:20 PM - ?ll-1:
91712018 9:05 AM Jam 1.
91512015 9:04 AM 
712412018 4:10 PM ?mh?tt??i
711912015 12:12 PM err r-
Approval History

No records to display

Contractor Violations: Properties

No records to display

DLBA Field Surveys

No records to display

Post Abatement Verificationa

No records to display

Sidewalk Repairs

No records to display

Sidewalk Repairs (Related Case)



Demo Request

DLBA Activity Type

New Comment

Attach File

Mail 

Submit for Approval

New Contractor Violations: Property

haw-Punt LI-

New Sidewalk Repair

Case: 00120834 Salesforce - Enterprise Edition

11111900 Eat?. Closed 0 Medium M.613120169155AM

Solo Status Prospective Buyer Stalus Activity Date Status Days Until Activity Date
For Sale On Site NO SELECTED BUYER 711112019 Scheduled 0
1011012018 Scheduled 0

Comments Help

Attachments Help
Open Activities Help
Compliance Enuil Activity History Help
Case History Help
Action

Changed Statue irom Sales Rewew to For Sale

Charged Status Date from 61312019 to 111012019.

Deleted Reset in Transfer Case

Changed Transter Case irom Diaposition - Side Lot to Reset.
Changed Status from Vacant Land to Sales Review.

Changed Case Record Type from DLBA - inventory to Disp - Side Lot
Changed Transfer Case to Disposition - Side Lot.

Changed Status Date from 5120/2019 to 61312019

Changed Status from intake Review to Vacant Land

Changed Status Date from 712412013 to 512812019.

Deleted Reset In Transfer Case.

Changed Transfer Case from DLBA - Intake Revi aw to Reset
Changed Status from Demolished to Intake Review.

Changed Case Record Type irom Demo - HHF to DLBA - Inventory
Changed Transfer Case to DLBA - Intake Review

Changed Case Owner from CLBA Admin to Demolition Team
Changed Owner (Assignment) from Demolition Team to DLBA Admin.
Changed Status Date from 31221201 ID 712412013.

Changed Status from Demo Contracted to Demolished.

Changed Knock Down Date to 712412018

Changed Planned Knock Down Date to 712412018

Approval History Help

Contractor Violations: Properties Help

DLBA Field Surveys Help

Post Abatement Veritications Help

Sidewalk Repairs Help

sidewalk Repairs (Related Case] Help

415

10/l4/201E] Case 00120834 - Enterprise Edition

New Siduwalk Repmr

salesforce?corn/500j00000034ij 5/5

Attachment VII

PU: Qucatmm licgau'dmg Lin: bag 01 101? lux


Compliance

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135

 

Detroit, Michigan 48226 
MEMORANDUM
TO: Irvin Corley, Jr., Executive Policy Manager, Detroit City Council Legislative Policy
Division
FROM: David Massaron, Chief Financial Officer, City of Detroit

Beth Niblock, Chief lnformation Officer, City of Detroit

Saskia Thompson, Director, Detroit Land Bank Authority

Arthur Jamison, Group Executive for Planning, Housing and Development
DATE: October 21, 2019

RE: Responses Questions on the use of Salesforce for Tax Compliance

 

In addition to addressing your written questions, we wanted to address concerns you brought up
at the hearing about the use of Saiesforce to assist with compliance tracking for the
proposed bonds.

As we plan how best to monitor the long?term disposition of the properties, we need a database
that tracks by property our initial investment from bond proceeds and the long-term disposition.
While Treasury could create a new database for this, we thought it was more prudent to use an
existing system that already tracks our demolition and disposition of properties. The attached
example shows how this property at 18901 Huntington was demolished using HHF funds on
July 24. 2018. and today this property is available for sale as a side lot. Although we need to
add fields to this existing database, these will be relatively simple customizations to a well-
functioning system.

Currently Salesforce is used to track properties using HHF grant fund sources for federal
reporting in a field called "Grant Program?. In the example above, the property was demolished
using HHFS funds. A similar field for Blight Bond source would be created and would be able to
easily pull reports for every property that has used bond funding for any reason.

As with most systems, each user has a profile with security access based on their role. There is
an audit trail for each entry into the system, so if a mistake is made, we can see the source. The
system is and will be backed up and stored securely. We will also be able to cross check
expenditure entries into this system with exports from Oracle, our financial system of record.

As part of the Land Bank's tax compliance certificate, they will agree to provide regular exports
from the system to the City. The OCFO will store the data from the extracts so that if Salesforce
information is not available for any reason, the OCFO will have up to date data to rely on.

For your background Salesforce is an American cloud-based software company headquartered
in San Francisco with clients around the world. Salesforce sells a complementary suite of
enterprise applications focused on customer service, marketing automation, analytics and
application development. This year they are projected to do over $13 billion in revenue and
have close to 30,000 employees. Many of the Fortune 500 companies use Salesforce to
improve operations.

 - Coleman A. ?roung center Phone 313 ass-2535

   

2 Woodward 'Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 224-2135
Ln?'i'?rr Detrort, Michigan 48226 
I

We will be happy to set up a presentation of the system.

Questions/requests for the DLBA:

1.

Please provide a copy of the current contract to address: a)
How long is the contract, when did it start and when does it expire?; b} What
are the renewable options of the contract, if any?; c) How much is the
contract?; d) Does the DLBA own the Salesforce software platform built under
this contract or is the DLBA paying a license fee to use the Salesforce
software platform?; a) Is the Salesforce software platform entirely a cloud
based system-1?; f) Has the DLBA staff who manages the Salesforce software
platform contacted representatives of Salesforcecom, Inc. to ensure the
DLBA's Salesforce system has the capacity and flexibility to incorporate the
additional fields and reporting needs the OCFO outlines in its OCFO
Monitoring Report (second attachment to this email). especially if the
Salesforce system is strictly a cloud based system?; Q) Could a
Salesforcecom, Inc. provide a written statement that Salesforce a
software platform has the capacity and flexibility to make these changes?; h)
Does the DLBA have any estimates on how much these additions to the
Salesforce system will cost?

The current DLBA Salesforce contract is for the period beginning July 2019 through
June 2020. The DLBA initially entered into a license agreement with Salesforce in
2014 [See Salesforce Master Service Agreement and FY2020 Invoice)

The Salesforce contract is renewable annually with an option to add
additional licenses as needed throughout the year.

The DLBA currently has 559 active Salesforce licenses with a FY2020 cost of
$103,740. This does not include the cost of inhouse DLBA Salesforce support staff,
AWS cloud services. or addon software.

The DLBA pays an annual license fee per user for use of the Salesforce platform;
however. the specific architecture of the Salesforce data environment is
unique.

Yes; with weekly backups to the onsite servers.

The DLBA's inhouse Salesforce architect, developer, and administrators are able to
construct a database environment with flexibility and reliability to meet the scope and
requirements outlined in the OCFO's Monitoring Report.

The DLBA's inhouse Salesforce architect, developer, administrators, and data
provide agile database modifications response to the needs of the DLBA
Salesforce community. As such, the Salesforce database is not a managed
software package and outside the scope of traditional Salesforcecom, Inc. review.

 .5. 
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135

"?mrnu'andilornu? .. .
- Detront, Michigan 48226 

   

and
ii
h. Once the DLBA receives detailed scope and requirements information, including the

quantity of users. workflow processes, and add-ons the DLBA can provide a more
detailed estimate of cost impacts and licensing issues, if any.

2. Who are the representatives of the DLBA who manage the Salesforce software
platform?

Saskia Thomson, Executive Director;
Kelley Singler, Director of Operations Administration; and
Kevin Shelton Assistant Director, Data Solutions

3. Besides the DLBA, what other City of Detroit agencies or entities, such as the
Detroit Building Authority (DBA), currently have access to the DLBA
Salesforce system to enter in demolition data?

At this time. the Detroit Building Authority (DBA) and Building Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) have access to the Salesforce database
system for the purpose of entering demolition data. Over twenty-five other City of Detroit
agencies, including the Detroit Police Department, the Auditor General, City Council,
Department of Neighborhoods, Detroit Health Department, and the Mayor?s Office to
name a few have limited access to the Salesforce database.

4. Does the DLBA currently have written procedures regarding the tracking of
demolition activity that is now done in the DLBA Salesforce software platform?

The DLBA tracks and documents the current demolition workflow performed within the
DLBA's Salesforce database platform.

5. Does the DLBA currently have procedures in place to ensure the demolition
data in the Salesforce system cannot be easily manipulated?

Yes, the DLBA's inhouse Salesforce team builds validation rules based on the scope
and requirements of the workflow allowing andfor preventing data changes. Additionally,
the DLBA strictly assigns and audits Salesforce user profiles further administering
database access and control protocols to prevent data manipulation.

Questions for Beth Niblock, Chief Information Officer:

6. Based on your knowledge of Salesforcecom, Inc. and the DLBA Salesforce
software platform, in particular, please provide City Council your assessment
of the DLBA Salesforce software platform?s capacity and flexibility to track
UTGO blight bond dollar expenditures associated with up to 19,000 properties
by parcel. As you know, the tracking will need to include how bond proceeds
were used to demolish properties by parcel and sales proceeds of vacant
property by parcel post-demolition under the Administration?s proposed blight
elimination/demolition program.

Salesforce is Fortune 500 company with an immensely scalable platform that can
accommodate the tracking needs required by the bond.

?rennin l-?i mung filmmapal mono 313 040 .1333
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

7. Has DolT vetted the DLBA Salesforce software platform to ensure it meets the
City IT standards?

Salesforce is one of the best Software as a service companies in the world. Because it is
in the cloud, security and new functionality are automatically deployed to the platform
with little work on the end user's side.

8. Does DolT feel a costlbenefit analysis should be conducted to determine if the
DLBA Salesforce system is the best tool to meet the data collection, property
management and long term reporting needs as outlined by the OCFO in its
OCFO Monitoring Report?

No. at this point in time because of the work done by the DLBA in the existing Salesforce
instance, it would not make sense to redo all of the programming/work that has been
done and do the data conversion into a new platform.

9. The Administration now anticipates proposing a Demolition Division with the
Housing and Revitalization Department (HRD) to manage the demolition
program. Would it be a major undertaking to bring the current DLBA
Salesforce system in house for the proposed Demolition Division?

it would be a tremendous effort to bring Salesforce in house. DolT has no personnel
trained in Salesforce and at this point in time I don?t know if there would be any licensing
implications by moving from the DLBA to the city.

10. In the OCFO Monitoring Report, it appears that the OCFO is also saying that
the information about the UTGO blight bond expenditures will also have to be
entered into Oracle since Oracle is the system of record for contracted
financial data for the City. Would DolT work with the OCFO and DLBA to
determine if the Salesforce system can interface with Oracle to make this
happen?

Yes, although an interface may not be necessary.

11. LPD feels there should be written procedures regarding the tracking of UTGO
blight bond proceeds for demolition and sales disposition post-demolition if
the biight bonds are approved by City Council and the citizens of Detroit.
Would DoiT assist in preparing those procedures?

Yes

Questions for the OCFO:

12. The OCFO Monitoring Plan indicates that the HRD and the DBA will be
responsible for entering the expenditure data for each demolition into the
Salesforce database. The DLBA will be responsible for entering the ownership
and the total amount received from the sale of any residential property. HRD
will be responsible for entering the total amount received from the sale of any

I:


. I
?Hm?u. 

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

  

commercial property into the Salesforce database. If and when the Demolition
Division in HRD is created, would the responsibilities to enter data into
the Salesforce database completely go away? Would all demolition contracts

flow through the Demolition Division?

Yes and yes. The future Demolition Department would be responsible for this entry.

13. Would the UCFO develop Standards and Procedures and a CFO Directive

regarding the tracking of the UTGO blight bond dollars for demolition and
sales disposition post-demolition? The Standards and Procedures and CFO
Directive should also include the tax-exempt IRS post bond issuance
compliance monitoring as well. As you know, the Government Finance
Officers Association (GFOA) has a wealth of information regarding post
issuance compliance monitoring on its website. What LPD has gleaned from
the GFOA website regarding post issuance compliance monitoring is the
following:

The on-going nature of post-issuance compliance requirements applicable to
tax-advantaged bonds requires issuers to actively monitor compliance
throughout the entire period their bonds remain outstanding. This due
diligence will significantly improve the issuer?s ability to identify
noncompliance and prevent violations from occurring, or timely correct
identified violations (when prevention is not possible), to ensure the continued
tax-advantaged status of the bonds.

Issuers should adopt written procedures, applicable to all bond issues, which
go beyond reliance on tax certificates included in bond documents provided at
closing. Sole reliance on the closing bond documents may result in
procedures insufficiently detailed or not incorporated into an issuer?s
operations. Written procedures should contain certain key characteristics,
including making provision for:

Due diligence review at regular intervals;
- Identifying the official or employee responsible for review;
- Training of the responsible official/employee;

- Retention of adequate records to substantiate compliance 
records relating to expenditure of proceeds);

Procedures reasonably expected to timely identify noncompliance; and

Procedures ensuring that the issuer will take steps to timely correct
noncompliance.

The goal of establishing and following written procedures is to identify and
resolve noncompliance, on a timely basis, to preserve the preferential
status of tax-advantaged bonds. Generally, an issuer that has established
and followed comprehensive written procedures to promote post-issuance

Lclonmn A roung center mone- 315 old-.2535

     

   

my Mutilated?" 1100 Fax: 331-224-2135

eror, Clan ww. 
ror ml gov
shah/J

compliance is less likely, than an issuer that does not have such
procedures, to violate the federal tax requirements related to its bonds.

Section 5.8 ?Post-issuance Management and Compliance" of CFO Dlrective No. 2018'
101-00? ?Debt issuance and Management" speci?es that the Office of the Treasury is
responsible for verifying compliance with all undertakings, covenants. and agreements
for each bond issuance on an ongoing annual basis. The Office of the Treasury has
drafted (but not yet finalized) a Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) on Post-issuance
Compliance. This SOP will be finalized soon. We expect also to execute a SOP specific
to post-issuance compliance requirements related to the blight bonds. if issued.

14. Would the OCFO consider hiring a third party, such as an accounting firm, to
check for data integrity regarding the UTGO blight bond expenditures
associated with demolition and sales disposition post-demolition?

The OCFO does not believe that hiring an outside accounting firm to audit data integrity
would be necessary. Any audits of this data could be conducted by the auditor general
or be added to the scope of the City?s annual independent audit.

General Request:

15. On October 22, 2019 at Tuesday?s Formal Session, when City Council looks to
consider voting on the UTGO blight bonds, it would be very beneficial that the
appropriate representatives from the DLBA, DoIT-including Beth Niblock, and
the OCFO compliance team be present to address any questions that may
arise regarding UTGO blight bond expenditure monitoring.

They will be available.



-. I 1-
.-

egg; >5 
team,? i - .r-Ju?u 11-. i e)

. 
buildingdetroitorg
For Accounting Use Only

 

 

 

 

INVOICE PAYMENT REQUEST om: 7/10/2019

NAME PAYEE: SaleSforceDrg

ADDRESS 0.: 39000, San Francisco, CA 9412
103,740

AMOUNT TO BE PAID: 5


METHOD OF PAYMENT Check Card L?l EFT l:l Authorizemet Refund
CHECK NEEDED BY: ?in 31 2019

 



 

.NVOKEDESCRWON: ?nnual Renewal Salesforce Licenses
Standard

 


l]
METHOD OF DELIVERY: Place In Mail A Hold for Pickup

DEPARTMENT: DAdmin Demolition mDisposition Finance DHuman Resources
DLegal 1: inventory IOperations :1 Community Affairs

PROGRAM: DAuction DBridging Neighborhoods Buy Back BCompiianceD Demo
gDepartment: House DEconomic Development
NAP DNSP: D?wn It Now mother, (Le. Private Demo, Side Lots)
Quiet Title DRehabbed Ready Buy It

FUNDING of AmericaDBerman of Detroit Disposition DGHIB 
ERockVenturesD Other:

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

i Eli/i? List} ??1312!

Requested in: (Print) (Signature) I'Datel



ELI: ll fad-{w- 1: i ur- it?; Hi
Approuer [Print) (Signature) Date
Piu- 1} 
For Accounting Use Only 
NJ 

Reviewed by: Posted by: GENERALLEDGER ACCOUNT: i - 

 





Salesforce org

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50 Fremont Suite. 300 INVOICE

-, San Exam: 500, CA 941-33

Invoice Number: F10126?lm0?0
TP- Invoice Date: Jul 1, 2019
Detrmt Land Bank Authority . 
Attn: Kevin Shelton lnvorce Due Date. Jul 31, 2019
500 Griswold St, Suite 1200 Payment Terms: Net 30
Detroit, MI 48226 PO Number:

?c 
States Of A an a Account Number: 4-599402
Ship To: Contract Number: . 01541070P-00262274
500 Griswold St, Suite 1200 Quote Number:

DETROIT, MI 48226 

United States of America

 

Invoice Amount:

55:) 103,740.15

 

Remittance Information

Remit To:
Salesforceorg
Department #34293

PD. Box 39000

San Francisco. CA 94139

Wire Transfer To:
Wells Fargo
Salesforceorg

Account 9525525409
ABA 121-000-248

lnt'l SWIFT 

Invoice Details

 
 
 

 

Vendor: Salesforoeorg
In Service Months my Unit Price Taxable Total

Overnight Address:

Wells Fargo Lockbox Services
3440 Walnut Ave, Window 
Fremont, CA 94530

Reference: Saieeforcenrg and
Deptitt 3-4293 - 0N PACKING SLIP

Please use the following link to pay with credit card:

gate no ice

  

12 8 50.00 No 4,800.00

    
   
   

Data?Sharage (500MB)

    
  
 

v.3 

3,900.00

  

Customer Community_Plus 

Members

2b - . .. -

 

      

 

 

 

3 (Legacy) Lightning CRM - Enterprise 12 250 90,000.00
Edition
2:3: - 3, mm: 
(Legacy) Customer Community Plus 12 2 No 504000
(100 Members}.

Total Charges: USD 103,740.00
Total Taxes: USD 0.00
Salesforcecrg Total invoice: USD 103,740.00

The unit price shown above nas been rounded to two decimal places for display purposes As many as eight decimal pieces
may be present in the actual price The total price for this invoice was calculated using the actual price, rather than the unit

price displayed above. and is the true and binding total for this invoice.

Please note: Access to salesforcecom CRM subscription services is through remote Internet browser. This on-demand CRM
service does not include the transfer of any software.

If your organization is exempt from sales tax, please email a copy of your state sales tax exemption certi?cate to


If this email reached you by mistake or you have any question, please email us at or call
1668?9240450. 
0-





Pitt (Reel 2)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Salesforce org
50 Fremont Suite 300 
5?9 9 - Sari Franmsco, CA 94105
- 
IT Invoice Number: F10126100
il 0: P. 
Inv0ice Date: I1, 2019
Detroit Land Bank Authority NP Processed . 
Attn: Kevin Shelton anOIce Due Date: Jul 31, 2019
500 Griswold St, Suite 1200 it my: Payment Terms: Net 30
Bettmg'sht?tw?tanm rica 0 PO Number? 


n" a as 0 Account No 6 0 Account Number: 4599492?
Ship To: Contract Number: 01541070.P-00262274
500 Griswold St, Suite 1200 Quote Number:

DETROIT, MI 48226 
United States of America Mum: uso 103,740.00
Remittance Information

Remit To: Overnight Address:

Salesforceorg Wells Fargo Lockbox Services

Department #34293 3440 Walnut Ave, Window 

PO. Box 39000 Fremont, CA 94538

San Francisco, CA 94139 Reference: Saiesforcecrg and

De t# 34293 - ON PACKING SLIP
Wire Transfer To: 

Wells Far 0 . .
Saresfomgorg Please use the followrng link to pay with credit card:
Account 9525525409 ,1 ?13,013, -. 5.

ABA 121-000-248
lnt?l SWIFT 

Invoice Details

Vendor: Salesforceorg

 

 

 
   
  
  
   
    
 

 

     
   
 

 

Service Months Unit Price Taxable Totai 
Data Storage (500MB) 12 8 50.00 No 4,800.00
Set race Dates 07,0 3-lfit3r30i2.L-Zt3 
2 Customer Community Plus Members 12 100 3.25 No 3,900.00
Service Dates 120 

 



 
 

 

 

 

 

(Legacy) Lightning CRM - Enterprise 12 250 30.00 No 90,000.00
Edition
ISetliice Daiez- 3:710 'r?20 9-15-30Qi320 
4 (Legacy) Customer Community Plus 12 2 21000 No 5,040.00
(100 Members)
SSI vase Dates one 1.20 rescue-2020

Total Charges: USD 103,740.00
Total Taxes: USD 0.00
Salesforcecrg Total Invoice: USD 103,740.00

The unit price shown above has been rounded to two decimal places for display purposes. As many as eight decimal places
may be present in the actual price. The total price for this invoice was calculated using the actual price, rather than the unit
price displayed above, and is the true and binding total for this Inv0ice.

Please note: Access to salesforcecom CRM subscription services is through remote Internet browser. This on-demand CRM
service does not include the transfer of any software.

if your organization is exempt from sales tax, please email a copy of your state sales tax exemption certi?cate to


If this trait T. shed get. by mistake or you have any question, please email us at or call
tees-agi- 0. i ..

I. . 



ens-e donation
a 

been the 'ipient of a pruduct lic
to pay .12. four invoice

. ll' - - -. org 
:r?mugil ?nial-Ah: (:29 .lLdocument With the details of the donation. Also. ll than are an organization cm.
by transfer. please note that any bank fees associated with payment wm

mid-a tn:- UC: :1:li would 
be your responsibility.

12.53



DETROIT, Ml 4:17:36

 

1:5 DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY Fi?? Third Bank mum
GENERAL FUND 74,545,724
500 GHESWOLD 51. Ste 1200 07117719

5&1

 

  
 

 

 

 

PAY TO THE

E11 oaoen -J. $103,740.00



new

. 

.: my: 1

Department #34293 PO. Box 39000

1. 

MEMO San Francisco California 94139 . 

- . . 

WULEEQTW 
DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY 1 2 2 9

Payee Name: 
Salesforce.org $103,740.00
Our Inv No. Vend Inv No. Invoice Date Deec?p?en Reference Amt Paid
PIN028813 F10126100 07/01/19 Legacy Lighting CRM Enterprise Edition F10126100 $103,740.00

07/01 I1 9?06130/20

Shipment ReceiptPage #1 of 1

I: 3.

 

SHIP 
TUES 23 JUL 2312

PELIUEHI BRIE:
PEE 21 RJIJI. 2512 3H 2H

HIP
LRHD IUIHOEITT

SHIPHEHI 


ICEJI wt
LTR Bill-d Height

CARRIER LETTER
SHIP PELIUER

 

 

EIREPIR ELIEP



I2 HIEKIHG HUHEERI IZIFEETEHI2BIEEBPT
IPHEHT l' MEEHIEI

HI 45222 3 IP REF 1' BETH PIT LRH I ERHK

IP REF 2"

TELLS LOEKEOX PEEL PM MIOH 0F GOPPSI

EEPL CHE WK

II HELHHT 2UE



FIEHP I Ch 24538-2213 SHIPHEHT 

HEIT ITPIT II 20H 45.33
SEIUICE $.33
FUEL SHIN WE 3.51

SHIPPED THHDUEHI EH3 FEE 2.22

IMHMEWE HEW

3273

I3IEI 223' WI
$42.32

I: I I

uarogzn ac ?no uLLnaEngntI In Hen 3%
II Po 3 INIS II
Signatur

HHIZEHIEIRGEP

Ru W3



up; . . I'm. Enlu: tI.m HUI r.:I
. - . .211: 

LEDUE ??qb thlEESEUEE

II II 




.I 


MASTER BSCRIPTION AG REE-M ENT

THIS MASTER SUBSCRIPTION GOVERNS ACQUISITION AND USE OF SFDC SERVICES.
CAPITALIZED TERMS IIAVF. 'l?lIF. SET FORTH HEREIN.

IF CUSTOMER REGISTERS FOR A FREE TRIAL OF SFDC SERVICES OR FOR FREE SERVICES, THE APPLICABLE
PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT WILL ALSO GOVERN Tl IAT FREE TRIAL OR THOSE FREE SERVICES.

B?r' THIS ET CLICKING A BOX ACCEPTANCE. [El AN ORDER
FORM l'l IAT REFERENCES THIS AGREEMENT. (JR FRI-LIL SERVICES. AGREES 'l'l IF. OF
IIS IF TI Ili INDIVIDUAL 'l'l Ill-i IS ACCEPTING UN MLF (IF A COMPANY
(IR {Will-LR NDIVIDIL-XL I'llr't'l' BIND 
AND ITS Tl I IONS. IN WI 'I?l IF. TERM SI IAIJ.
Ti SI It?l I AND ITS IF IF INDIVIIJI thi llbi NUT I 
SI (JR DUI-LS NIH 'I'lileI: Hl?t'll INDIVIDIIAI MI '5 NIH
At't?lil? AND MAY Xi 

The Services tnay not be accessed for purposes of monitoring their availability. performance or functionality. or for any other
benchmarking or competitive purposes.

direct competitors are prohibited from accessing the Services. except with prior written consent.

This Agreement was last updated on September I. 2019. It is effective between Customer and SFDC as of the date of Customer?s
accepting this Agreement.

1. DEFINITIONS

?Af?liate? means an} entity that directly or indirectly controls. is controlled by. or is under common control with the subject
entity. ?Control.? for purposes of this definition. means direct or indirect ownership or Control of more than 50% of the voting
interests of the subject entity.

"Agreement" means this Master Subscription Agreement.

"Ilcta Services" means services or functionality that may be made available to to try at its option at no additional
charge which is clearly designated as beta. pilot. limited release. developer preview. non-production. evaluation. or by a similar
description.

?Content" means in formation obtained by SFDC from publicly available sources or its third party content providers and tnade
available to Customer tlirnugh the Services. Beta Services or pursuant to an Order Form. as more fully described in the
Documentation.

?t'ustumer? means in the ease ol'an indit idual acceptingI this .-?tgreement on his or her int-n behalf. such individual. or in the case
of an individual accepting. this .-"tgreement on behalf of a company or other legal entity. the company or other legal entity for

which such individual is accepting this Agreement. and Af?liates ol'that comp-an} or entity tIor so long as they remain Affiliates}
which have entered into Order Forms.

"Customer Data? means electronic data and information submitted by or for Customer to the Services, excluding Content and
Applications.

?l'lncumentatian? means the applicable Service's and Compliance_documentation at 
and its usage guides and policies, as updated from time to time. accessible via
help.salesi?orcexnm or login to the applicable Service.

?Free Services? means Services that SFDC makes available to Customer free ot?charge. Free Services exclude Services offered
as a free trial and Purchased Services.

?Malicious Code? means code, files, scripts, agents or programs intended to do harm. including. for example, viruses. worms,

time bombs and Trojan horses.

?Marketplace" means an online directory. catalog or marketplace of applications that interoperate with the Services. including.

for example. the Applixchange at or the Heroku add-tins catalog at

and any successor websites.

Application" means a Web-based. mobile. of?ine or other software application functionality that interoperates with
SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page I of 12

2.2

2.3

2.4

2.5

a Service. that is provided by Customer or a third party andi'or listed on a Marketplace including as Labs or under
similar designation. Applications. other than those obtained or provided by Customer. will be identifiable as such.

(In! in I (am It?fl?i in i (liu 'i?d wt unil'?In? ll) 1' i. ?l 

-cl \IIlL1\ll)l ?l all i. ll iol? 1; lil"' lJ .l cill?- lil? .ll

Order Form hereunder. an Af?liate agrees to be bound by the terms ofthis Agreement as if it ere an original party hereto.
?Purchased Services" means Services that Customer or Customer?s Affiliate purchases under an Order Form or online purchasing
portal. as distinguished from Free Services or those provided pursuant to a free trial.

?Services" means the products and services that are ordered by Customer under an Order Form or nnline purchasing portal. or
provided to Customer free ofcharge {as applicable) or under a free trial. and made available online by SFDC. including associated
SFDC of?ine or mobile components. as described in the Documentation. "Services" exclude Content and 
Applications.

means the salesforce.com company described in the Contracting Entity. Notices, Governing Law. and Venue?
section below.

Iser" means. in the case ofan indit itlual accepting these terms on his or her own behalf. individual. or. in the case of an
individual accepting this Agreement on hehall'at'a company or other legal entity. an individual who is authorized by ("Listomer
in use a Service. for whom Lustomcr has purchased a subscription tor in the case of an; Services provided by Si?l'?i' without
charge. for whom a Service has hecn prim isioned). and to tthom L'ustotner tor. 1when applicable. Til-'lit' at lL'ustort?ter?s request)
has supplied a user identi?cation and password I. for Services utilising authentication}. L?sers may include. for example.
employ ees. consultants. contractors and agents ol'L'tistomer. and third parties v. ith which L?ustomer trans-acts husiness.

SFDC RESPONSIBILITIES

Provision of Purchased Services. SFDC will make the Services and Content available to Customer pursuant to this
Agreement, and the applicable Order Forms and Documentation. provide applicable SFDC standard support for the Purchased
Services to Customer at no additional charge. and/or upgraded support ifpurchascd. use commercially reasonable efforts to
make the online Purchased Services available 24 hours a day. 7 days a neck. except for: planned downtime (of hich SFDC
shall give advance electronic notice). and (ii) any unavailability caused by circumstances beyond reasonable control.
including. for example. an act of God. act of government. Hood. tire. earthquake. civil unrest. act of terror. strike or other labor
problem (other than one involving SFDC employees). Internet serx ice prov ider failure or delay. Application. or denial
of service attack. and provide the Services in accordance with laws and government regulations applicable to SFDC's
provision of its Services to its customers generally without regard for Customer's particular use ofthe Services), and subject
to Customer?s use ofthe Services in accordance with this Agreement. the Documentation and the applicable Order Form

Protection of Customer Data. SFDC will maintain appropriate administrative, physical. and technical safeguards for protection
ofthe security. confidentiality and integrity ol?Customer Data. as described in the Documentation. Those safeguards will include.
but will not be limited to. measures designed to prevent unauthorized access to or disclosure of Customer Data (other than by
Customer or Users). Except with respect to a free trial. the terms of the data processing addendum at
nun legal agreement-s are hereby incorporated by reference and shall apply to the
extent Customer Data includes Personal Data. as defined in the DPA. To the extent Personal Data from the European Economic
Area (EEA). the United Kingdom and Switzerland are processed by SFDC. its Processor Binding Corporate Rules. the 
and/or Swiss-US Privacy Shield. and/or the Standard Contractual Clauses shall apply. as further set forth in the DPA. For the
purposes of the Standard Contractual Clauses. Customer and its applicable Af?liates are each the data exporter. and Customer's
acceptance ofthis Agreement. and an applicable Afliliate's execution of an Order Form. shall be treated as its execution of the
Standard Contractual Clauses and Appendices. Upon request by Customer made within 30 days after the effective date of
termination or expiration ofthis Agreement. SFDC will make Customer Data available to Customer for export or download as
provided in the Documentation. After such 30-day period. SFDC will have no obligation to maintain or provide any Customer
Data. and as provided in the Documentation will thereafter delete or destroy all copies of Customer Data in its systems or
otherwise in its possession or control, unless legally prohibited

SFDC Personnel. SFDC will be responsible for the performance ofits personnel (including its employees and contractors) and
their compliance with obligations under this Agreement. except as otherwise specified in this Agreement.

Beta Services. From time to time. SFDC. may make Beta Services available to Customer at no charge. Customer may choose to
try such Beta Services or not in its sole discretion. Any use of Beta Services is subject to the Beta Serv1ces terms at
lceal aai?nenL-s 'sp

 

Free Trial. If Customer registers on or an Affiliates website for a free trial. SFDC will make the applicable Service(s)
available to Customer on a trial basis free of charge until the earlier ol'ta) the end of the free trial period for which Customer
registered to use the applicable Sewice(s). or the start date of any Parchased Service subscriptions ordered by Customer for
such Service(s), or termination by SFDC in its sole discretion Additional trial terms and conditions may appear on the trial
registration web page. Any such additional terms and conditions are incorporated into this Agreement by reference and are legally

SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page 2 of l2

2.6

binding.

ANY DATA CUSTOMER ENTERS 0 TI IF. SERVICES. AND ANY MADE TO THE SERVICES
HY OR I OR HI 'Rt?tt IRI it I I 
IriIItt \tlH tIl?x 
I?t II \st \I't't It trill I It st rt It I t.'u'til' st II li?tl til I URI I Tut) Ul IRI 
PERIOD. MADE DURING FREE
TRIAL '10 A SIiItVlt'i-I I'l W01 BE A FROM 'I'l COVERED BY THE TRIAL (E.G., FROM
EDITION PROFESSIONAL TI IIZRI-ZFORIE, CUSTOMER PURCHASES A SERVICE THAT
WOULD BE A DOWNUMDE FROM TI lA'l' COVERED li'i' ?i?l IE CUSTOMER MUST EXPORT CUSTOMER
ENIJ THE TRIAL PERIOD DR CUSTOMER DATA WILL BE PERMANENTLY LOST.

WARRANTIES, EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES AND 
SECTION AND BY SECTION DURING THE FREE TRIAL THE SERVICES ARE
PROVIDED WITI ANY WARRANTY AND SI IIAVE NO INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS
NOR LIABILTTY OF ANY TYPE WITII TO THE SERVICES FOR THE FREE TRIAL PERIOD UNLESS SUCH
EXCLI ISIDN IS UNDER LAW IN WHICH CASE 
WITII RESPECT TO THE SERVICES PROVIDED DI IRINTE TIIF. FREE TRIAL SHALL NOT EXCEED
TIIE AND ITS AND ITS LICENSORS DO NOT
DR UMER TI I TI IE SERVICES DURING THE FREE
IRIAI. PERI-till Vi MEI. I S. {Ii} USE OF THE SERVICES DURING
THE FREE TRIAL PERIOD 1WILI. BF. IRRI TED. DR FREE FROM ERROR. AND (C) USAGE
TI IE FREE I?I.th II) WILL BE ACCI TRA NOTWITI ISTANDING ANYTHING TO
IT IE IN TI IE LIABII BELOW- SHALL BE FULLY LIABLE
UNDER 115 AGREEMENT TO SFDC AND ITS AFFII FOR ANY ARISING OUT OF 
USE OF TI IE SERVICES DURING THE FREE PERIOD. AN BY CUSTOMER OF THIS AGREEMENT
AND ANY OF INDER.

CUSTOMER SHALL REVIEW TIIE APPLICABLE DOCUMENTATION DURING THE TRIAL PERIOD TO
BECOME FAMILIAR WITH THE FEATURES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE SERVICES BEFORE MAKING A PURCHASE.

Free Services. SFDC may make Free Services available to Customer. Use of Free Services is subject to the terms and conditions
of this Agreement. In the event of a conllict between this section and any other portion of this Agreement, this section shall
control. Free Services are provided to Customer without charge up to certain limits as described in the Documentation. Usage
met these limits requires Customer's purchase ol' additional resources or service-s. Customer agrees that SFDC, in its sole
discretion and for any or no reason, may terminate Customer's access to the Free Services or any part thereof. Customer agrees
that any termination ofCustomer?s access to the Free Sert ices may be without prior notice. and Customer agrees that SFDC will
not be liable to Customer or an} third party for such termination. T'ustumcr is solel} respt'insible for exporting Customer Data
from the Free Services prior to termination of ('ustmner's access to the Free Services For any reason provided that it' SFDC
terminates Customer's account, except as required by law SFDC will provide Customer 3 reasonable opportunity to retriei-e its
Customer Data.

THE WARRANTIES, EXCLUSIVE AND 
AND BY Slut. BEIJJW. FREE ARE PROVIDED 
It'll IT ANY WARRANTY AND SFDC SI IALI. I NH OBLIGATIONS NOR LIABILITY OF
ANY TYPE WITH RESPECT TO THE FREI: SERVICES EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY IS NOT
ENFORCEAHLE UNDER APPLICABLE IN WHICH CASE WITH FREE
SERVICES SHALL NOT EXCEED WI TIIDI LIMITINIE THE FOREGOING, AND TES
AND ITS DO NOT REPRESI-LNT OR TU CUSTOMER IAI USE OF THE
FREE SERVICES CUSTOMERS USE OF THE FREE SERVICES
WILI. BF. LININTERRUPTED. SECURE OR FREE FROM ERROR, USAGE DATA PROVIDED
THE FREE SERVICES WILL BE ACCURATE. ANYTHING TO THE IN
THE SECTION BELOW. SI-IAIL BE FULLY LIABLE UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT TO SFDC AND ITS AFFILIATES FOR ANY DAMAGES HI IT OF USE OF THE
FREE SERVICES, ANY BREACH BY CUSTOMER OF TI IIS AGREEMENT AND ANY OF CUSTOMERS
INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS HEREUNDER.

USE OF SERVICES AND CONTENT

Subscriptions. Unless othernise provided in the applicable Order Form or Documentation, tat Purchased Services and access
to Content are purchased as subscriptions for the term stated in the applicable Order Form or in the applicable online purchasing
portal. thi subscriptions i'or Purchased Services may be added during a subscription term at the saute pricing as the underlying
subscription pricing. prorated for the portion of that subscription term remaining at the time the subscriptions are added. and [ct
any added subscriptions will terminate on the same date as the underlying subscriptions. t?ustomer agrees that its purchases are

SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page 3 of 12

3.3

3.4

4.2

not contingent on the delivery ofany future functionality or features. or dependent on arty oral or puhltc comments made
it} Stilt" regarding future functionality or features.

imits Io.? .411 ?it . i . . .Ii'i - 'z'ti 

limit. it. hl-lJt' ls unahle or unoitnng to elude a contractual usage innit. mil
csecutc an Urdcr Form for additional quantities ofthc :tpplieahlc Services or t'ontcm upon request. under pay
any invoice for excess usage in accordance ivith the "invoicing and l'ay meat" section hciow.

Customer Responsibilities. Customer will [at he responsihle for Users' compliance with this Agreement. Documentation and
Order Forms, th?i he responsible for the accuracy, quality and legality ofCustomer Data. the means by which Customer acquired
Customer Data, Customer's use of Customer Data with the Services. and the interopcration of any Applications with
which Castomcr uses Services or Content. tel use commercially rcasonahlc efforts to prevent unauthorized access to or use of
Services and Content. and notify SFDC of any such unauthorized access or use. use Services and Content only in
accordance with this Agreement. Documentation. the Acceptable Use and External Facing Services Policy at
Order Forms and applicahlc laws and government regulations. and
tel comply with terms a service ofany Applications with which Customer uses Services or ("mitenL Any use of the
Services in breach ofthe foregoing hy Customer or Users that in threatens the security. integrity or availability
of services. may result in immediate suspension of the Services. however Slim?: will use commercially
rcasonahlc efforts under the circumstances to prov idc t?ustomer ith notice and an opportunity to remedy such 1. iolation or threat
prior to any such suspension.

Usage Restrictions. ('ustomer will not tat make any Sets ice or Content availahle to any one other than Customer or 1 Iscrs. or
use any Service or Content for the ol'anyonc other than Customer or its Af?liates. unless espressly stated othero isc in an
("utter Form or the Documentation. [hi sell. resell. license. suhlicense. distribute. make avail-slide. rent or lease any Service or
Content. or include any Service or {'ontent in a service hurcau or outsourcing offeringstore or transmit inli?inging. libelous. or othernise unlaol'ui or tortious material. or to store or transmit material in ioiation of
third-party privacy rights. use a Service or to store or transmit Malicious te} interfere with or
disrupt the integrity or performance ofany Service or third-party data contained therein. ft attempt to gain unauthorized access
to any Service or Content or its related systems or netoorlcs. permit direct or indirect access to or use of any Services or
Content in a nay that circumt ents acontractoal usage limit. or use any Hers ices to accessor use any intellectual property
except as permitted under this an Form. or the Documentation. [ht modily. copy. or create derivative ivorks
[used on a Service or any part. feature. function or user interface thereof. til copy t'ontent except as permitted herein or in an
(inter i-?orm or the Documentation. til frame or mirror any part of any Sort ice or Content. other than training on ['tistomer's non
intranets or otherwise for its own internal business purposes or as permitted in the Documentation. tic] except to the extent
permitted by applicahlc law. reverse engineer. or deeompile a Service or Content or access it to ill huild a
competitive product or service. (it huild a product or service using similar ideas. [catures functions or graphics of the Service.
t3} copy any ideas. l'catures. functions or graphics of the Sci-t ice. or ill determine whether the Fiery ices are oithtn the scope of
any patent.

Removal and Applications. es notice that or a Application must
he removed. modified and or disahled to avoid violating applicahle law. third-party rights. or the .-?tcceptahle l. isc and listernal
facing Services Policy. t'ustiuner will do so. does not take required action in :ccot'dancc with the above.
or il'in Slillt.?sliudgment continued violation is likely to reoceur. Si-?ilt' may disable the applicable L?ontent. Scry ice antler Non-
.?il-?llC Application. if requested hy Si-?Dt?. Customer shall confirm such deletion and discontinuance of use in oriting and St-?Dt'
shall he authorized to provide a copy of such con?rmation to any such third party claimant or governmental authority. as
applicable. In addition, if is required hy any third party rights holder to remove Content. or receives information that
Content provided to Customer may violate applicahlc law or third-party rights. may discontinue t.?ustomcr?s access to
Content through the Services.

NON-SFDC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Products and Services. SFl?lt' or third parties may make availahle [for example. through a Marketplace or
otherwise} third-party products or services. including. [in example. Applications and implementation and other
services. Any acquisition by Customer t? such products or ices. and any eschange of data between Customer and
any provider. product or service is solely Customer and the applicable provider. Stilt: does not
warrant or support Non-Slim: Applications or other Nom?l-?Dt? products or services. whether or not they are designated hy
as "certilicd" or otherwise. unless expressly provided otherwise in an tlrder Form- is not responsible for any
disclosure. modi?cation or deletion ofC?ustomer Data resulting from access hy such Non-Sl?lJC Application or its provider.

Integration with Applications. The Services may contain features designed to interoperate with 
Applications. cannot guarantee the continued availability ofsuch Service features. and may cease providing them without
entitling Customer to any refund, credit. or other compensation. if for example and without limitation. the provider of a Non-
Application ceases to make the Application available for interoperation with the corresponding Service [catarcs

SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page 4 of 12



5manner acceptable to 
FEES AND PAYMENT

l?ecs Minter \?ail' t?t' all let" 'ml :1 .- Hi ttil' limo]! its

tit. i?civ.ti  'l'.ti ?kli'l - 

. -. .
fees paid are non-refundable. and quantities purchase

taltt?tm ic.ltt.

cannot be decreased during the relevant subscription term

Invoicing and Payment.  Customer will provide nith valid and updated credit card information. or with a valid purchase
order or alternative document reasonably acceptable to SFDC. If Customer provides credit card information to SFDC. Customer
authorizes SFDC to charge such credit card for all Purchased Services listed in the Order Form for the initial subscription term
and any renewal subscription term(s) as set forth in the ?Term ofPurchased Subscriptions" section below. Such charges shall he
made in advance. either annually or in accordance with any different billing frequency stated in the applicable Order Form. If
the Order Form specifies that paytnent will be by a method other than a credit card. SFDC will invoice Customer in advance and
otherwise in accordance with the relevant Order Form. Unless otherwise stated in the Order Form. invoiced fees are due net 30
days from the invoice date. Customer is responsible for providing complete and accurate billing and contact information to SFDC
and notifying SFDC ofany changes to Such information.

Overdue Charges. If any invoiced amount is not received by SFDC by the due date, then without limiting rights or
remedies. those charges may accrue late interest at the rate of 1.5% of the outstanding balance per month. or the maximum
rate permitted by law. whichever is lower. and/or SFDC may condition future subscription renewals and Order Forms on
pay ment terms shorter than those specified in the "invoicing and Pay ment? section above.

of Service and Acceleration. If any charge owing by Customer under this or any other agreement for services is 30
days or more overdue. tor 10 or more days overdue in the case Customer has authorized SFDC to charge to L'ustomer' 
credit card), SFDC may. without limiting its other rights and remedies. accelerate Customer's unpaid fee obligations under such
agreements so that all such obligations become immediately due and payable. and suspend Services until such amounts are paid
in full. provided that. other than for customers pay ing by credit card or direct debit whose payment has been declined. SFDC 1will
give Customer at least to days' prior notice that its account is overdue. in accordance with the "Manner ot?fiiving Notice" section
beloo for billing notices. before suspending services to t'ustomer

Payment Disputes. will not exercise its rights under the Jverdue Charges" or ?Suspension of Service and Acceleration"
section above ifCustomer is disputing the applicable charges reasonably and in good faith and is cooperating diligently resolve
the dispute.

Taxes. SFDC's fees do not include any taxes. levies, duties or similar governmental assessments of any nature. including. for
example. value-added. sales. use or withholding taxes. assessable by any jurisdiction whatsoever (collectively, ?Taxes"l.
Customer is responsible for paying all Taxes associated with its purchases hereunder. has the legal obligation to pay or
collect Taxes for which Customer is responsible under this section. will invoice Customer and Customer will pay that
amount unless Customer provides SFDC with a valid tax exemption certificate authorized by the appropriate taxing authority.
For clarity, SFDC is solely responsible for taxes assessable against it based on its income. property and employees.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSES

Reservation of Rights. Subject to the limited rights expressly granted hereunder. SFDC. its Affiliates. its licensors and Content
Providers reserve all oftheir right, title and interest in and to the Services and Content. including all of their related intellectual
property rights. No rights are granted to Customer hereunder other than as expressly set forth herein.

Access to and Use of Content. Customer has the right to access and use applicable Content subject to the terms of applicable
Order Forms, this Agreement and the Documentation.

License by Customer to SFDC. Customer grants SFDC. its Af?liates and applicable contractors a worldwide. limited-term
license to host. copy. use, transmit. and display any Applications and program code created by or for Customer using
a Service or for use by Customer with the Services. and Customer Data. each as appropriate for SFDC to provide and ensure
proper operation of the Services and associated systems in accordance with this Agreement. if Customer chooses to ttse a Non-
Application with a Service. Customer grants SFDC permission to allow the Application and its provider to
access Customer Data and information about Customer?s usage of the Non?Si-?lK? Application as appropriate for the
inter-operation ofthat Application with the Service. Subject to the limited licenses granted herein. SFDC acquires no
right. title or interest from Customer or its licensors under this Agreement in or to any Customer Data. Application
or such program code.

License by Customer to Use Feedback. Customer grants to SFDC and its Affiliates a worldwide. perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-
free license to use and incorporate into its services any suggestion. enhancement request. recommendation. correction or other
feedback provided by Customer or Users relating to the operation or its Affiliates? services.

Federal Government End Use Provisions. SFDC provides the Services. including related software and technology. for ultimate
federal government end use in accordance with the follooing: The Services consist of "commercial items.? as de?ned at FAR

SFDC-MSA Sept 20 19 Page 5 of 12

7.2

7.3

8.1
8.2

3.3

9.
9.1

2.101. In accordance with FAR 11211-11212 and 227.7102-4 and as applicable, the rights of the 
Government to use. modify. reproduce. release. perform. display. or disclose conmtereial computer soliuare. cottimereial

computer softtzar: I. 2'11!? Ii furnitl'. in cont -. t-ol' th: 9:1" shall he nroti-ch in Ihi-.
'I?iil He?ll? 
ut accordance utth I)l 151.13 -l5. It .I Heed. ado-twins it mint negotiate .i uncanny
acceptable written addendum to this Agreement specifically granting those rights.

CONFIDENTIALITY

De?nition of Con?dential Information. ?Con?dential Information" means all information disclosed by a party ("Disclosing
I?arty"i to the other party ("Receiving Party?i. whether orally or in writing. that is designated as confidential or that reasonably
should be understood to be confidential given the nature of the information and the circumstances nt'disclosurc. Con?dential
information of Customer includes Customer Data: (.Tontidential Information includes the Services and Content. and the
terms and conditions ofthis Agreement and all Order Forms {including pricing}. Con?dential Information ol?eaeh party includes
business and marketing plans. technology and technical information. product plans and designs. and business processes disclosed
by such party. However. Con?dential Information does not include any information that lit is or becomes generally known to
the public without breach of any obligation owed to the Disclosing Party. tii} was knott'n to the Receiving I?arty prior to its
disclosure by the I.)isclosing Party without breach ol'any obligation owed to the Disclosing Party. is received Iii-om a third
part} without breach ofany obligation owed to the Disclosing l?art} . or tivj was independently developed by the Reccit ing Party.
lot the atoidanee of doubt. the non-disclosure obligations set forth in this "('nnlidcntiality" section apply to t?ttniidcntial
Information exchanged between the parties in connection ttith the nitration of additional services.

Protection Information. ?ts the parties. each party retains all ownership rights and toils Con?dential
lnibnnation. The Receiving Party will use the same degree ofcare that it uses to protect the con?dentiality ofits ott'n confidential
information ttl'like kind not less than reasonable care] to not use any lFonlidential Information of the Disclosing Party for
any purpose outside the scope oftltis Agreement and [ii] escept as otherwise authorized by the Disclosing Part} in writing. limit
access to Con?dential Information ofthc Disclosing Party to those of its and its Aililiatcs? employees and contractors who need
that access for purposes consistent with this and oho have signed con?dentiality agreements ttith the Receiving Party
containing protections not materially less protective ol'thc (?onlidential Intiu'mation titan those herein. Neither party will disclose
the terms of this .-\greement or an} l?orm to any third party other than its Affiliates. legal counsel and accountants without
the other part) "it prior ttrittcn consent. protidcd that a part} that makes any such disclosure to its Af?liate. legal counsel or
accountants uill remain responsible for such legal counsel's or accountanl's etunpliance ?L'i-llit this "FonIIdentiality?
section. Notwithstanding the litrcgoing. Still-C may disclose the terms of this Agreement and any applicable Order l-"orm to a
subcontractor or Application 1?rto idcr to the extent necessary to perform obligations under this Agreement.
under terms ofconlidentiality materially as protective as set forth herein.

(Tompellcd Disclosure. the Receiving l'art} may disclose lL?tntlidenttal information of the Disclosing Part} to the extent
compelled by law to do so. pros ided the Receit ing l?art} gives the Disclosing Party prior notice of the compelled disclosure {to
the estent legally permitted} and reasonable assistance. at the Disclosing Party's cost. il'the Disclosing Party wishes to contest the
disclosure. If the Receiting Party is compelled by Ian to disclose the Disclosing I?arty's t?onlidcntial Information as part of a
civil proceeding to which the Disclosing Part} is a party. and the Disclosing Party is not contesting the disclosure. the Disclosing
Party will reimburse the Receiving Party for its reasonable cost of compiling and providing secure access to that Con?dential
Information.

REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES, EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES AND DISCLAIMERS
Representations. Each party represents that it has validly entered into this Agreement and has the legal power to do so.

SFDC Warranties. SIDE warrants that during an applicable subscription term ta] this the Order I-?orms and the
Documentation still accurately describe the applicable administrative. physical. and technical safeguards for protection of the
security. con?dentiality and integrity ofL?ustonter Data. lb]. ?i ll not materially decrease the overall security ol'the SUITICCH.
let the Services will perform materially in accordance with the applicable I'Jocumcntation. and id} subject to the "Integration with
Applications? section abot e, will not materially decrease the overall functionality of the Services. I-?or any
breach of a warranty above. Customer?s exclusive remedies are those described in the ?termination? and "Retired or Payment
upon termination" sections below.

Disclaimers. AS HEREIN. Ilili MAKES ANY OF AN 
KIND. EXPRESS. fill. Oil-[13R WISH AND lir?tl'll PAR 
All. IMPLIED INCH illiiNti ANY IMPLIED Oi" 
Fl'i'Nl?'?S FOR A Pl [ll-l TO THE PliltMl"l"'l'ED B?t'
LAW. CONTENT AND SERVICES ARE PROVIDED AND AS r-?t?u?AIIJ-?tl-jlii .IISIVIE
OF ANY WARRANTY WI lA'I'SIllZ?i?liR.

MUTUAL INDEMNIFICATION

Indemni?cation by SFDC. SFDC will defend Customer against any claim, demand, suitor proceeding made or brought against

SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page 6 of 12

9.3

10.
10.1

10.2

11.
11.1

ustomer 113, a third party alleging that an} Purchased her? ice 11'111'111ges or 1111sappropr1ates such third party?s intellectual prop-art}
rights la?(?1aint Against Customer"t. and will indemnify Customer from any damages. attorney tees and costs Finally awarded
againsl result ol? 111' 1111' urn-11111111111111 111 a settlemenl appro' ed 11' 111111111119 111'. :1 f'laim
?1 - I ?.1111: -2 
t'ustomei unless it releases t'usttuner 1111111 111111111311. and let git C1- Est-111' .111 reasonable assistance. .11 1411111; 
expense. li?Hl-IK' receives inliirmation about an 11111'111gei11ent or ntisapp1 opi'iation claim related L11 a Service. til-DC ma} in its
discretion 111111 at no cost to Customer modil'y the Services so that the} are no longer claimed to infringe or misappropriate.
without breaching warranties under \N'arranties" above. 1111111111 a license 1111' Customer?s continued use 111111111
Sen. ice in accordance with this Agreement. or 11111 terminate Customer's subscriptions for that Service upon 31': days? written
notice and rel'und Customer any prepaid t'ees covering the remainder ot" the term 11 1' the terminated subscriptions. The above
defense and indemni?cation obligations do not appl} it't the allegation does not state with specilicity that the Services are the
basis 111' the Claim Against Customer: a Claim Against arises from the use or combination ol'tlte Scrrices or any
part thereo 1' with software. hardware, data. or processes not provided by ii' the Services or use thereof would not infringe
11111111111 such combination; 131 a  Claim Against Customer arises from Services under an Order Form for which there is no charge:
111'141 a f'lairn against Customer arises 1111111 Content. :1 Non-511111: Application or {'Ltstomer's breach 111? this Agreement. the
Documentation or applicable Order Forms.

Indemni?cation Customer. t'ustomcr uill defend 51- 131' and its against any claim. demand. suit or proceeding
11111111: or brought against ?1111' 11} a third part} alleging 1111 that an} use 111' L?11stm11c1 Data 111111 the
Herr. ices. a Application prouded Lustomer. or let the combination ol'a NonaSFDt' .='1pplication protided b}
t?ustomer and used with the Services. infringes or 1'1tisappropriates such third part} ?s intellectual property rights. or arising Ii'om
t'ustomer's use 111' the hen ices or (Content 111 1111 11111.1111111 manner or 111 1111111111111 otthe the Documentation. 
Form teach a ?Claim Against SI-"Dtmt. and will indemnify SlilJL' from an} damages. attornc} tees and costs 111111111: awarded
against as a result 111?. or 1111' an} amounts paid 111' Sl?lit' under 11 settlement approved 111 Customer 111 '11-'ritit1gol'. a  [71111111
Against 513111;". provided tat gites ('ttstomcr uritlen notice 111'the  ['laim Against 5151113. 1111 gives {"ustomer sole
control ol'the delense and settlement ol'the t'laim .rttg11instSI-llt' tescept that Customer may not settle 1111;. {'1111111 Against til-'IJL?
unless it unemiditionall} releases 515111." ol'all liability}. and [c1 gis es t'ustomer all reasonable assistance. 1111_'11ston1er's espense.
l'he ahote defense and indemni11calio11 obligations do not il' 11 Claim Against arises li'am breach 1111111.?:
ritgrecment. the '1')octtn1cntati11n or applicable 1. ti'del' Forms.

Exclusive Remedy. 1111:. "Mutual Indemni?cation" section states the indemnil?ying part} ?3 sole liability to. and the indemnified
party?s exclusive rented}. against, the other party l?or any third party claim described 111 this section.

LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

Limitation of Liability. IN ll't'l'ii?s'l' 1111-. :11 11111121111. l'l-L 111' 1111-11-11
MI. ITS AFFILIATES 0111' OR Rlila't'l'lil) Ft! TI 11?: iiXL'liliD 'l'l TOTAL 
BY Cl 191117111111 ill-lliil lNlilfR l't?JR 1'1 111 5111.11111le {il?t-?thi ltlbil?. '1?11 II 113 
IN 'l'l'li-L 1111311131115. MOP-11115 PRIZL'l-Llithi th'll'lli?Kll Ull'l' {11" 1111111811. 'l'lil'.
11111.1. 11?" IN 1'1 thi'l'li'tr?f'l' tilt 
111? 1111". 111111111 1.11" lill'l' W111. NtJl' I 1? 11.511} 115 
[1111.16 1111le "Fl-11351 9111-11) SECTION ABOVE.

Exclusion of Consequentia! and Related Damages. IN X11 li'v'li??'l? tilt l'l'S 111111111111 
LIABILI MHSINU (1111' (11? 11-1155 Atiltlilihllii?u'l ANY 1.05'1? PROFITS. 
OR INDIRECT. Sid-1.1.1111? COVER. BUSINESS (1R
PUNITIVE 11.141121111112115. WI IIER AN 15 lb! (IR TORT AND til" '1'1 112 TI lliUlt?r'
OF LIABILITY. EVEN A PARTY (1111 lid-W1; Bill-ZN 311111115111] (11" [Wit-151811.111" Ul" 
[11111111316155 01-1 11" A l'I'f-i Ill-111113.131 lO'l'l 111111.15 (11' 1T5 PURPOSE.
?11 1F. 11) THE EXTENT PROHIBITED BY LAW.

TERM AND TERMINATION

Term of Agreement. This Agreement commences on the date Customer ?rst accepts it and continues until all subscriptions
hereunder have expired or have been terminated.

Term of Purchased Subscriptions. The term of each subscription shall be as specilied in the applicable Order Form. Except
as otherwise specified 111 an Order Form. subscriptions will automatically renew for additional periods equal to the expiring
subscription term or one year {whichever is shorter). unless either party gives the other written notice (email acceptable) at least
311 days het'ore the end 111' the relevant subscription term. Except as expressly provided in the applicable Order Form. renewal of
promotional or one-time priced subscriptions 11111 be at applicable list price in et'lcct at the time ol'tlte applicable renewal.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary. any renewal in which subscription volume or subscription length tor-.1111 Sen. ices has
decreased from the prior term will result in t'c-pricing at renewal without regard to the prior term's per-unit pricing.

SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page 70112

11.5

12.
12.1

12.2

12.3

12.4

12.5
12.6
12.7

12.3

12.9

Termination. A party may terminate this Agreement for cause ti) upon 30 days written notice to the other putt} ol'a material
breach it?such breach remains uncured at the expiration ot?such period. or (ii) it? the other part} becomes the subject ot?a petition
ill other rel_ttin_ I I ?Rene; 'r-.hip. or .1 'nt for the henetit ol'creditors.

I - . I

llt'liilill J. it. I. .
section ahotc. Sl-llt' will return! i ttstomcr an} prepaid lees entering the remainder ot the Ieru. or .1lt Urtlet lotm.. .altc: lite
date ol'terminatinn this Agreement is terminated h} *il-?t?lt' in accordance with the "termination" section ahote.
Customer will pay any unpaid tees covering the remainder of the term ol?all terer Forms to the extent permitted h} applicable
law. In no event will termination relieve Customer ol? its obligation to pay any fees payable to SFDC for the period prior to the
et?t'ectire date ol? termination.

Surviving Provisions. The sections titled "Free Services.? ?Fees and Payment." "Proprietary Rights and Licenses."
?Con?dentiality.? ?Disclaimers." "Mutual indemni?cation." "Limitation of "Refund or Payment upon 'l'ennination."
"Remutal of Content and Applications." "Surviving Provisions" and ?General Provisions" will survive any
termination or expiration orthis Agreement. and the section titled "Protection ol'L?ustomer Data" will survive any termination or
espiratinn ot'this Agreement for so long as retains possession ot?Customer Data.

ENERAL PROVISIONS

Export Compliance. 'l'he Sert ices. Content. other Sl?lJt? technolog}. and deritalites thercot'ma} he subject to csport Inns and
regulations at the 'nited States and other jurisdictions. and t'ustumer each represents that it is not named on an} HR.
government denied-part} lIst. Customer will not permit an} Lise; to access or use an} hers ice or in a 
country or region [currently Cub-.1. Iran. North Korea. Sudan. Syria or ('rimeal or in violation ol?an} lit-i. export law or regulation.

Anti?Corruption. Neither party. has reccisctl or heen ol?l?ered an} illegal or improper bribe. kick-hack. payment. gilt. or thing of
from an employee or agent at the other part}! in connection with this .--\greement. Reasonahte gills and entertainment
provided in the ordinary course ot'husiness do nut violate the shine restriction.

Entire Agreement and Order of Precedence. This Agreement is the entire agreement hetween ?Wilt" and L'ustomer regarding
('ustomer's use ol'Sen'ices and t'ontent and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements. proposals or represented-ms.
orittcn or oral. concerning its subject matter. the parties agree that any term or condition stated in a (.?ustmner purchase order
or in any other Customer order documentation tesclutling tirder Forms} is mid. to the event ol?an} cuntlict or inconsistenc}
among the l'ollun-ing documents. the order oi" precedence shall he. i the applieahle Drder I-orm. tit this Agreement. and 3] the
Documentation. Titles and headings ol'this Agreement are I'or convenience only? and shall not alTect the construction
of any provision ot?this Agreement.

Relationship of the Parties. 'i he parties are independent contractors. 'I'his r'tgreement does not create a partnership, ti'anchise.
joint enture. agenc} . lidttciar} or emplo} rnent relationship between the parties. liach part} nill be solely responsible for pa; ment
ol' all compensatirm noed to its employees. as 1.t-ell as all employmeat-related taxes

Third-Party Bene?ciaries. There are no third-party bene?ciaries under this Agreement
Waiver. No failure or delay by either party in exercising any right under this Agreement will constitute a waiter of that right.

Severability. ll'any provision of this Agreement is held a court ol'eompctent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, the proxision
will be deemed null and void. and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain in el?l?ect.

Assignment. Neither party ma). assign any 1? its rights or obligations hereunder. whether b} operation at" tan. or otherwise.
without the other part} ?s prior oritten consent {not to he unreasonably o-?ithheldl: proritled. hon-ever. either party may assign this
Agreement in its entirety [including all Order Forms). without the other part} 's consent to its Affiliate or in connection with a
merger. acquisition. corporate reorganisation. or sale of all or substantially all ot?its assets. Notoithstanding the I'oregoing. il'a
part}- is acquired by. sells substantially all ot?its assets to. or undergoes a change ot"contrui in tin-or ot'. a direct competitor of the
other party. then such other party may terminate this r'tgreement upon written notice. In the et??ent t' such a termination. Sl-?Ut?
will refund Customer any prepaid l?ees covering the remainder ot? the term of all subscriptions For the period alter the cl?l'ectit'e
date ot?such termimttion. Suhicct to the foregoing. this Agreement will bind and inure to the henelit ol?the parties. their respective
successors and permitted assigns.

SFDC Contracting Entity, Notices, Governing Law, and Venue. The entity entering into this Agreement. the address
to \t-l?licli Customer should direct notices under this Agreement. the law that oil! apply in an} dispute or lawsuit arising out ol'or
in connection oith this Agreement. and the courts that hate jurisdiction met" nny Ruth dispute or lilt?s'bitlih depend 011 where
Customer is domiciled.

SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page 8 01'12

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Customer is The SFDC entity Notices should be addressed to: Governing law is: Courts with
domiciled in: entering into this exclusive
\greemeut i-t: jurisdiction are:
lli?l I 
.?ttueriea. Mexico or a eorporauon  Street. 31d 1 Ioor, San l?raneisco. baited Laliliania L. S. A.
Country in Central or 94105, U.S.A., attn: States l'ederal law
South America or the IWorIdwide Sales Operations, with a
Caribbean copy to attn: General Counsel.
lCanada saiesi?oreexntn Canada Salesl?orce Tower, 415 Mission Ontario and Toronto, Ontario,
{Corporation 21 Nova Street. 31d Floor, San Francisco, controlling Canadian Canada
Scotia corporation California, 94105, U.S.A., attn: VP, federal law
Worldwide Sales Operations, with a
opy to attn: General Counsel.
France salesi?iircecnm France, a Salcsforcecom Sari, Route de la France Paris, France
French S.A.S company  Lnngeraie 9, Morges, 10,
with a share capital 01? Switzerland, attn: Director, EMEA
37,000 E, registered with Sales Operations, with a copy to
the Paris Trade Registry attn: Legal Department - Serv ice
under number 483 993 .Iuridique, 3 Avenue Octave Gr?ard,
2% RC8 Paris, I751107 Paris, France.
Registered of?ce: 3
Avenue Octave Gr?ard,
75007 Paris. France
w- mg, .r?ujp mm. 
Germany salesforcecom Germany ,Salesforce com Sarl. Route de la Germany Munich, Germany
Gth, a limited liability Longetaie 9, Morges, 1110,
company, incorporated in Switzerland. attn: Director, EMEA
vtjerman} Sales Operations, with a copy to
attn: Legal Department - Erika?
ti?vlann- Strasse 31- 37 80636
humans 1 
Italy iSaIesl'nreecom Italy Salest?ui ee. enm Sari, Route de 1:1 11:11} Milan, Italy
an Italian limited Lunget 9, Morges, 1110,
liability company having Switzerland, attn: Director. EMEA
its registered address at Sales Operations, with a copy to
Piazza Filippo Meda 5, attn: Legal Department
20121 Milan (M1). VAT
Fiscal code 11.
. . - 1 
Spain Salestorce Systems Salestorce. com SarI Route de la Spain Madrid Spain
Spain, S.L.U., a limited Longeraie 9, Morges 1110,
liability company Switzerland, attn: Director, EMEA
incorporated in Spain Sales Operations. with a copy to
attn.: Legal 1'3epal't111ent - Paseo de
la Castellana 79, Madrid, 28046.
Spain
United Kingdom Salesforce UK Limited Salesforce.com Sarl, Route de la lingland London, England
(1111a salesforee com Longeraie 9, Morges, 110,
Limited}, a limited Switzerland, attn: Director, EMEA
liability company Sales Operations, with a copy to
incorporated in England attn: Legal Department, Salesforce
UK Limited (f/k/a salesforcecom
EMEA Limited), Floor 26
Salest'orce Tower, I 10 Bishopsgate.
London. liC2N 4AY, United
Kingdom.
SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page 9 of 12

 

 

 

Country m?Europe. ??nlielan?d Limited. a Salesiorcecom de' la .. England London, England

the Middle East or limited liability company :1 .ongeraie it. Morges. 1 It).

\tiic.t other than incorporated in ltelantl II. m. ltiu. lur. l"vll' 


ltaly. Spain. and the I.tll.lt. Legal Department - .?nd and
United Kingdom - 4th liloor. Central Park Block G.

?L?entral Park, Leopardstown. Dublin
13. Ireland

 

Japan liahushiki Kaisha JP Tower 12F. 2-7-2 Marunouchi. Japan Tokyo, Japan

Salesl'orcecom. a Japan t'fhiyoda-ku. 12.
corporation Japan. attn: Senior Director. Japan
Saics Operations, with a copy to
attn: GeneralCounsel.

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Country in Asia or Salestoreccom Singapore 15 Temasek Boulevard #13-01. Singapore Singapore

the Paci?c region. I?te Ltd, a Singapore Suntec Tower 5, Singapore. 03 8985.

other than Japan, Iprivate limited company attn. Director, APAC Sales

Australia or New tiperations. with a copy to attn:

tieneral t.?ounsel.

Australia or New Australia Pty 2111 Street. Darling Park New South Wales. jNew South Wales.
[caland Tower 3. Level 12. Sydney NSW Australia 1 Australia

2000. can. Senior Director. Finance
with a copy to attn: General

 

 

 

 

 

 

lL?ounsel.
. 6? 
12.10 Manner of Giving Notice. Except as otherwise speci?ed in this Agreement. all notices related to this Agreement will be in

12.11

12.12

12.13

writing and will be effective upon personal deliy ery. the second business day al?ter mailing. or except for notices of
termination or an indemni?able claim (?Legal Notices"). which shall clearly be identi?able as Legal Notices. the day of sending
by email. Billing-related notices to Customer will be addressed to the relevant billing contact designated by Customer. All other
notices to Customer will be addressed to the relevant Services system administrator designated by Customer.

Agreement to Governing Law and Jurisdiction. Each party agrees to the applicable governing law above without regard to
choice or conflicts ol'law rules, and to the exclusive jurisdiction of the applicable courts above.

Local Law Requirements: France. With respect to Customers domiciled in France. in the event or" any con?ict between any
statutory law in France applicable to Customer. and the terms and conditions of this Agreement. the applicable statutory law shall
prevail.

Local Law Requirements: Germany. With respect to Customers domiciled in German}. Section 8 
l-tli?tll-Iiltli?? Section 9.3 "l-.xelnsive Remedy?. and Section 10
OF at this Agreement are replaced with the following sections respectively:

8 WARRANTIES FOR CUSTOMERS DOMICILED IN GERMANY

8.1 Agreed Quality of the Services. warrants that during an applicable subscription term tat this ."tgrcement. the tlrder
Forms and the Documentation will accurately describe the applicable administrative. physical. and technical safeguards for
protection ot' the security. con?dentiality and int'grity o1" (.?nstorner Data. th'} will not materially decrease the oyctall
security ol'the Services. 1ch the Services will pcrt'orm materially in accordance with the applicable Documentation. and Ed 1 suhiect
to the "integration ttith section abuse. Sl"l)t" tt-ill not materially decrease the overall functionality ol'
the Services.

3.2 Content. SFDC is not designating or adopting Content as its mm and assumes no warranty or liability for Content. The
patties agree that the ?Remedies resulting from Detects" and "Exclusions" section shall apply accordingly
to responsibility in the event SFDC is deemed responsible for Content by a court ot?competentjurisdiction.

3.3 Reporting of Defects. Customer shall report any deyiation ot?the Set-rices From the ?Agreed Quality ofthe Services" section
SFDC in oritittg atria-mt amine delay and shall submit a detailed description ol'the Defect or, if not possible. at the
or the Defect. Customer shall forward to any useful information available to Customer for recti?cation ot the
Defect.

8.4 Remedies resulting from Defects. SFDC shall rectify any Defect within a reasonable period of time. if such recti?cation
I'ails. may terminate the respective Urder l-?orm provided that had enough time for curing Dci?ect. l'hc "Refund
or Payment upon Jet-initiation" section. sentence and 1 and sentence 3 shall apply accordingly. is responsible for the
Defect or it' is in dci?auit with the recti?cation. Customer may assert claims for the damage caused in the scope speci?ed

SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page 10 of 12

 

in the ?Limitation ol?Liability" section below.

8.5 Defects in Title Defects in title of the Services shall be handled in accordance with the provisions ol?Clause 9 ?Mutual
lndemnilication?

. . .-. . 
it til? ?Ll 

My t. can. .m . .
greement. the Documentation and the applicable Order l-?orms

l. ..t.tl L. 
used by Customer in accordance with the pr isions ofthis A

9.3 Liability resulting from Indemni?cation for Customers domiciled in Germany. The below "Limitation of Liability"
section shall apply to any claims resulting from this "Mutual Indemni?cation? section.

10. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR CUSTOMERS DOMICILED IN GERMANY

I0.l Unlimited Liability. The Parties shall be mutually liable without limitation
ta} in the event of willful misconduct or gross negligence.
tb't within the scope ofa guarantee taken over by the respective party.
to} in the ct cut that a defect is maliciously concealed.
id} in case of an injury to life. body or health.
tel according to the tierman Product. Liability tan.

?1.2 Liability for Breach of Cardinal Duties. ll'cardinal duties are infringed due to slight negligence and if. as a consequence.
the achievement of the objective ot'this Agreement including any applicable Order Form is endangered. or in the case ofa 
negligent failure to comply oith duties. the very discharge oftvhich is an essential prerequisite for the proper performance ofthis
Agreement [including any applicable Urder l-'ormt. the parties' liability shall be limited to foreseeable damage typical for the
contract. in all other respects. any liability for damage caused by slight negligence shall be excluded.

10.3 Liability Cap. Unless the parties are liable in accordance 1oith "1 lnlimited liability" section above. in no event shall the
aggregate liability of each party together with all of its arising out of or related to this Agreement escecd the total
amount paid by ti'ustomer and its Af?liates hereunder for the Services git ing rise to the liability in the l2 months preceding the
first incident out of ohieh the liability arose. 'l he titregoing limitation oill not limit t'ostomer's and its :?tfliliates' payment
obligations under the "Fees and Payment" section above.

10.4 Scope. With the exception ol'liability in accordance with the "Unlimited iability" section. the obese limitations of liability
shall apply to all claims for damages. irrespectitc of the legal basis including claims for tort damages. the above limitations of
liability also apply in the case ofclaims for a party?s damages against the respective other party 's employees. agents or bodies.

12.14 Local Law Requirements: Italy. With respect to t?ttstotners domiciled in ltaly. Section 5.2 ?Invoicing and Payment", Section
5.3 "liverdue Charges". Section 5.4 "Suspensron of Sett- ice and Acceleration?. and Section 12.2 "Anti Corruption" of this
Agreement are replaced 1ttith the lbllowing sections respectively:

5.2. Invoicing and Payment

Invoicing and Payment. fees will be imotcetl in udtance and otherttisc in accordance with the relevant Order Form.
llnless otherwise stated in the Order form. fees are due net 3t} days from the int nice date. the parties acknowledge that imoices
are also be submitted electronically by Sl-?lit? in accordance oith the "[ilectronie [no oicing? section belon through the .J?tgenria
delle Entrale's lischange System di lnterscantbiot and any delay due to the Sill shall not affect the Ibregoing
payment term. Customer shall be responsible for providing complete and accurate billing and contact to and
shall notil?y ol?any changes to such int'itrmation.

5.2.2 Electronic Invoicing. The invoice will be issued in electronic t'omiat as de lined in article 1. paragraph tile. ol?Law no. 2th?
of December QUIT. which introdttced the obligation of electronic invoicing. starting from January l. 311?). ['or the sale of
goods and services performed between residents. established or identified in the territory of the Italian State. Facilitate such
electronic invoicing. Customer shall provide to Sl-?Dt? at least the litllowing information in oriting: Customer full registered
company name. registered of?ce address. Vr?t?l' number. taxiliscal code and any additional code andhir relevant inl'onnation
required under applicable law. In any event. the parties shall cooperate diligently to enable such electronic invoicing process.
Any error due to the provision by Customer or insufficient invoicing information preventing to successfully
submit the electronic invoice to the SDI or (hi the Slit to dulyr and effectitely process such invoice or tc} which. in any event.
requires SFDC to issue an invoice again. shall not result in an cstension of the payment term set out in the ?trucking and
Payment" section above. and such term shall still be calculated train the date ofthe original invoice. reserves the right to
provide any invoice copy in electronic form 'tltt email in addition to the electronic invoicing described herein.

5.2.3 Split Payment. ll" subject to the "split payment" regime. Customer shall be exclusively responsible for payment of any
amount due. provided that Customer shall confirm to the applicability of such regime and. if applicable. Customer
shall provide proof of such VAT payment to and. if applicable. Customer shall provide proot?of such payment to
SFDC.

SFDC-MSA Sept 2019 Page 11 of 12

12.15

SFDC-

5.3_ Overdue Charges. Subject tn the "Payment Disputes" section helmt. it'an} invoiced amount is not received by by the
due date. then ttitltout limiting rights or remedies. those charges. without the need for notice of default. may accrue late
1I.: t-l'tit; .. rm
Iil :ll":l it: flixlw't?t 1?1 I -l 

shorter than those spectlicd In the and 1?s} ment section 

5.4. Suspension of Service. Subject to the "Payment Disputes" section helott. it any charge rating by t'ustnmer under this or
an} other agreement for services is 311 days or more overdue. {or In or more days at erdue in the case el'amuunts Customer has:
authorixed SFDC to charge to Customer's credit cardt, SFDC may, without limiting its other rights and remedies, suspend
Services until such amounts are paid in full, provided that, other titan for customers paying by credit card or direct debit whose
payment has been declined. SFDC will give Customer at least 10 days' prior notice that its account is overdue, in accordance
with the ?Manner of Giving Notice? section helm-v for billing notices. before suspending services to Customer.

12.2 Anti-Corruption.

12.2.1 Anti-Corruption. Neither party has received or been offered any illegal or improper bribe, kickback, payment, gift, or
thing of value from an employee or agent of the other party in connection with this Agreement. Reasonable gifts and
entertainment provided in the ordinary course of business do not violate the above restriction.

12.2.2 Code of Conduct and Organization, Management and Control Model. Customer acknowledges that SFDC has
adopted an Organization. Management and Control Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001 to prevent
crimes provided for therein and commits to comply with the principles contained in the above Legislatite Decree
231/2001 and in the SFDC Code of Conduct which is available at the following link:

agile-n watt-documents 



 

.

conductpt??. Customer also acknowledges and agrees that the violation of the principles and the provrsions contained in
Legislative Decree 231/2001 and in the SFDC Code of Conduct by Customer may entitle SFDC, based on the severity of the
violation, to terminate this Agreement for cause as set out in Section 1 1.3(i) above.

Local Law Requirements: Spain. With respect to Customers domiciled in Spain, in the event of any contlict between any
statutory law in Spain applicable to Customer. and the terms and conditions of this Agreement. the applicable statutory law shall
prevail.

MSA Sept 2019 Page 12 of 12

 

 

 

10/14/2019 Case: 00120834 Salesforce - Enterprise Edition
Search 1} Switch to Lightning Experience Brian Farkas Help 8. Training DLBA
- i" - 1 Dnhhinrrl?. 0w? Itrtr'u PPM 
81651 20834 Customize Page 1 Printable View Help for this Page
Show Feed
stigma mgr/min [11 Ct?a Altai-lining]: 7-1: I A [Ell geliv'ily Elston/[Q] Hi-?Jli?ltir?ll '1'.in 
E'inliaulrn gr Pro-{mums Li] pg; EioliJ 5i lg] Fri-.I vi-ril'icnliriri'. .11: 1 I'm] '?alh Flgpa [s (Faint-:51 Cn-tn] 
Case Detail can ?Delete 515/"; in;
Property 122101 Huniingtc? Status For Sale
Parcel ID 22089799. Pipeline Side Lot
Status Date 7/10/2019
Transfer Case Program Side Lot
Grant Program HHF5 P?orlly High
Case Record Type Disp - Side Lot
Property Class (Acct) Residential-Lot interested Entity
Archived Case URL BB Failed Date
MSHDA Demo Llen YES BB Failed Reason
Sale Prep Activity 5493113 Lat?! Listing 7/11/2019
Case Record Type (ref) Disp_Side_Lot BSEED: Flnal Grade Approved 3/9/2018

PTA Date Filed
Contact Name [Compliance ref)
Compliance DNG Email
sidewalk Replaced Date

Case Details
(rel) CIT Recorded Date

Quiet 11t e Batch Subject

Closeout Reason
5/50 Waiver Date FIE Amount Witheld

Number of Attempts to Sell I

Project Batch

 

Demo - 18901 Huntington 2016-
03-29

 

 

 

 

 

 

Description
BSEED Legal Authority ODM
Acquisition lnformatlon 
Acquisition Method Transfer-WOT Transfer Agreement
Acquisition Date 1/13/2017 Acquisition Amount $0.00
Donor Name Concession Amount
Concession Designation
Signoff Details
Slgnoff Date
GTJ Survey
GTJ Batch GTJ Occupancy Vacant
GTJ Survey Complete 12/21/2016 GTJ Property Secure No
GTJ Address 18901 Huntington GTJ Overall Condition
GTJ Photo Link Elli/34MB? I rriin GTJ Neighborhood Condition 3
GTJ Structure Yes GTJ Survey Assessment Salvage
GTJ Structure Type Single Family GTJ Deconstruction Candidate No
GTJ Notes 10 openings. ?re damage
PhotoRev GTJ-MGM Pass Dt 2/16/2017
Demo Recommendation 8. Decision
Blight Letter Batch HHF5 Batch 2 NTP Batch HHF5 NTP 2,2
BlIght Letter Received Date 4/10/2017 NTP Date 4/11/2017
Blight Letter Requested Date 3/13/2017
BlIght Letter Address
Blight Letter Status Received

 

 

Asbestos Survey



1/5

10/14/2019
Survey RFP Group 6 23.17A

ASB Survey Contractor Name AIQ group 5.- wanker;

Asa Survey status Completed

Asbestos Abatement Estimate Certification

ASE Abatement Verification ATQ Group gar-Irma, LLQ

Contractor
ASE Verifier Name Charles D. Gheen

Asb Abatement Eetr?Cert 6.23.17A



Utilities
Util: Cut Request Cencel Date

Util: Cut Status Double Cut

Util: Cut Issues

Demo Contractor Details
Demo RFP Group 10.171170

Demo Contractor ?nonnton True?ngg P- iling-?ing  nc.

Demo Contractor Proceed Date 3/22l2018

Asbestos Abatement RFP Group

Asbestos Abatement Contractor
Name

Bid Price: Abatement 5891.00
Bid Price: Demolition $9,010 00

Bid Price: Abatement Demo
Single Cost

Bid Price: Total Demo Contractor 511,813 23
Amt

Socrata Reported Price $11,813.23

Knock Down Date 7(2412013

Open Hole Requested 7/2412018

Open Hole inspection Scheduled

Demo Returned by Contractor
Returned by Contractor: RFP
HHF Non-Recoverable Cost

Demo Cost Details
Cost: GTJ Inspection $15.00
Cost: Utility Cut
Cost: Asbestos Survey $892.50

Cost: Asbestos Abatame at $25 00
Estimate

Cost: Asbestos Abatemenl $125.00
Certi?cation

Cost: Asbestos Abatement $891.00

Cost: Knock Greening
(combined)

Cost: Knock Down 59.420 45
Cost: Dirt (greening) $934.50
Cost: Grade (greening) $311.50
Cost: Seed (greening) 5155 75
Cost: sidewalk (greening)



Case 00120834 Salesforce Enterprise Edition

ASE. .iur'Jb-f Daie
ASE Dacument URL
ASB Survey Report Date

Ajuestot Surrey Plaster oi
i

Abatement Estimate Min

ASE Abatement Estimate Max

goggle 
91712017

5424 43

51.061.09



Util: Gas Cut Date

Utli: Gas Clearance Type
Util: Electric Cut Date

Util: Electric Clearance Type

Util: Hazard Notification Date

Utli: Hazard Notification
Description

Socrata Projected Knocked By
Date

Planned Knock Down Dete

Asbestos Abatement Date

Asbestos Abatement Document
Link

Asbestos Abatement Notes

Bactdiil Complete

Winter Grade Requested
Winter Grade 2nd Request

Winter Grade inspection
Scheduled

Flnal Grade Requested
Final Grade 2nd Request

Final Grade Inspection Scheduled

Demo Contractor Hydrant Log

DEA Field Notes

Sidewalk Contractor

invoice: GTJ
Invoice: Utility Cut
invoice.- Asbestos Surtey

Invoice: Asbestos Survey(new)

Invoice: Asb Abatement Estimate

Invoice: Ase Abatement
Codification

Invoice: none-Hos ?elirodimiuu

insult-e: Asbestos
Remediationinew)

Invoice: Demo Contractor
invoice: Demo Contractor(new)
Winter Grade Withholding
invoice: Winter Grade Payout

invoice: Winter Credo
Payoutlno in)

Total: Demo Contractor Amt
(formula)

Bid-Invoice Difference

5(1712017
Office Clear
715/2017
Field Veri?ed

7l311?2013

712412018

517(2018

ATQ Grout; Semen; LLC 059759

MP 5 an res. I $099051

3 air-,nblan Tut-cit ng Ema-mung In: 525*,- Gin-1P

Tutoring Ewrgvailng I11: egezoteia

$11,813 23

50.00

25

10/14/2019
Demo Change Order AMT
Demo Change Order AMTZ

Hydrant Change Order Invoice


Como Change Order Total

Demo Misc Costs

Demo Misc Cost Description
Demo Misc Costs 2

Demo Misc Cost Description 2
Demo Misc Costs 3

Demo Misc Cost Description a

Demo Change Order Description

Demo Change Order Descriptionz

in mum Misc Como 

Invoice Misc Demo Cost 

Invoice: Misc Demo Cost 3

Invoice: Clean Fill

Case: 00120834 Salesforce - Enterprise Edition

 

Cost: Clean Fill Total: All Demo Costs 51197073
Cost: Lot Maintenance
Cost: Protect Management
MATT Cost Details
MATT Status Stage - Post Funding Total: MATT Invoice 514139513
MATT DE Number D5-22072-18901 Huntington Credit: FIE Funds
MATT Invoice Adjustment (51,125.00)

Miscellaneous Demo Details



Demo Pull Requests
Demo IF-?ull Requested Reason
Demo PulI Staff Recommendation

Demo Pull Executive
Determination

Pipeline History
Demolished 
Reviewed by Demo 

 

 

 

NAP
Drug House
Standard Fields
Case Origin
System Information
Created By Eng? Forgings, 3/29/2016 2:26 PM

Last Modified By ngich Benedict, 0/20/2019 1:33 PM

iEdit 1?irt/rm


MATT Invoice Adlustment Notes

PDD Source

Demo Pull Request Notes

Demo Pull Staff Recommendation
Date

Demo Pull Executive
Determination Date

Demo Pulled Date
Demo Pull Failed

Sold - Side Lot
Sold - Direct Sale

Sold - Auction

Contact Name
Contact Account Name

Contact Phone

Date/Time Opened
Date/Time Closed

Clo-1e Case Sharing ?Map


 

Us": go
General Citizen

3/29/2016 2:26 PM

 

Socrata: BSEED

Action Socreta: BSEED Action Description Inspection Date Inspection Results

CSA Notes

Socrataz BSEED Help

CSA Updated Building Permit Description Permit Status

 

a Emazezr 32:23:33 3/9/2013 OK FIG CALL GRADE ACCEPTABLE. 8/10/2018
Open Hole Demo OH CALL DMD DOWN DEBRIS REMOVED
inspection 7?26?2018 0" SEWER uneven. or TO FILL "27?2?
3/13/2018
WRECK AND REMOVE
595 DEBRIS OPEN
Inquiries ?it; ?mu-W inquiries Help

Action Inquiry Name Inquiry Category inquiry Sub-Category Inquiry Data Contact Name inquiry Status Follow-Up Inquiry Count Priority Created By
Edit -01 to Property Maintenance Board/Secure 8/22/2017 it Closed 0 Medium Ill/33901 Gonglg, 3/22/2017 12:45 PM
Edit Ng??lgall?t Property Maintenance Debris. Clean Up 8/22/2017 Run - Closed 0 Medium Trezeii= ocd! . 8/22/2017 12:49 PM
Edit mtg-353044 Demolition Demo Timing 5/21/2018 RI .1 .an Closed 0 Medium Bunion. 5/21/2018 10:18 AM
Edit Demolition Demo Timing 6/8/2018 atncr: Mic/"Lip [fiat] Closed 0 High Young, 6/8/2018 4:50 PM
Edit lug-CHM!) Property Maintenance Board/Secure 3/22/2018 ,?l?ngo Mgrlirn?oii Closed 0 High ?phgnin ?i'gt 1th 3/22/2018 2:01 PM
Edit Ngmugaad Demolition Report Property Damage 4/15/2015 Elm Eecaiated 0 Medium Ed 6/1/2016 6:41 PM



3/5

10/14/2019

Edit Demolition

Demo Request

Case: 00120834 Salesforce - Enterprise Edition

1/1/1900 Closed

 

0 Medium Ted ?chultg, 6/3/2016 9 55 AM

 

 

DLBA Activities

I
Side Lot Sale

51-31110 Sale Preparation

Silt/i Lt'l' Sal-1 lOiil'?

For Sale Jn Site r30 re?t trim-5

10/10/2018

3.3 3 "Hlil. 1:05 "nil?-

3ci'es'uloa 

Scheduled 0

 

Comments

No records to display

New Comment

Comments Help

 

Attachments

No records to display


Attach 

Attachments Help

 

Open Activlties

No records to display

Activity History

No records to display

?ME/true Compliance email

Open Activities Help



Activity History Help

 

Case History
Date User
7/10/2019 5:14 PM Savannah Robe-r11
7/10/2019 413 FM Samar-nan FohEiEs

6/3/2019 9:53 AM Err/annals Renew 2

5/28/2019 2:20 PM Ears-la Bi 2: it!
9/7/2018 9 06 AM in. '1 
9/5/2018 9:04 AM Benedrc)
7/24/2018 4 10 PM Amy-Jr time
7/19/20181212 PM er in

Action

Changed Status Irom Sales Review to For Sale.

Changed Status Date from 6/3/2019 to 7/10/2015

Deleted Reset in Transfer Case

Changed Transfer Case from Disposttion - Side Lot to Reset
Changed Status from Vacant Land to Sales Review

Changed Case Record Type from DLBA - Inventory to Disp - Side Lot
Changed Transfer Case to Dispositlon - Side Lot.

Changed Status Date from 5/28/2019 to 6/3/2019

Changed Status Irom Intake Rewew to Vacant Land

Changed Status Date from 7/24/2018 to 5/28/2019

Deleted Reset to Transfer Case

Changed Transfer Case from DLBA - Intake Review to Reset.
Changed Status Irom Demolished to Intake Revlew

Changed Case Record Type from Demo - HHF to DLBA - Inventory
Changed Transfer Case to DLBA - Intake Review

Changed Case Owner from DLBA Admin to Demolition Team.
Changed Owner (Assignment) from Demolition Team to DLBA Admin.
Changed Status Date from 3/22/2018 to 7/24/2018.

Changed Status from Demo Contracted to Demolished

Changed Knock Down Date to 7/24/2013

Changed Planned Knock Down Date to 7/24/2018.

Case History Help

 

Approval History

No records to display

Submit for A?rEi/u?I

Approval History Help

 

Contractor Violations: Properties

No records to display

New Contractor i/?Inialleii .1: Property

Contractor Violations Properties Help

 

 

DLEA Field Suiv' ys

No records to display

DLBA Field Surveys Help

 

Post Abatement Veri?cations

No records to display

Sidewalk Repairs

No records to display

New Fost?nteinunl Verification

New Sidewalk Repair

Post Abatement Veri?cations Help

Sidewalk Repairs Help

 

Sidewalk Repairs (Related Case)


Sidewalk Repairs (Related Case) Help

4/5

10114/2019 Case 00120834 Salesforce - Enterprise Edition

Repair

No records to display

515

Attachment 

Robponam to Council Member 18.ch Qucmuua Regarding the Blight
Removal Bond

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135

 

Detroit, Michigan 48226 detroitmi.gov
MEMORANDUM
TO: Council Member James Tate
FROM: David Massaron. Chief Financial Officer, City of Detroit

Arthur Jamison. Group Executive for Planning. Housing and Development
Brad Dick, Group Executive of Infrastructure

DATE: October 21, 2019

RE: Responses to Questions about Blight Removal Bond

The following are answers to questions you asked Arthur Jemison at a recent meeting.

1. Can there be a tree mitigation fund?

Of the annual $50 million recommended for blight removal by the POA, we propose that $10
million should be spent each year on other blight removal activities, to the extent surplus dollars
are available. For the past few years. has used other blight funding for murals, graffiti
removal. vacant house board up. vacant property clean up. and commercial corridor clean up.
By completing more demolitions, we can reroute funding that was previously used for board up
and vacant property clean up to other activities such as contracting out removing blighted trees.

In general, it is the property owner's responsibility to address trees in their own yards. The
Administration is happy to work with Council Member Tate on a program where the City could
help property owners address dangerous trees in their yard, and place a lien on the house to
recover the funds when the property is sold.

2. What is the way we will deal with vacant areas after demo?

The City grows when we deliver better opportunities (residential, small business, industrial):
current Detroiters stay and new Detroiters join them.

The City will be continuing its use of the neighborhood planning process to drive positive
change in neighborhoods. With the Russell Woods and the new Gratiot 7 Mile plans, the City is
expanding the planning areas to include areas that will be affected by the removal of vacant
and abandoned houses. This way the neighbors will be able to identify interim and long-term
plans for land in their neighborhood.

In the areas most affected by demolition of vacant and abandoned structures, the City will be
investigating four primary areas:

1! history of the neighborhood;

2! tactical historic preservation opportunities;

3! housing rehabilitation opportunities for vacant properties;

4! interim and medium-term open space strategies.

These pillars will help the city and neighbors plan for redevelopment while also creating
amenities. preventing illegal dumping and making the neighborhood more attractive.

Attachment IX

Response: to Lounell Member been Benson 5 Regarding the 
Removal Bond

 1-. rapt ll.? stariwcuug

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 224-2135

 

Detroit, Michigan 48226 
MEMORANDUM
TO: Council Member Scott Benson
FROM: David Massaron, Chief Financial Officer. City of Detroit

Arthur Jamison. Group Executive for Planning. Housing and Development
DATE: October 21, 2019
RE: Responses to Questions about Blight Removal Bond

 

The following are answers to questions you submitted in your October 16 memo.

1. Please solidify the bond number at $225m or $250m. The mixing of numbers is
confusing to the public and leads to distrust.

We are asking the public for $250 million in bond authorization. To be conservative. we have
shown City Council various scenarios (attached) based on the economic situation that would
meet the City's needs. We believe under all scenarios, we can borrow $225 million without
raising taxes on Detroiters and conserving capacity for future capital needs. in scenario 2 where
there is an improvement in taxable values. we would be able to borrow $250 million without
raising taxes and conserving capacity for future capital needs. Scenario 2 would give us a
greater contingency to meet Detroit's blight removal needs and reduce future pressure on the
General Fund.

2. Please prepare a diagram that illustrates the stress test results on the final bond
offering scenario selected by the administration.

In the attachment. Scenario 4 of the bond sizing scenarios was prepared to consider the impact
of a recession. This scenario assumed a 25% decrease in state equalized values beginning in
tax year 2020. spread over three years before recovering. This scenario forecasted a decrease
in total City taxable value of over $465 million. The results of this stress test indicate that $225
million in blight bonds would still be issued and the debt millage would remain at 9 mills, but that
the capacity to issue future capital bonds would decrease to $384.7 million as compared to
$443.5 million in the base case.

3. Please respond to the recommendation that all demolition activities be located
and managed by one office for efficiency purposes. Does the administration plan
to implement this recommendation?

The Administration has proposed the creation of a new Demolition Department to oversee the
demolition program. Under this proposal. the Detroit Building Authority will no longer be part of
demolition. The new Demolition Department will work with OCFO divisions (OCP. ODFS. OB.
and Treasury) to budget. procure. pay for and monitor use of bond proceeds for demolitions.
The Buildings. Safety Engineering and Environmental Department will continue to
inspect. The Administration will propose an Executive Organization Plan change prior to the end

common A ?ioung Muniopai center Phone 313 bid-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

of City Council?s session in November, and will propose the funding change with the FY2020-
2021 Budget Recommendation.

4. Please detail how the administration plans to comply with all IRS regulations
around the tax exempt status of the bonds. l.e. Who will be responsible for the
compliance, where will the records be held, how will this compliance process be
carried out over the 30 years of the bonds, which departments will be involved in
compliance, etc?

The OCFO (specifically the Debt Management Branch within Treasury) is responsible for
monitoring compliance with all IRS regulations. The procurement for the demolition projects will
occur through the Office of Contracts and Procurement and the invoices will paid through the
Oracle ERP system. so records of bond expenditures will be maintained there.

The Land Bank will continue to use Salesforce to track investment and long-term disposition in
each of the properties. While Treasury could create a new database for this. we thought it was
more prudent to use an existing system that already tracks demolition and disposition of
properties. As part of the Land Bank's tax compliance certificate. they will agree to provide
regular exports from the system to the City. The OCFO will store the data from the extracts so
that if Salesforce information is not available for any reason, the OCFO will have up to date data
to rely on.

On a quarterly basis, the OCFO will review the exports to measure compliance with the de
minimis limitation for the private payment test described under the IRS regulations.

5. The LPD report indicates every parcel which receives an investment of blight
bonds will have to be tracked for compliance purposes. Is this an accurate
portrayal of the level of monitoring required for these bonds to comply with IRS
tax exempt regulations?

It is correct that the OCFO will monitor the disposition of each parcel to track any amounts
received from the sale or lease (if any) of the property as described in the response to Question
4 above.

6. Please describe a worst case scenario, where the City cannot maintain
compliance with the blight bonds and the IRS removes the tax exempt status. How
would this situation impact the:

a. Detroit taxpayers
b. City of Detroit

c. Purchasers of the bonds

Compliance with the IRS rules is not as onerous as it would seem. If tax exempt bond proceeds
were initially spent on a demo. and than money was recovered by other means {selling the
property), there is a ?replacement" for tax purposes. To "cure? the replacement, the City would
need to use the amounts received from the private property owner on other eligible costs and
treat those new expenditures as the ones actually made with bond proceeds. The ?new"
expenditure from the amounts received from private property owners would then need to be
tracked, in the same way that expenditures from bond proceeds are tracked. That is, the

 -pl A JI- 
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

expenditure made from amounts received from private property owners "replaces" the one
originally paid from bond proceeds and needs to be tracked as such. The City is very
accustomed to tracking spending using tax exempt bond proceeds and this is already part of the
debt management branch of the OCFO Treasury operation.

7. After 2025 the administration indicates the City should experience the need for
100-200 demolitions per year. Justify this estimate?

As we looked at similar cities like Pittsburgh, we found that they have a steady state demolition
rate of about 100200 demolitions per year.

8. The LPD report provides a narrative of how the City's debt policy is impacted by
the bond proposal and debt affordability. A series of metricsfratios is indicated as
the measurements to verify if the bonds comply with our debt policy. Please
prepare infographics to illustrate visually how these metricstratios are calculated,
so the layperson can understand how they work. Ex. is indicated as a
reasonable ratio on page 14 of the LPD report.

We are proposing that in June 2020 the City issues $175 million in blight UTGO bonds and
$52,245 million in capital UTGO bonds {the latter was authorized by the City Council in October
2018}. We considered the impact on key debt ratios of this proposed June 2020 borrowing by
comparing these debt ratios to the same ratios at the end of fiscal year 2019 June 30,
2019). We found that there would be no impact.

Specifically, we calculated how the City?s total debt as a percent of its annual general fund
revenue would change. At June 30. 2019, the City's totat debt as a percent of its general fund
was This means that. with the proposed June 2020 borrowing. the City's outstanding
debt will be 1.71 times higher than the annual revenues coming into the City's general fund. We
then reviewed how that ratio is evaluated by major rating agencies - which look at many local
units across the country.

The chart below shows how Moody's rating agency might view our debt ratios. (In the chart, 
is the best score.) As shown below. a ?Debt As of General Fund Revenues" percentage of
171 (or 1.7K) falls in the category.

Coleman A. ?roung Munlupal Center Phone 313 628-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

   
 

 

City of Detroit at June 30, 2019: 1.7x ca tegory)

 

 

City of Detroit Projected at June 30, 2020: 1.85X category]

 

    
 

 
    
  

saw - . 

 

 

       

 

Debt as as ofeneral Fund or 67% or 300% or 500 or 7005 or .105093 or I
Revenues I 0.33:: 0.67x 3.00x 5.001. 7.0in 15.00x
Debt 35% of Full Value 0.75% 1.75% 4% tees 1515 am:

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit at June 30, 2019: 12.74% category)

 

City of Detroit Droiected at june 30, 2020: 10.55% category]

 

The ratio of "Debt as of Full Value" (full 1irelue generally refers to the market value of all the
property located within the City of Detroit) remains in the Be category. While this category is not
as high es an A, we note that the proposed June 2020 borrowing does not negatively impact
that ratio. In fact. there is a slight improvement from 12.74% (June 36, 2019) to 10.55%
(projected June 30. 2020) due to the projected increase of property values in the City of Detroit.

Fiscal Year

5?s in thousands

Blight UTGO Bonds

Future Ca pital UTGO Bonds
Total

Existing UTGO Debt Service
Blight UTGO DS
Future Capital UTGO DS

Aggregate Debt Service

ActuaI and Projected Property Tax Collections
Federal Rebates (BABS)
PPT Reimbursement
Interest earnings
Projected Draw from Trustee Account
Total Sources

2020

$175,000
52,245
$227,245

$64,456

$64,456

$54,325
3,071
4,000
790
2.230
564,453

2021
5-
5.

$62,657
15,325
2,288
530,270

$54,848
2,990
4,000
630
17,803
530,270

SCENARIO 1 (BASE CASE):
$225 million in Blight Bonds (75% tax exempt/25% taxable)

2022

$50,000

$50,000

$47,316
19,015
2,233
$69,120

$54,766
2,903
4,000
600
6,35 1
569,120

2023


111,500
$111,500

$43,991
20,743
2,288
$67,022

$55,133
2,309
3,600
600
4,375
557,022

2024



5-

$39,243
17,551
3,123
564,923

$55,536
2,699
3,240
600
2.343
534,923

2025


93.250
593,250

$30,927
13,848

562,747

$55,377
2,571
2,916
600
732
352,747

2026

$25,680
13,553
23,393
$62,636

$57,127
2,432
2,624
600

I. 1431
$62,636

2027

5-
93,250
$93,250

$25,676
13,560
24,177
$53,413

$53,349
2,231
2,362
600
[130]
$53,413

2028
5 .
5.

$25,670
13,235
25,500
564,305

$59,602
2,117
2,126
600

360
554.305

2029

5
93,250
593,250

$20,049
12,051
32,935
$55,035

$60,335
1,933
1,913
600
[252'
565,035

Total

. 202911
35,000
4.13.495
.- 495

{33,130
I {3,886
. 420

4 436

 

210,454
25,811
{0,781
6,220
25,219


 

1Total represents amount through ten year planning horizon.

Hi hli of Scenario 1
Capacity for $225 million in Blight Bonds

 

Capacity for $443.5 million in future Capital Bonds

Millage Rate remains at 9 mills

Assumptions for Blieht UTGO Bonds

Tax-Status 0! Blight UTGD Bonds: 75% tax-exempt; 25% taxable

Estimated TIC: 4.683%
Average Annual Debt Service: $12.4 million
Term: 30 yea rs

Debt Service: Level with accelerating principal amortization in first 4ye

Assumptions for Future ?19131 UTGO Bonds

Tax?Status of Capital UTGO Bonds: 100% tax-exempt

Estimated TIC: 5.313%

Average Annual Debt Service: $21.9 million
Term: 30 years

Debt Service: Level

ars (with taxable bonds front loaded and TE bonds wrapped around)

Fiscal Year

5's in thousands

Blight UTGO Bonds

Future Capital UTGU Bonds
Total

Existing UTGO Debt Service
Blight UTGO DS
Future Capital UTGO 05
Aggregate Debt Service

Actual and Projected Property Tax Collections
Federal Rebates (BABS)
PPT Reimbursement
Interest earnings
Proiected Draw from Trustee Account
Total Sources

SCENARIO 2 (to consider impact of improvement in taxable values):

2020

$175,000
52,245
$227,245

$64,466

564,466

$54,325
3,071
4,000
790

2 .380
$64 ,4 

?Total represents amount through ten year planning horizon

ofScenario 

 

2021
5-
5-

$62,657
15,325
2.238
5150.270

$54,848
2,990
4,000
630
17.503
530.220

$250 million in Blight Bonds

2022

$75,000

$75,000

$47,816
19,015
2,288

120

$54,756
2,903
4,000
600
13,551
$69,120

2023

S-
111,500
$111,500

$43,991
20,733
2,388
$67,012

$55,138
2,809
3,600
600

4 ,365
$67,012

2024

$39,248
17,551
H.123
564,922

$55,536
2,699
3,240
600

2 3-17
$04,931

2025

$57,698
2,571
2,916
600

645
564,450

2026

U5

$25,680
15,537
13,398
564,615

$58,992
2,432
2,624
600
I34:


$25,676
15,538
24.177
565,391

$60,257
2,281
2,362
600
I110)
565,391

2028
5 
5.

$25,670
15,214
35,900
$66,234

$61,554
2,117
2,126
600

333
566.784

2029

5-
93,250
$93,250

$20,049
14,033
32,935
$62.05?

$62,881
1,938
1,913
600
[366i
$62,067

Assumes compound annual growth rate of 2.20% in taxable values over five years (i from $5.95 billion in 2019 to $6.64 billion in 2024)
Capacity for Blight Bonds increases to $250 

Capacity for iuture Capital Bonds remains at 5443 5 million

Millage Rate remains at 9 mills

[or Blight UTGD Bonds

Tax-Status of Blight UTGD Bonds. 75% tax-exempt; 25% taxable

Estimated TIC: 4.781%

Average Annual Debt Service: $14.1 million

term: 30 years

Debt Service' Level with accelerating principal amortization in first 4 years (with taxable bonds front loaded and TE bonds wrapped around)

Assumptions for Future Capital UTGO Bonds
Tax-Status of Capital UTGO Bonds: 100% tax-exempt
Estimated TIC: 5 313%

Average Annual Debt Service: $21.9 million

Term: 30 years

Debt Service: Level

Fiscal Year

5's in thousands

Blight UTGO Bonds

Future Capital UTGO Bonds
Total

Existing UTGO Debt Service
Blight UTGO DS
Future Capital UTGO DS
_Aggregate Debt Service

Actual and Projected Property Tax Collections
Federal Rebates (BABS)
PPT Reimbursement
Interest earnings
Projected Draw Iron'i Trustee Account
Total Sources

SCENARIO 3 (to consider impact of all taxable Blight Bands):

2020

$175,000
52,245
$227,245

$64,466

56 4,466

$54,325
3,071
4,000
790
2,260
$64,466

1Total represents amount through ten year planning horizon

hliahts of Scenar_1_n_3

$225 million in Blight Bonds (100% taxable)

2021

S.

5.

$62,657
14,360
3,158
$30,175

$54,848
2,990
4,000
630
17,703
580,175

Assumes 100?; of Bilght Bonds are taxable (and therefore higher cost of funds

Capacity for $225 million in Bonds

Capacity for future Capital Bonds decreases to $408.8 millior

Millage Rate remains at 9 mills

Assumptions for Elighl 0160 Bonds

Tax-Status of Blight UTGO Bonds 1.00% taxable

Estimated TIC: 6.621%
Average Annual Debt Service: $16.0 million
Term: 30 years

Debt Service Level with accelerating principal amortization in first three year:

Assam {ions for Future Ca ital UTGO Bonds

Tax-Status oi Capital UTGO Bonds 100% tax-exempt

Estimated TIC: 5.318%

Average Annual Debt Service: $20.5 million
Term: 30 years

Debt Service: Level

2022

$50,000
550,000

$47,816
18,206
3,159
569, 131

$54,756
2,903
4,000
600
11.911

569.161

2023


107,500
$107,500

$43,991
19,710
3,163
$66,364

$55,138
2,809
3,600
600
0,217
$66,604

2024

5-



$39,248
16,692

$65,097

$55,536
2,699
3,240
600

$65,139?

2025

3-
B3 .000
$33,000

$30,927
16,689
15,153
?302,763

$55,877
2,571
2,916
600
304
$61,263

2026

5.

$25,680
16,688
10,137
562,505

$57,127
2,432
2,624
600
[2791
562.505

$25,676
16,692
11,034
563,402

$58,349
2,281
2,362
600
[190i
303,40:

2028
S-
5.

$25,670
16,691
22,520
$64,331

$59,602
2,117
2,126
600

436
$64,331

2029


83,000
$33,000

$20,049
16,694
23,420
$65,163

$60,885
1,938
1,913
600
[174)
565,163

Total
(20-291
$22511
406,1;
$635 

$386,181
152,42
125.9?.

5504,50;

$566,45-
25,81:
30,78:
6,221
35.:
53114.5()

Fiscal Year

in thousands

Blight UTGO Bonds

Ewe Capital LITGCI Bonds
Total

Existing UTGO Debt Service
Blight UTGO DS
Future Ca pitnl UTGO 05
Aggregate Debt Seruiue

Actual and Projected Property Tax Collections
Federal Rebates (BABS)
PPT Reimbursement
Interest ea rnings
Protected Draw from Trustee Account
Total Sources

2020

$175,000
52,245
5227,2115

$64,466

$64,456

$54,325
3,071
4,000
790

J. .250
564.460

1Total represents amount through ten year planning horizon.

Hi hi1 nf?lcenario 4

Assumes 25:50 decrease in state equalized value

Capacity for $225 million in Blight Bonds

Capacity for future Capital Bonds decreases to $384.7 million

Millage Rate remains at 9 mills

Assumptions for Blight Bonds

Tar-Status at Blight UTGO Hands: 35% tax-exempt; 25% taxable

Estimated TIC: 4.744%

Average Annual Debt Service: $12.7 million
Term: 30 yeais

Dent Service: Level with accelerating principa

Assumptions ior Future Caoltal IJTCID Bonds

Tax-Status of Capital UTGO Bonds. lax?exempt

Estimated TIC: 5.296%

Average Annual Debt Service: $19.5 million
Term: 30 years

Debt Service: Level

amortization in

SCENARIO 4 (to consider impact of recession):
$225 million in Blight Bonds (75% tax-exempt/25% taxable)

2021

S-



$62,657
14,398
2,294
579,350

$54,010
2,990
4,000
630
17,720
$79,350

5, beginning in tax year 2020, spread over 

2022

$50,000
550,000

$47,816
16,568
1 794

506.729

$52,357
2,903
4,000
600
5.920
5135.229

hree years before recovering decrease i

years 2 and 3 (with taxable bonds front loaded

2023

5.
107,500
5102.500

$43,991
16,621
3,294
552,900

$51,012
2,809
3,600
600
1,365
567,906

2024

5-

$39,243
14,412
7.9.15
561.475

$51,370
2,699
3,240
600
3,505
Shh-125

2025


ISIHJU
$25,000

$30,927
14,409
12,4 35
552,771

$51,638
2,571
2,916
600

46
557.771

and TE bonds wrapped around)

2026

$25,680
14,408
18,250
$53,333

$52,786
2,432
2,624
600
{10?1)
553,338

2027

5.
25,000
$25,000

$25,676
14,410
16,341
556,926

$53,908
2,281
2,362
600
(225)
556,926

taxable value of over $465 million)

2028
5.
5.

$25,670
14,414
20,170
$50,254

$55,059
2,117
2,126
600

351

560,254

2029

5.
75,000
$25,000

$20,049
13,577
20,309
550,435

$56,237
1,933
1,913
600
(2541
$60,435

Total
120-2;
$2251
384

?hl'I'

$630

Attachment 

prumw Lu Luunul Member bubs Lclunds QUCBUUHD Regarding 
Removal Bond

core-man A mung 1  center Fnone 513 bid?1535

 

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 ?224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 
MEMORANDUM
TO: Council Member Gabe Leland
FROM: David Massaron. Chief Financial Officer. City of Detroit
Arthur Jamison, Group Executive for Planning. Housing and Development

DATE: October 22, 2019
RE: Responses to Questions about Blight Removal Bond

 

The following are answers to questions you submitted on the Blight Removal Bond Proposal.
1. A list of demolitions set for the remainder of the year broken down by district
By June 30, 2020, we expect the following number of demolitions per district:

District 1 - 119
District 2 149
District 3 368
District 4 223
District 5 - 214
District 6 - 165
District 7 - 334

See the attached list of all properties which we expect to be demolished by June 30, 2020.
2. Criteria and outlines for both the rehabilitation of homes and senior repairs.

Residents seeking assistance under the Senior Emergency Home Repair Program are eligible
under the following criteria:
62 years or over (or at least 55 with a disability)
. Have an income of no more than 50% of the Area Median Income. Under this criteria a
one?person household can earn up to $26,750 and be eligible.
. Taxes must be current, or homeowner is on a payment plan with 3 consecutive
payments
. Applicant must have owned the property for 6 months and have clear ownership

HRD works to maximize use of this program for true emergencies. The following types of repairs
may be performed through this program:

No heat

No water, or no hot water due to plumbing deficiency

Standing water/sewage

Major electrical hazards

Severely leaking roof. subject to collapse

Floor subject to collapse

Coleman A. Young Center Phone. 313 -628-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224?2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

. Urgent accessibility needs clue to disability
. Inability to safely enter home due to porch condition
. Significant exposure to outside elements

For existing land bank rehabilitation efforts, staff weigh several factors to identify homes with
rehab scopes in line with programmatic requirements and offer a high potential for
neighborhood market impact. These criteria include:
- The condition of the home
The estimated cost of repairs
Neighborhood market conditions
Neighborhood market trajectory
Existing available inventory in area
Other City and land bank initiatives in the area
Other rehab activity in the vicinity

3. The number of owner occupied homes in District 7 that went to a nuisance
abatement.
At present, staff are not aware of accepting default judgments for any owner occupied
properties through the nuisance abatement program.

4. The mowing schedule after demolitions
Through the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget. the Administration will propose a new grass cutting
strategy to address the spring growth and improve maintenance of vacant lots.

Address

13249 Strathmoor
l5t0l 0.1m: .H

12
19378 Edinborough
20930 Lyndon
18267 Heyden
19760 Chapel
20108 Avon
19968 Salem
19730 Trinity
18234 Heyden
18933 Vaughan
15895 Greydale
14550 Dolphin
21664 Jason
14391 Bentler
12893 Vaughan
14830 Burgess
16707 St Marys
15860 Rockdale
21503 Barbara
12845 Stout
15944 Beaverland
15746 iliad

12887 Fielding
15121 Greydale
13517 Westbrook
14887 Heyden
14196 Braile
14185 Patton
14130 Chapel
14385 Chapel
14151 Rockdale
12730 Terry
16607 Brameli
21669 Glenco
18242 Evergreen
18155 Stout
21373 Karl

21670 Bennett
17602 Stout
18271 Greydale
12886 Braile
15474 Freeland
15000 Hubbell
14907 Hubbell
14848 Prest
15451 Greydale
15417 Trinity
15362 CHAPEL
15473 Chapel
15343 Blackstone
18469 Greenview
13351 Lauder
20551 Grandview
17193 Kent?eld
17194 Chapel
19418 Cooley
19403 Burgess
18486 Greenview
19396 Woodbine

Status

Demo Contracted
Dome (Eon Litwl
- a 
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Demo Contractor: Account Name
Leadhead Construction
Elm. mm ?n

i 117; I 1

Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

Homrich

Homrich

Rickman Enterprise Group
Rickman Enterprise Group
Rickman Enterprise Group
Rickman Enterprise Group
Rickman Enterprise Group
Rickman Enterprise Group
Rickman Enterprise Group
Salenbien Trucking Excavating inc.
Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Adamo Group, Inc.

Able Demolition

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

Demo RFP: Demo RFP Group

1 15 2019B

1 157017"

1 15 20190
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1.15.20190
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1.15.20190
1.15.20190
1.15.2019D
1.15.20190
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1 15.20190
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1.15 20190
1.15.2019D
1.15 2019D
1.15.20190
1.22 198
1.22.198
1.22.198
1.22.198
1.22.198

1 22.198
1.22.190
1.8.190
1030.180
10 30 180
1030180
1030.180
1030.180
1030.180
1030.180
11.27.18C
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
2.5.19C
2.5.19C
2.5.19C
2.5.19C
2.5.19C
3.19.19A
4.17.18C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C

Property: Council District

18680 Shiawassee
19126 Bentler
i930!) ?mi
19731 Punt
17134 Patton
19491 Stout
17650 Heyden
17651 Kentfield
21235 Pickford
20068 Greenview
18982 Lenore
18950 Heyden
19468 Stout
19010 Patton
18981 Dale
19356 Fielding
19379 Avon
18401 Plainview
14620 Robson
15770 Robson
15364 Strathmoor
15737 Strathmoor
14401 Marlowe
14271 Lauder
16212 Robson
14959 Robson
14915 Terry
14238 Strathmoor
15120 Hubbell
15401 Freeland
14430 Sussex
15722 Ashton
15349 Ardmore
15368 Lauder
14620 Lauder
15787 Ardmore
14336 Marlowe
14419 Coyle
14578 Prest
14326 Sussex
15450 Robson
14958 Terry
14842 Robson
18980 Patton
18902 Riverview
17185 Kent?eld
18337 Avon
14621 Marlowe
15509 Ardmore
15091 Coyle
14563 Coyle
13989 Vaughan
14405 Westbrook
15079 Blackstone
14252 Chapel
15367 Lahser
14135 Montrose
12869 Strathmoor
20400 Washburn
19792 Lindsay
19167 Ferguson
19306 Rutherford

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
CHriu17wI?i' il Ell
Demo Comm Kidd
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
Otlf r' 'l?i 
DMC C?lri 2:
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
Gayanga Co. LLC
6ayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
6ayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
6ayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
6ayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Blue Star
Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

5.13.2019C

5 13 2019C

. . ..

a 15 20111.

5 13 2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.2019C
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196

5.13 20196
5.13.20196

5 13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196

5 13 20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196
5.13.20196

6.12.18A

9.18.183

9.18.188

9.18.188

9.18.18C

9.18.18C

9.18.18C

9.18.18C

Emergency 10.10.2019C
Emergency 10.16.2019A
Emergency 10.18.2019A
Emergency 10.18.2019A
Emergency 10.21.20198
Emergency 9.19.20198
Emergency 9.19 20198

Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction

1.15.20198
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D
1.15.2019D



20036 Forrer
226 Savannah
100 Mnrannt

15759 Kentucky
2256 Grand
16511 Washburn
15331 Cruse
15422 Mendota
14921 Ward
14911 Cheyenne
14968 Littlefield
15038 Snowden
14581 Snowden
15397 Lesure
18211 John 
3316 Puritan
15461 Monica
15710 Ohio
15792 Snowden
15324 Cheyenne
15450 Hartwell
15827 Sorrento
2330 Labelle
1719 Labelle
2718 Doris

15744 Princeton
15816 Baylis
15514 Inverness
15422 Wabash
15494 Wildemere
15745 Muirland
15859 Lawton
16210 La Salle 
15889 Baylis
15900 Linwood
15345 La Salle 
19719 Lindsay
20521 Oakfield
17248 Pembroke
19209 Prevost
19436 Ferguson
20210 Ferguson
20542 Ferguson
20201 Ferguson
19155 Biltmore
19420 Lindsay
19759 Lindsay
19412 Oak?eld
19467 Oak?eld
19335 Oakfield
19441 Rutherford
19344 Gilchrist
88 Arizona
136 Golden Gate
104 Golden Gate
508 Hollywood
8625 Ellsworth
14881 Birwood
14911 Pinehurst
15467 Little?eld
16231 Cheyenne

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Leadhead Construction

Able Demolition

Able Demolition

Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

Able Demolition
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Gayanga Co. LLC
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants

1.15.2019D
19F
1.8.19F
1.8.19F
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
12.4.18F
124: 19AJ3083
131: 19AJ3126
2 5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.196
2.5.196
2.5.196
2.5.196
4.16.19B
4.16.19B
4.16.198
4.2.19B
4.2.19B
4.2.19B
4.2.19B
4.2.19B
4.2.19B
4.2.19B
4.2.19B
4.2.19B
4.2.19B
4.2.193
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.30.19A
4.5.2018E
4.9.19A
4.9.19A
4.9.19A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A

15386 Turner
15368 Petoskoy
1535') 
1535.1. 3' I 
15511 Hartwell
15350 Santa Rosa
15381 Tuiler
15354 Woodingham
15373 Woodingham
14952 Pinehurst
15377 Turner
15325 Woodingham
15359 Northlawn
15366 Cherrylawn
15356 Sorrento
16244 Steel

15810 Littlefield
15482 Sorrento
15766 Littlefield
15781 Cheyenne
15793 Sorrento
19205 Lindsay
19772 Fenmore
19216 Lindsay
19425 Harlow
18921 Archdale
18410 Coyle
18100 Winthrop
18091 Ferguson
20219 Mendota
19999 Ilene

19785 Winthrop
19500 Murray Hill
19140 Ferguson
20227 Ferguson
19403 Ferguson
19359 Ferguson
19500 Gilchrist
20234 Lindsay
20115 Oakfield
19209 Asbury Park
19341 Ferguson
17310 Prest

19786 Ferguson
20051 Archdale
193 23 Asbury Park
19165 Biltmore
19200 Asbury Park
20240 Archdale
19320 Asbury Park
15474 Cruse
16937 Gliggs
15639 La Salle 
15881 Fairfieid
15900 Quincy
16204 Prairie
15721 Fair?eld
15775 Belden
15475 Belden
16545 Woodingham
16633 Turner
16850 Birwood

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Donn) Conzr 1 :t 21?!
tullti Low: 11.35!
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo COI'Itr'aCted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

DMC Consultants
DIVIC Consultants
Dl?vit WI .
V. 2  ?1 

DIVIC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DIVIC Consultants

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8 Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8L Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8L Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8L Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 81 Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8L Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8L Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 81 Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

Gayanga Co. LLC

DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DIVIC Consultants

5 13.2019A
5 13 2019A

in? 

5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13 2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019A
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5 13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5 13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13 2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5 13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019E
5.13.2019G

4 '5 'In??ll


5.13.2019H
5.13.2019H
5.13.2019H
5.13.2019H
5.13.2019H
5.13.2019H
5 13.2019H
5.13.2019H
5.13.2019H
5.13.2019H

EUIUN

16170 Washburn Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019H
16940 Lilac Demo COntracted DMC Consultants 5 13 2019H
[Tum-3 Commuter! DMC 

11 . .- .-

15503 Log Cabin Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5 13 2019H
16816 Turner Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019H
15760 Woodingham Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019H
15931 Monica Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019H
16198 Santa Rosa Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019H
16794 Tuller Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019H
15932 Normandy Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019H
15462 Turner Demo Contracted Blue Star 5.15.18C
15794 Wisconsin Demo Contracted Blue Star 5.15.18C
15091 Holmur Demo Contracted Blue Star 5.15.18C
15900 Turner Demo Contracted Blue Star 5.15.18C
19921 Forrer Demo Contracted Gayanga Co. LLC 5.17.2018E
15786 Wisconsin Demo Contracted Blue Star 6.12.186
15481 Greenlawn Demo Contracted Blue Star 6.12 18G
13214 FENKELL Demo Contracted North American DiSmantling Corp. 83: 18AJ2507
19765 Fenmore Demo Contracted Leadhead Construction Emergency 91320190

15550 Wabash Demo Pipeline Emergency 9.27 2019A

19141 Goulburn
13801 Rossini Drive
17884 Beland
19988 Alcoy
18940 Teppert
13310 State Fair
19541 Fairport
20068 Alcoy
17137 Barlow
8054 Suzanne
17129 Strasburg
17361 Albion
18641 Dwyer
17136 Gitre

8073 Stockton
8148 Robinwood
1720810ann
17274 Westphalia
17378 Barlow
18038 Hamburg
17900 Strasburg
17159 Gitre
17346 Barlow
7515 Brentwood
19600 Alcoy
15667 State Fair
14570 Coram
14720 Liberal
14541 Coram
15031 Manning
19580 Hickory
19552 Hickory
19600 Pelkey
13323 Manning
13252 Tacoma
19544 Hickory
19622 Hickory
19623 Hickory
19559 Hickory
19553 Hickory
19215 Rowe

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, lnc.
Adamo Group, inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.

Adamo Group, Inc.

Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, inc.

Adamo Group, Inc.

Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.

Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, lnc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.

Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition

1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1 15 20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.1520196
1.1520196
1.1520196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.20196
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.22.19C

1.22.19C

1.22.19C

1.22.19C

1.22.19C

1.22.19C

1.22.19C

1.22.19C

1.22.19C

1.22.19C

1.22.19C

19565 Hickory
18827 Maine
13560 BI 
19447 Buidcr
19746 Charest
20307 Syracuse
20265 Hawthorne
19000 Charest
17893 Mcdougall
17814 Mitchell
18537 Mitchell
18103 Mitchell
18512 Brinker
18891 Anglin
18089 Maine
17862 Mcdougall
18063 Mitchell
20430 Cameron
18410 Binder
19162 Goddard
19376 Marx
19630 Fleming
19711 Fleming
19951 Lumpkin
19309 Lumpkin
19147 Lumpkin
2076 Burnside
2444 Halleck
2050 Halleck
1973 Lawley
2074 Bearing
1991 Halleck
13980 Mitchell
13475 Newbern
13473 Maine
4516 Mcnichols
2076 Halleck
1973 Halleck
1997 Mclean
2069 Mclean
1937 Lawley
17814 Mcdougall
13619 Orleans
4430 Mcnichols
13411 Dean
13414 Ryan
13641 Ryan
2096 Meade
13500 Mcdougall
13504 Mcdougall
1984 Burnside
2438 Halleck
1967 Halleck
1979 Lawley
13935 Gallagher
13492 Charest
13481 Mitchell
13490 Maine
13145 Mackay
13586 Ryan
2045 Halleck
2081 Halleck

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Ct'n'l?i Mi 
Demo Con?ict-ad
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Able Demolition
Homrich
HOI?l?rr id?-
Homr cl?
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

1.22.19C
1.22.19E
i BF
1 l: 15::
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.22.19E
1.8.19A
1.8.19A
1.8.19A
1.8.19A
1.8.19A
1.8.19A
1.8.19A
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C
1.8.19C

2075 Halleck
8104 Quinn
3043 Quinn
.2 ,1 
8105 Quinn

8226 Robinwood
8235 Robinwood
8112 Hollywood
8076 Hollywood
8147 Hollywood
8233 Hollywood
20203 Hawthorne
20467 Hanna
19714 Hull

19345 Carrie
20510 Moenart
20554 Caldwell
20090 Bloom
19423 Gable
9303 Armour
19166 Cameron
18867 Hull

19401 Hawthorne
19349 Rogge
19624 Rogge
6616 Van Dyke
8001 Harper
14269 Goddard
13114 Dequindre
13108 Dequindre
11525 Van Dyke
17847 Dequindre
8843 Harper
13163 Gallagher
2111 Bearing

960 Grixdale
19947 Omira
17810 Cardoni
18505 Brinker
20017 Greeley
18525 Hull

19133 Andover
13473 Healy
13481 Dequindre
2123 Meade
13820 Mitchell
17869 Cardoni
19988 Omira
2145 Mclean
18991 Alcoy
19187 Pelkey
17840 Runyon
18622 Dresden
17861 Rowe
8116 Mcnichols
19206 Pelkey
19126 Hickory
13785 Conley
13718 Syracuse
13487 Caldwell
13408 Conley
13500 Conley

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contr icterl
cl,? :cguu 1-: a.
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Homrich
Smalley

Smalley

J,

Smalley

Smalley
Smalley

Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley

Smalley

Blue Star
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Smalley
Smalley

Farrow Group
Farrow Group
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition

1.8.19C
10 2.18E
2 13E

10.2 18E
10.2.18E
10.2.18E
10.2.18E
10.2.18E
10.2.18E
10.2.18E
10.30.18E
10.30.18E
10.30.18E
11.13.18E
11.27.18F
11.27.18F
11.27.18F
11.27.18F
11.8.2018B
12.4.180
12.4.18D
12.4.18D
12.4.18K
12.4.18K

122: 19AJ2845
122: 19AJ2845
128: 19AJ3126
128: 19AJ3126
128: 19AJ3126
128: 19AJ3126
128: 19AJ3126
133: 19AJ3130
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
2.5.19H
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
4.30.19F
4.30.19F
4.30.19F
4.30.19F
4.30.19F

13419 Moenart
13115 Mcdougall
Mn Iwi:
5541 ivlitcheil
18921 Anglin
18834 Lumpkin
20410 Hawthorne
17435 Charest
18883 Brinker
20500 Moenart
19189 Caldwell
6781 Brimson
6803 Brimson
7609 Emily
8119 Brentwood
18532 Gable
6875 Brimson
7436 Emily
18840 Sherwood
14053 Fairmount Dr
16201 Carlisle
18628 Hasse
17149 Shields
20419 Andover
20317 Charleston
20217 Derby
16037 Coram
18526 Revere
18411 Wexford
19741 Dean
2202 Outer Drive
18426 Dean
6757 Buhr
18702 Caldwell
13622 Ryan
13592 Ryan
20222 Charleston
20433 Derby
20039 Derby
20115 Waltham
20003 Pelkey
20513 Joann
20000 Joann
20250 Westphalia
20555 Hickory
20536 Alcoy
20512 Alcoy
20307 Alcoy
20028 Pelkey
20114 Pelkey
20314 Pelkey
20512 Pelkey
20059 Pelkey
20028 Hickory
20092 Hickory
20100 Hickory
20116 Hickory
20010 Joann
20114 Joann
20309 Fairport
20553 Westphalia
20258 Goulburn

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Ciji?li 1. I 
Demo 
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Able Demolition
Able Demolition
?~i1i~C'ji . I
Able 
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.

Salenbien Trucking 81 Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8L Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8 Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8! Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8L Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 81 Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Irucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 81 Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8t Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 81 Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 81 Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

4.30.19F
4.30 196
4.30.196
4.30.19G
4.30.196
4.30.196
4.30.19H
4.30.19H
4.30.19H
4.30.19H
4.30.19H
4 30.1914
4.30.19H
4.30 19H
4.30 19H
4.30.19H
4.5.2018E
4.5.2018E
4.5.2018E
4.5.2018E
4.5.2018F
4.5.2018F
4.5.2018F
5 1.18C
5.1.18D
5.1.180
5.1.180
5.1.18D

5 1.18D
5.1 18E
5.1.18E
5.1.18E
5.1.18E
5.13.2019M
5 13.201944
5 13 2019M
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194

7 9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
1.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194
7.9.194



20019 Goulburn
20221 Waltham
703] 7 Barlow

20563 Hamburg
20588 Hamburg
20311 Hamburg
20263 Hamburg
20552 Strasburg
20080 Barlow
20066 Peikey
20076 Pelkey
20520 Pelkey
20512 Fairport
20242 Westphalia
20576 Goulburn
20574 Barlow
20253 Hamburg
20035 Hamburg
20312 Strasburg
20520 Alcoy
20500 Pelkey
20044 Hamburg
20074 Hamburg
20542 Hamburg
20552 Hamburg
13447 St Louis
13234 Gable
13506 Gable
11669 St Louis
12856 Gable
12834 Dwyer
12919 St Louis
12911 St Louis
4820 Davison
13515 Dwyer
13281 Gable
13747 Syracuse
13487 Sparling
13246 Caldwell
13715 Caldwell
13450 Buffalo
13457 Buffalo
13421 Buffalo
13466 Moenart
13514 Moenart
13714 Moenart
13740 Moenart
13765 Keystone
13445 Keystone
13425 Keystone
13730 Conley
13451 Conley
13409 Conley
13424 Hasse
13430 Hasse
13505 Hasse
13466 Eureka
13478 Eureka
13449 Justine
6223 Norwalk
11674 Gable

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Dnmr) 

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

.0, Im-

Snlenbren Trucking .31 Excavating Inc

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking St Excavating Inc.

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8t Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

Salenbien Trucking 3! Excavating Inc

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 3! Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

7.9.19A
7 9.19A

7o1r'm

7 9 19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9 19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7.9.19A
7 9.19A
7.9 19C
7 9.19C
7.9 19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C
7.9.19C

bx.)

13439 Keystone
13438 Hasse
13 II I .113
13 3c)?
13750 Conley
19426 Greeley
19696 Hanna
19704 Hanna
19940 Russell
19730 Cardoni
19447 Greeley
19241 Russell
19692 Cardoni
19947 Cardoni
19227 Hawthorne
19412 Greeley
12500 Mackay
13020 Arlington
15293 Lappin
8946 Mcclellan
8173 Woodlawn
9608 Woodlawn
9151 FISCHER
8187 Traverse
9114 St Cyril
8039 Marlon
7411 Merkel
7340 Nett

8110 Marion
8111 Traverse
8198 Grinnell
8915 Bessemore
9342 Knodell
8838 Knodell
8666 Knodell
8807 Knodell
8819 Knodell
9818 Woodlawn
9764 Woodlawn
8724 Woodlawn
8795 Woodlawn
6540 Bewick
8950 Milner
9127 Raymond
9161 Holcomb
8943 Holcomb
9170 FISCHER
8104 Marion
8058 Marcus
8221 Woodlawn
10474 Knodell
8777 Knodell
9714 Woodlawn
9399 Woodlawn
9477 Woodlawn
6530 Bewick
6536 Bewick
9163 Rohns
8241 Traverse
8033 PRESSLER
6684 St Cyril
7975 Hathon



Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Conti 1m 1!
3 . 
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Demo Contracted?

Demo Contracted

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8 Evcavating Inc

Alanine-c I'w

n?z-w-T

. 


Salenbien Trucking 8 Excavating Inc

Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.

Smalley

Smalley

Smalley

Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. 
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC

lr?

"?lr11'ii7'li1.
..7 .. 1.

1

7.9.19c

7.9.19c
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
7.9.19E
9.18.18D
9.18.18D
9.18.18i
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9 19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19 2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A

0 1 "Ind A


9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.2018A
9.19.20188
9.19.2018B
9.1920188

6651 Hathon
7634 Helen
7761Hr3lr3n

8081 Curt

8081 Walden
8326 Maxwell
8618 Maxwell
6668 BALDWIN
6721 Baldwin
6402 Burns

8522 Maxwell
176 Hildale
19426 Lumpkin
17160 Fleming
13982 Goddard
8221 Knodell
11760 Kenmoor
12745 Joann
12430 Fairport
12204 Waltham
12538 Waltham
12195 Waltham
12555 Racine
12547 Racine
12045 Racine
1327 Marlborough
12097 Rossiter
5535 Devonshire
14661 Alma
14602 Rochelle
14601 Hazelridge
14800 Troester
14688 Troester
14211 Saratoga
1083 Eastlawn
19960 Mccormick
14640 Hazelridge
14835 Hazelridge
1065 Eastlawn
12798 Hampshire
12734 Hampshire
12701 Wade
15436 Hazelridge
541 Lakewood
12607 Wilshire
13057 Longview
12217 Wade
11100 Glenfield
12145 Glenfield
13103 Glenfield
12328 Wilfred
12242 Wilfred
12349 Wilfred
12751 Wilfred
12232 Wilfred
6040 Barrett
12791 Corbett
12728 Flanders
12351 Longview
13010 Glenfield
14588 Lannette

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Dome 

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co LLC

Co 

Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC

Adamo Group, Inc.

Adamo Group, Inc

Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.

Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star

9.19.2018B
91920188

010 

9 19 2018.9
9.19.2018B
9.1920188
9.1920188
9.19.2018B
9.19.2018B
9.19.20188
9.19.20188
Emergency 10.10.20198
Emergency 10.3.2019A
Emergency 10.3.2019C
Emergency 9.27.2019A
Emergency 9.27.20198
15.2019G
1.1520196
1.1520196
1.1520196
1.1520196
1.15.20196
1.1520196
1.1520196
1.1520196
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15 2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.15.2019H
1.8.19E
1.8.19E
1.8.19E
1.8.19E
11.8.2018B
11.8.20188
11.820188
11.820188
11.820188
11.8.20188
11.820188
11.820188
11.8.2018B
11.8.2018B
11.820188
11.820188
11.8.2018B
11.8.2018B
11.820188
11.820188
11.820183
11.8.2018B

CAJUJUJ



4805 Hur but
3992 St Clair
1753 St Clan
354-; mun;
3809 Bewick
4420 Hur but
4700 St Clair
4625 Harding
9341 Graves
9327 Weyher
4407 
4123 
4561 Cooper
4020 Bewick
3840 St Clair
3974 St Clair
3978 St Clair
4468 St Clair
4790 St Clair
4403 St Clair
3841 St Clair
4004 Harding
4007 Harding
3923 Harding
3778 Harding
9370 Sylvester
4525 
9339 Elsa

3830 Hurlbut
3815 Hur but
4135 
4566 Bewick
4012 St Clair
4480 St Clair
4744 St Clair
4013 Harding
4078 Fairview
4141 
4467 Cadillac
2246 St Clair
2145 Fairview
11814 Longview
11060 Longview
10975 Longview
11783 Longview
11000 Chelsea
10994 Chelsea
10940 Chelsea
11709 Chelsea
11066 Promenade
11722 Maiden
15110 Harper
2224 Anderdon
17101 Hayes
17111 Hayes
17119 Hayes
17123 Hayes
17115 Hayes
13100 Harper
13112 Harper
10350 Harper
12635 Filbert

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Conti acted
Dame Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue 
Blue at 
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.

Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

11.8.2018C
11 8 2018C
11.5 MISC


1 .

11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2013C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2013C
11.3.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018D
11.8.2018D
12.4.18A

12.4.18A

12.4.18A

12.4.18A

12.4.18A

12.4.18A

12.4.18A

12.4.18A

12.4.18A

12.4.18A

?an. 
LDU. 

130:
130:
130:
130:
130:
130:
133:
133:
133:

19AJ3126
19AJ3126
19AJ3126
19AJ3126
19AJ3126
19AJ3126
19Al3130
19AJ3130
19AJ3130

3.19.19C



h-Ih-h-h-h-lh-b-FI-bhl:

12082 Minden
12082 Kenmoor
15410 

15656 Saratoga
14296 Fordham
13950 Park Grove
13949 Mapleridge
13958 Park Grove
13972 Park Grove
14285 Spring Garden
14400 Park Grove
14420 Park Grove
12836 Hickory
12010 Findlay
12091 Findlay
12135 Findlay
12019 Christy
12015 Engleside
13261 Rochelle
15295 Faircrest
15620 Seymour
10130 Nottingham
6003 Woodhall
5757 Coplin

9567 Sanilac
11306 Wade
13356 Chelsea
11128 Rosemary
4108 Cadillac
4816 Garland
2242 Fairview
2261 Fairview
3583 Beniteau
2254 St Clair
2117 Fairview
4732 St Clair
4918 Mcclellan
345 Eastlawn
5951 Devonshire
3848 Chalmers
3022 Philip
10472 Bonita
5125 Neff

5262 Radnor
12435 Riad
11851 Laing
4843 Lodewyck
3600 Devonshire
12941 Hayes
11757 Wade
14942 Kilbourne
14931 Kilbourne
14566 Lannette
12744 Promenade
4819 Cadillac
17430 Pomona
4823 Springle
11313 Maiden
9226 Bishop
10822 Haverhill
2558 Dickerson

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Dom-o Contracted

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Homrich
Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Able Demolition

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8t Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Gayanga Co. LLC

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants
Rickman Enterprise Group
Gayanga Co. LLC

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Adamo Group, Inc.
Rickman Enterprise Group
Rickman Enterprise Group
Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC

3.19.19C

31919C
3191??

3 19 19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19C
3.19.19F
3.19.19F
3.19.19F
3 19.19F
3.19.19F
3 19 19F
4.16.19i
4.2.19E
4.2 19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4 2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.196
4.3.18C
4.3.18E
4.3.18E
4.3.18E
4.5.2018E
5.1.18B
5.1.183
5.1.18C
5.1.18C
5.1.18F
5.1.18F
5.15.18A
5.17.2018F
5.5.17]
5.5.17]
5.5.17J
5.5.17K
5.5.17P
7.10.18F
7.10.18F
7.24.180
7.9.19B
7.9.198
7.9.198

9132 Lakepointe
5910 Chatsworth
Eli-30d? 
.i?i
9851 Philip
10087 Balfour
5575 Maryland
9408 Somerset
9231 Yorkshire
9826 Yorkshire
5558 Nottingham
4351 Lakepointe
4334 Radnor
12952 Canfield
13027 Can?eld
17200 Waveney
2547 Philip

5227 Neff

5244 Hereford
5251 Radnor
2927 Lenox
9225 Devonshire
4427 Garland
4471 Garland
12123 Kilbourne
5153 French Rd
5821 Garland
5135 Harding
5891 Hurlbut
5533 
5367 Cooper
5184 Bewick
5431 Bewick
5317 Bewick
5093 Bewick
5087 Bewick
5230 Harding
5303 Harding
5171 Bewick
5218 Harding
5083 Harding
5048 
5835 Cooper
5337 French Rd
5092 Harding
5560 Montclair
5311 Bewick
5098 Harding
12533 Harper
12635 Harper
10300 Warren

1(1an 
LUJJU 

5950 Bewick
1338 Ashland
1996 Waverly
3539 St Clair
3524 St Clair
3495 St Clair
3510 Harding
3516 Harding
3499 Harding
3481 Harding

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Ilium; Cami hit-mi
1 Ii Ci 
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Pipeline
Demo Pipeline
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inn-u ir/i 5 Is

Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
DMC Consultants

DMC Consultants

Able Demolition

Able Demolition

Smalley

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Gayanga Co. LLC

Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Gayanga Co. LLC


LU- 

Leadhead Construction
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star

7.9 19B
7 9 19B
*7 Ila-E

1 I 
7 9.198
7.9 198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9.198
7.9 198
8.8.17I
9.12.17E
9.18.18A
9.18.18A
9.18.18G
9 19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9 19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9 19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9 19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9 19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
91: 19AJ2688
91: 19AJ2688
93: 19AJ2692
93. 19A12692
Emergency 10.10.2019A
Emergency 10.3.20198
1.15.20198
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C
11.8.2018C

2521 Mcclellan
9336 Dorchester
9353 Marietta
I I i I
9367 l?vlailetta
9378 Cutler
9348 Cutler
8840 Goethe
9117 Goethe
9378 Schiller
9372 Schiller
9331 Lessing
3520 Hurlbut
3530 Hurlbut
1540 Mcclellan
1501 Mcclellan
1308 Belvidere
3505 Belvidere
3427 Belvidere
1780 Hibbard
1701 Hibbard
3431 Rohns
3421 Rohns
3100 Crane
2238 Bewick
2602 Bewick
2974 Bewick
3442 Bewick
3081 Bewick
1522 St Clair
2596 St Clair
2579 Harding
2536 Bewick
9116 Goethe
9343 Marietta
3077 Bewick
3065 Bewick
3435 Hurlbut
3428 Mcclellan
9366 Schiller
2997 Belvidere
3403 Bewick
3923 St Aubin
2676 Ferry
5112 Mitchell
5118 Mitchell
5433 Mitchell
5435 Grandy
3742 Hogarth
1663 Euclid
7404 Hanover
4036 Whitney
4020 Whitney
4008 Whitney
3818 Hogarth
3802 Hogarth
3819 Hogarth
3794 Hogarth
6356 Vinewood
2001 Burlingame

11805 Rosa Parks 

7001 Kerchevai

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo 

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co l,l_C
Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Blue Star

Blue Star

Blue Star

Blue Star

Blue Star

Blue Star

Blue Star

Blue Star

Blue Star

Blue Star
Gayanga Co. LLC
Farrow Group
Adamo Group, Inc.

Salenlaien Trucking Excavating Inc.

11.8.20180
11.8.20180
MS 20180

113 20180
11820180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.820180
11.820180
11.8.20180
11.8.20180
11.8.2018E
11.8.2018E
11.8.2018E
11.8.2018E
11.8.2018E
11.8.2018E
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H

114: 19AJ2837
121: 19AJ2844
127: 19EW3075
129: 19AJ3126



13200 Linwood
11722 Dexter
631.5 Linwood
sen-1L :i I ?1
5611 15th St
2541 Edsel Ford
5663 Missouri
2682 Wreford
3293 Columbus
3811 Scovel PI
5274 Linwood
2524 Hudson
2200 Garland
9391 Vernor
2182 Garland
2210 Garland
6240 Canton
8062 Canfield
2227 Highland
1944 Waverly
1938 Waverly
2021 Highland
2214 Highland
2203 Sturtevant
2233 Sturtevant
1707 Tyler
1996 Highland
2036 Leslie
1926 Waverly
2226 Tuxedo
1151 Lawrence
557 Rosedale Ct
2323 Tuxedo
2509 Elmhurst
1698 Collingwood
10219 GoodWin
2310 Elmhurst
2500 Ct
4031 Columbus
9397 Dorchester
9403 Charlevoix
2628 
2727 Mcclellan
2509 Mcclellan
2500 Belvidere
2258 Bewick
2925 Bewick
3080 Garland
2985 Garland
2577 Garland
2236 Garland
2515 Garland
2573 Garland
2201 Garland
5071 Seminole
3734 Rohns
4232 Rohns
4211 Burns
4235 Iroquois
4472 Field
3523 Mt Elliott

Demo Contracted
1"?an! Camp-acted

1

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Homrich
l?
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

131: 19AJ3126
134: 19A13130
3. 
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
3.19.19D
3.19.19D
3.19.190
3.19.190
3.19.19E
3.19.19E
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.198
4.16.19C
4.16.19C
4.16.19C
4.16.19C
4.16.19C
4.16.19C
4.16.19C
4.16.19C
4.16.19C
4.2.19D
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4 2 19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19E
4.2.19G
4.2.196
4.2.196
4.2.19G
4.2.19G
4.2.196
4.2.19G



7723 Forest
4760 Holcomb
4:119 Jo C1mmu

3431 Canfiold
4259 Iroquois
4827 Baldwin
4042 Townsend
5302 Townsend
3657 Arndt
9718 Cameron
6591 Firwood
6328 Scotten
6377 Scotten
6367 Scotten
6308 28th St
6350 28th St
6361 28th St
6360 Hartford
6570 Hartford
6608 Hartford
6612 Hartford
6515 Hartford
6320 30th St
6344 28th St
6322 Scotten
6423 Scotten
6514 Hartford
6580 Firwood
6381 Scotten
424 Alger

2718 Whitney
3009 Clairmount
8848 Warren
5706 Sheridan
3124 Canton
3351 Hazelwood
2694 Blaine
2670 Blaine
2741 Collingwood
2926 Elaine
2740 Hogarth
3020 Blaine
2970 Hazelwood
4465 Tireman
6287? ROHNS
60111roquois
6119 Rohns
6108 Seminole
6102 Seneca
6139 Crane
6128 Rohns
5790 Maxwell
6137 Rohns
5333 Townsend
5466 Field
6127 Fischer
5969 Burns
6108 Seneca
5675 Seminole
5804 Maxwell
5742 Parker

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo 

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

Homrich

DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co LLC
Smalley

Homrich

Dore Associates
Dore Associates
Dore Associates
Dore Associates
Dore Associates
Dore Associates
Dore Associates
Smalley

Gavanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gavanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC

4.2.196

4196
4.2.196
4.2.196
4.2.196
4.2.196
4.2.196
5.1.18A
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13 2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
513 2019i
5.13.2019i
5 13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.17.20188
5.17.20188
5.17.20188
5.17.2018F
5.17.2018F
6.26.186
7.10.186
7.9.190
7.9.190
7.9.190
7.9.190
7.9.190
7.9.190
7.9.190
9.18.18H
9.19.20188
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C
9.19.2018C



5514 Sheridan
6128 James Ct
5&371?5tmm?43?l1
5156 midi-.2
6140 Rohns
1974 Fullerton
2659 Philadelphia
3339 Pingree
3270 Hazelwood
3268 Sturtevant
4058 Euclid
8635 Gratiot
1514 Cadillac
2426 Leslie
3310 Warren
6144 Hecla
7631 Mack
5231 Moran
3403 Mt Elliott
2911 Can?eld
8819 Stoepel
9039 American
8244 Roselawn
5016 Daiiey
4849 Ivanhoe
4877 vanhoe
4901lvanhoe
4843 Spokane
5085 Seebaldt
9412 Prairie
5049 Seebaldt
9606 Prairie
9612 Prairie
3232 Warren
4907 Maplewood
6438 Pelouze
6837 Clayton
7748 Lane
8906 Howell
3311 Dartmouth
10256 Flora
12797 Downing
8236 Grand River
1764 Calumet
7516 Sarena
8658 Epworth
9032 Monica
9003 Monica
8871 Monica
8842 Burnette
8803 Burnette
6399 Beechton
6345 Walton
6351 Walton
6357 Walton
8014 Sarena
7729 Holmes
6340 Clifton
6355 Majestic
6606 Mcdonald
8130 Smart
6643 Fern

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Cont: acted
'Slzn?.) 3M: 1le :0
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Contracted
Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Pipeline

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayangn CO LLC
(Err/1441C?? 
Li; LL 
Gayanga Co. LLC
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
Gayanga Co. LLC

inner City Contracting LLC

Smalley
Smalley
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Blue Star
Gayanga Co. LLC
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Farrow Group
Adamo Group, inc.
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

9.19.2018C

9 19 2018C

?3 [9 2013C

. -
9.19.2018C

9.7.2018A

9.7.2018A

9.7.2018A

9.7.2018A

9.7.2018A

9.7.2018A

90: 19AJ2684
Emergency 10.10.2019A
Emergency 10.10.2019D
Emergency 10.2.2019
Emergency 10.8.2019A
Emergency 19AJ3346
Emergency 8.23.2019B
Emergency 9.26.2019A
Emergency 9.27.2019C
10.2.18D

10.2.180

11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H
11.8.2018H

114: 19AJ2837
12.4.18L

12.4.18L

12.4.18L

12.4.18L

12.4.18L

12.4.18L

12.4.18L

12.4.18L

120: 19AJ2843

123: 19403082

2.5.19L

2.5.19L

2.5.19L

2.5.19L

2.5.19L

2.5.19L

2.5.19L


2.5.19L

2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L
2.5.19L

.J'l



4434 Mcgraw
9323 Monica
805591710:

1 .
7169 Julian
7199 Julian
8815 Stoepel
8860 Monica
9068 Monica
9591 Burnette
9097 Burnette
8054 Wykes
8651 Prairie
8643 Prairie
8554 American
8814 American
8820 American
9064 American
9101 American
9383 Bryden
9315 Bryden
9309 Bryden
9071 Bryden
8597 Bryden
8111 Bryden
9065 American
8610 American
6346 Julian
7031 Joy Rd
9585 Burnette
9451 Prairie
9061 Prairie
8711 Prairie
9303 American
8530 Olivet
12845 Corbin
11939 Visger
1500 Military
5645 Fisher
8077 Cahalan
1814 Lawndale
7921 Medina
9569 Graham
9577 Graham
9508 Graham
8155 South
8139 Burdeno
735 Green
2970 Bassett
8941 Melville
125 Dev

8051 Dill PI
7832 South
4139 Mcgraw
5650 28th St
5700 28th St
6024 28th St
6058 28th St
6035 28th St
6011 28th St
5656 Hartford
6094 Stanford

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants

2.5.19L

25.19L
1" 190

4 2 190
4.2.190
4.2.19D
4.2.19D
4.2.190
4.2.190
4.2.19D
4.2.190
4.2.19D
4.2.19D
4.2.190
4.2.190
4.2.19D
4.2.19D
4.2.190
4.2.19D
4.2.19D
4.2.19D
4.2.19D
4.2.19D
4.2.19D
4.2.19D
4.2.190
4.2.190
4.2.19D
4.2.190
4.2.190
4.2190
4 2.190
4.2.19D
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019F
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i
5.13.2019i

J?r

6391 30th St Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019i
6108 Woodrow Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5 13 2019i
6113- 'v?IorJCIIow Demo Conti DMC {6050 28th St Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5 13 2019i
6023 28th St Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019i
2915 Merrick Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 5.13.2019i
6581 Willette Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
4916 Braden Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
5667 Addison St Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking 8i. Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
7711 Holmes Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6550 Pittsburg Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6581 Wagner Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6587 Wagner Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6441 Barium Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6510 Barium Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6404 Barium Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6929 Burwell Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5 13.2019]
7733 Wheeler Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13 2019]
7124 Holmes Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5 13.2019]
6065 Braden Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking 8 Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6084 Cecil Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking 8: Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6098 Cecil Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6115 Cecil Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6073 Cecil Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13 2019]
6011 Cecil Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
7822 Burnette Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc 5.13 2019]
6574 Willette Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6043 Cecil Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 5.13.2019]
6079 Cecil Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking 8L Excavating Inc. 5.13 2019]
5845 Amherst Demo Contracted Gayanga Co. LLC 5.13.2019K
9602 Herkimer Demo Contracted Gayanga Co. LLC 5.13.2019K
5637 Anthon Demo Contracted Gayanga Co. LLC 5 13.2019K
311 Junction Demo Contracted Gayanga Co. LLC 5.13.2019K
8101 Vanderbilt Demo Contracted Gayanga Co. LLC 5.13.2019K
1009 Demo Contracted Gayanga Co. LLC 5.13.2019K
710 Green Demo Contracted Gayanga Co. LLC 5.13 2019K
4547 Wesson Demo Contracted Blue Star 5.15.18D
3233 Ethel Demo Contracted Smalley 6.12 18F
3333 Annabelle Demo Contracted Homrich 7.10.18E
9080 Bryden Demo Contracted Homrich 7.24.18E
9326 Monica Demo Contracted Dore Associates 7.9.19D
9368 Burnette Demo Contracted Dore 8L Associates 7.9.19D
8153 Mandalay Demo Contracted Dore 84. Associates 7.9.190
8066 Wetherby Demo Contracted Dore Associates 7.9.19D
6412 Linsdale Demo Contracted Able Demolition 8.21.188
5534 Hillsboro Demo Contracted Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc. 8.7.18C
5733 Warren Demo Contracted Gayanga Co. LLC 89: 
4946 Maplewood Demo Contracted Smalley 9.18.18H
8011 Colfax Demo Contracted Smalley 9.18.18H
5006 Tireman Demo Contracted Smalley 9.18.18H
6015 Florida Demo Contracted Smalley 91813:]
7780 Dayton Demo Contracted Smalley 9.18.18H
4674 Pacific Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 9.7.2018A
5040 Fernwood Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 9.7.2018A
5145 Hillsboro Demo Contracted DMC Consultants 9.7.2018A



7034 FORT Demo Pipeline Emergency 10.10.2019E
7360 Sarena Demo Pipeline Emergency 10.16.2019A
2907 Warren Demo Pipeline Emergency 
5625 Military Demo Pipeline Emergency 
7538 American Demo Pipeline Emergency 8.28.2019A

14850 Tuller Demo Contracted Leadhead Construction 1.15.2019B



12608 Wyoming
17000 Chicago
9323 Susan?

8928? Asbury Park
9143 Grandmont
9301 Sussex
17618 Chicago
8613 Ashton
8055 Mans?eld
8219 Rosemont
8644 Faust

8690 Faust
11730 Stahelin
8078 lRosemont
16829 Chicago
7840 Rutherford
7809 Rutherford
7550 St Marys
8499 Ashton
7393 Rosemont
8234 Penrod
8664 Brace

9073 Ashton
9181 Grandmont
8046 Asbury Park
8839 Mettetal
13228 Foley
11678 Cheyenne
11757 Cheyenne
11745 Cheyenne
12032 Hartwell
12203 Sorrento
12692 Cheyenne
12145 Otsego
8505 Ashton
9311 Burt Rd
3810 Davison
12004 Manor
11661 Indiana
11665 Indiana
11645 Indiana
11718 Birwood
11639 Kentucky
12611 Cloverlawn
12272 Ilene
10506 Foley
11666 Indiana
11672 Ilene
11742 Ilene
11671 Ilene
11754 Griggs
11704 Birwood
11752 Birwood
11715 Birwood
12004 Pinehurst
12066 Pinehurst
11695 Pinehurst
12178 Manor
11653 Manor
12293 Littlefield
11651 Indiana

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Der-no Contracted

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Leadhead Construction
Smalley
Smalley

Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

Salenbien Trucking 8t Excavating Inc.
Salenbien Trucking 8 Excavating Inc.

Smalley

Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction

1.15.2019B
1 22.19A
1 27? 19A

1 22 19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.19A
1.22.190
1.22.190
1.22.190

1 22.190
1.22.190
1.22.190
1.22.190
1.8.19F
11.27 180
11.27.180
11 8.17A
11 8.20186
11.820186
11.820186
11.820186
11.8.2018G
11.8.20186
11.8.2018G
11.8.2018G
11.8.20186
11.8.20186
11.8.2018G
11.8.2018G
11.8.2018G
11.8.2018G:
11.820186
11.8.2018G
11.8.2018G
11.8.20186
11.8.20186
11.8.20186
11.8.20186
11.8.20186
11.8.2018G:
11.8.20186

11736 Kentucky
11707 Birwood
1165 Wdahbur {1
:14'4 SIN: ?i 
16825 Plymouth
12649 Meyers
14009 Meyers
12104 Grand River
9230 Wyoming
8030 Lyndon
10027 LYNDON
12240 Grand River
11847 Grand River
9611 Asbury Park
11694 Rutherford
12139 Mans?eld
11690 Mettetal
11682 Asbury Park
12275 Asbury Park
12095 Asbury Park
9943 Asbury Park
12094 Woodmont
11655 Grandmont
9936 Memorial
9969 Memorial
9955 Memorial
11698 Longacre
10039 Grandmont
12230 Asbury Park
12222 Grandmont
12216 Grandmont
12224 Woodmont
12141 Forrer
9936 Rutherford
11688 Rutherford
12136 Mettetal
12236 Asbury Park
9931 Asbury Park
9560 Woodmont
9916 Woodmont
12284 Woodmont
12259 Woodmont
11303 Abington Ave
12120 Memorial
11400 Rutherford
12018 Mettetal
11701 Grandmont
9591 Grandmont
12210 Memorial
12122 St Marys
9939 Memorial
11718 Woodmont
9931 St Marys
6596 Montrose
6905 Rutland
6553 Montrose
6437 Penrod
7276 Stahelin
9297 Minock
9100 Auburn
9218 Auburn
8490 Vaughan

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Cont! acted
., .53le 1:321
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Damn Pnnh'ar-fnrl

HUIILI 

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Leadhead Construction
Leadhead Construction
Leadhead COIMtillutini
DI .3 i'

Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC

Salenbien Trucking Excavating inc.

Adamo Group, Inc.
Adamo Group, Inc.
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
smallnu

I can?,

Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley

11.8.2013G

11 8 20186

ll 3 3'11ij

1! . ..
116: 19AJ2839
116: 19AJ2839
125: 19AJ3084
127: 19EW3075
127: 19EW3075
131: 19AJ3126
131: 19AJ3126
134: 19AJ3130
134: 19AJ3130
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.190
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.190
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.190
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.190
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.190
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19D
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E





9207 Auburn
9325 Burt Rd
82,01 Burt Rd
7634 Vaughan
9051 Vaughan
6357 Vaughan
6914 Rutland
6314 Vaughan
6764 Memorial
9019 Minock
7774 Auburn
8080 Fielding
9045 Vaughan
9329 Plainview
9945 Evergreen
9065 Vaughan
9927 Evergreen
6879 Mans?eld
9200 Auburn
9636 Auburn
8849 Vaughan
6344 Evergreen
6394 Evergreen
6754 Ashton
6380 Grandville
6901 Westwood
6780 Grandville
6824 Plainview
6360 Minock
19427 Tireman
19835 Chicago
7389 Brace
9001 Plainview
8668 Auburn
9065 Stout
7661 Brace
9551 Minock
8911 Vaughan
7227 Vaughan
14655 Cloverlawn
7356 Ellsworth
7037 Chalfonte
6403 Desoto
14856 Stoepel
14573 Indiana
14862 San Juan
14857 Monica
14897 San Juan
14625 Greenlawn
9937 Woodside
11708 Stahelin
6921 Auburn
9640 Stahelin
12068 Archdale
9339 Birwood
9275 Birwood
8845 Birwood
8936 Mendota
9216 Mendota
9242 Pinehurst
9186 Manor

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Smalley
Smalley
Smallev

Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Smalley
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Able Demolition
Able Demolition
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich

2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2 5 19F

25 19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19E
2.5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.19F
2.5.19L
4.17.18C
4.17.18D
4.2.19A
4.2.19A
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C

8897 Manor
8674 Beechdale
9255 Birwood
930.3 
9159 Mendota
10045 Manor
11644 Appoline
10135 Plymouth
9119 Mendota
10011 Morley
8666 Beechdale
10349 Plymouth
11625 Indiana
9331 Kentucky
11428 Pinehurst
11427 Pinehurst
8823 Dawes
8882 Manor
9414 Littlefieid
8964 Birwood
9256 Pinehurst
9388 Mendota
12035 American
8303 Stahelin
9133 Rutherford
7231 Ashton
9900 Vaughan
8401 Patton
7749 Auburn
9180 Montrose
8500 Minock
7805 Ashton
7310 Minock
7700 Ashton
8058 Faust
7356 Piedmont
7257 Archdale
7834 Brace
7535 Longacre
7509 Longacre
12074 Minock
8907 Ashton
7700 Auburn
17635 Chicago
7326 Mans?eld
7323 Plainview
8474 Patton
8609 Faust
8465 Mettetal
7274 Piainview
17610 Chicago
7561 Forrer
14210 Cruse
14216 Cruse
14262 Cruse
14270 Cruse
14264 Ardmore
14304 Cruse
9870 Chenlot
7436 Burlingame
12136 Montrose
12134 Winthrop

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
C: m) (our; ml 
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Homrich
Homrich

Hm?il Ii'f?
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Homrich
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayenga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
DMC Consuitants
DMC Consultants
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC

42.19C
4 2 19C
1 

?l 3..
4.2.19C
42.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
42.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
42.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
42.19C
42.19C
42.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19C
4.2.19D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.1320190
5.1320190
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.1320190
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.1320190
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D
5.13.2019D

1n1on




5.13.2019G
5.132019G
5.13.2019G
5.1320196
5.1320196
5.13.2019G
5.1720188
5.17.2018B
5.17.2018C
5.172018C

\l



N?d?xl'sl'xl??l?d?d'?l

12149 Winthrop
12137 Winthrop
12154 Montrose

11680 Mansfield
11691 St Marys
11707 Stout

9383 Pierson
11755 Grand River
12237 Turner
12054 Yosemite
12070 Nardin
8166 Marlowe
9209 Carlin

8528 Marlowe
9403 Marlowe
8616 Sussex
11636 Winthrop
7777 St Marys
12243 Mettetal
12201 Asbury Park
8139 Coyle

15601 Chicago
15838 Chicago
12052 Archdale
12211 Abington Ave
11318 Archdale
6879 Rutland
9355 Terry

9195 Coyle

12143 Winthrop
9205 Winthrop
12080 Montrose
9575 Rutherford
8226 Asbury Park
9936 Woodmont
11312 Steel

8047 Lauder
9935 Mark Twain
8561 Sussex

8301 Mark Twain
8617 Mark Twain
8336 Strathmoor
8625 Mark Twain
8166 Prest

9204 Winthrop
9265 Carlin
12080 Stoepel
9131 Abington Ave
12739 Tuller
13210 Tuller
9986 Sussex
4266 Waverly
4260 Burlingame
4201 TUXEDO
4064 Tuxedo
9668 Otsego
9278 Broadstreet
11374 Broadstreet
4273 Richton
3782 Collingwood
5132 Webb

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted

Gayanga Co. LLC
Gayanga Co. LLC
Gaynnga Co [If

Blue Star

Able Demolition

Blue Star

Blue Star

Smalley

Smalley

Dore 8L Associates

Dore Associates

lnner City Contracting LLC
lnner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
lnner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
lnner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
lnner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Inner City Contracting LLC
Able Demolition

DMC Consultants

Smalley

Smalley

Salenbien Trucking Excavating Inc.

DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants
DMC Consultants

5.17.2018C
5.17.2018C
5 17 2018C

19 17R
5119.17T
6.12.18C
6.12.18C
67: 17E11364
67: 17E11364
7.9.19D
7.9.19D
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
7.9.19F
8.21.18E
8.8.17A
9.18.18E
9.18.18E
9.26.176
9.7.2018A
9.7.2018A
9.7.2018A
9.7.2018A
9.7.2018A
9.7.2018A
9.7.2018A
9.7.2018A
9.7.2018A
9.7.2018A

12004 Ohio
12737 Roselawn
12323 Kentucky
Lit/'3 
11047 Roselawn
12214 Washburn
12172 Roselawn
12019 Roselawn
12034 Cloverlawn
12389 Northlawn
12048 Cherrylawn
11987 Ohio
12044 Indiana
12110 Kentucky
12121 Kentucky
12356 Ilene
13551 Appoline
12035 Wisconsin
13142 Schooicraft
13653 Appoline
13902 Ward

9692 Grand River
12145 Woodmont

Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Cont: acted
7 311': i [:11
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Contracted
Demo Pipeline
Demo Pipeline
Demo Pipeline
Demo Pipeline
Demo Pipeline

Gayanga Co.

Gayanga Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga C_o.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.
Gayanga Co.

LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC
LLC

9.7.20188
9.7 20188

3 7 21136

9.7.20188

9.720188

97.20188

97.20183

9.7.2018B

9.7.20188

9.7.2018B

9.7.20188

9.7.2018B

9.7.20188

97.20183

97.20188

9.7.20188

9.7.20188

Emergency 10.18.2019A
Emergency 10.18.2019A
Emergency 10.18.2019A
Emergency 10.21.2019A
Emergency 8.28.2019A





Row Labels Count of Property: Council District

334
(blank)

Grand Total 1572

Attachment XI

OCFO?s/Administration?s Report on Council Actions on Demolition in Next 12
Months

October 2019

November 2019

December 2019

January 2020

January 2020

February 2020

March 2020

March 2020

July 2020

August 2020

September 2020

October 2020

October 2020

Council review $250 Million Blight Removal Bond Resolution

Executive Organization Plan submitted (containing Demolition Division
of HRD)

Detroit Land Bank MOU submitted

Budget Amendment submitted for $50 Million in blight funds to support
Winter 2020 Procurement

Contracts submitted for demolition of about 2,400 houses
Contracts submitted for Commercial Environmental Due Diligence
(Hazardous/Regulated Materials Surveys Site Assessments)
Contracts submitted for Residential Hazardous/Regulated Materials
Surveys

Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Budget submitted (with reorganization of
Demolition, FY2021 Blight Appropriation, FY2021 Land Bank
Appropriation, FY2021 home repair programs appropriations)
Contracts submitted for demolition of about 1,900 houses submitted

Contracts submitted for Backfill Monitoring and Testing

Contract submitted for Water-related Services (Pump-outs, Shut-offs,
Disconnects)

Contracts submitted for Environmental Services (Le. Underground
Storage Tanks, Pits, Drums. Soil Remediation)

Contracts submitted for General Supportive Services Debris
relocation, Clean-up)

Attachment XII

OCFO?s/Administration?s Supplemental Resolution Con?rmng the
Administration?s Commitment to Certain Actions Regarding Implementation of
?Bond Proposal Funds? and Policies Governing Related Property, dated
October 22, 2019



g?a/




. 

Detront, Michigan 45.136 detrortmu 

Revision as of 11:37 AM October 22, 2019

Resolution Con?rming the Administration?s Commitment to Certain Actions Regarding
Implementation of ?Bond Proposal Funds? and Policies Governing Related Property

WHEREAS, the Mayor has requested the City Council to approve a ballot initiative by which the
City shall borrow an amount not to exceed $250,000,000 and issue Unlimited Tax General
Obligation Bonds of the City for the purpose of the elimination of blight through demolition and

other blight remediation activities (the ?Blight Elimination Bond Proj ect?); and

WHEREAS, in consideration of the City Council?s approval of the proposed Blight Elimination
Bond Project the Administration agrees to undertake the items within the resolve of this

resolution; BE IT THEREFORE

1 RESOLVED, subject to state law and City ordinance, to propose a Demolition Department to
manage the demolition program and subsequently cancel or revise the demolition contract with
the Detroit Building Authority. The changes will be proposed in an Executive Organization Plan
amendment submitted to City Council before the end of the Council Session in November 2019
and in the Fiscal Year 2020?2021 Budget Recommendation to be submitted to City Council for

review.

2 RESOLVED, the Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement agrees to submit non?emergency
residential demolition contracts in packages not to exceed 2,500 properties bi-annually. Through
the use of the equalization ordinances and aggressive work by Civil Rights, Inclusion 
Opportunity Department to qualify demolition contractors, over 50% of the contracts will be won
by a contractor with one of the following certi?cations: Detroit Based Businesses, Detroit
Headquartered Businesses, Detroit Small Businesses, Detroit Resident Businesses, Detroit Based
Micro Businesses, Minority?Owned Business Enterprises, Women?Owned Business Enterprises,
Mentor Ventures, and Joint Ventures. Special packages may be brought to City Council outside

of the biannual process to address emergency, public safety or economic development needs. If

 
. I 
.I
I -12)

. ?ia . 
.4. . 4.12. Detroit, Michigan 43226 

 

there is insuf?cient capacity, the Of?ce of Procurement and the Civil Rights, Inclusion 
Opportunity Department will report to City Council on actions they will take to attract and

certify additional demolition businesses in the future.

3 RESOLVED, within each semi?annual large procurement for residential demolitions, the
Office ofContracting and Procurement will set aside contracts for ceiti?ed Detroit Small
Businesses and Detroit Based Micro Businesses. The Of?ce of Procurement intends to set aside
30% of the contracts for certi?ed Detroit Small Businesses and Detroit Based Micro Businesses
in the procurement to be awarded in January 2020 and will report to the Administration and City
Council following the completion of the procurement. If there is insuf?cient capacity to meet the
30% set aside in the January 2020 procurement, the Of?ce of Procurement and the Civil Rights,
Inclusion Opportunity Department will report to City Council on actions they will take to
attract and certify additional Detroit Small Businesses and Detroit Based Micro Businesses in

demolition in the future.

4 RESOLVED, Prior to the submission of a demolition bid package, the Office of Contracting
and Procurement agrees to submit a bi-annual employment report for all demolition contractors
that are not certi?ed as a Detroit Resident Business including the number of employees and the

number of Detroit-resident employees at the time of bidding.

5 RESOLVED, by May 31, representatives from the OCFO and CRIO will work with the
Budget, Finance and Audit Standing Committee to review the existing ordinance, develop
outcome metrics and recommend changes to the ordinance to better meet obj cctives of the

Administration and City Council.

6 RESOLVED, the Detroit Employment Solutions Corporation agrees to schedule a meeting
with demolition contractors that have been pre-quali?ed to determine the hiring and training
needs of each contractor for the implementation of the Blight Elimination Strategy within one (1)

month of the approval of this agreement.

3M 

:n ya n11 {70an chars 91-: (gm-9? 1535

Detroit, Micmgan 46136 

assure-21? ?r 

7A RESOLVED, within one (1) month of approval of this agreement, The Detroit Employment
Solutions Corporation agrees to implement a Blight Elimination Outreach marketing plan that
may include, but not limited to the following: Outdoor signage; Digital and Social media
outreach across Detroit at Work and all city channels; Outreach to our community partners
including City Council, Faith?based, community partners, Department of Neighborhoods; Detroit
at Work website banners and landing page highlighting details and how to sign up and ?nd our
more information (detroitatwork.com averages 50,000 visits a month); Detroit at Work
newsletter with over 120,000 Detroiters subscribing; press conference to announce efforts and

garner media partners stories.

78 RESOLVED, the Office of Contracting and Procurement, Detroit Employment Solutions
Corporation, the Demolition Department, and the Civil Rights, Inclusion Opportunity
Department agree to host employment fairs for contractors that do not qualify for the Detroit
Resident Business certi?cation. The Office of Contracting and Procurement will encourage those

demolition business that do not qualify for this certification to attend.

8 RESOLVED, the Demolition Department will submit quarterly reports detailing the following:

number of homes demolished; and proof demolition field liaisons? visits to each property.

9 RESOLVED, the Administration will make practical operational changes to address audit
findings of the Auditor General and any other pertinent external audit ?ndings, unless the
recommendations create an undue burden on small demolition contractors without a measurable

bene?t to the program.

10 RESOLVED, the Demolition Department will conduct a deconstruction pilot to determine the

feasibility of incorporating deconstruction into the demolition program on a larger scale.

11 RESOLVED, Planning and Development Department will complete neighborhood plans and

update the master plan for the City over the next ?ve years with community input.

 ~1 


DetrOIt, Michigan 48226 gov

 

12 RESOLVED, in the areas most affected by demolition of vacant and abandoned structures,
the City will be investigating four primary areas for neighborhood planning: the history of the
neighborhood; tactical historic preservation opportunities; housing rehabilitation opportunities
for vacant properties; interim and medium?term open space strategies. These pillars will help the
city and neighbors plan for redevelopment while also creating amenities, prevent illegal dumping

and making the neighborhood more attractive.

l3 RESOLVED, through community meetings, the Planning and Development Department will
develop sidelot, landscape and interim use strategies for areas that will remain vacant for the

medium term.

14 RESOLVED, in consultation with the City Council, the Planning and Development
Department and Detroit Land Bank Authority will collaborate to make changes in the Detroit
Land Bank Authority Memorandum Agreement which will be submitted no later than January
l?l 2020. With the submission, the Administration will include the most expeditious schedule
through which the City Council, Administration, and Detroit Land Bank Board will decide the
future of all vacant lots currently in the Detroit Land Bank?s inventory as well as future vacant

lots resulting from the blight bond initiative.

16A RESOLVED, the City will have rehab strategies that save homes that otherwise could be

demolished, but are savable with a similar level of incentive.

168 RESOLVED, the City will use sustainable renovation standards to provide future property
owners with low utility costs, to include but not limited to, high ef?ciency systems (such as

furnace, water heater) and updated windows.

17 RESOLVED, the City?s rehab strategies will range from a ?Rehabbed and Ready" model to
more modest improvements such a site preparation and partial rehabilitation that will make

houses easier to sell.

 Comm/x Vino-3M Phone 313 623 2535


L.)

Detront,iv11ch gan 48226 detrOItmlgov

'5 . .
. . 





18 RESOLVED, the City will have a rehab and marketing strategy that is aimed at assisting new

low income home buyers and seniors in purchasing rehabbed or partially rehabbed houses.

19 RESOLVED, through the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, the Administration will propose a new

grass cutting strategy to address the spring growth and improve maintenance of vacant lots.

20 RESOLVED, the Administration will expand the illegal dumping campaign to protect

neighborhoods with newly vacant land.

21 RESOLVED, the Administration will work with state leaders to enact ?Pay as you Stay?,
legislation to create a pathway out of foreclosure for low income home-owners. Pay as you Stay
is a proposed new payment plan that will eliminate all interest, penalties and fees, reduce back

taxes to 10% of the home?s taxable value, and create a three year payment plan with 0% interest.

22 RESOLVED, the City will partner with nonpro?ts and philanthropies to provide information
about pathways out of foreclosure through Make it Home and the Homeowner Property Tax
Exemption Program, directly to homeowners through door knocking campaigns, mailings, phone

calls and community-based workshops.

Attachment 

Responses to Council President Brenda ones?s October 23, 2019 Requests on
Blight Removal Bond

 

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

MEMORANDUM

 

TO:

City Council President Brenda Jones

 

FROM: David Massaron. Chief Financial Officer, City of Detroit
Arthur Jemison, Group Executive for Planning. Housing and Development
DATE: October 28, 2019
RE: Responses to October 23 Requests on Blight Removal Bond
Please find this memo in response to your October 23 requests in relation to the blight removal

bond proposal.

Please

provide an annual schedule throughout the term of the demolition elimination strategy

detailing deadlines DATES for the submission of the following to be added to the current

reaoluti

51939993.??

We are

on: Please see Attachment 1

Creation of the Detroit Demolition Department or Division
Quarterly demolition reports

Submission of Bid Packages

Submission of Employment Plans

Contractor Meeting to determine hiring and employment needs
Hiring Fairs for non?Detroit resident businesses
Implementation of the deconstruction pilot

also requesting the following;
List of total number of employees employed by all demolition contractors specifying the

number of Detroit resident employees. Please see Attachment 2

Organizational Plan forthe Detroit Demolition Department - This will be submitted
when we submit the Executive Organization Plan Changes this year.

Steps to Obtain Demolition License - Please see Attachment 3
Flow chart for demolition - approvals/inspections - Please see Attachment 4

Detailed relationship between the Detroit Land Bank Authority and pending Detroit
Demolition Department. - The Detroit Land Bank Authority will have three main
responsibilities within the new organization of the Demolition Department
including: referring parcels for demolition, recording the disposition of the
property, and buildingimaintaining the current salesforce database used during

cciemmi A roaring Municipal center Rhone 31.3 baa-2333

       

   

  
  
 

. 2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
mot Detroit, Michigan 48226 

the demolition process. More details and a formal outline will be included with the
Detroit Land Bank Authority?s MOU that should be submitted before the end of the
year.

6. Proof of detailed record keeping policies and procedures to ensure that the bonds do not
become taxable due to document negligence. Please see Attachment 5. Staff from the
relevant teams are meeting this week to affirm the team?s understanding of roles
and responsibilities and to review existing reporting to define data to be collected.
This process will then be memorialized in a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)
by the OCFO.

7. Requirement that all contractors set-aside a Detroit hiring time frame for Detroiters only
when hiring (similar to FCA) - Corporation Counsel says this is not legal.

Projectetltijnioldion Tinieihio Crier FL/o?toars

This document contains the projected dates for major procurements, budget approvals, reports,
and hiring fairs. There may be more that are needed or these may be adjusted as the City
moves forward.

October 2019 Council review $250 Million Blight Removal Bond Resolution - Vote
Required
November 2019 Executive Organization Plan submitted (containing Demolition Division) -

Action of Council within 60 business days of submission; if there is
no action, amendment becomes effective.

November 2019 Detroit at Work DESC Contractor Meeting to determine hiring and
employment needs

December 2019 Detroit Land Bank MOU submitted - Vote Required Prior to June 30,
2020
January 2020 Budget Amendment submitted for $50 Million in blight funds to support

Winter 2020 Procurement - Vote Required

January 2020 Contracts submitted for demolition of about 2,400 houses - Vote
Requued

February 2020 Contracts submitted for Commercial Environmental Due Diligence
(Hazardous/Regulated Materials Surveys Site Assessments) - Vote
Required

March 2020 Contracts submitted for Residential Hazardous/Regulated Materials

Surveys - Vote Required

March 2020 Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Budget submitted (with reorganization of
Demolition, FY2021 Blight Appropriation, FY2021 Land Bank
Appropriation, FY2021 home repair programs appropriations) - Vote
Required

March 2020 Detroit at Work - DESC Hiring Fair for Contractors that have not received
the Detroit Resident Business Certi?cation

June 2020

July 2020
July 2020
August 2020

September 2020

October 2020

October 2020

October 2020

October 2020
January 2021
January 2021

March 2021

March 2021

April 2021
April 2021
July 2021

July 2021

Demolition Maps-i: Du:-

Contracts for demolition of about 1,900 houses submitted - Vote
Required

New Demolition Department Begins Operation
Demolition Report Due
Contracts submitted for Backfill Monitoring and Testing - Vote Required

Contract submitted for Water-related Services (Pump-outs, Shut-offs,
Disconnects) - Vote Required

Implementation of deconstruction pilot begins

Contracts submitted for Environmental Services Underground
Storage Tanks, Pits, Drums, Soil Remediation) - Vote Required

Contracts submitted for General Supportive Services Debris
relocation, Clean-up)

Demolition Report Due
Demolition Report Due
Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required

Detroit at Work - DESC Hiring Fair for Contractors that have not received
the Detroit Resident Business Certification

Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Budget submitted (Blight appropriation,

Land Bank appropriation, home repair programs appropriations) Vote
Required

Report on of deconstruction pilot to City Council

Demolition Report Due

Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required

Demolition Report Due

January 2022
January 2022

March 2022

March 2022

April 2022
July 2022
July 2022
October 2022
January 2023
January 2023

March 2023

March 2023

April 2023
July 2023
July 2023
October 2023
January 2024

January 2024


Demolition Report Due
Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required

Detroit at Work - DESC Hiring Fair for Contractors that have not received
the Detroit Resident Business Certification

Fiscal Year 2022?2023 Budget submitted (Blight appropriation,

Land Bank appropriation, home repair programs appropriations) - Vote
Required

Demolition Report Due

Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required
Demolition Report Due

Demolition Report Due

Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required

Demolition Report Due

Detroit at Work DESC Hiring Fair for Contractors that have not received
the Detroit Resident Business Certi?cation

Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget submitted (Blight appropriation,

Land Bank appropriation, home repair programs appropriations) - Vote
Required

Demolition Report Due

Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required
Demolition Report Due

Demolition Report Due

Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required

Demolition Report Due

March 2024

March 2024

April 2024
July 2024
July 2024
October 2024
January 2025
January 2025

March 2025

March 2025

April 2025
July 2025
July 2025

October 2025

Detroit at Work - DESC Hiring Fair for Contractors that have not received
the Detroit Resident Business Certification

Fiscal Year 2024-2025 Budget submitted (Blight appropriation,

Land Bank appropriation, home repair programs appropriations) - Vote
Required

Demolition Report Due

Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required
Demolition Report Due

Demolition Report Due

Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required

Demolition Report Due

Detroit at Work - DESC Hiring Fair for Contractors that have not received
the Detroit Resident Business Certification

Fiscal Year 2025?2026 Budget submitted (Blight appropriation,

Land Bank appropriation, home repair programs appropriations) - Vote
Required

Demolition Report Due

Biannual residential contracts submitted for demolition - Vote Required

Demolition Report Due

Demolition Report Due

Demolition Contractor Listing 10 16 19_PresidentJones

 

Prequalified Demolition Contractors City

D-BB

D-RB

D-HB

D-DSB

D-DMBC

MBE

Total
Employees

Detroit
Employees

Awards

 

ABLE DEMOLITION INC Shelby 

Amount
2,198,007 . 

 

ADAMO DEMOLITION COMPANY Detroit

Yes

5,154,748 .

 

BLUE STAR INC Warren

mama.-

 

Den-Man Contractors, Inc. Warren

51?:

 

Detroit Dism. Detroit

Yes

Detroit Next Detroit

Yes

56.100

 

DMC CONSULTANTS INC Detroit

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

39

25

111

10,391,014

 

DORE 8L ASSOCIATES CONTRACTING INC Bay City

105



 

FARROW GROUP INC Detroit

Yes

313,255 ll]

 

GAYANGA CO Detroit

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

55

45

204

14,318,043

 

HOMRICH WRECKING INC Detroit

Yes

10,355,118 

 

Inner City Detroit

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

5

144.21o 

 

Keith Construction Detroit

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

10



89,523

 

Junior Detroit

Yes?

Yes?

Yes?

Yes?

No

No

24

 

 

LEADHEAD CONSTRUCTION LLC Detroit

Yes

4,629,660

 

North American Lapeer

131.790

 

RDC CONSTRUCTION SERVICES Soulhfield

403.125

 

RICKMAN ENTERPRISE GROUP, LLC Detroit

Yes

705,987 :5

 

Salenbien Trucking and Excavating, Inc. Dundee

3.157.10b

 

 

SMALLEY CONSTRUCTION INC Jackson

 

 

N0

 

No

 

No

 

 

No

 

14

 

 

97

 

2,128.4}

 

Total
Certified
Non-Certi?ed

 

Pending Prequalified Demolition Contractors

599



54,523,056
47,709,65572
16,813,400 I

 

Detroit Demolition and Environmental Detroit

Yes?

No

Yes?

Yes?

No

17

 

Gladiator Detroit

Yes"

No

Yes*

Yes?

No

 

KJP Demolition Detroit

Yes?

Yes*

Yes?

Yes*

No

14

10

 

Moss Company Detroit

Yes

No

Yes?

Yes?

NO

14

 

 

SC Environmental? Detroit

 

Yes?

 

No

 

Yes?

 

Yes*

 

No

 

 

25

 

 

 



 

Yes? - intending to certify/undergoing certification

- relocating headquarters to Detroit; working with City to increase number of employees that are residents
D-DSB must have been in existence and operating for at least one (1) year prior to the date of application

Office of Contracting and Procurement

70

30

Steps To Obtain Wrecking License

Experience Requirements are as follows:

Except as provided in Subsection of this section, no license shall be issued until
the applicant has shown satisfactory proof to the Board of Examiners for Wrecking
Contractors that the applicant has been actively engaged in a supervisory capacity in
the demolition, disassembling, dismantling, dismembering, and removal of buildings and
structures for a period of at least three cumulative years during the past seven years as
determined from the date of the application. Credit varying up to a maximum of two
years of actual experience in the demolition, disassembling, dismantling, dismembering,
and removal of buildings and structures may be extended to any applicant who is a
licensed professional architect or who possesses a bachelor of science degree in
architectural engineering.

1. Construction Division receives application and $329.00 application fee.
2. Division investigates to verify candidate?s credentials.
3. Upon approval of application, division schedules oral examination for next

wrecking board meeting.

4. After a successful oral examination with the board, the applicant is eligible to take
the written exam at a cost of $86.00.

5. Once a candidate passes the exam, they submit surety bond letter, and proof of
liability insurance to the Law Department for review and approval.

6. Once the Law Department approves the documents, the License Permits
Division will provide a bond letter to the customer.

7. The customer then submits the registration form with bond letter to construction,
and then pays licensing fee of $302.00 and obtains the wrecking license.

DEMOLITION PROCESS AND INSPECTIONS

 

 

 

 

 

 

City assigns property Environmental City awards property to Environmental

for hazardous contractor inspects for demolition contractor contractor conducts
regulated materials property hazardous] who abates hazardous post-abatement
inspection regulated materials regulated materials inspection

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 

  
   
 
 

Demolition contractor BSEED inspects open Demolition contractor

removes all dEbriS and hole. If approved, backfiils and grades the
calls for open hole demolition contractor lot and calls for ?nal

inspection proceeds with back?ll grade inspection

Demolition contractor
knocks the structure;
DBA observes

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

-

In: 

     

 

 

BSEED inspects ?nal Demolition contractor
grade. If approved, submits invoice to the
demolition contractor City

proceeds with seed

 

 

 

 

 

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135

 

Detroit, Michigan 48226 
MEMORANDUM
TO: David Massaron, Chief Financial Officer, City of Detroit
FROM: Valerie Agolli, Debt Manager and
Donnie Johnson, Capital Budget Manager
DATE: October 15, 2019
RE: Plan to Monitor Use of Demolition Bond Proceeds for Compliance with

Federal Tax Laws

To support the proposed sale of $175 million in tax exempt bond proceeds to fund City
demolitions, this memo documents the Office of the Chief Financial Officer?s (OCFO)

plan to monitor the use of the tax-exempt demolition bond proceeds.

Tax-exempt bonds issued by state and local governments are subject to ongoing
compliance with federal tax requirements. Under federal tax law, if bonds are classified
as ?private activity bonds" (as of the issue date or any time during which the bonds are
outstanding), then the interest on the bonds becomes includable in the federal taxable
income of the holders of the bonds, the bonds are no longer tax?exempt but instead
are taxable. The determination of whether bonds are private activity bonds depends on
two tests - (1) the private business test, and (2) the private loan financing test. The latter
test includes both a private business use test and a private security or payment test.
The private payment test is met when more than five percent of the present value of the
debt service on the bonds is secured by privately used property or private payments.
Private payments include direct or indirect payments with respect to bond-financed
properties. In the context of the blight remediation program, private payments could
consist of amounts received from either the sale or lease of any properties that were

improved with the tax-exempt bonds.

 mung f'alul?ilelpdl Lcillcl Miami: 515 bio?2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 detroitmigov

 

To monitor the use of the tax-exempt bond proceeds, and to continue to confirm that the
private activity test has not been met (and the bonds therefore remain tax-exempt), the
OCFO will establish a system to track how each of the properties that was improved
with the bond proceeds are ultimately used. For each parcel, which will be identified
using the legal parcel number, the OCFO will track:

a) the total amount of bond proceeds spent on improving the property,

b) the type of expenditures made with bond proceeds demolition cost,

preliminary expenditures to prepare for demolition, site preparation)
0) ownership of the property at time of demolition,
d) any other city, state, or federal funds used to improve the property, and

e) the total amount received from the sale or lease (if any) of the property.

The City will track this information in the Salesforce database. The Housing and
Redevelopment Department (HRD) and Detroit Building Authority (DBA) will be
responsible for entering the expenditure data for each demolition into the database. The
Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) will be responsible for entering the ownership and
the total amount received from the sale of any residential property. HRD will be
responsible for entering the total amount received from the sale of any commercial

property into the database.

Attached to this memo, please find an example of a Salesforce case (or parcel) that
included a demolition and disposition. The OCFO will work with HRD, DBA and DLBA to
add additional fields to Salesforce that will meet reporting needs. in the
attached document, please find examples of the current fields that will assist with
reporting:

. Cost: Asbestos Survey

. Cost: Asbestos Abatement

- Cost: Knock Down

. Cost: Dirt (greening)

 

2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 43226 detroitmi.gov

Cost: Grade (greening)

Cost: Seed (greening)
Cost: Sidewalk (greening)
Knockdown Date

Demo Contractor
Acquisition Method

Acquisition Date

The OCFO, DLBA, HRD and DBA will add additional fields to meet the OCFO's

reporting needs, such as:

Total Expenditures from Tax?Exempt Bond Proceeds

Total Expenditures from Taxable Bond Proceeds

Total Expenditures from City General Funds

Total Expenditures from Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
Total Expenditures from Other Funds

Total Sale Proceeds

Total Lease or Other Proceeds for Use of Property

Ownership Status at Demolition

Current Ownership Status

The DLBA and DBA will sign a compliance agreement with the City covenanting to

complete these responsibilities. As part of this agreement, the DLBA will covenant to

maintain the information in a database over the life of the bonds.

The OCFO will design and extract a report with this information on a quarterly basis,

and at least often enough to measure compliance with the de minimis limitation for the

private payment test. In this report, the OCFO will aggregate the total amount received

from the sale or other disposition of all of the parcels improved with the bond proceeds

and compare that amount to the present value of debt service to be paid on the bonds.

seminal. {Julia Ltl?iJ I none 3133 0.162355
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

This will allow the City to determine if the five percent limit for the private payment test is

exceed ed.

Because Oracle is the system of record for contracted financial data for the City, the
OCFO will extract similar information about expenditures from the Oracle database to
ensure the standardization of the compliance system. The Auditor General will be

invited to audit the compliance system at their convenience.

The OCFO will maintain this compliance tracking system until the earlier of one of the
following: (1) the maturity date of the bonds (or any tax-exempt bonds which refund the

bonds) or (2) the end of the useful life of the properties financed with the bonds.

10/14/2019

Case
001 20834
Show Feed

Summit] ESEED 15] mgillas [ammonium] 
Hint/inlet rm: mPE?l?lel I 

Case Detail

Property
Parcel ID

Transfer Case

Grant Program

Property Class (Acct)

Archived Case URL

MSHDA Demo Lien

Sale Prep Activity

Case Record Type (ref)

PTA Date Filed

Contact Name (Compliance rel)
Compliance DNG Email
Sidewalk Replaced Date

Case Details
[ref] QT Recorded Date
Quiet Title Batch

Case 00120834 - Saiesforce - Enterprise Edition

Search

Dnhiwnr'lt "JtpAm'lu 

Iliwntirii-l .

1} Switch to Lightning Experience

?it; D?H?f?j lirt

 

 

Edit Delete Closecaus sharing Map

13-2-0] Huntingto_n
22089799.

HHFS

Residential-Lot

YES

9&1 19
Disp_Side_Lot

 

Status

Pipeline

Status Date
Program

Priority

Case Record Type
Interested Entity

BB Failed Date

BB Failed Reason

Latest Listing

BSEED: Final Grade Approved

Subject

Closeout Reason

Brian Farkas

 

Help 8- Training DLBA

CPA mm Demo", Conlr tutor 

Customize Page Printable VIEW Help (or this Page

[91 I Que-Lawn] MMUMMEI I With I Aermui?iumim 
I wantum?mm

For Sale

Side Lot
7/10/2019
Side Lot

High

Disp - Side Lot

7/11/2019
3/9/2015

Demo -  18901 Huntington 2016-
03-29

 

 

 

   

 

5/50 Waiver Date FIE Amount thheld
Number of Attempts to Sell 1
Project Batch
Description
BSEED Legal Authority ODM
Acquisition Information -
Acquisition Method Transfer-WOT Transfer Agreement
Acquisition Date 1/13/2017 Acquisition Amount $0 00
Donor Name Concession Amount
Concession Designation
Signoff Details I
Signoff Date
GTJ Su rvey
GTJ Batch GTJ Occupancy Vacant
GTJ Survey Complete 12/21/2016 GTJ Property Secure No
GTJ Address 13901 Huntington GTJ Overall Condition
GTJ Photo Link com/view assets asn?-d= 1" 21th GTJ Neighborhood Condition 3
GTJ Structure Yes GTJ Survey Assessment Salvage
GTJ Structure Type Single Family GTJ Deconstruction Candidate No
GTJ Notes 10 openings. ?re damage
PhotoRev GTJ-MGM Pass Dt 2/16/2017
Demo Recommendation 8t Decision
Blight Letter Batch HHFS Batch 2 NTP Batch HHF5 NTP 2.2
Blight Letter Received Date 4/10/2017 NTP Date 4/11/2017
Blight Letter Requested Date 13/13/201 7
Blight Letter Address
Blight Letter Status Received

 

Asbestos Survey



1/5

10/ 1 4/201 9
A55 Survey RFP Group
ASE Survey Contractor Name
ASB Survey Status

Asbestos Abatement Estimate 8- Certification
ATQ GrouP LLQ

ASB Abatement Veri?cation
Contractor

ASB Veritler Name

Asb Abatement Est/Cert RFP

ATQ grog); ?grvigas._LLQ

ASB Survey Date
ASE Document URL
ASE Survey Report Date

Ashe Hr: Sun-3v Pl litL'I' or

ASB Abatement Estimate Min

ASE Abatement Estimate Max

Case 00120834 Saiesforce - Enterprise Edition

8/28/2017

(my: i'i'tlrivs 

9/7/2017

$424.43

$1,061.09

 

Utilities
Util: Cut Request Cancel Date

Util: Cut Status

Util: Cut Issues

Demo Contractor Details
Demo RFP Group

Demo Contractor

Demo Contractor Proceed Date

Asbestos Abatement RFP Group

Asbestos Abatement Contractor
Name

Bid Price: Abatement
Bid Price: Demolition

Bid Price: Abatement Demo
Single Cost

Bid Price: Total Demo Contractor
Amt

Socrata Reported Price

Knock Down Date

Open Hole Requested

Open Hole Inspection Scheduled

Demo Returned by Contractor
Returned by Contractor: RFP
HHF Non-Recoverabie Cost

Trucking 5 Esra-.Iaiing Inc.

 

Demo Cost Details
Cost: GTJ Inspection
Cost: Cut

Cost: Asbestos Survey

Cost: Asbestos Abatement
Estimate

Cost: Asbestos Abatement
Certillcallon

Cost: Asbestos Abatement

Cost: Knock Greening
(combined)

Cost: Knock Down

Cost: Dirt (greening)
Cost: Grade (greening)
Cost: Seed (greening)
Cost: Sidewalk (greening)



Gas Cut Date

Util: Gas clearance Type
Util: Electric Cut Date

Util: Electric Clearance Type

Util: Hazard Notification Date

Util: Hazard Notification
Description

Socrata Projected Knocked By
Date

Planned Knock Down Date

Asbestos Abatement Date

Asbestos Abatement Document
Link

Ab atom is I'll timer.

Backtill Complete

Winter Grade Requested
Winter Grade 2nd Request

Wlnter Grade Inspection
Scheduled

Final Grade Requested
Final Grade 2nd Request

Final Grade inspection Scheduled

Demo Contractor Hydrant Log
DBA Field Notes

Sidewalk Contractor

Invoice: GTJ
Invoice: Utility Cut
Invoice: Asbestos Survey

Invoice: Asbestos Survey(new)

Invoice: Asb Abatement Estimate

Invoice: Asb Abatement
Certification

Invoice: Asbestos Remediation

Invoice: Asbestos
Remediation(new)

Invoice: Demo Contractor
Invoice: Demo Contractor(new)
Winter Grade Withholding
Invoice: Winter Grade Payout

Invoice: Winter Grade
Payout(new)

Total: Demo Contractor Amt
(formula)

Bid-Invoice Difference

5/17/2017
Of?ce Clear
7/5/2017
Field Veri?ed

7/31/2015

7/24/2018

3/7/2015

 

ATQ Eamon-i, LLQ 20?1?70

ATQ grout; Service-L. 2059265!

ATQ group Sconces, LLg"l I

EnI-mbmn A Ir?c. 53520135??



Tructung A mount-ind (no 530201513

$11,813.23

$0.00

2/5

10/14/2019
Demo Change Order AMT
Demo Change Order 

Hydrant Change Order Iii-mice


Roma Order Tilnl

Demo Mis?c Costs

Demo Misc Cost Description
Demo Misc Costs 2

Demo Misc Cost Description 2
Demo Misc Costs 3

Demo Misc Cost Description 3

Case 00120834 - Saiesforce - Enterprise Edition

Demo Change Order Description

Demo Change Order Descriptionz

In unit-n I'imr 1 '17?
Invoice Misc Doiitu Cost 2

Invoice: Misc Demo Cost 3

Invoice: Clean 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cost: Clean Fill Total: All Demo Costs 
Cost: Lot Maintenance
Cost: Project Management
MATT Cost Details
MATT Status Stage 7 - Post Funding Total: MATT Invoice 314095 73
MATT DE Number DS-22072-18901 Huntington Credit: FIE Funds
MATT Invoice Adjustment (51?125 00)
MATT Invoice Adjustment Notes
Miscellaneous Demo Details
FDD Source
Demo Pull Requests
Demo Pull Requested Reason Demo Pull Request Notes
Demo Full Staff Recommendation Demo Pull Staff Recommendation
Date
Demo Pull Executive Demo Pull Executive
Determination Determination Date
Demo Pulled Date
Demo Pull Failed
Pipeline History
Demolished Sold - Side Lot
Reviewed by Demo Sold - Direct Sale
Sold - Auction
NAP
Drug House
Standard Fields
Case Orlgin Contact Name ?5 
Contact Account Name General Citizen
Contact Phone
System Information
Created By Egan Far/:55, 3/29/2016 2:26 PM Date/Time Opened 13/29/2016 2:26 PM

Last Modified By

Bench. Benedict. 8/20/2019 1 33 PM

 

Edit Delete

Date/Time Closed

closeCase Sharing Map

 

Socrata: BSEED

Action Socrata: BSEED Action Description

Final Grade
35 .3 2: .
EE Inspection




. - n. "-an

Open Hole Demo
inspection

Inspection Date inspection Results CSA Notes

8/9/2013 OK

7/26/2018 OK

13/13/2018

CALL FINAL GRADE ACCEPTABLE.

OH CALL DWLG DOWN DEBRIS REMOVED
SEWER CAPPED. OK TO FILL

Socrata: BSEED Help
CSA Updated Building Permit Description Permit Status

8/10/2018

7/27/2015

WR ECK AND REMOVE

DEBRIS OPEN

 

Inquiries

Action Inquiry Name

Inquiry Category

New Inquiry

inquiry Sub-Category

Edit Property Maintenance Board/Secure 8/22/2017 
Edit mtg?035311; Property Maintenance Debris. Clean Up 8/22/2017 Rita ianlt
Edit MM Demolition DemoTiming 5/21/2013 Eta Giant!
Edit - Demolition DemoTiming 6/8/2013
Edit Egg-mm} Property Maintenance Board/Secure 3/22/2018
Edit itigsneaga Demolition ReportProperty Damage 4/15/2015 B'ta gent;



Inquiry Date Contact Name

Closed
Closed
Closed

i ajncu Mrzgiencon Closed
Lalrgo MEIgmcu Closed

Escalaied

Inquiry Status Follow-Up Inquiry Count

Inquiries Help

Priority Created By

0 Medium Img?ta flogging, 8/22/2017 12:45 PM
0 Medium ]rezatia goodin, 8/22/2017 12:49 PM
0 Medium remit/a Eunlon. 5/21/2018 10:13 AM

0 High a ?rigiing, 5/6/2018 4:50 PM

0 High mghante ?mugg. 13/22/2018 2:01 PM
0 Medium MIME, 6/1/2016 5:41 PM

3/5

10/14/2019

Edit it-Jg-ma?sl Demolition

Demo Request

Case 00120834 Salesforce - Enterprise Edition

1/1/1900 idle-z Ease-start? Closed

 

DLBA Activities

in .l i
?Hi
. .

A-193119

Side Lot Sale

Sale Preparation

Slim Ln: Sal-l lCnivi

NO SELECTED BU ?ll/2019

10/10/2018

For Sale On Site

0 Medium Ted ?chulg, 6/3/2016 9:55 AM

Scheduled 

Scheduled 

 

Comments

No records to display

i New Comment

Comments Help

 

 

 

 

 

Attachments mum Attachments Help
No records to display

Open Activities Open Acliwties Help
No records to display

Activity History Mall Moron Compliance Activity History Help
No records to display

Case History Case History Help
Date User Action

7/10/2019 5:14 PM
7/10/2019 413 PM

6/3/2019 9:53 AM

5/25/2019 2:20 PM

9/7/2015 9:06 AM
9/5/2013 9:04 AM
7/24/2018 4:10 PM

7/19/2018 12:12 PM

Sagannah Ri'll'JtilnrI
Seaman P?ggmi

5.1mm ml] Ruth im

Derick Eonedrct

om. 
gamma
Amber 5 

Changed Status from Sales Review to For Sale

Changed Status Date from 6/3/2019 to 7/10/2019

Deleted Reset in Transfer Case.

Changed Transfer Case from Disposition - Side Lot to Reset.

Changed Status from Vacant Land to Sales Review

Changed Case Record Type from DLEA - Inventory to - Side Lot

Changed Transfer Case to Disposition - Side Lot

Changed Status Date from 5/28/2019 to 5/3/2019

Changed Status from Intake Review to Vacant Land.
Changed Status Date from 7/24/2013 to 5/28/2013

Deleted Reset in Transfer Case

Changed Transfer Case from DLBA - Intake Review to Reset

Changed Status from Demolished to Intake Review

Changed Case Record Type from Demo - HHF to DLBA - Inventory

Changed Transfer Case to DLBA - Intake Review

Changed Case Owner from DLBA Admin to Demolition Team

Changed Owner (Assignment) from Demolition Team to DLBA Admin

Changed Status Data from 3/22/2018 to 7/24/2018
Changed Status from Demo Contracted to Demolished
Changed Knock Down Date to 7/24/2018

Changed Planned Knock Down Date to 7/24/2018.

 

Approval History

No records to display

Subrr?for Approval

Approval History Help

 

Contractor Violations: Properties

No records to display

N?ew Contractor ?il'lolnll 

Contraclor Violations Properties Help

 

DLBA Field Surveys

No records to display

DLBA Field Surveys Help

 

Post Abatement Ve ri?catlons

No records to display

New Post Pl?batement Verification

Post Abatement Verifications Help

 

Sidewalk Repairs

No records to display

is; Sidewalk Repair

Sidewalk Repairs Help

 

Sidewalk Repairs (Related Case)


Sidewalk Repairs (Related Case) Help

4/5

10l14/2019 Case 00120334 Salesiorce - Enterprise Edition

New 

 

No records to display

5/5

Attachment XIV

OCFO?s/Administration?s Supplemental Resolution Con?rming the
Administration?s Commitment to Certain Actions Regarding Implementation of
?Bond Proposal Funds? and Policies Governing Related Property, revision as of

October 28, 2019

Coleman A Young Contgr Phone 313 ?628?2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 ?224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

Revision as of October 28, 2019

Resolution Con?rming the Administration?s Commitment to Certain Actions Regarding
Implementation of ?Bond Proposal Funds? and Policies Governing Related Property

WHEREAS, the Mayor has requested the City Council to approve a ballot initiative by which the
City shall borrow an amount not to exceed $250,000,000 and issue Unlimited Tax General
Obligation Bonds of the City for the purpose of the elimination of blight through demolition and

other blight remediation activities (the ?Blight Elimination Bond Project"); and

WHEREAS, in consideration ofthe City Council?s approval ofthe proposed Blight Elimination
Bond Project the Administration agrees to undertake the items within the resolve of this

resolution; BE IT THEREFORE

1 RESOLVED, subject to state law and City ordinance, to propose a Demolition Department to
manage the demolition program and subsequently cancel or revise the demolition contract with
the Detroit Building Authority. The changes will be proposed in an Executive Organization Plan
amendment submitted to City Council before the end of the Council Session in November 2019
and in the Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Budget Recommendation to be submitted to City Council for

review.

2 RESOLVED, the Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement agrees to submit non-emergency
residential demolition contracts in packages not to exceed 2,500 properties bi-annually. Through
the use of the equalization ordinances and aggressive work by Civil Rights, Inclusion 
Opportunity Department to qualify demolition contractors, over 50% of the contracts will be won
by a contractor with one of the following certifications: Detroit Based Businesses, Detroit
Headquartered Businesses, Detroit Small Businesses, Detroit Resident Businesses, Detroit Based
Micro Businesses, Minority-Owned Business Enterprises, Women-Owned Business Enterprises,
Mentor Ventures, and Joint Ventures. Special packages may be brought to City Council outside

of the biannual process to address emergency, public safety or economic development needs. If

Coleman A ?roung Muniopal Center Phone 313 
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

there is insuf?cient capacity, the Of?ce of Procurement and the Civil Rights, Inclusion 
Opportunity Department will report to City Council on actions they will take to attract and

certify additional demolition businesses in the future.

3 RESOLVED, Within each semi-annual large procurement for residential demolitions, the
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement will set aside contracts for certi?ed Detroit Small
Businesses and Detroit Based Micro Businesses. The Of?ce of Procurement intends to set aside
30% of the contracts for certi?ed Detroit Small Businesses and Detroit Based Micro Businesses
in the procurement to be awarded in January 2020 and will report to the Administration and City
Council following the completion of the procurement. If there is insuf?cient capacity to meet the
30% set aside in the January 2020 procurement, the Of?ce of Procurement and the Civil Rights,
Inclusion Opportunity Department will report to City Council on actions they will take to
attract and certify additional Detroit Small Businesses and Detroit Based Micro Businesses in

demolition in the future.

4 RESOLVED, Prior to the submission ofa demolition bid package, the Office of Contracting
and Procurement agrees to submit a bi-annual employment report for all demolition contractors
that are not certi?ed as a Detroit Resident Business including the number of employees and the

number of Detroit?resident employees at the time of bidding.

5 RESOLVED, by May 31, representatives from the OCFO and CRIO will work with the
Budget, Finance and Audit Standing Committee to review the existing ordinance, develop

outcome metrics and recommend changes to the ordinance to better meet the objectives of the

6 RESOLVED, the Detroit Employment Solutions Corporation agrees to schedule a meeting
with demolition contractors that have been pre-quali?ed to determine the hiring and training
needs of each contractor for the implementation of the Blight Elimination Strategy within one (1)

month of the approval of this agreement.

Coleman A Young i?rlLl?lCile Center Phone 313 {328?2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 detroitmigov

 

7A RESOLVED, within one (1) month of approval of this agreement, The Detroit Employment
Solutions Corporation agrees to implement a Blight Elimination Outreach marketing plan that
may include, but not limited to the following: Outdoor signage; Digital and Social media
outreach across Detroit at Work and all city channels; Outreach to our community partners
including City Council, Faith?based, community partners, Department of Neighborhoods; Detroit
at Work website banners and landing page highlighting details and how to sign up and ?nd our
more information (detroitatworkcom averages 50,000 visits a month); Detroit at Work
newsletter with over 120,000 Detroiters subscribing; press conference to announce efforts and

garner media partners stories.

7B RESOLVED, the Office of Contracting and Procurement, Detroit Employment Solutions
Corporation, the Demolition Department, and the Civil Rights, Inclusion Opportunity
Department agree to host employment fairs for contractors that do not qualify for the Detroit
Resident Business certi?cation. The Office of Contracting and Procurement will encourage those

demolition business that do not qualify for this certification to attend.

8 RESOLVED, the Demolition Department will submit quarterly reports detailing the following:

number of homes demolished; and proofdemolition field liaisons? visits to each property.

9 RESOLVED, the Administration will make practical operational changes to address audit
?ndings of the Auditor General and any other pertinent external audit findings, unless the
recommendations create an undue burden on small demolition contractors without a measurable

bene?t to the program.

10 RESOLVED, the Demolition Department will conduct a deconstruction pilot to determine the

feasibility of incorporating deconstruction into the demolition program on a larger scale.

11 RESOLVED, Flaming and Development Department will complete neighborhood plans and

update the master plan for the City over the next ?ve years with community input.

Coleman A Young Center Phone 313 62342535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

12 RESOLVED, in the areas most affected by demolition of vacant and abandoned structures,
the City will be investigating four primary areas for neighborhood planning: the history of the
neighborhood; tactical historic preservation opportunities; housing rehabilitation opportunities
for vacant properties; interim and medium?term open space strategies. These pillars will help the
city and neighbors plan for redevelopment while also creating amenities, prevent illegal dumping

and making the neighborhood more attractive.

13 RESOLVED, through community meetings, the Planning and Development Department will
develop sidelot, landscape and interim use strategies for areas that will remain vacant for the

medium term.

14A RESOLVED, in consultation with the City Council. the Planning and Development
Department and Detroit Land Bank Authority will collaborate to make changes in the Detroit
Land Bank Authority Memorandum of Agreement which will be submitted no later than January
l5L 2020. With the submission, the Administration will include the most expeditious schedule
through which the City Council, Administration, and Detroit Land Bank Board will decide the
future ol? all vacant lots currently in the Detroit Land Bank?s inventory as ell as future vacant

lots resulting from the blight bond initiative.

14B RESOLVED, the City and the Detroit Land Bank Authority will evaluate and recommend
new discount programs for Detroit residents in the Detroit Land Bank Authority Memorandum

of Agreement.

14C RESOLVED, the City and the Detroit Land Bank Authority will evaluate and recommend
methods to make it easier for Detroiters to acquire vacant land and housing (such as the Building
Blocks Program) and include them in the Detroit Land Bank Authority Memorandum of

Agreement.

Coleman A Young ixiumuapal Cent-er Phone 313 623-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

16A RESOLVED, the City will have rehab strategies that save homes that otherwise could be

demolished, but are savable with a similar level of incentive.

168 RESOLVED, the City will use sustainable renovation standards to provide future property
owners with low utility costs, to include but not limited to, high ef?ciency systems (such as

furnace, water heater) and updated windows.

16C RESOLVED, for the Fiscal Year 2021 demolition procurement packages and awards, the
City or Detroit Land Bank Authority will conduct a physical survey and, where necessary, secure

properties that can be rehabilitated to preserve them for the future.

17 RESOLVED, the City?s rehab strategies will range from a ??Rehabbed and Ready? model to
more modest improvements such a site preparation and partial rehabilitation that will make

houses easier to sell.

18 RESOLVED, the City will have a rehab and marketing strategy that is aimed at assisting new

low income home buyers and seniors in purchasing rehabbed or partially rehabbed houses.

19 RESOLVED, through the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, the Administration will propose a new

grass cutting strategy to address the spring growth and improve maintenance of vacant lots.

20 RESOLVED, the Administration will expand the illegal dumping campaign to protect

neighborhoods with newly vacant land.

21 RESOLVED, the Administration will work with state leaders to enact ?Pay as you Stay?,
legislation to create a pathway out of foreclosure for low income home?owners. Pay as you Stay
is a proposed new payment plan that will eliminate all interest, penalties and fees, reduce back

taxes to 10% of the home?s taxable value, and create a three year payment plan with 0% interest.



. I




(an or-
DETROIT

22 RESOLVED, the City will partner with nonpro?ts and philanthropies to provide information

  

A a .. ., Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313 628-2535
(Me, Financial mm" 2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224?2135
Detrout, Michigan 43226 

about pathways out of foreclosure through Make it Home and the Homeowner Property Tax
Exemption Program, directly to homeowners through door knocking campaigns, mailings, phone

calls and community-based workshops.

Attachment XV

'33

OCFO?s/Administration?s ?Blight Removal Bond Proposal City Council
Presentation

 r'i? .276 5?
E: :?mix' 1. 1.54?? 3'5



an? i-vl Juli-$11..I

A's anal-'- 4 

:u -.
"o :?mrr 

I I 

ingot-?-

 

 

 

 

Far decades, Detroit has struggled with the spread of?lbli'ght
Jerry Cavanagh proITIi5ed the endof bIIght on July 1 1965

I "9th

 

Free Press Telephones Today's ChucHe

mm: ml 2m 5

. mm nua- 5 man. .Imu h- mm: vb! 1hr
in,? tot te Pun-uh In I'd-paling will
5 MI mun-II. nay m:

"?1?an mm- Thunday. lab I. 1065 THE SECOND FRONT PAGE Plge a. 5-9ch A



 

  
 
  

.:

 

rrhn-I qu L'n- nI-uanbm?l our" ulna. IplI?r-un (II-OI..-

Itv Fights Vacant House MeIIace

Asks U.S. Funds,
To Add. Patrols

l1? ll ?1:1 1i In "Ll 


31531.2?er uv? (?halal-nun!
Wr'L-u: 11 am now Irv-n am: 0- mm r!
'dI I:er mn' ra-

a ma 



Ir.-

Doath Still. Lurks
In oases

l'l?r II EH

Thur I. -l?ll fr: tr.? rm 1.1-1 Mun r. 
. 

1'4'0 kt L: 
- -- - Inn-mm
- I- - - 

 

  


DETROIT


  

l?RlH?h?RTl' OWNERS 0le RH KILLED

City to Ii?e Abandoned Buildings



 

 

01:0 ?Pans Loss

City Speeds Up Building Demolition 0" 

M'11\Hnn\rlrl 

In. Ni- 

ll? "3 rmnil'rI-Jnimutw . . .. (,llx ?flu-mi. Wilmilh' [ha-urn-v in! . . . .
tuuw- :wcew ;.m-J-vn Au",

-. -.-

 

:vryr.

 

A . . .
?rmw- ,.Il1 n1 l'm?l'ut?ll inlbug". unfa.? 
rss?rl m'rr". af'e' hm; 
1" ?Hm: "Id- 'h "v '1



i

 

writ 'Hl 

?1 ..-.-

 

Jr Pr 0. . .

'Ln AlIlIleN. n- .- - 7 "1 ?hit" . 1 

?17' .. ml hat-0rd. PlPl?nl?: .-.. . -. nix11Ihl?d??d "Lila 1..H- L-
i1:l Iu'un-d b) . 5"

".lr a hut run-?- run! an! [uncut-d an no {anu- Dr. l\ rum

   

nunHospitals

 

q? no Cary-Era!

8150.000 in Rare (Joins.-- Ill! I?llNI.

"luv-?Hm- wrxr-H'Ph [)1lfbfInn.

i 1-90 I'ldr?h. 

Stolen from Home in Berkley

DMT AVIHIRROV Hal". 0m - .4: .u'n 
Ff?'r?l ?Wu-Ia ?in? .I. 

Hump :1153335'! 5" FP- Wrarwh: - 

- ?u.m n2.-

 

ruLelI 

 

Detroit
-\nd HUD
\grep on
Hazing

HAVE 
ll it'll-

              


l?u lrm'. 
. my 111"" In
Ind v- .-er


H: rI 

:rIc nl HI Ind
.n uuh WI. 
dam.

nl?T rm ('Ix ?rui-

I'll I1 11- nh?la' nun


II (I 1'
mums. and ..
.Igrvmu-nz. Ilka wall
?duh-cunt.

Inn-I gm! 

 

   

 



DETROIT

[5.2/5 ('mply 
and mum/m rir'lfmx

 

 

 

I I, lift-u"
5 all) - 
#4 air in. 

Every administration has tried to deal with. blight ..

DETROIT 

 

     

Detroit to receive demolition loan A 
[u help rid city of .. .
mentioned homes $125 MILLION: REBUILDING: WHO WILL 
Money is committed Improvements to Gums. bonds
to 6 neighborhoods include patrols, parks sought for oroject

 

mama-ur-

- ..

 

  

     

  

um-?mmtru . :5 
Delra gun; a crowd sowaccl' .1 hum demolished Tuucav on Comm Smut 03:! side mar Duh- H1;h Szho
'T'n skiesuheup .. 1h'55nnlfabuul1oi?. olthe toasts thatnocdzobcwm um." 

Hy Suc?c'?a?SEE 1H5 
IONESERIES

 

nun-h. l? 

 

Whl?t foams lb! 
.. .. .. . .
coal-.1111 Lay-mu - 
ism-ammu- maxi - - .
?unwary-mun: Inn?.
mu bur I I I
burtrmuxd?wJu-HIV I 
Wlumtrl ll: u'rl 5n. .
pawn-um ?ash: I-?J-Il?ennui. -- 
Dark-1n
nvquV?Z Than?u- ?iv-A - 
mm \uAu-l 
Iu-v .I 

"as: n- II 
7 va - 
DI 

.- In 

      
 



  

 
 

neighborhoods .l

 - deliver ai'blight-free-city to our residents

For Detroit?s elected officials have-not- been able to

  

12A nun-gum ?awn-1.:

amount?! 
b- mom m: 5.000 
6.000
lumen mo mounan: I.I

lilapidated buildings
Vacant bu?cli I00 not enough landing?all 111Detr0i

DEMOLITION SLOWE 

 

 

 

City needs millions

1?1" 1' l1. I.-

 

rl'l"j' In ~rl"

to rate dangerous var 33ml

              

 

I..- ., iswitbbeld
.Iplu-p ?Iz'ihc \?lU ntrenl
ml l0 ddII-Illm 

:2qu

survwe Lil f'lu 

.I. m-
311m: Ir nllu?ll l'lL 13L
5
?His an :u 5.1! 
.II II

slirrl'lwliin:
- you in"! 
..su Milli-Inhi-
0- blunt-rs Ind-
.bul inky-Inn [Iv

       

       

        

nmlmeu' In
years [in
mm

ONE WHEAT DPMANY: Slusu-hvulqing In (ad) ql: have lopnn lh II I: a; ll mung ul $L lh um war the uhoul

 

r?uildnus Hill-1.5m u: :01
mm each yuruurnli: cl I'n-n'g'
:ncl'uunu-Lhmw1h; {20? i
?Lourc .?liu I.

   



Money restrictions blamed for
city being slow to erase blight

Hyn: 

 

 

Detroit, other cities have
trouble spending in aid

FROM PAGE Inked HUD Mr ?n
mow.- (If the money 
111:1an 9m cea- SIU mIllIen Into Jcmol'mon
mm mu'ms grmII-I' czly
m: paI-I n- "c plan: In Imr 
and II'IIrnnl i! l; ?lw I-Iul of
mu. of? fime.? next 5 um . kin-n dune-about 4,400 .
N?thL'l?L'i? ljruhluul :u datu' iF" FREEI NIDFFI 
acute Lian ll?. Den-cit. \IhIcha 50f [5v Immrasme its demolition betroil plan to tear down 10 bv the erd ol 201_3. Scores of blocks on the eastside



       

IJI lu: Inna?:

    

 

    

v' 

 

Il' PI- I-
TO HIT THE GOAL THE CITY
MUST RAZE 300 BUILDINGS A MONTH.

.. lunr . I. 3

 

19 000 demolished since 2014 in the most aggresswe
git; demoIItIon effort' In national history

    

    

L111 0f

DETROIT

 



Jlertirolt has had success in saving homes through renovatlohs

smce 201.4 and can do much more - .

  

Detroit Land Bank debuts new website

I.-. 

NEWS CDNTACTUS FINDITHERE PROMOTED SENON4

 

Land Bank homes hit market in
Detroit's Osborn neighborhood

26 houses starting at $1,000

Coflhn: Amman-Reporter. Dvnik Hutch: wsol

 

. 2.: On I

Una?~03.

      

?uqmirs . Jazz-I 


a
I
'4
a
If


 

 

dr':

. A :36030?me
00.qu
Exp?v

.. 
3:25.

      

5 



ll1025 $5.5

. >prcloam ?0?3
:14: oi). thanprt? .1 .
I hi1     
    

legal action toward 1, 600 rehabs through the Land Bank'
Nuisance Abatement Legal Action Team ., 

 

 

NAP REHABS

AUGUST L5 
- NAP Rehabs

- i

 andrehabp?rograrns have had huge impact on 'Djet'rojit


90% average increase in Detroit property values

Source: Zillow 2013-2018

   
   

  

 

Vii ?201aszof NEIGHBORHC gas

1} a 1: 

.t

2014 520+ NEIGHBORHOODS



J. 


The areas of the city that now have an MLS average over $20 s/f has increased significantly since 2014. As property values in
neighborhoods increase beyond 520 per square foot, it becomes more economically viable to renovate houses in the private market.

Detroit blazes see huge decline

0 CREDIT BLIGHT ELIMINATION. BOLSTERED INVESTIGATIONS, COMMUNITY EDUCATION
EFFORTS. BUT UNION CHIEF VOICES DOUBTS

Christine Ferrem', The Detroit Nears

Published 9:45 pm ET Feb. 6. 2019 Updated 8:58 a.m. ET Feb. 8, 2019

 

46% reduction in building fires citywide since 2014

Source: DFD

 

3% drop in violent Crime and property crime
for every 10 demolitions in a block group

Source: Wayne State University

11% drop in homicides and nonfatal shootings
in areas of concentrated demolition

Source: Harvard University and University of Michigan

Detroit Free Press
Home demolitions and crime reduction



O. .



I


S-L



>polq Jad suomomaq

L8

20

Crime reduction average



Violent crime reduction 0 Property crime reduction

0 Total crime reduction

 .. ramp .
., 





arl 
PROSPECTWE FUTURE
DEMOLITION SITES

     

  

 

 



 

 

. 
151.1 5.

.
. HI .

3293: L122: .1
195m ..
?25 .03. 

 

FR:


 

. . .4. .


   

 

mm. Fry-5.x:
:u

 

m, wm1>wm

>50 mm. um wen

.. 25:. 204.69

I 1030 ma?a

 

a yL[ 


.. mm 

9.37.. ..

 

 

 

 Mayor Duggan is proposing a $250 Bond Issue
with no increase in taxes for .Detroiters

 
 

As old capital bonds are paid off, we can to borrow for blight removal and future capital
projects without raising taxes.

- Borrowing UTGO debt has no negative impact on the General Fund, and in fact relieves
the General Fund of the need to fund this level of blight removal in five years.

$80 Capacity for $225 in Blight Bonds and nearly $450 in capital over 10 years

Proiected Reveme

  
 

Capacity for future capital
Blight
Bonds

EXisting debt service
0

50

$10 I'll"5"3'5'5




EB
(suouuw anims ana

6?23

cores
?5
63%?


?7 "7 ?a






  

Moving-demolition contracting from Land Bank to City procurement will increase 
opportunities for Detroit and minority companies

   

,4

oe?f??orr

 

Federal rules prohibited the Land Bank from using local preferences in contracting and have
excluded qualified new companies from participating.

- The City of Detroit contracting process, with City Council approval, has been much more
successful in providing opportunities for Detroit and minority companies.

D885 and MBEs completed 50%+ of City demos since January 2018.

Detroit Boseol Businesses (DBB) a, Minority Business Enterprises (MBE)

60% 60. 

50" 50%

0



40% 40. 

20% 37% 20% 37%

HHF City HHF City

This proposal would award $375 million in new contracts under this process over the next five

yea rs.
Source: City of Detroit Open Data and Land Bank, Jan. 1, 2018 Sept. 3, 2019

City Council Process to Date

 

Sept. 13

Sept. 18
Sept. 26
Oct. 2

Oct. 10

Oct. 16

Oct. 17

Blight Ballot and Bond Authorizing Resolution
Submitted to City Council

First Committee Hearing

Mayor presents at Citywide Community Meeting
Second Committee Hearing

Revised Blight Ballot and Bond Authorizing Resolution
Submitted to City Council with requested changes from

LPD

Third Committee Hearing; Initial Council
Resolution Discussed

Draft Council Resolution Sent to LPD and City Council

 

 

 

 

Oct. 22

Oct. 22

Oct. 28

Oct. 29

Revised Council Resolution Sent to City Council
based on member feedback

2nd Revised Council Resolution Sent to City Council
based on member feedback

3rd Revised Council Resolution S?nt to City Council
based on member feedback

First Full City Council Meeting

4th Revised Council Resolution Sent to City Council
based on member feedback

Second Full City Council Meeting:

 

 

I


Oct. 2019

Nov. 2019

Dec. 2019

1



Jan.2020

Jan. 2020

Feb. 2020

Mar. 2020

Council review $250 Million Blight Removal Bond
Resolution

Executive Organization Plan submitted
Detroit Land Bank MOU submitted

Budget Amendment submitted for $50 Million in blight
funds to support Winter 2020 Procurement

Contracts submitted for demolition of about 2,400
houses

Contracts submitted for Commercial Environmental
Due Diligence (Hazardous/Regulated Materials
Surveys Site Assessments)

Contracts submitted for Residential
Hazardous/Regulated Materials Surveys

Jul. 2020

Aug. 2020

Sep.2020

Oct. 2020

Oct. 2020

 

Fiscal Year 2020?2021 Budget submitted (with
reorganization of Demolition, FY2021 Blight
Appropriation, FY2021 Land Bank Appropriation,
FY2021 home repair programs appropriations)

Contracts submitted for demolition of about 1,900
houses submitted

Contracts submitted for Backfill Monitoring and Testing

Contract submitted for Water?related Services (Pump-
outs, Shut-offs, Disconnects)

Contracts submitted for Environmental Services 
Underground Storage Tanks, Pits, Drums, Soil
Remediation)

Contracts submitted for General Supportive Services
Debris relocation, Clean-up)

 

The Administration has worked with members on a Resolution

 

Creation of new Demolition Department, and Detroit Building Authority will no
longer be part of demolition.

Over 50% of semiannual demolition contracts will be won by Detroit certified
companies.

- 30% of semiannual contract will be set aside for Detroit Small Businesses and
Detroit Based Micro Businesses in procurement to be awarded in Jan. 2020.

OCP will submit an employment report including the number of employees and
the number of Detroit employees for each contractor at time of bidding.

- OCFO and CRIO will work with the Committee on proposed procurement
ordinance changes to better meet objectives of Administration and City Council.

- 
DETROIT

    

 

Detroit Employment Solutions Corporation will:
- Meet with demolition contractors to understand their hiring needs
- Will implement a marketing plan to Detroiters about opportunities with Demolition

contractors
- Host employment fairs for contractors that do no qualify for the Detroit Resident Business

Certification

- The Demolition Department will submit quarterly demolition reports on the
number of housed demolished and verification of field liaisons visits to each

property.

- The Administration will make practical operational changes to address audit
findings, unless the recommendations create an undue burden on small
demolition contractors without a measurable benefit to the program.

The-Administration has worked with members on a Resolution

 

 

- The Demolition Department will conduct a deconstruction pilot.

Planning and Development Department will complete neighborhood plans and
update the master plan for the City over the next five years.

- In the areas most affected by demolition of vacant and abandoned structures, the

City will be investigating four primary areas for neighborhood planning:
the history of the neighborhood;
tactical historic preservation opportunities;
housing rehabilitation opportunities for vacant properties;
- interim and medium-term open space strategies.

- Through community meetings, he Planning and Development Department will
develop sidelot, landscape and interim use strategies for vacant land.

 

The Detroit Land Bank Authority Memorandum of Agreement will be submitted
no later than January 2020. The Administration will include the most
expeditious schedule through which the City Council, Administration, and Detroit
Land Bank Board will decide the future of all vacant lots.

The City and the Detroit Land Bank Authority will evaluate and recommend new
discount programs for Detroit residents.

The Ci and the Detroit Land Bank Authority will evaluate and recommend
methods to make it easier for Detroiters to acquire vacant land and housing (such
as theB Building Blocks Program).

The City will have rehab strategies that save homes that otherwise could be
demolished, but are savable with a similar level of incentive.

 The City will use sustainable renovation standards to provide future property

owners with low utility costs, to include but not limited to, high efficiency systems
and updated windows.

The City?s rehab strategies will range from a ?Rehabbed and Ready? model to
more modest improvements such a site preparation and partial rehabilitation that
will make houses easier to sell.

The City will have a rehab and marketing strategy that is aimed at assisting new
low income home buyers and seniors in purchasing rehabbed or partially
rehabbed houses.

Through the Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, the Administration will propose a new grass

cutting strategy to address the spring growth and improve maintenance of vacant
lots.

 

 

The Administration will expand the illegal dumping campaign to protect
neighborhoods with newly vacant land.

- The Administration will work with state leaders to enact ?Pay as you Stay?,
legislation to create a pathway out of foreclosure for low income home-owners.

- The City will partner with nonprofits and philanthropies to provide information
about pathways out of foreclosure through Make it Home and the Homeowner
Property Tax Exemption Program, directly to homeowners through door knocking
campaigns, mailings, phone calls and community-based workshops.

Attachment XVI

Responses to Questions from October 29, 2019

 
   
 

Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone 313 628?2535

 

2 Woodward Avenue, sulte 1100 Fax 313 ?224-2135
?Engine? Detroit, Michigan 48226 detroitmigov
MEMORANDUM
TO: Irvin Corley, Jr., Executive Policy Manager, Detroit City Council Legislative
Policy Division
FROM: David Massaron, Chief Financial Of?cer, City of Detroit
Arthur emison, Group Executive for Planning, Housing and Development
DATE: November 1, 2019
RE: Responses to Questions from October 29

 

1. A copy of today?s power point presentation sent to Council.
Sent earlier this week.
2. A copy of debt metrics John Naglick referenced.

The City debt metrics that John Naglick referenced were included in the October 2, 2019,
presentation to the Budget, Finance, and Audit Committee (see page 142 of 204 in 
Bonds Blight Elimination Report and Attachments?). A copy of these metrics is also
provided below.

Detroit's debt affordability metrics are benchmarked above
Detroit's current credit rating

ui_, 

    

Debt as ?In of General Fund Revenues 171% (1 .7X) 185% (1 No Impact
Moody's scorecard for this sub-factor A A
Debt as of Full Value 12.74% 10.55% No Impact
Moody's scorecard for this sub-factor Ba Ba

3. An explanation of how the 1.85 metric was calculated. There seems to be an updated
spreadsheet to make this calculation.

There is not an updated spreadsheet for this calculation. The debt metric slide above (from the
October 2, 2109, presentation to the BF committee) has not changed. The CFO also

. Coleman A Young Munictpal Center Phone 313 628-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax; 313 ?224?2 135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

Dmuof 



DETROIT 

 

referenced metrics during his comments at the October 29, 2019, City Council meeting,
which can be found below.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I As of June 30, 2020' Impact of Proposed
cl: nl turn: 10. 201?] Gt] Intimate) tyjillinn Herr-3mm;
. Debt as of Fund Revenues {1 li'i'Ji 
Mutual-f; sub?factor A A No impact
as of Full Value 12 74% 10.55%
Moody's acnrecarrl for this cub-la:lnr Ba Ba No impact
Erin as of Governmental Revenues 134% 145% 
?ai? scorecard for uuh 1.1mm 4 4 No impact
Debt Service as tat Governmental Expenditures 10% 11% 
Ellz'. sub-factor 4 4 N0 impact

 

 

 

 

 

 

?Projection assuming $175 million in Blight UTGO bonds and 552.245 million in Capital UTGO Bonds are issued in June 2020

Dollar amounts used to calculate statistics are preliminary and unaudited.

The ?Debt as of General Fund Revenues? debt metrics for June 30, 2019, and June 30, 2020
were calculated in the manner described below. Note that the June 30, 2020, metrics assume the
issuance of the proposed debt and acknowledge payment of the regularly scheduled principal that
occurred during FY20.

As of June 30. 2019:

Principal Outstanding: $1,868,757,789
General Fund Revenues Estimate: $1,095,523,599
Principal Outstanding/CF Revenues (as Percent): 171%

at June 30, 2019, the principal amount oftlte City ?s bonds was 171% ofthe City ?s annual
gtvicrui?inrl revenues}

Principal OutstandingiGF Revenues (as Ratio): 1.71X

at June 30. 2019, the principal amount ofthe City?s bonds outstanding was 1.71 times
greater than the t'iti' 's uni-um! generuljiuui revenues)

?ts ufJuuc 33. 2020:

Principal Outstanding: $2,049,001,789
General Fund Revenues Estimate: $1,110,200,000
Principal OutstandingiGF Revenues (as Percent): 185? a

tie. assuming the bonds are approved, at June 30, 2020, the principal amount ofthe City ?5
lunuis wilt he lr?tj'fn?i nitrite (?itr's ruinuui generultiuul revenues)

Principal Revenues (as Ratio): [.3531

assuming the bonds are approved, at June 30, 2020, the principal amount nt'the City ?5
bonds outstanding will be 1.85 times greater than the Citi- 's general?inii revenues)

 Offlnoflha 



Chlef Financial Oi?cer

DETROIT

 

Coleman A Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 4528?2535
Fax: 313 ?224-2135


The detail regarding what comprises the principal outstanding amounts is provided below.

 

 

At June 30, 20 i9 At June 30, 2020
Proposed UTGO Blight Bonds (Series 2020) - 175,000,000
Proposed UTGO Capital Bonds (Series 2020) 52,245,000
UTGO Bonds (Series 2018) 135,000,000 125,840,000
LTGO DSA First Lien Bonds (Series 2016B-1) 240,965,000 234,485,000
UTGO DSA Second Lien Bonds (Series 2010) 89,390,000 86,815,000
LTGO DSA Third Lien Bonds (Series 2016B-2) 115,745,000 35 108,875,000
UTGO DSA Fourth Lien Bonds (Series and
146,760,000 117,190,000
LTGO DSA Fifth Lien Bonds (Series 2018) 175,985,000 175,985,000
LTGO Bonds (Series 2014 (Exit Financing? 228,500,000 205,610,000
LTGO (B?Notes) 434,311,789 434,311,789
MTF Bonds (Series 2017) 85,000,000 123,500,000
HUD Notes 44,506,000 39,925,000
Public Lighting Authority Bonds (Series 2014) 172,595.000 169,220,000

1,868,757,789 2,049,001,789

The annual General Fund Revenue estimates are from the September 2019 Revenue Consensus
Conference. Note that the estimated FY19 annual general fund revenue amount is the unaudited
preliminary actual results (subject to change) used at the September conference.

4. A calculation on the level of debt millage in FY 2021 if the blight bonds and other
UTGO bonds aren?t issued. The OCFO indicated the drop would not be from 9
mills to 6 mills.

Every year, the City Council makes a decision about the operating and debt millage through
approval of the tax statement. Each year, this City Council has decided not to lower property
taxes so that we can provide adequate police and ?re services to our constituents. Similarly, this
bond proposal allows the City to continue to provide the same level of demolitions to
our residents until we have addressed residential blight. If City Council wanted to lower property
taxes, they could eliminate the operating millage and cut $110 million from police, ?re, and our
other important services Detroiters need. Similarly, if they want to save the average Detroit
homeowner $16 a year, they could not approval the blight removal bond proposal and the level
of demolitions would reduce to those seen in previous administrations.

If the blight bonds are not approved, the City plans to take advantage of the low interest rate
environment and issue the remaining capital improvement bonds that were authorized by the
City Council last year. We expect to issue the $120 million in UTGO bonds Series

Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone 313 628-2535
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

l' . 



2020?) at the same time and with the same structure {tax-exempt, 30 year repayment, etc.) as the
proposed blight bonds. AccOrding to our estimates, For FY21 the debt millage rate would be
reduced to 8 mills.

 

5. CM Castaneda Lopez said that interest rates could be better in the future. Of course
you have the presentation showing that interest rates are at all time lows. Questions:
a) What does your ?nancial advisor, PRAG, feel is causing the all time lows?
b) Could the all time lows remain through July 2020? January 2021?
c) What does PRAG feel could cause interest rates to increase and at what time
in the next year or two?

Global events have driven US Treasuries to multi-year lows. Global unrest, the fact that global
growth is struggling, US?China trade tensions and related taril'l's have caused the Federal Reserve
to cut rates three times within the last year. This is a defensive posture for the Fed and a
dramatic reversal from their steady march to raise rules just a year ago. It is thought that the Fed
is trying to insulate the American economy against these threats and keep a record expansion
humming in the US. Another factor that is causing lot. 'er rates in the municipal bond market is
the supply and demand imbalance. There is a huge amount ot?cash in the municipal market but
given the elimination of tax-exempt rei?undings, a relatively low supply of municipal issues exists
compared to historic trends. It is hard to know whether the low interest rate environment will
continue. The Fed has signaled that it will pause on the consideration of additional cuts. but
global economic events are unpredictable. A return to in?ationary trends, which could be caused
by expansion 0 if US tariffs on imported goods being passed on to consumers, could cause interest
rates to rise.

6. Getting back to the debt ratio/metric questions CM Benson raised. Sounds like he
wants to see a spreadsheet showing the numerical change in the ratios from June 30,
2019 to June 30, 2020 with the issuance of the ?rst tranche of the blight bonds and
the second tranche of the capital bonds. It would be great if your team/PRAG could
prepare such a spreadsheet with the inclusion of PLD bonds, etc. of course, that you
used to come up with the 1.85x factor. I think he needs to see that the City would not
exceed the 1.85x factor with the new issuances.

Please see the response to Question 

7. CM McCalister is asking me to show how we get to the 9 mills. I?m sure it?s based
on the scheduled debt service payment for FY 2020, but ifyou have something that?s
a little clearer that I could share with him, that would be great.

You are correct. It is based on the scheduled debt service for FY20 of $64.5 million. Property tax
collections at 9 mills are estimated at $53.4 million. The amount above that will be covered by
anticipated Federal Build America Bond (BAB) subsidies. State of Michigan personal property
tax reimbursements, interest earnings. and escrow balances. 

   
 

officeofthu
Chief Financial Officer



DETROIT

Debt Millage - Tax Year 2019

Projected Property Tax Collections (9 mills)

Addition Sources of Revenue
Federal Rebates (BABS)

PPT Reimbursement

Interest earnings

Total Additional Sources

Total FY UTGO Debt Service Revenues

Actual UTGO Debt Service


Revenues vs. Expenses

Balance with Trustee 06/30/19

Balance with Trustee 06/3 0/20

Required Reserve at FYE

Remaining











Coleman A Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100
Detroit, Michigan 48226

FY2020

53,407,858

3,061,335
4,000,000
790,000
7,851,335
61,259,193
64,465,816
(3,206,623)
48,578,773
45 ,372, 1 50

(5.235.941)

40,136,209

Phone 313 628-2535
Fax: 313 -224-2135


