 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

COMMITTEE ON STANDARDS AND TESTS

January 19th, 2017

Attn: Terron Wright
Interplan
18280 Summit Ave D4,
Oakbrook Terrace, IL 60181
Re: Committee on Standards and Tests
Issue: The use of vent less cooking hoods as manufactured by Wells Manufacturing for the Muscle
Maker Grill located at the ground floor of 111 West Jackson Street.
Case: 
Dear Terron Wright,

In response to your January 18th, 2017 appeal to the Committee on Building Standards Tests for the use of vent
less cooking hoods model WVU-96 by Wells Manufacturing at the Muscle Maker Restaurant located at 111
West Jackson, the Committee has voted to Approve your request as presented.

This approval is subject to the following requirements:

A technical presentation and seminar on this speci?c model of ventless cooking hood shall be provided
to inspectors and plan reviewers from the Department of Buildings Ventilation Bureau prior to the
installation of the hood at *1 11 West Jackson.

A Technical representative from Wells Manufacturing shall be present at the jobsite to demonstrate
the operation of the hood and the required safety features when the cooking hoods are being inspected
by the Department of Buildings Ventilation Inspectors.

The hood shall be installed and maintained in conformance with the manufacturer?s instructions and
the products testing and listing.

A copy of this approval letter shall be kept at the jobsite for review by the ventilation department.

Ve uly urs

. 

Robert 

Manager of Regulatory Review

Chair of the Committee of Standards and Tests
For Judith Commissioner

121 NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

COMMITTEE ON STANDARDS AND TESTS

January 27th, 2017

Attn: Mr. Chris Chwedyck
The Code Group
111 West Washington Street
Chicago, Illinois

Re: Committee on Standards and Tests
Issue: Use of a Ventless Type 1 Cooking Hood.

Case: 

Dear Chris Chwedyck,

In response to your, January 18th, 2017 appeal to the Committee on Building Standards Tests,

for the use a Type 1 - Ventless cooking hood (Giles-Model to be located on the 14th ?oor
Offices of Home Chef to be located at the Wrigley Building 400-410 North Michigan Avenue, the
Committee has voted to approve your request.

This approval is subject to the following requirements:

1. The HVAC system serving the Home Chef break area with the cooktop shall be designed to
provide for outside air, suf?cient exhaust and other measures as required to remove cooking
odors. These features shall be provided by building ownership when the Giles hood is in
operation.

2. The hood shall be installed and maintained in conformance with the product testing and
listing and the manufacturer?s installation and maintenance instructions.

3. A technical or sales representative from the Giles Company shall provide training to the
Department of Buildings Ventilation Bureau about the installation, operation and
maintenance of the Giles ventless cooking hood.

121 NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

All other Building Code requirements shall be met. This installation is site speci?c and shall not be
Viewed as a precedent. A permit is required for this work. A signed hard paper copy of this
communication will be mailed to you at a later date. Please contact your project administrator for
further assistance.

Very truly yours,



Robert 

Manager of Regulatory Review

Chair of the Committee of Standards and Tests
For Judith Commissioner

12] NORTH LASALLE, ROOM 906. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

 

