STAFF REPORT: 11-13-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6484
ADDRESS: 19680 ROSLYN
HISTORIC DISTRICT: SHERWOOD FOREST
APPLICANT: TOM HOLLAND
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 10/1/2019
DATE OF STAFF SITE VISIT: 10/29/2019

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS

SCOPE: REPLACE EXISTING ASPHALT SHINGLE ROOF AT HOUSE AND GARAGE WITH
NEW GREEN ASPHALT SHINGLE ROOF
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The parcel located at 19860 Roslyn includes a 2-story house that was erected ca, 1936 with a detached 2car garage to the rear. Permastone, brick, and wood siding is located with the building’s front elevation
while brick clads the side and rear elevations. Windows are double-hung wood units at the front elevation
and steel casement at the side and rear. The home features a central side-gabled mass with a projecting,
front-gabled wing at the primary elevation. A one-story, partial-width, shed-roof porch with a shed roof is
located at the front elevation and shelters the primary entrance. Deteriorated grey 3-tab asphalt shingles
cover the roof surface. A small, one-story, flat-roof sunroom is attached to the rear elevation. The front
elevation features a 3-window, projecting bay with a copper clad roof. The detached garage is clad with
brick and stucco. Two, historic-age wood paneled doors are located at the garage’s front elevation. The
garage’s roof is hipped and is covered with 3-tab, grey asphalt shingles. Standard, non-historic aluminum
k-style white gutters and downspouts are located at both the home and the garage.

 PROPOSAL
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval for the following work
items:
Roof
• At the home and garage, remove the existing, non-historic asphalt roof shingles and install new
dimensional asphalt shingles (color Chateau Green) as per the attached scope
• Replace the existing non-historic white k-style aluminum gutters and downspouts at the home and
garage with new, 5” white k-style aluminum gutters and downspouts
STAFF OBSERVATIONS AND RESEARCH
• It is staff’s opinion that Secretary of the Interior Standard #6 does not apply in this specific
situation because the existing 3-tab asphalt shingles and gutter/downspouts proposed for
replacement are not historic age. Rather, the new roof shingles and gutter/downspouts must be
compatible with the property’s and district’s historic character.
• The color of the new asphalt shingles is Chateau Green
https://www.owenscorning.com/roofing/shingles/trudefinition-duration/. The home’s and
garage’s original roof surface/covering is unknown
• Green clay tile does appear at roofs within the City’s historic districts. Historic slate can also reflect
a range of green coloring. However, green asphalt shingle roofs are uncommon within the district.
• The “shape” and profile of the proposed asphalt dimensional shingles more closely replicates wood
shake vs a slate or clay tile. It is staff’s opinion that standard 3-tab asphalt shingles better
approximate the appearance of slate
ISSUES
• Per HDC resolution, staff has the authority to approve the replacement of asphalt shingle roofs with
new asphalt shingles as long as the color of the new roof shingles are grey, black, or brown. These
are standards colors which refer to historic brown wood shake or black/grey slate roofs. The
current proposal has been forwarded to the Commission for review because the desired color does
not conform to the staff-approvable color palatte
• The district’s Elements of Design state the following:

•

Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors, such as red, yellow, brown, or buff,
predominate in wall surfaces. When brick is painted, it is in white or shades of cream.
Natural stone colors also predominate; where stucco or concrete exists, it usually
remains in its natural state, or is painted in a shade of cream. Roofs are in natural slate
colors, and asphalt shingles are predominantly within this same dark color range. Paint
colors often relate to style.
White does not appear on the home’s assigned Color Chart. The new gutters and downspouts
shall be white. Note that the current gutters/downspouts proposed for replacement are white.

RECOMMENDATIONS
As noted above, green asphalt shingle roofs are not common within the district. Although slate roofs do
appear in the district and can display shades of green, it is staff’s opinion that the “shape and profile of the
proposed asphalt shingles do not adequately replicate slate. Staff therefore recommends that the
Commission deny the issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness for the installation of a new green
dimensional asphalt shingle roof at the home and garage because it does not meet the Secretary of the

 Interior Standards for Rehabilitation, standards #2) The historic character of a property will be retained
and preserved. The removal of distinctive materials or alteration of features, spaces and spatial
relationships that characterize a property will be avoided and #9)New additions, exterior alterations, or
related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work
shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural
features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its environment.
In re: to the proposed installation of new white gutters and downspouts, staff does note that the current
aluminum gutters and downspouts are white. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission issue a
Certificate of Appropriateness for the installation of new white gutters and downspouts as proposed at the
home and garage because the work meets the Secretary of the Interior Standards for Rehabilitation,
standard #9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic
materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be
compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the
property and its environment.

 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST

CITY or DETROIT

PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

2 WOODWARD AVENUE. ROOM 808. DETROIT. MI 48226 DATE: ?1 :3 6?
PROPERTY INFORMATION

ADDRESS: [Cl (43% 6?5 \yn AKA:

 

I .r . '1 
HISTORIC DISTRICT: LI. ?-30 0K 

APPLICANT IDENTIFICATION



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Property Tenant or Architect/
Owner/ Contractor Business Engineer/
Homeowner Occupant Consultant

ow 9 COMPANY NAMEADDRESS: 3%70 is) CITY: STATE: m3 3)le

PHONE: 3?"i 5% ?il?O?r MOBILE: Ci ?3 fro?? EMAIL: UNI TED 3L0 male

PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST CHECKLIST

Please attach the following documentation to your request:

 

 

 

 

 

l' 1

Photo I 
grap of ALL Skies of eXIstIng bUIIdlng or SIte I 1

I Based on the scope of work, additional 

Detailed photographs of location Of proposed work I documentation may be required. I
(photographs to show eXIstIng condItI0n(s), deSIgn, color, 8: materialDescription of existing conditions .. 
(including materials and design)

 

 

Description of project (if replacing any existing material(s), include an explanation as to why
replacement-?rather than repair-of existing and/or construction of new is required)

 

 

Detailed scope Of work (formatted as bulleted list)

 

 

Brochure/cut sheets for proposed replacement materia (s) and/or product(s). as applicable

 

 

 

Upon receipt of this documentation. staff will review and inform you of the next steps toward obtaining your building permit
from the Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) to perform the work.

SUBMIT COMPLETED REQUESTS TO ETRO ITM I .G 0V

 

 

 



I




i
I

i

it]
ill!
all!

A

I ?3
I'm?'1


 

 

 

UNITED BUILDING SERVICE CO
2870 Hilton
Ferndale, Ml 48220

Phone 248-548-4208

Fax 248-548-1028
unitedbld att.net


 

HISTORICAL DISTRICT
DATE: 9/30/19
FROM: Tom Holland
NAME: Angela Crockett (H) 313-861-0950

ADDRESS: 19680 Roslyn

CITY:

Detroit, MI 48221



of 7 of Livernois off Pembrooke

SCOPE OF WORK

HOUSE ROOF: (does not include front or rear bay or rear flat roof)

Strip shingles (1 layer)

Install felt

Install Owens Corning dimensional shingles Chateau Green Duration
Install ice shield 6? on starter and valleys

Remove replace 6 vents

Remove replace 5 soil stack ?ashings

Install white drip edge

Flash around 1 chimney and 4 large vents on rear

Clean up haul debris

City permit inspection

GARAGE ROOF:

Strip shingles includes shake

Double up rotten rafters tails as needed

Install 7/16 OSB sheeting entire roof

Install felt

Install drip edge

Install Owens Corning dimensional shingles Chateau Green Duration
Clean up haul debris

City permit inspection

GUTTERS ON HOUSE AND GARAGE

Remove existing white style gutters and downspouts

Replace with White 5? seamless gutters downspouts style install with screw on hidden
hangers

Does not include front or rear bays

Page 2 Crockett Historical info
EXISTING CONDITION:

Existing shingles on house and garage are gray 3 tab asphalt shingles in very deteriorated conditions 
white aluminum style gutters.

PROJECT:
No repair due to deteriorated condition, strip replacement needed.

TruDe?ni ion? Duration? Architectural Shingles 1 Owens Corning Roo?ng

913012019

 

Shingles

Chateau Green

Durat

Chat

2117

-d uratio 

Ion

mt

.owenscomlng



hups

 

TruDefinition?B?

DU 

ng 98 with Patented SureNail'" Technology

Bold contrast. Deep dimension. TruDefinition'i?

  
  

 

TruDefinition?i Durationiv Shingles are specially a. The SureNail?? Difference?
formulated to provide great contrast and Ht A technological breakthrough in
dimension to any Through the U59 g?g??all roo?ng. The innovative features of
Of multiple granule and shadowing, Owens Corning?? TruDefinition'l? Durationm Shingles with

TruDefinition? Duration"' Shingles offer a truly
unique and dramatic effect. This exclusive
combination of color and depth is what makes
TruDefinition'? Duration? Shingles like no other.

patented SureNail? Technology offer the following:

Breakthrough Design. Featuring a tough,

woven engineered reinforcing fabric to deliver consistent
fastening during installation.

TruDefinition" Durationi Shingles are available
in popular colors with bold, lively contrast

and complementing shadow lines for greater
dimension. They feature a Limited Lifetime

Triple Layer Protection? A unique ?triple layer?
of reinforcement occurs when the fabric overlays the
common bond of the shingle laminate layers that offers

excellent fastener holding power.
Warranty?Vtt (for as long as you own your home) and

a Wind Resistance Limited Warranty?.
TruDefinition" Duration? Shingles are produced
with StreakGuard? Protection to inhibit the growth of

Outstanding Grip. Our enhanced Tru?lEiond?t sealant
grips to the engineered fabric nailing strip on the
shingle below.

airborne blue?green algae)" that can cause unsigh?y Excellent Adhesive Power. Specially formulated, wide
dark streaks on your roof. Owens Corning provides adhesive bands help keep shingle layers laminated together.
a 10-year Algae Resistance Limited Warranty? Exceptional Wind Resistance. Engineered to deliver
Beyond the outstanding curb appeal and impressive wind warranty performance with only 4 nails.

warranty coverage, they also come with the advanced

Fewer nails required can mean fewer deck penetrations.
performance of patented SureNaili' Technology.

    

Excellent Adhesive Power 

Outstanding Grip -

 

Triple Layer Protection-+

 

Breakthrough Design Double the Common Bond

- ?No Guess? Wide
Nailing Zone

Teaklr 

 

ENERGY .
IS FOR ROOFS TOO

Similar to the energy-efficient

energy?saving qualities. Owens Corning?
ENERGY qualified shingles can help
reduce your heating and cooling bills when

appliances in your home, roofing
products can help provide

installed properly. These shingles reflect solar
energy, helping to decrease the amount of heat
transferred to a home's interior and the
amount of air conditioning needed to keep it
comfortable. Actual savings will vary based on
geographic location and individual building
characteristics. Call or
for more information.

See actual warranty for complete details, limitations and requirements.

20i8 Rooting Brand Awareness Study by Owens Corning Roofing and Asphalt, LLC.

Product Attributes I

Warranty Length? 

 

Limited Lifetimett (for as long as you own your home) 

Wind Resistance Limited Warranty* 

 

130 MPH

Algae Resistance Limited Warranty? . i

 

10 Years I 
TRU PROtection'o Non-Prorated Limited Warranty' Period
10 Years

 

TruDefinitiont? Duration? Shingles
Product Specifications

Nominal Size 13%" 39%"

 

 

 

 

Exposure 
Shingles per Square 64
Bundles per Square 3
Coverage per Square 98.4 sq. ft.

 

Applicable Standards and Codes

ASTM D228

ASTM [33018 (Type 1)

ASTM 03161 (Class Wind Resistance)
ASTM D3462

ASTM D7158 (Class Wind Resistance)

 

 

 

 

 

ASTM E108i? UL 790 (Class A Fire Resistance)
ICC-ES 
ER 1378E01

 

 

 

Shasta White color meets ENERGY requirements for initial 
solar reflectance of 0.25 and 3?year aged solar reflectance of'0.15;

2013 California Building Energy Efficiency Standards, Title 24, Part 6
requirements; rated by the Cool Roof Rating Council (CRRC).

 

Owens Corning Rooting strives to accurately reproduce photographs of shingles. Due to manufacturing variances, the limitations of the printing process and the variations in natural
lighting, actual shingle cotors and granuie blends may vary from the photo. The pitch of your root can also impact how a shingle looks on your home. We suggest that you view a
roofing display or several shingles to get a better idea of the actual color. To accmately judge your shingle and color choice, we recommend that you view it on an actual roof with
a pitch similar to your own roof priorto making your final selection. Color availability subject to change without notice. Ask your professional roofing contractor for samples of colors

available in your area.
The amount of Triple Layer Protection? may vary on shinglevto-shingle basis.

Trix?Bond? is a proprietary premium weathering-grade asphalt seaiant that is blended by Owens Corning Roofing and Asphalt, LLC.

it 40?Year Limited Warranty on commercial projects.

Owens Corning Roofing Preferred Contractors are independent contractors and are not an affiliate of Owens Corning Roofing and Asphalt, LLC, or its affiliated companies.

For patent information, please visit patents.
SureNail" Technology is not a guarantee of performance in all weather conditions.
SureNail? Technology is available only on Owens Corning? Duration? Series Shingles.

ENERGY STAR and the ENERGY STAR mark are registered trademarks of the US. Environ mental Protection Agency.
it International Code Council Evatuation Services Acceptance Criteria for Alternative Asphalt Shingles.
Excludes non-Owens Coming? roofing products such as Hashing, fasteners, pipe boots and wood decking.

