STAFF REPORT 11-13-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER 19-6464
ADDRESS: 4801 STURTEVANT
HISTORIC DISTRICT: RUSSELL WOODS - SULLIVAN
APPLICANT: WAYNE GROLEAU
DATE OF APPLICATION: 9-23-2019
DATE OF VIOLATION: 9-26-2019
DATE OF STAFF VISIT: 11-6-2019

PREPARED BY: B. CAGNEY

Staff Photo: 11-6-2019
Existing Conditions
The 2.5-story, single-family home at 4801 Sturtevant was built in 1925. While the home is located
midblock on Sturtevant, between Livernois and Broadstreet, the adjacent parcel to the west is vacant,
allowing views of the full side of 4801 Sturtevant from the right of way. It is an English Tudor Revival,
clad in an orange / brown brick. The brick work is detailed and intricate, featuring rough bricks dispersed
among a “wobbly” stretcher course. The balanced, asymmetrical front façade is dominated by a steeply
pitched gable that extends outward from the hipped roof. A smaller gable that contains the front entrance
projects forward from the larger gable. The front door features a rounded arch with ornamental brick
trim. A bay of (3) windows with an arched brick lintel looks on to the uncovered front porch at the lower
level. The porch is bordered by a decorative, black, metal fence. Photos provided by the applicant show
deterioration to the concrete cap and missing coping around the perimeter of the porch. Brick wing walls
extend down the steps that show deterioration in the mortar.
All window openings feature limestone sills. Staff is unclear as to the exact design or condition of the
windows installed in the home prior to the recent changes. Photo documentation shows that windows at
the front façade were covered in aluminum storms. If the windows were original to the home, it is likely
that the sashes were wood and the windows at the front façade displayed some leaded glass detailing, as
noted in the Russell Woods-Sullivan Elements of Design. The applicant stated that these windows were

 stolen from the home while it was vacant. However, the existing sash appears consistent in size and
character with the original windows.
The rear of the home features two rooms that project from the main body of the home. The second floor
room is asymmetrically balanced on the first floor, creating a void that allows a doorway to a walk-out
deck on to the roof of the first floor room. Prior to work completed by the applicant, the rear of the home
was clad in wood shake. The shake was installed in such a style that creates a distinctively staggered,
“saw-tooth” pattern, observed on several homes on Sturtevant street and throughout the Russell Woods
neighborhood.
Violation
On September 23, 2019, the applicant had applied to repair the front porch by “salvaging existing
materials.” The violation at this address was discovered when staff reviewed a proposal to rehab the
front porch. Upon review of the photos received from the applicant, staff compared the current
conditions with a previous proposal to replace the asphalt shingle roof, submitted in October of 2018.
From these images, it was determined that significant exterior alterations occurred at the rear of the
home. Additionally, upon further inspection of the photos, it was discovered that a majority of the
windows had been altered and the window openings at the rear of the home had been reconfigured.
The building department was notified that work had taken place without a permit and a stop work
order was issued for the following violations:
• Removal of wood shakes at rear and replacement with painted horizontal siding at 1st story and
painted half-timbering / stucco at second story
• Reconfiguration, and elimination of, window openings / door at rear
• Removal of, and alterations to, windows
The applicant contends that the home was “restored to the original 1925 condition.” Further, he states
that “the pictures will show that the back of this home was restored to have the greatest aesthetic value
and historical significance in all of Russell Woods.”
As mentioned previously, the applicant reports that the original windows were stolen while the house
was vacant. The applicant asserts that the replacement windows currently installed in the main body of
the house were “found in the trash down the street” and “they are rotted and nailed in sideways.” It is
unclear to staff if this is how he intends the windows to remain.
Regarding the reconfiguration of the window openings in the rear, the property owner has stated “the
aluminum storms are a product of the 1950’s. The window openings in the back were reconfigured at
about the same time that the storms were put in. The single windows is a match for the brick side bedroom
wall where there is one window.” Staff is unable to verify these claims based on the limited
documentation provided. The applicant contends that the new windows that were installed in the
reconfigured rear portion of the home are Jeld-Wen W-3500 aluminum clad windows (6/1). While specs
for these windows were not provided the staff, the homeowner states that these windows “were already
approved by the commission for 4220 Sturtevant.”
Additionally, the applicant states that, “The second floor door was not original.” It is not clear if he is
referring to the door itself or the door frame that opened onto the first floor roof. The applicant does
offer insight to the elimination of the doorway, “In addition to the flat roof door not being original,
safety requirements are not met due to lack of railing, lack of flat support structure, and the fact that the
previously approved flat roof material is not rated for this type of use.”

 As per the modification to the siding at the rear of the home, the applicant states that the original
condition of the rear was clad in stucco. He provided a construction detail showing his position on how
the non-original wood shake cladding was installed, over the stucco. He states that the wood shake
removed was “non-original and rotted”. Because no detailed photo documentation was submitted prior
to the removal of the wood shake, the condition of the siding cannot be determined.
The current exterior finish at the rear of the home is stucco with wood trim and decorative “halftimbering”. The trim and decorative elements were painted grey while the stucco is a greenish- yellow.
Mr. Groleau feels that this is an appropriate expression of the tudor style that is present throughout the
Russell Woods neighborhood. “All you have to do is look to see that the home is a tudor and all tudors
in the neighborhood had stucco uppers.”
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to resolve the following
work associated with the exterior modifications of the home as per the stop work order:
Exterior Siding at rear
• The removal of wood shake siding and replacement with synthetic lap siding with simulated
wood grain pattern on first floor
• The removal of wood shake siding and replacement with stucco and half-timbering on second
floor
Window / Door Reconfiguration at rear
• First Floor: (2) West facing, double-hung windows removed
• First Floor: (3) South facing double-hung windows replaced with (1) double-hung window.
• Second Floor: (2) South facing double-hung windows replaced with (1) double-hung window
at body of home
• Second Floor: (2) South facing double-hung windows replaced with (1) double-hung window
at second story “bump-out”
• Second Floor: The removal of door that led to the roof of the lower story room.
Window Replacement- excluding rear portion of home
• Front façade- windows have been altered with the removal of frame & mullions. “Reinstallation” of
sash was done within rough carpentry.
o (7) double-hung windows
o (1) casement window
• West façade, main body of home- windows have been replaced but not completely “installed”
o (4) double-hung windows
o (2) casement windows
• East façade, main body of home- windows have been replaced but not completely “installed”
o (4) double-hung windows
o (2) casement windows

Staff Observations:
Window Alteration:
While many of the window sash now extant in the main body of the house may be appropriate for the
home and within the context of Russell Woods (15/1 light pattern with leaded glass uppers), the current
method of installation must be corrected. The window bay on the second floor no longer have muntins

 separating the three double-hung sashes and are framed in with lumber and plywood. It does appear that
one of these windows is installed sideways. This condition should be corrected with three identical
windows that maintain the style of the historic designation photo, with a 15/1 light pattern, separated
with appropriately sized mullions and trim. The bay of windows installed on the first floor maintain the
design of the designation photo, but do not seem to be properly installed. The trim and muntons should
be restored to properly secure the window sashes.
The windows on the west elevation are clearly visible from the right of way. While the three nonoperational casement windows maintain the wood and leaded glass indicative of what may have been
originally installed, there are three double hung windows that do not maintain a consistent design across
the elevation; 1/1, 15/15 and 1/15. Staff is unable to comment on the windows on the east elevation, as
we did not venture on to the property and were unable to get detailed photos of the current windows and
installation. However, they seem to be installed in the same manner, in the current state with rough
lumber framing.
Rear Siding Replacement:
The applicant has stated that the wood shake siding on the rear was not original to the home and had
deteriorated beyond repair. Staff walked around the block and found that the particular style of wood
shake is a character defining feature on several homes in the neighborhood. While staff did find evidence
of the tudor-style half timbering present on the front facades of homes in the neighborhood, we did not
find evidence of stucco or half timbering on any rear projections from the body of the home. Due to the
designation of the neighborhood in 1999, it is not uncommon to see homes have had historic wood
cladding wrapped in horizontal vinyl or aluminum siding. It is staff’s opinion, however, that this is not
an appropriate material treatment for historic homes in this district.
Rear Window Replacement:
Based on the rear photos of the home taken prior to the exterior modifications, staff is unable to determine
what the light configuration of the windows on the second floor before they were removed. The lower
windows have 15/1 divided lights. The Jeld-Wen replacement windows maintain a 6/1 design, staff is
unable to determine if the mullions are between glass or there are storm windows installed.
STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS
1. Window replacement: “Salvaged Windows” - Main body of home.
Per Standard 6 of the Interior Standards for Rehab, Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall
match the old in design, color, texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of
missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
Unfortunately, staff has limited documentation of the previous windows and is not able to verify that the windows
that are currently installed replicate the “stolen” windows. However, there does seem to be evidence in the
designation photo that the front windows did have the leaded glass in a 15/1 design. The current windows may be
appropriate in some instances, however, all of these windows must be installed properly. Staff defers on offering
a specific instruction on installation, as an experienced window contractor should be consulted before further work
occurs. It is also staffs opinion that all windows must have a uniform look, especially at the front sets of windows,
particularly, on the second floor. These windows should be identical in design, material, operation and color. Staff
recommends that the applicant consult with a historic window specialist to craft a proposal as to how the “historic”
windows will be installed properly and maintain a consistent look across the home. This proposal should be
reviewed and approved by staff.

 2. Window opening alterations: rear of home.
Per Standard 6 of the Interior Standards for Rehab, Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall
match the old in design, color, texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of
missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
The alteration of the number and distribution of openings do change the historic character of the rear of the house.
Staff finds that the work is inappropriate per Secretary of Interior Standards 2) The historic character of a property
shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and spaces that
characterize a property shall be avoided; and 9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the
old and shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity
of the property and its environment. Due to a lack of documentation on the previous windows, it is unclear if the
current windows installed at the rear of the home maintain a faithful design of the existing windows. The JeldWen units are aluminum-clad wood windows that display a 6/1 grid pattern. The windows were indeed
previously approved as replacements (with external mullions) for a home down the street, 4220 Sturtevant.
3. Siding replacement: Rear of home.
Per Standard 6 of the Interior Standards for Rehab, Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall
match the old in design, color, texture, and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of
missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
It is staff’s opinion that the removal of the shake siding was not appropriate as there was no documentation of
deterioration that indicated that all of the siding must be removed and replaced instead of repaired. Additionally,
because of the particular style of installation, the wood shake siding is a character defining feature on this and
many homes in the neighborhood. Additionally, while there may be tudor-style stucco and half timbering on some
of the front facades, staff was unable to find an example of this on the rear facades of homes in the neighborhood.
Generally, the rear elevations lack complex façade detailing. Additionally, while the horizontal siding installed
may not be an appropriate material for replacement of the cedar shake, the Elements of Design notes under section
(8) Relationship of textures, “horizontal elements” are listed. Many homes have installed horizontal siding of nonhistoric materials prior to the Historic Designation of the Russell Woods-Sullivan neighborhood in 1999.
It is staff’s opinion that the shake siding should be restored on the back of the home, in the original “staggered”
style that was removed. This can be achieved by a tradesman experienced in historic home restoration. Further,
should the commission decide the exterior siding be removed or may remain, it should be painted a color
appropriate to the architectural style of the home, from Color Chart: D.

 1999 Historic Designation Photo? Front Elevation

 

(A)
(B)
(C)

SEC. 25-2-130. RUSSELL WOODS-SULLIVAN HISTORIC DISTRICT.
a historic district to be known as the Russell Woods-Sullivan historic district is hereby
established in accordance with the provisions of this article.
this historic district designation is hereby certified as being consistent with the Detroit
master plan.
the boundaries of the Russell Woods-Sullivan Historic District are as shown on the map
on file in the office of the city clerk, and shall be: on the north, a line beginning at a point
at the intersection of the centerline of Waverly Avenue and the centerline extended
northward of the north-south alley between Livernois Avenue and Broadstreet Boulevard;
thence east along the centerline of Waverly Avenue to its intersection with the centerline
of Broadstreet Boulevard; thence north along the centerline of Broadstreet Boulevard to
its intersection with the centerline of West Davison Avenue, thence east along said
centerline of West Davison Avenue to its intersection with the centerline extended
northward of the north-south alley between Broadstreet Boulevard and Petoskey Avenue;
thence south along the centerline of said alley to its intersection with the centerline of the
east-west alley between West Davison and Waverly Avenue; thence east along the
centerline of said alley to its intersection with the centerline of Petoskey Avenue; thence
south along the centerline of Petoskey Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of
Waverly Avenue; thence east along the centerline of Waverly Avenue to its intersection
with the centerline of Holmur avenue; thence north along centerline of Holmur avenue to
its intersection with the centerline of West Davison Avenue; thence east along said
centerline of West Davison Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Dexter
Boulevard; thence south along said centerline of Dexter Boulevard to its intersection with
the centerline of Waverly Avenue; thence east along said centerline of Waverly Avenue
to its intersection with the centerline of the north-south alley lying between Dexter
Boulevard and Wildemere Avenue. On the east, the centerline of the north-south alley
lying between Dexter Boulevard and Wildemere Avenue. On the south, a line beginning
at a point, that point being the intersection of the centerline of the north-south alley lying
between Dexter Boulevard and Wildemere Avenue with the southern boundary, extended
eastward and westward, of lot 36 of Linwood Heights subdivision (l.35, p.6); thence
westerly along said southern boundary of lot 36 to its intersection with the centerline of
Dexter Boulevard; thence north along the centerline of Dexter Boulevard to its
intersection with the southern boundary of the Daniel Sullivan’s dexter blvd. #1
subdivision (l.55, p.53); thence westerly along the southern boundary of Daniel Sullivan’s
dexter blvd. #1 subdivision (l.55, p.53) and continuing along the southern boundary of the
Russell Woods subdivision (l.34, p.3) to its intersection with the centerline of the
north-south alley between Broadstreet Boulevard and Martindale avenue; thence south
along the centerline of said alley to its intersection with the south line of lot 336,
extended east and west, of Brown and Babcock’s subdivision (l.16, p.15); thence west
along said lot line as extended to its intersection with the centerline of Broadstreet
Avenue; thence north along said centerline of Broadstreet Boulevard to its intersection
with the south lot line of lot 20 of Brown and Babcock’s subdivision (l.16, p.15), as
extended east and west; thence west along said south line of lot 20 to its intersection with
the centerline of the north-south alley between Cascade Avenue and Broadstreet
Boulevard; thence north along the centerline of said alley to its intersection with the
centerline of the east-west alley lying between Cortland Avenue and Elmhurst Avenue
and adjacent to the northwest corner of lot 17 of Brown and Babcock’s subdivision (l. 16,
p.15); thence west along said alley to its intersection with a line 192 feet west of the east
lot line of out lot 8 of Joseph Yerkes subdivision of the northerly part of fractional 1/4

 (D)
(E)
(1)

sec. 30, t.t.a.t. (L.3, p.38) as extended north and south; thence north along said line to its
intersection with the southern boundary of the Russell Woods Subdivision (l.34, p.3);
thence westerly along the southern boundary of the Russell Woods Subdivision (l.34, p.3)
to its intersection with the centerline of the north-south alley lying between Livernois
Avenue and Broadstreet Boulevard and immediately adjacent to the rear of the lots
fronting on the east side of Livernois Avenue. On the west, the centerline of the
north-south alley directly south of Livernois Avenue. (The property included within these
boundaries includes lots 1-443 and lots 445-620 of the Russell Woods Subdivision, liber
34 page 3; lots 1-20 and 336-350 of Brown & Babcocks subdivision, liber 16 page 15;
lots 1-4, 67-73, and 136-142 of Lathrup’s Dexter Boulevard Subdivision, liber 32 page
15; lots 36-66 of the Linwood Heights Subdivision, liber 35 page 6; lots 10-14 of
Sullivan’s Dexter Boulevard Subdivision, liber 46 page 30; lots 74-571 of Sullivan’s
Dexter Boulevard Subdivision no. 1, liber 55 page 53; out lot 7 of Joseph Yerkes
subdivision of the northerly part of part of the fractional quarter section 30, ten thousand
acre tract, liber 3 page 36; and all that part of quarter section 12, ten thousand acre tract,
lying between Davison Avenue and Waverly Avenue and between Dexter Boulevard and
vacated Holmur Avenue.
The design treatment level of the Russell Woods-Sullivan Historic District shall be
conservation as provided for in section 25-2-2(3) of this code.
The defined elements of design, as provided for in section 25-2-2 of this code, shall be as
follows:
Height. The dominant residential structures in the Russell woods-Sullivan historic
district range from one-and-a-half (1½) to two-and-a-half (2½) stories tall, with
those of two (2) to two-and-a-half (2½) forming a substantial majority.
One-and-a-half (1½) story houses typically have a very steep roof pitch, increasing
the overall height. A few one (1) story houses exist but are not characteristic.
Additions to existing buildings shall be related to the existing structure.
Commercial and institutional structures on dexter boulevard and one (1)
apartment building adjacent to dexter boulevard depart from these norms, ranging
in height from one to four stories. New single family and two family residences
shall meet the following standards:
(i)
Eight (8) adjoining houses on the same block face,
excluding any one-story houses, shall be used to
determine an average height. If eight (8) houses
are not available on the same block face, then one
(1) or more houses as close as possible to being
directly across the street from the proposed structure
may be used. The height of the two (2) adjoining
houses shall be added into the total twice, with a
divisor of ten (10) used to determine the average.
The main roof of any new building must have a
height of at least eighty percent (80%) of the
resulting average. In no case shall a new building
be taller than the tallest roof height included in the
calculation. In determining the height of existing
buildings and proposed buildings, the highest point
of the main roof shall be used, even where towers or
other minor elements may be higher.
−2−

 (ii)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

The level of the eaves of the proposed new structure
has as much or more significance for compatibility
as the roof height. Therefore, an average eave or
cornice height shall be determined by the process in
Subsection (E)(1)(i) of this section described , again
excluding one-story houses. The proposed new
structure shall have a height at the eaves or cornice
of not less than ninety percent (90%) of the average
determined from existing structures; and in no case
shall the eaves or cornice of the proposed structure
be lower than the lowest eave or cornice height used
in the computation, or higher than the highest eave
or cornice.
Proportion of buildings front facades. The typical front facade of a single or
two-unit house in the Russell Woods-Sullivan Historic District is approximately
as tall to its eaves as it is wide. One-and-a-half (1½) story houses sometimes
have facades wider than tall, but balanced by a steeply pitched roof resulting in a
balanced overall composition. The two terrace buildings are wider than tall along
Petoskey; multi-story apartment buildings are taller than wide. Commercial
buildings that contribute to the historic district on Dexter Boulevard, where they
exist adjacent to similar buildings, form a horizontal row.
Proportion of openings within the facades. In residential buildings, openings
amount to between twenty (20) and thirty-five (35) percent of the front facade,
with the majority ranging from twenty-five (25) to thirty (30) percent. Buildings
of the “moderne” and “Art deco” styles will have a percentage of openings in the
upper portion of the general range. Typical openings are taller than wide. It is not
uncommon for several windows which are taller than wide to fill a single opening
which is wider than tall. Houses built later in the period of development
sometimes have individual windows which are balanced or somewhat wider than
tall; such a window is often the main opening of the first floor front facade.
Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. In four-square style buildings and
buildings derived from classical precedents, voids are usually arranged in a
symmetrical and evenly-spaced manner within the facades. In examples of other
styles, particularly those of english medieval inspiration, voids are arranged with
more freedom, but usually result in a balanced composition. On dexter
boulevard, the repetitive flow of storefront openings, where they exist, create a
rhythm along the commercial frontage.
Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. In the Russell Woods-Sullivan
Historic District, the spacing of the buildings is generally determined by the lot
sizes and setbacks from side lot lines. There is a general regularity in the widths
of subdivision lots from one block to another. The residential lots generally
range from thirty-five to forty (40) feet wide, with the exception of Broadstreet
Boulevard, where the majority of lots range from forty-eight (48) feet to
sixty-eight (68) feet in width, the larger being the corner lots. Also with the
exception of Broadstreet Boulevard, houses are usually situated close to the
western lot line, allowing for just enough space for a side driveway along the
eastern lot line.
Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Porch types relate to the type and
style of the building. Buildings with an upper and lower unit, primarily on
−3−

 (7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

Cortland Avenue, Buena Vista Avenue, Tyler Avenue and Waverly Avenue, often
have two story porches that project from the main wall surface. One common
entrance arrangement on vernacular english revival single-family houses is that of
a slightly projecting, steeply gabled vestibule, either enclosed or open, entered
through an arched opening. The first floor wall surface of the front facade is
sometimes extended to contain either a narrow arched opening for pedestrians to
pass or a car-width sized opening serving as an entrance over the driveway for a
car to pass through. Another common arrangement, predominantly at the
eastern end of the district in the Sullivan Subdivision, is the open porch with
metal awning frames overhead. In general, a variety of residential porch types
exist in the district; most tend to be shallow, are not always covered, and vary in
placement on the front facade. They create an interesting rhythm along the
streetscape, especially where a number of any one kind exist in a row.
Relationship of materials. The majority of houses are faced with brick, often
combined with wood, stone or stucco. Some houses on glendale and Waverly
Avenues in the Russell Woods Subdivision are entirely of wood; very few houses
are entirely stucco. Stone trim is common, and wood is almost universally used
for window frames and other functional trim . Windows are commonly either
metal casements or wooden sash. Original metal awning shades and balustrades
exist. Roofs on the majority of the buildings in the Russell Woods-Sullivan
Historic District are now asphalt shingled, whereas many were likely originally
shingled in wood. Only two apartment buildings on Broadstreet Boulevard and
the Broadstreet presbyterian church retain their slate roofs.
Relationship of textures. The major texture is that of brick laid in mortar, often
juxtaposed with wood or smooth or rough-faced stone elements and trim.
Textured brick and brick laid in patterns creates considerable interest, as does
half-timbering, leaded and subdivided windows, and wood shingled or horizontal
sided elements. Slate and wood shingle roofs have particular textural values
where they exist. Asphalt shingles generally have little textural interest, even in
those types which purport to imitate some other variety.
Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors (such as red, yellow, brown, buff)
predominate in wall surfaces. Natural stone colors also exist. Where stucco or
concrete exists, it usually remains in its natural state, or is painted in a shade of
cream. Roofs are in natural colors (tile and slate colors, natural and stained wood
colors), and asphalt shingles are predominantly within this same dark color range.
Paint colors often relate to style. The buildings derived from classical
precedents, particularly those of neo-classical styles, generally have woodwork
painted white, cream, or in the range of those colors. Colors known to have been
in use on similar buildings of this style in the eighteenth or early twentieth
centuries may be considered for appropriateness. Buildings or vernacular english
revival styles generally have painted woodwork and window frames of a dark
brown or cream color. Half timbering is almost always stained dark brown.
Tile, mosaics, and stained glass, where it exists as decoration visible on the front
facade, contributes to the artistic interest of the building. The original colors of
any building, as determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for a
house, and may provide guidance for similar houses.
Relationship of architectural details. The architectural elements and details of
each structure generally relate to its style. Residential buildings derived from
classical styles display modest detail, mostly in wood. Porches, shutters,
−4−

 (11)

(12)
(13)

(14)

window frames, cornices, and dormer windows are commonly, although not
always, treated. Characteristic elements and details displayed on vernacular
english revival- influenced buildings include arched windows and door openings,
steeply pitched gables, towers, and sometimes half-timbering . Artistic touches,
including stained glass, tile, and mosaics, provide artistic decoration.
Bungalows and arts and crafts style buildings feature wide porches and
overhangs. Commercial buildings along dexter avenue range in style from
neo-georgian to art deco and art moderne. Institutional buildings on dexter
boulevard are art moderne or modern in appearance. Broadstreet presbyterian
church is vernacular late neo-gothic in style. In general, the district is rich in
early to mid-twentieth century architectural styles.
Relationship of roof shapes. The Russell Woods-Sullivan Historic District is
primarily composed of houses displaying a variety of roof shapes relating to style.
Common are the multiple steeply sloped gables and substantial chimneys present
on vernacular english revival-influenced houses. Typical houses built in the
1930s in the Sullivan Subdivision often have turrets and gables projection above
the roof line. Classically-inspired buildings display pitched roofs, with or
without dormers; some have front or side-facing gambrels. Roofs of houses built
later in the period of development of the district tend to have significantly lower
slopes. Commercial buildings on dexter have flat roofs that are not visible from
the street
Walls of continuity. The common setbacks of the houses on the residential streets
and the placement of commercial buildings on dexter at the front lot line create
very strong walls of continuity.
Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The
typical treatment of individual properties is a flat front lawn area in grass turf,
subdivided by a straight or curving walk leading to the front entrance and a single
width side driveway leading to a garage at the rear of the lot. Recent front yard
steel lamp posts with round globes are common on some blocks. Foundation
plantings, often of a deciduous nature and characteristic of the period 1920-1960,
are present virtually without exception. Large evergreen trees shield some houses
from view. There is variety in the landscape treatment of individual properties.
Hedges and fencing between properties are not common, although rear yards are
commonly fenced. There is a wide range in the type of fencing, with chain-link
common. The placement of trees on the tree lawn between the public sidewalk
and curb varies from block to block or street to street, and is not consistent,
although rows of maple trees have been planted to replace the mature maples on
Cortland. Lack of street trees in some blocks likely reflects loss through disease
of the american elms once common in Detroit. Replacement trees should be
characteristic of the area and period. Plantings of new trees should be directed to
"tree lawns" and medians. If American elm is planted, it should be disease
resistant. Street lighting throughout the district is mounted on wooden utility
poles, except around Russell Woods Park, where tall steel standards are located
on the periphery of the park. On corner lots, garages and driveways face the side
streets. Alleys have been vacated.
Relationship of open space to structures. The Russell Woods-Sullivan Historic
District has as its main open space Russell Woods Park, bounded by Old Mill
Place, Fullerton Avenue, Broadstreet Boulevard and Leslie Avenue. Another
public recreational area exists at the northeast corner of the district between
−5−

 (15)

(16)

(17)

(18)

(19)

(20)

Waverly Avenue and West Davison Avenue. All houses have rear yards as well
as front yards. Additional open space on Dexter Boulevard and West Davison
avenue is a result of building demolition and the existence of parking lots.
Scale of facades and facade elements. The Russell Woods-Sullivan Historic
District comprises a neighborhood of moderately scaled houses and multi-unit
buildings and a low-scale commercial strip along dexter avenue. Single-family
houses on Broadstreet Boulevard are generally larger in scale than houses
elsewhere in the district, with the exception of some comparably-scaled houses on
corner lots. Elements and details within are appropriately scaled, dependent on
the style of the building. Broadstreet Presbyterian Church is a small-scale
religious institution.
Directional expression of front elevations. Most single family houses in the
Russell Woods-Sullivan Historic District are neutral in directional expression,
with the exception of a few of the neo-tudor revival houses on Broadstreet and
more recent houses in the ranch and tri-level styles, which express themselves
horizontally. Multi-story apartment buildings are vertical in directional
expression; institutional buildings and commercial buildings, especially where
they exist in rows, are horizontal in directional expression.
Rhythm of building setbacks. Front and side yard setbacks are consistent on each
residential street in the Russell Woods-Sullivan Historic District; the
contributing commercial buildings on Dexter Boulevard are set at the front lot line
and have no front or side yard setback. Setbacks for institutional buildings vary.
Relationship of lot coverages. The lot coverage for the single and two-family
residential structures ranges generally from twenty-five (25) per cent to thirty-five
(35) per cent, including the usual freestanding garage. The multi-unit structures
adjacent to Petoskey Street have about sixty (60) percent lot coverage, while the
apartment building at Dexter Boulevard and Tyler Avenue has a lot coverage of
approximately eighty (80) per cent. Commercial buildings on Dexter Boulevard
have a range of lot coverages from approximately twenty (20) per cent to one
hundred (100) per cent, with contributing structures ranging generally from sixty
(60) percent to eighty (80) percent. They are typically placed at the front lot line,
but may not fill the lot at the rear. The commercial structures on Dexter Boulevard
that have a lot coverage as low as twenty (20) percent are usually the more recent
structures which provide paved areas on the property; lot coverage for institutional
buildings in the district varies considerably. Broadstreet Presbyterian Church
occupies approximately forty (40) per cent of its property; its siting at the rear lot
line with an addition at its south end create a substantial green space in front.
Degree of complexity within the facades. The facades within the Russell
Woods-Sullivan Historic District range from very simple to quite complex,
depending on style, but are straightforward in its arrangement of elements and
details; overall, there is a low degree of complexity.
Orientation, vistas, overviews. The orientations of buildings and streets were
created by the subdivision plans, which place the largest lots and houses on a
north-south street, Broadstreet Boulevard, and adjacent to a park, and assign
smaller lot sizes and houses to adjacent east-west streets. Individual houses are
oriented toward the street, almost without exception; even the multiple unit
buildings located on buena vista street and tyler street at Petoskey Street have
been given more fully developed facades facing the main residential streets. The
−6−

 (21)
(22)

residential neighborhood is sandwiched between two major commercial
thoroughfares, Dexter Boulevard on the east and Livernois Avenue on the west.
Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Front facades of buildings range from
completely symmetrical to assymetrical but balanced.
General environmental character. The Russell Woods-Sullivan Historic District
is a fully-developed middle-class residential area of the second quarter of the
twentieth century, with a planned hierarchy of housing stock ranging from the
largest houses on Broadstreet and adjacent to the park to the smaller, including
double houses, located on the east-west streets. Its straight streets and the
consistent lot sizes on each street create a comfortable and handsome urban
residential environment.

−7−

 4801 Sturtevant
Description of Work: Remove Stop Order – details received from commission 10/30/19
Stop Work order reads:
•Removal of wood shakes at rear and replacement with painted horizontal siding at the
1st story and painted half-timbering/stucco at 2nd story
•Reconfiguration, and elimination of, window openings/door at rear
•Removal of, and alterations to windows
We don’t agree on wether the wood shakes at rear were salvageable
Why would I spend all this money and time if I could just paint the existing shakes?
I it also true that the appearance is important according to section 5.(3)(d) “Other factors, such
as aesthetic value, that the commission finds relevant.” The aesthetic value of a non orginal rotted
shake is no too good.
We don’t agree on the original 1925 condition of the house
Your applicant maintains the back of the home was restored to the original 1925 condition. The
aluminum storms are a product of the 1950s. The window openings in the back were reconfigured at
about the same time that the storms were put in. The single windows is a match for the brick side
bedroom wall where there is one window. This relates to 5.(3)(d) “The relationship of any architectural
features of the resource to the rest of the resource and to the surrounding area.”

Your applicant found that wood strips were attached to the stucco to nail the shakes to. This is a
practice shown below. The bottom shakes were placed directly over the lap. The seconf floor dor was
not original.

Additional proof for applicant’s position on rear of house.

 If this application is rejected, your applicant may hire a 3 party expert to date the remaing
samples and have this available in the appeals stage.

Section 5.(6)(a) “The resource constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public or to the structure's
occupants.” In addition to the flat roof door not being original, safety requirements are not met due to
lack of railing, leck of flat support structure, and the fact that the previously approved flat roof material
is not rated for this type of use.
Section 5.(3) (a) “The historic or architectural value and significance of the resource and its relationship
to the historic value of the surrounding area.” The pictures will show that the back of this home was
restored to have the greatest aesthetic value and historical significance in all of Russell Woods.
Section 5.(3)(c) “The general compatibility of the design, arrangement, texture, and materials proposed
to be used.” Half timbered stucco upper is the hallmark of a tudor. Cedar lap is a period correct siding
and material for lower. Jeld‐Wen W‐3500 aluminum clad windows were alreay approved by the
commission for 4220 Sturtevant.

  V.

3?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

All 

A



4801 Sturtevant

Request for permission to repair porch by salvaging existing materials

HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST

cut or oETecn
PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT C- 3 
2 wcoowaeo AVENUE. nooM ace. oETecn. Ml 43225 DATE: i 

INFORMATION
aoerss: 3:11;? ?gm, [aiming

HISTORIC DISTRICT: RU 956.1 Wavy-?5

 

 

 

. Rootf?utters! Porch! Landsca ei?Fencerr General
SCOPE OF '1 Doors Chimney Back I: TraeIPar?r Rahal:
{Check ALL that apply}
New
Construction El Demolition El Addition I: What?
APPLICANT 
Property Tenant or ArchitectIEngineerf
IE Homeowner Contractor Business occupant Consultant

NAME: Noriega; ?telertu.? IE coueanrnaue

aoDEEse: i'i?lt?eS? tit-rteh'iw curt: gawk; ??rare lat/{fare 
MOBILE: EMAIL: 

PROJECT REQUEST CHECKLIST

Please attach the following documentation to your request?.
KEEP FILE Slit: SUBMISSIGN UNDER secret INOTE:

I Based on the scope of work,

I additional documentation may
Detailed photographs of location of proposed work be required.

(photographs to show design. color. matErIali I See for
Dascription of existing conditions [Tipff'ia?c?qi IE .-
(including materials and design}

 

 

Photographs of ALL sides of existing building or site

 

 

 



 

 

Description of project {if replacing any existing material(s). include an explanation as to why
replacement--rather than repair-ct existing andr'or construction of new is required}

 

Detailed scope of work {formatted as bulleted list}

 

 

Brochurer'cut sheets for proposed replacement materialis} andfor productis). as applicabie

 

 

 

Upon receipt of this documentation. staff will review and inform you ofthe next steps toward obtaining your building
permit from the Buildings. Safety Engineering and Environmental Department to perform the work.

sualiln' REQUESTs  

1.

Photos:

all

IL
I-

1:
Hm 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L32 
?Harv/?cf .. .

 



In? 





 El? 

L.

v.1.

'i a! .- 
'Ak?
kcp?

 

2.
3.
4.





5.

Existing conditions – per photos, porch is falling apart.
Project – re-build porch with existing bricks
Details
Remove existing brick
Clean off old mortar
Rebuild walls with this same salvaged brick
Use existing footprint
Concrete Cap repaired as necessary
Brochures – NA (attempting to salvage original brick)

 PERMIT 

CITY OF DETROIT
SAFETY ENGINEERING 8; ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT
AVENUE, ROOM 409, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Expedited Pian Review Request (subject to additional fees) Date: I 2} I 051 
Property Information
Address: 1% 30[ 5+ Mam/Hr 1ft? 0 4? Floor: Suite#: Stories: 
AKA: Lotis): Subdivision: 
Parcel Total Acres: .Lot Width: Let Depth:
Current Use of Property: Proposed Use or Property: 
Are there any existing buildings. or structures on this parcel? 'E/Yes No

 

Project Information

Permit Type

New [CIAiteraticn El Addition Demolition Correct Violations EIFoundationOniy Temporary Use.

El Change of Use Other: Qagx?r 033.c-

Revision to Original Permit I (original permit has been issued and 'is actiire)

Description of Work (Describe' in detail proposed work and use of property, attach work list)

?i i Fain/wee. hinge 5 2 Iii??(Kean
Ra WA was) as Wed-d Le. aimum.

IncIuded Improvements (Check all applicable; these trade areas require separate permit appiibatibns)
DHVAC/Mechanical CI Electrical El Plumbing Fire Sprinkler System Fire Alarm

 

 

 

 

 

Structure Type

New Building Existing StrUCture Tenant Space El Garage/Accessory Building El Other

Size of Structure to be DemOIished cubic feet

Construction. invoives changes to the floor-plan? interiorr demolition or new walls) [DYes No
Use Group: Type of Construction .{per current MI Bldg-Code Table 6301}:

Estimated Cost (0 .1 000 

Structure Use. By Contractor ByDepartment

Residential~Number of Units: Office-Gross Floor Area: Industrial-Gross Floor Area:

El Commercial~Gross Floor Area: Institutionai- Gross Fibor Area: Other-Gross Floor Area:

 

Proposed no. of employees: a List materials to be stored in the building:

 

PLOT PIAN SHALL BE submitted on separate sheets and shall show ail easements and measurements (must be conect'and In detail).-
SHBW ALL streets abutting lot, Indicate front of lot, Show all buildings, existing and proposed distances to lot lines.
(Building Permit Application Co'ntinues'o'n Next Page)

 

intake by: Date: Fees Due: DngBId'? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Current Legai Land Use:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Permit#:. Date Permit issued: Permit Cost: 

Zoning District: Zoning Grantis)?: Lots Combined? No {attach zoning clearance}
REVISBCI Cost {revised permit'applications only} New 

STRUCTURAL: DATE: NOTES:

ZONING: DATE: INOTES:

 

 

07/16/13

 

 

   

BUILDING APPLICATION
CITY or DETROIT BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING 8.- ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT Page 2.

 

Identi?cation [All Fields Required)

Property Owner Homeowner Eproperty? Owner/Homeowner' lS Permit Applicant
Name: yiyYethCL A Company Name:
Address; $31445ny re, City: Es?l?? m5 Statez_? Zip: i8 2 
Phone: Mobile: 5863 ??007 2

Driver's LibenSeii: 11%; 0?6 g?rlf 7g} Emaii: .&7ch& AVID ?(if @Ydima? 

Contractor Contractor is Permit Applicant

 

 

 

 

RepreSentatiye Name: Company'Name.?
Address: City: State: Zip:
Phone: Mobile: Email:

 

 

City of Detroit License#:

 

Tenant or Business Occupant Tenant is 
Name: Phone: Email:

 

 

Architect] Engineer/ Consultant DArchitect/Engineer/Consulta 

 

 

Name: State Registrationi?: Expiration Date:
Address: City: State: Zip:
Phone: Mobile: Email:

 

 

 

Homeowner Affidavit .(Only required for residential permits obtained by homeowner 
I hereby certify that I am the legal owner and occupant of the subject property and the wor E'ZAsuan 
permit application shall be completed by me. 1 am familiar with the applicable codes and quirenierrts??i the: Betti Michigap
of Detroit and take full responsibility for all code compliance. fees and inspections related the Installa?ugg?gyg? 
herein described 1 shall neither hire nor Sub-contract to any other person firm or corpora i. ?Eliot?

work covered 5y this building permit. .
Signature Date: j? 
Subscribedandsworntobafcm ethls daynf I) by 20 i/f . kn. Mama 

Homeowner
.. My commission expires: N55) Le, 1013

      
  
 

2823

Print Name.

  

  

 

Signature:

 

 

Notary Putty;?

Permit Applicant Signature

I hereby certify that the information on this application is true and correct. have reviewed all deed restrictions that
may apply-to this construction and am aware. of my resporisibilty certify that the proposed work is
authorized by the owner of record and I have been authorized to make this application as the property owneds)
authorized agent. Further I agree to conform to all applicable laws and ordinances ofjurisdictipn. 
WILL EXPIRE WHEN N0 ARE REQUESTED AND CONDUCTED WITHIN 180 DAYS OF THE DATE
OF ISSUANCE OR THE DATE OF THE PREVIOUS INSPECTI ND. THAT EXPIRED PERMITS CANNOT BE REFUNDED.

Print Nam??g g; Ef?ignatur .
moan.

 

   

      

the 
Notary Public State of Michigan

 
   

  

 

 

and sworntu before mat is daynf 2:0 3/ M). Cobm?gw Boom; 4 2023
*n I .ACF .9371. Countyoimi" 
Signature: a? My commissron ext-tires - -- -- 

    

 

 

Notary Public i 

 

 

circumvent the licensing requirements of this state relating to persons who are to perform work on a residential building or a
residential structure Violators of Section 23a are subject to civil fines.

 

 

 

'on?N?nn mum. -.-

arr/16.113 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 .

 

 

 

 

 

. 

 


.

c.
.. war

a?


. WM.

mnuijmum-

.v

 

.

 

 



     

        

  


It I

a 



vs 

 

 

 

untvigi 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



. 
.1 J, r?



 
?31sz 
?gs-ff 4/555COLOR SYSTEM D
ACCEPTABLE COLOR COMBINATIONS *MS = MUNSELL STANDARD
BODY

TRIM

SASH

SHUTTERS

Stucco:
Match half-timbering color Match trim color or A:9,
Leave natural or match original stucco color, or match existing stone trim B:18, B:19
or A:3, A:4, C:4, C:5, D:1, D:2
color or match shingle color
or A:8, A:9, B:6, B:8, B:11,
Half-timbering:
B:12, B:13, B:14, B:18
A:8, B:6, B:8, B:11, B:12, B:13, B:14, B:19

Match trim color or match
sash color

Shingles/Clapboard:
B:6, B:8, B:11 (rare), B:12, B:13, B:14
Existing brick or stone

A:3 Light Yellow
MS: 5Y 8/6

A:4 Pale Yellow
MS: 2.5Y 8.5/4

A:8 Blackish Green
MS: 2.5BG 2/2

A:9 Moderate
Reddish Brown
MS: 7.5R 3/6

B:6 Moderate Brown
MS: 7.5YR 4/4

B:8 Grayish
Brown
MS: 5YR 3/2

B:11 Grayish Olive
Green
MS: 5GY 4/2

B:12 Grayish Green
MS: 10G 4/2

B:13 Moderate Olive
Brown
MS: 2.5Y 4/4

B:14 Dark Grayish
Olive
MS: 10Y 2/2

B:18 Dark Reddish
Brown
MS: 2.5YR 2/4

B:19 Black
MS: N 0.5/

C:4 Yellowish White
MS: 5Y 9/1

C:5 Yellowish White
MS: 2.5Y 9/2

D:1 Brownish Pink
MS: 7.5YR 7/2

D:2 Light Brown
MS: 5YR 6/4

FIND OUT MORE! www.detroitmi.gov/hdc
SUBMIT ALL DOCUMENTATION TO: hdc@detroitmi.gov

 