Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday September 4, 2019 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Commission Meeting Minutes
Attending: Dorothy Milne, Secretary; Wally Andersen, Vice President; Irene Bermudez,
Commissioner; Al Goldberg, Treasurer; Nick Kosiek; Commissioner, Roberto Arista, Branch
Manager of Byline Bank; Cindy Plante, RP Resident; Carolina Juarez, RPBA staff
Absent: Allen Smith, Commissioner, Chris Johnson, Chairperson
1. Welcome
Meeting began at 9:04 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
Cindy Plante, Rogers Park resident was present to observe SSA Commission meeting.
3. 2019 June & July Minutes
Commission reviewed 2019 June minutes. Make correction from “Asian Nation” to
“Asian Station”, no other changes, nor additional information was requested. Motion to
approve 2019 June minutes as amended (Goldberg/Bermudez). Unanimously approved.
Commission reviewed 2019 July minutes. Make correction to Wally Andersen and Irene
Bermudez’s attendance, they were both in attendance via telephone. No other changes
or corrections were requested. Motion to approve 2019 July minutes with additional
information requested (Goldberg/Bermudez). Unanimously approved.
4. 2019 July Financials
Commission reviewed 2019 July financials.
5. Holiday Decorations 2019
Commission confirmed additional spending for lighting up Morse and Glenwood for the
holidays.
6. Manager’s Updates – Carolina gave updates to commission on the following:
• BIPs
Commission discussed Servicios Villarreal’s BIP application. Commission would
like the business and property owner to agree on a consistent look for all the
businesses in the same property. They also requested that the signs installed be
complimentary to the building’s design, if installed over the building’s façade.
Carolina will send business owner a list of eligible options to choose from. The
commission also requested that the business owner abide by City of Chicago
regulations when installing signage over the storefront windows.
Commissioners also suggested that the BIP application include verbiage
requesting that property owners of buildings with multiple storefronts consider
a consistent and complimentary look for all storefronts when investing in
signage.
• Vision Clark Street Crew Updates
Carolina gave Commission updates on Clark/Chase intersection, Storefront
Improvement Design Guidelines, Commercial Development Guidelines, National
Night Out, EV conducting one-on-one technical assistance, People Spot on Clark
Street, and elimination of EVI crew.
7. New Businesses: None

 Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday September 4, 2019 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

8. Carolina gave RPBA Updates:
i. PR firm
ii. GROW/Progresando Grant
iii. GSM
iv. Taste of Clark Street: Sunday, September 22, 2019 / 2-6 p.m.
9. Old Business
None
10. New Business
• Strategic Planning check-in
Next meeting will be dedicated to reviewing the plan and assessing its
implementation.
Meeting was adjourned at 10 a.m.
NEXT MEETING: November 6, 2019

 