STAFF REPORT: 11-13-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6025
ADDRESS: 1474 SHIPHERD
HISTORIC DISTRICT: WEST VILLAGE
APPLICANT: MARE AMHOWITZ, PATRON ENTERPRISES
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 10/30/2019
DATE OF STAFF SITE VISIT: 10/29/2019

PREPARED BY: A. DYE

SCOPE: WINDOW REPLACEMENT AND REMOVAL, INSTALL REAR STAIRS, REMOVE
SYNTHETIC SIDING, EXTERIOR PAINTING, FRONT PORCH REPAIR, SECURITY LIGHTS,
ANTENNA
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The building located at 1474 Shipherd Street is a 2-½ -story single family residence that was
constructed ca. 1913. The building at the time of district designation (1983) was clad in smaller width
aluminum white siding at the lower half of the building, narrow beige aluminum siding on the second
story and wider width yellow aluminum siding within the front gable. It featured wood windows, a
simple gabled roof with asphalt shingles, a one-story bay at the left side of the front façade and a small
entry porch (accessed by four stairs) on the right side of the front facade.
Sometime between 1983 and 2007, the original porch was replaced without a COA. Please see the below
photos which depicts the illegally installed replacement porch.
In November 2018, a COA was issued by HDC staff for the repair of the existing wood risers at the front
porch stair with new wood risers, and the repair of existing wood risers and newel post with new wood
risers and newel post on the back stairs. All work was to be painted or stained to match existing. In January
2019 the HDC approved the construction of a new garage at the rear of the lot.
In August 2019, the applicant met with staff to discuss replacement windows. While waiting for the
additional required submission information, staff conducted a site visit and noticed work had been
completed without a COA and permit, including: removal of the aluminum siding, exterior painting, new
wood windows/removal of a window, and the rebuilding of the front porch.
Since the August site visit, the applicant installed security lights on the front elevation. Below are
comparison photographs: the left photo is from time of designation (1983); the right photo shows its
current appearance.

 PROPOSAL
With the current proposal, the applicant is requesting the Commission’s approval for the following work
items:
All Elevations
• Removal of manufactured siding to expose the original wood siding
• Wood siding painted white; windows and trim painted green
• Replacement wood windows installed
West Elevation/Front
• Front porch floor boards redone, not posts
• Security lights installed
• Windows **
First floor, Bay window:
 Center fixed window replaced with double-hung (leaded glass transom remains)
 Two flanking single double-hung replaced with single double-hung
Second floor: two single double-hungs replaced with two single double-hungs
Third floor: original fixed window remains
Side/North Elevation
• Windows
 First floor: photos not submitted to clearly show before and after conditions
Side/South Elevation
• Windows
 First floor: Leaded glass fixed window remains, single double-hung replaced with single
double-hung, two single double-hungs (within mulled opening) replaced with two single
double-hung, fixed window in rear porch remains
 Second floor: single double-hung replaced with single double-hung
Rear Elevation

 •

Windows
 First floor: single double-hung replaced with single double-hung, single double-hung on
porch removed and opening closed
 Second floor: two single double-hungs replaced with two single double-hungs
 Back porch stairs rebuilt

**Replacement windows are Jeld-Wen, primed wood frames, double-hung operation, one-over-one, clear
glass, frames painted green to match surrounding trim
STAFF OBSERVATIONS AND RESEARCH
All Elevations
• The removal of the manufactured siding allows the original narrow wood clapboard siding and
decorative fish scale gable siding to be shown.
• The window and trim color closely matches Color System B, B11: Grayish Olive Green
West/Front Elevation
• The aluminum wrapping the top horizontal trim of the window remains in place (the remaining
three sides have been removed).
• The sills of the first floor windows (all four of them) remain wrapped in aluminum.
• The front porch has been rebuilt (as opposed to only the risers and newel posts being replaced), as
the wood is unfinished and the handrail placement against the column and newel post are different
than the stained railing). It is not clear if the applicant proposes to paint or stain the porch.
• Two security lights have been installed: one above left bay window, the other on the far right of the
porch.
• An entry light to the right of the front door has been installed.
• A dish-type antenna was installed on the front elevation without a COA sometime between 2011
and 2013 (per Google maps).
North Elevation
• As photos were not submitted of the before and after condition of the windows, staff can’t
comment.
South Elevation
• The aluminum still wraps the sill of the leaded glass window (whereas the other three sides have
been removed).
• The side-by-side double-hung windows’ wood mullion and sill remain wrapped in aluminum.
East Elevation
• The rear stairs have been rebuilt. It is not clear if the applicant intends to stain or paint them.
• The porch’s double-hung window was removed. New wood siding has been cut to fill the opening
leaving a distinct outline of the former window. It is not clear how/if the applicant intends to finish
this any further.
• The sill of the remaining first floor window looks to be wrapped in aluminum.
• Beadboard has been installed at grade, matching the existing board on the south elevation.
Applicant hasn’t stated if it will be painted.

 ISSUES
West Elevation
• The solid wood double-hung windows match the material, size, operation and appearance of the
original windows (exception is the double-hung window in the center bay opening). However staff
does not know the condition of the original wood windows and if they were beyond repair.
• The new porch mimics the previous porch (which was issued a COA in 2018 for only the repair of
the risers and one newel post), but does not match the original porch as shown in the designation
slide. The original porch offered detailing to match the vernacular design of the early 20th century
house and included round porch columns with simple capitals, a square, wide newel post, and
straight balusters. The original stair railing was no longer standing (if there had been one to begin
with) and two single boards comprised the newel post and handrail. Additionally, a balustrade ran
the perimeter of the porch roof, which included identical wide/boxy newel posts. The newly
constructed porch and stair retain a contemporary deck appearance due to the railing design, thin,
square posts and unfinished surfaces.
• The design of the new entrance light is sympathetic to the design of the house.
• Painting the trim olive green conforms to the Color System B color chart.
• The painting the wood siding white does not conform to the Color System B color chart.
• The locations of the security lights are not appropriate to the historic nature of the property and
should be removed. Per the Commission’s “Security Bar and Lighting Guidelines”, only ground
lighting and porch lighting are appropriate for the front of a property.
• The antenna dish installation doesn’t meet the Commission’s “Antenna and Satellite Dish
Guidelines” which states “Antennas shall be placed so that they are inconspicuous from the public
right-of-way and do not damage or obscure character-defining features; and “Any type of dish
antennas shall not be attached to the facades of residences or mounted on roofs in a manner that
they are visible from the street. It is recommended dish-type antennas be placed on other buildings,
such as garages or on the surrounding grounds, where their presence can be screened from the street
by landscaping”.
North Elevation
• The applicant must submit before and after photographs to confirm the extent of the window
replacement.
East Elevation
• The removal of the window on the rear porch does not impact the historical appearance of the
house. The Standards require original window openings to retain a profile so it is clear the opening
has been altered. Historically this area of the house would have been an open porch, so this window
opening is likely not original to the house.
• The beadboard matches the adjacent board, but has not been painted.
• No documentation exists on the design of the original rear exterior stairs. The previously existing
stairs displayed no architectural or historic detailing. The existing stairs are straight-forward in
design and match those on the front of the house. The natural finish is not appropriate to the style
and era of the house.
All Elevations
The remaining aluminum wrapping portions of the original window openings is awkward in both
appearance and maintenance. It minimizes the historic and architectural impact made by the removal of
95% of the house’s aluminum siding.

 RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion that the work, as proposed for the full property, will result in the removal of historic
materials or the alteration of features and spaces that characterize the property.
1) However staff recommends the Commission issue a COA for the following components as they
meet the following Secretary of the Interiors Standards for Rehabilitatio:
#2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic
materials or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided
#5) Distinctive features, finishes and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that
characterize a property shall be preserved.
#6) Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced. When the severity of
deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in
design, color, texture and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of
missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
#9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic
materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and
shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
•
•
•

The removal of the aluminum siding and retention of the original wood siding.
The installation of the front entry light.
The wood siding may remain white; the green may remain for the windows and trim, as this color
scheme doesn’t detract from the historic nature of the house and district.

2) Staff recommends the Commission issue a COA for the following components, with conditions, as
they meet the Secretary of the Interiors Standards for Rehabilitation:
#2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic
materials or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided
#5) Distinctive features, finishes and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that
characterize a property shall be preserved.
#6) Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced. When the severity of
deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in
design, color, texture and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of
missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
#9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic
materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and
shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
•

Due to the character-defining elements of the historic porch, the replacement porch should be
modified so its appearance closely emulates the original porch, which can be obtained by the
following:

 •
•
•

•
•

o The replacement of the square columns with round columns (of a similar
dimension/diameter) which will retain the square trim detail at the top,
o The three existing newel posts will be retained; square newel caps (matching the
trim/capital on the porch columns) will be installed so the posts read as individual structural
components.
o The exterior porch balusters shall be enclosed at the top rail to match the interior
baluster/rail detail.
o The upper porch balustrade shall be rebuilt as depicted in the designation slide.
o All porch items will be painted to eliminate its appearance as a deck. The color will be
selected by the applicant and will be submitted to staff for review.
The minimal size and design of the security lights are appropriate, however their locations are not
and will be relocated to meet the Commission’s guidelines. (Locations to be submitted for staff
review.)
The dish-type antenna will be removed and relocated to a spot that meets the Commission’s
guidelines. (Location to be submitted for staff review.)
The newel posts on the rear stairs will receive newel caps (matching those selected for the front
stair newel posts), the length of the spindles shall be shortened to not extend past the bottom rails,
and the stairs and railings will be painted or stained in a historically appropriate color (possibly
matching the color selected for the front porch and stairs).
The siding installed covering the window enclosure should be feathered in so the opening is no
longer evident.
The bead board will be painted white to match the existing condition.

3) Staff recommends the Commission deny a COA for the following project as it alters the features
and spaces that characterize the property and doesn’t meet the Secretary of the Interiors Standards
for Rehabilitation:
#2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic
materials or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided
#6) Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced. When the severity of
deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in
design, color, texture and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of
missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.
#9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic
materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and
shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
•

The replacement of the original wood-double hung windows (and fixed center bay window) as the
applicant did not submit documentation to substantiate the original windows were beyond repair.
Should the Commission issue a COA for the installation of the wood replacement windows, as they
closely match the original in material, operation, dimension and glass, it should be done with the
following conditions:


The windows on the north elevation be submitted for staff review to confirm the new
windows match the old windows.

 


The double-hung in the center bay will be replaced with a fixed window to match the
original design.
The aluminum coil stock, in the locations noted earlier in the staff report, will be removed
and the original wood trim will be repaired and painted.

Plans, photographs and specifications, required to meet the above approvals shall be submitted to staff for
review.

 DESIGNATION SLIDE – MAY 1983

 DESIGNATION SLIDE – MAY 1983. Note round
wood columns & balustrade at roof and deck

 2007, Google Streetview. Note, that the
front porch has been replaced without
approval

 APPLICANT PHOTOS – NOVEMBER 2018

 APPLICANT PHOTOS – NOVEMBER 2018

 APPLICANT PHOTOS – NOVEMBER 2018

 AUGUST 2019. Conditions prior to window
replacement. Applicant has removed
siding, painted the exterior walls, and
replaced the front & rear porch (while
retaining the original roof)

 AUGUST 2019

 AUGUST 2019

 SEPTEMBER 2019. Windows have
been replaced and rear enclosed
porch window opening infilled.
Security lights were also installed.
Satellite dish/antenna appeared
after 2011, per Google streetview.

September 2019

             APPLICANT PHOTO – SEPTEMBER 2019

 APPLICANT PHOTO – SEPTEMBER 2019

 APPLICANT PHOTO – SEPTEMBER 2019

 APPLICANT PHOTO – SEPTEMBER 2019

 HDC STAFF PHOTOS – OCTOBER 2019

 HDC STAFF PHOTOS – OCTOBER 2019

 HDC STAFF PHOTOS – OCTOBER 2019

 HDC STAFF PHOTOS – OCTOBER 2019

 HDC STAFF PHOTOS – OCTOBER 2019

HDC STAFF PHOTOS – OCTOBER 2019

  Patron LLC
1861 Grove Street
Highland, MI. 48356
patronllc@aol.com

September 24, 2019
Historical Department
Attn: Brendan Cagney
Ref: 1474 Shipherd

The exterior work that was performed at the above property is as follows.
Window replacement
Window trim painting
Old siding removed
Existing siding painted
Front porch floor boards redone, not posts.
Remove back porch window and close opening
Back porch rebuilt
Security lights installed in front
Sod laid
Old shrubs removed

This work was performed without your department approval because the owner had the understanding that the prior
GC took care of it. The owner is a very reputable individual that owns many properties in the city and will do what he
needs to in order to move forward. Let me know if you need more information in order to get the compliance
certificate.
Thank you

    