PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Diego Ferrer, Ricardo Morales

Minutes – December 3, 2009 Meeting
Present in Chicago:

David Vaught
Diego Ferrer

Present in Springfield:

Ed Bedore
Mike Bass

Present via Teleconference:

Rick Morales

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:15 a.m.

Member Bass made a motion to approve Member Morales participate via teleconference. The
motion was seconded by Member Ferrer. The motion was unanimously approved.
Member Ferrer made a motion to approve the minutes of November 5, 2009. The motion was
seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was CMS Proposed Rules. Director Matt Brown stated that Matt
Hammoudeh with CMS was present and wanted to make a brief statement about the printer
consolidation that is ongoing at CMS before proceeding. Mr. Hammoudeh wanted to provide an
update to the Board on the printers, copiers and fax machines and their numbers in State offices.
CMS has looked at this issue with two components. One from the master contract perspective
that when requests for such equipment are made that they are accurately scrutinized and
minimized as much as possible, and two, that the high number of machines in some State offices
is under a plan to reduce those machines. CMS has been working with the support of the
Governor’s office and Office of Management and Budget to make significant progress in this
area. CMS is currently coordinating to implement an ongoing rationalization of these types of
devices that will maximize the State equipment while reducing the numbers of machines in this
area, i.e. printers, fax machines and copiers. They have also had the benefit of Director Matt
Brown’s input on this matter and stressed the importance that the relationship between
procurement and surplus is strengthened to ensure when there is under-utilized equipment that
the State owns, that it is put into active use rather than going out for a procurement. During the
October meeting, Roger Nondorf spoke and gave the Board some numbers about orders there
were held or denied and CMS has taken that to another level. In light of their current policy
changes, CMS has frozen all orders on printer, copiers and fax machines not only on the master
contract, but in general. An agency is not allowed to go outside of the master contract or to
acquire these pieces of equipment until the new policy is implemented and issued in total. Mr.
Hammoudeh stated that CMS has provided a copy of that memo to the Board for review. Mr.
Hammoudeh said that on the property management side Assistant Director Steve McCurdy will
review all equipment when an agency moves and find out what the needs of the agency are to try
to utilize multifunctional devices and make sure that network devices, with the assistance of
BCCS, is the standard to minimize the high number of machines. These new policies will reduce
m:091203
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 the number of devices in State space and ensure that if a viable piece of equipment is in the
possession of an agency and being underutilized that it will be redeployed when an agency
makes a request for similar equipment. On the surplus side, there is a mechanism in place to
quickly capture underutilized equipment from agencies. As CMS finds existing State offices that
may have too many devices for existing headcount, they are creating a qualified pool of surplus
equipment for redeployment at other agencies. In the near future they will be issuing a directive
for all State personnel to reduce these pieces of equipment and under the additional authority of
the Green Government Act; this initiative alone should yield millions of dollars in savings. CMS
will continue to push for additional reductions of existing devices at other agencies and will
update the Board of their progress over the next couple of months.
Member Bass asked that since the order of printers, fax machines and copiers is prohibited; does
CMS still have ability to lease these pieces of equipment? Mr. Hammoudeh replied
affirmatively. Member Bass asked if CMS has a gross estimate of how much of the activity is
leased versus out right procurement. Mr. Hammoudeh referred to Roger Nondorf to answer that
question. Mr. Nondorf replied that presently there is not a lease option through master contract
for facsimile, printer or copier equipment. The freeze on master contracts at this point would be
relevant only to purchases of equipment. There is not a master contract option available today to
State agencies to lease any of these devices. Member Bass asked if State agencies lease this type
of equipment today. Mr. Nondorf replied that there is equipment in the field today under prior
lease agreement but there is no option to renew so those lease agreements would eventually end.
Member Bass asked for a percentage of the footprint that is still under lease. Mr. Nondorf replied
that he did not have that answer, but could get it to him. No further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was CMS Proposed Rules – Acquisition, Management and Disposal of Real
Property. Director Matt Brown stated that there were two presentations today. The first
presentation is on Title 44 Administrative Code 5000 for the specific section dealing with space
utilization. This CMS proposed rule was at the request of the Procurement Policy Board several
months ago. The original submission was considered by JCAR to be insufficient at the time so
CMS agreed to withdraw the rule and come back with a draft. The new draft that was presented
addresses the ability to restack a facility in a modern configuration that meets current space
standards. The way CMS came to this conclusion is by associated depreciated value of the
facility being occupied. A specific condition that has been outlined about this evaluation is that
there is no distinction between leases and State-owned property and how that application would
differ, as well as the related intervals of when this exercise may occur. It seems practical that one
would consider this an evaluation at lease renewal or when leases are put out for competitive
selection while moving is being considered; but seems impractical to use this evaluation on an
on-going basis. There is a programming issue that is still involved here and is better addressed in
additional rule making. Mr. Scott Seder is here to represent CMS on this issue. Also in
attendance was State Architect Ron Wheeler to answer technical questions.
Mr. Wheeler stated that he wanted to clarify that this particular rule was put into place so that
CMS could establish some definition for sustainable economic practices for their business, but
also understands Director Brown’s comment that you would like it broadened and like to see
their entire due diligence process. Mr. Seder stated that CMS has undertaken separately with the
Board’s guidance, a complete revision of 41 separate rule provisions that relate to property
management. In the course of revision, CMS has received comments from leasing reps,
administrative staff and have language proceeding from all the commenters. CMS has contacted
Director Brown and gone over orally all the concepts in which he vetted a few of them and CMS
is currently chasing down some of the concerns he raised. CMS is now at the stage of providing
m:091203

2

 language and hope to have actual language if the Board wishes to review prior to CMS
submitting to JCAR. The themes in the recommendations are primarily those of affirming CMS’
role in control and ownership of these types of property management issues that come before the
Board. Setting out standards, updating and revising with current law in addition to putting an
agency on notice and the people that do business with the State getting notice about how CMS
proceeds whether it is through alternate RFI or RFI. CMS wants to make sure they come up with
rules that will allow this Board to hold the agency accountable and provide taxpayers and the
public notice. Mr. Seder stated that he would be happy to answer any questions the Board might
have.
Member Bedore wanted to know what the recommendation of square footage per person was.
Mr. Wheeler replied it is 275 sq. ft. of rentable area for leased property primarily. It is 200 sq. ft
for useable space in a State owned facility. Member Bedore stated that a lease here today had a
total of 449 sq. ft overall and dialed it is down to 279 sq. ft. Sure you can get it down to 275 sq.
ft., but he questioned from the 449 sq. ft. down to the 275 sq. ft. You say that you exclude all
conference rooms, break rooms, etc., but maybe the Board has questions about that. Should
every floor have conference rooms? Should every floor have a break room? These are legitimate
questions from the Board and you come here and say you got the footage down to 279. The
Board should question what was actually knocked off, what is it? Do we have standards for
break rooms? Do we have standards for training rooms? It seems every lease has training
facilities in it. Isn’t there a central area for training? There are two training rooms at Churchill
Road. Everyone has a training room. So CMS dialed down the training room here and it gets you
down to 279 sq. ft. Should every floor have a conference room? Should every floor have a break
room? Are there some standards of what the sizes of these break rooms are? Member Bedore
stated that he does not see any of that in the proposal. Mr. Wheeler replied affirmatively that the
specific issue is not addressed by rule here, but it is addressed when they do project
development. CMS has developed information across the portfolio of where CMS has their large
training and conference rooms. They have made an internal policy not to duplicate those when
CMS creates new space. They do force agencies to seek the use of those existing spaces. When it
comes to lease renewals the current proposed rule section 5000-341 does not specifically address
renewal leases. The events for rules to apply are when CMS see Capitol funds for deferred
maintenance or renovation of a facility they will ensure in that process they maintain a new
sustainable standard of 275 sq. ft or 200 sq. ft., whichever applies, for those facilities. And where
they seek new lease space where CMS does intend to spend the equivalent of an annual base rent
figure; that typically is in their new procurement. CMS will ensure that they meet the new space
standard of 275 sq. ft for leases. Chairman Vaught asked if the 275 sq. ft. include break rooms.
Mr. Wheeler replied that includes everything except public areas such as files, waiting room,
conference rooms and yes it would include break rooms. Member Bedore asked why are all of
the leases coming before the Board excluding all of those rooms. Mr. Wheeler replied that most
of those leases coming up for renewal do not anticipate an annual base rent cost figure an
amortization into those leases which would inflate those costs to reduce those areas. That doesn’t
mean that CMS does not make the attempt to limit the access area in lease space before they
renew it, but don’t anticipate wanting to spend the money to further reduce the space by
reconfiguring it when they are doing a renewal. Member Bedore stated that none of these rules
apply to renewable leases. Mr. Wheeler replied that the specific rule before JCAR today does
not. Member Bedore stated that it is 99% of the Board’s work currently. Chairman Vaught asked
when there will be a rule that will apply to these leases. Mr. Wheeler replied that it is not that
they don’t apply to leases. They set the standard of 275 rentable square feet, but they qualified
that and said they were not going to initiate a process were CMS would spend money to reduce
that space and have rules already in place that may or may not be modified in their new proposed
m:091203

3

 rule making. This allows CMS to not specifically apply these rules at the addition of
expenditures that would otherwise need not be made. So there is an economical qualifier on
when these rules apply. The specific rule before JCAR today does apply when CMS spends more
than 40% of the replacement cost of the building. It does apply when CMS spends more than the
annual base rent on leased property. Member Bedore stated in other words this would not apply
to any renewal lease that comes before this Board. Mr. Wheeler replied that is correct except for
leases where CMS does in fact do a major renovation and cannot tell you whether or not you will
see renewable leases where that decision has been made. Member Bedore stated that in all the
years he has been on the Board he cannot think of a handful of leases that this rule would apply
to. So CMS stands up here and says they now have standards, but that does not apply to 99% of
what they are doing, but we have standards.
Member Bass made the comment that CMS is talking about rules, revising rules by bringing
them up to date and getting the bigger picture but he is not comfortable when CMS brings
forward pieces and parts of a larger picture because it is hard to comprehend the stategy in that
piece meal environment. If you are asking the Board to support sections or revisions of parts of
the totality of what CMS is looking at; as one Board member he is not in support of this. He
wants to see the total package of revisions, so he can assess all of it within a comprehensive
view. Member Bedore stated that he agrees with Member Bass and will not support before JCAR
the way it is presented to the Board. Director Brown wanted to make a comment from the staff
perspective. One of the things that is challenging at the staff level in reviewing the rules as they
come forward its very technical nature and he has met with Mr. Wheeler on several occasions.
Director Brown knows the professional caliber of the work by Mr. Wheeler and his staff and Mr,
Wheeler is intending to accomplish. Director Brown stated that he has to go forward to see how
these changes play out. What PPB uses at the staff level is the National Institute of Building
Sciences. It is essentially by government for government and works at the primarily federal level.
While that is not a body of rules it demonstrates a very wide field of policy and operations that is
very similar to the way the State of Illinois operates. That a basis at the staff level we use to
understand these things and will continue to have discussions with CMS staff. The PPB has
found it to be pretty helpful and drills down on a lot of different things about real property
inventories, asset management which is the direction CMS and staff are taking their activities.
Director Brown just wanted to share how the PPB is engaged in this process to reach a
reasonable outcome. Mr. Seder replied he appreciates all the Board’s comments will make sure
that Director Brown and the Board sees all the revisions that have been drafted so CMS can
constructively work on this current rule and is aware that the nature of these rules promulgated
first and then the other rules being promulgated after is not effective to the Board and that was
done to get this rule filed on the Board’s behalf as quickly as possible. CMS will do everything
they can to abate the Board’s concerns about the vision and direction that these rules are taking.
Director Brown stated that upon the review of procurement rules the Board has a responsibility
to make appropriate comments and share those with the JCAR. These are typically done in
concert and prior to the JCAR consideration of moving those rules forward. So at this time the
Board will need an official motion on how to recommend action through the JCAR process.
Director Brown stated that the Board needs to have their comments into JCAR before December
15, 2009. Member Bedore made a motion to recommend to JCAR that the rules be delayed until
the recommended actions are taken and brought back to the Board for review again. Member
Morales seconded the motion. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was CMS Facilities. In attendance was Nick Kanellopoulos representing the
Bureau of Property Management for CMS. Mr. Kanellopoulos wanted to give some updates.
m:091203

4

 Upon the approval of the lease on Churchill Road CMS has come up with a plan to re-staff and
fill in the vacant workstations that are located in that building. CMS is going to move about 85
additional HFS staff in once the building is re-stacked. The only issue there is that the building
being moved out of by HFS staff does not have a favorable termination option. Therefore CMS
is going to move another agency into that building and will terminate the DCFS lease that is
located at Mendenhall. The net effect of this entire project will be that the building at Churchill
will be fully occupied; the termination of the Mendenhall lease will save the State $1.65 million
the first year and also eliminate a lease that is in holdover. Member Bedore wanted to make a
comment that Mr. Kanellopoulos said to trust him at the last meeting and Member Bedore told
him job well done and the State has saved over $5 million dollars over a five year contract.
Thank you. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that currently holdovers are at 68, which are 43 leases that
are in holdover and 25 leases that will be expiring by June 30, 2010. Mr. Kanellopoulos wanted
to update the Board on the security reductions. As of this week CMS has reduced the security
contract by $2.9 million and a 22% reduction in cost at a 2.3% reduction in total amount of
hours. CMS will continue to make progress and report back to the Board on a monthly basis. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated he would be happy to answer any questions.
Member Bedore wanted to discuss and open RFI and stated that Public Act 095-0101 that states
a historic area of preference the “State of Illinois shall” does not say may, give preference to
locating facilities whenever possible or appropriate if economically feasible in historic properties
in buildings located in the government-recognized historic district or central business district
designated by the local regional planning of the agency. State agencies responsible for leasing,
acquiring or maintaining State facilities shall take all reasonable acts to accomplish this. The RFI
that went out gave no reference to this and it went city-wide. How are you going to judge these
when they come in? Why wasn’t that a part of the RFI and shouldn’t it be amended? There are
also some other comments about things that were omitted from this RFI. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied that CMS is aware of the statute and they intend to follow the law. The fact that they have
requested information within the limits of the city of Springfield does not mean they are not
going to follow all laws that apply to these procurements including that one. Member Bedore
stated that he understands that there are many laws that effect the RFI, but this is a law that is
sensitive. It is sensitive to Mayor Davlin of Springfield. You have to understand the sensitivity of
what CMS is proposing and he believes there should have been some reference to the historic
area. Assistant Director Steve McCurdy replied that it was his decision to do that and did it in
order to find the lowest bidder and reduce their cost as much as possible. CMS did not do a press
release but responded to inquiries from reporters. Member Bedore says he understands doing this
economically but a reference could have been made in the RFI. Director Brown stated he wanted
to clarify that the nature of the procurement process is one of transparency and one of disclosure
to the maximum extent possible so that the Lessor can understand what they being asked to do.
The presumption is that we take for granted as State employees and operators of State
Government that these Lessors are aware of these same laws. Yes, they do need to be compliant
with the law, but letting a lessor who may not be as experienced as others become aware through
your offering that there is such a statute out there cannot hurt anyone and may help prevent
grounds for protest. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that there is a packet that people can request and
will soon be provided as an attachment on the Procurement Bulletin and it is what should be
done and believes that this would not kill competition. Mr. McCurdy stated that he and Director
Brown discussed this issue within the last 48 hours and CMS understands and are not being selfserving and are going to work with Director Brown on this issue. Member Bedore recommends
that Director Brown work with CMS and come up with a proposal to amend the RFI that is out
on the street today and make that in the form of a motion. Chairman Vaught stated that he does
m:091203

5

 think his motion is appropriate here, but thinks that your advice and Director Brown’s advice has
been heard and acknowledged and the validity of it has been expressed. No action was taken.
Next on the agenda was the official review of HFS lease #6132 at 2918 Crossing Court in
Champaign. Director Brown stated that this transaction was put under review as identified by the
overall cost of the facility. The facility is being posed as a replacement facility for an existing
lease. HFS was not happy with their current environment and wanted to move. That cost is
approximately $12 a square foot and is not adjusted to current lease standards or under current
lease. However, replacement moves the total base cost to $21 a square foot which is a
compilation of $14 base rent and a $7 build-out. The reason for the review was the lack of policy
that authorizes such a transaction. As the Board has stated on several occasions the rules need to
come current to demonstrate how such considerations are made and what evaluative factors were
used and that appropriate due diligence was applied to the decision making. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied that as far as the rules go, the Board is aware of the intensions of CMS moving forward.
The terms of this specific procurement are correct. This procedure started when the agency said
they wanted to move from this location. The location is not ideal. It is on the second floor of the
building that it is in. There are problems with an unresponsive landlord, leaking issues, and there
are issues with the way it is laid out. The agency went through the process and a request was
submitted. A bid was put together and included boundaries that were provided by HFS. The
boundaries were chosen by HFS because the majority of the clientele that they serve is in the
area of the Champaign/Urbana region. Also because of the services provided by the office, it was
important that the office is located near public transportation. The bid was published and
received two proposals. The lease before the Board is the less expensive of the two proposals.
Member Morales asked if there was a reason that they only received two responses. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that it could be because of the type of office this is and receives a lot of
clients through the door. In his experience, he has seen that it limits the number of landlords that
will propose on a project. Member Bedore wanted to know why it was not open to all of
Champaign or Urbana or any other small town near there. Mr. McCurdy replied that it should
have been. Mr. McCurdy stated that he has spoken with the Director and CMS is going to
withdraw this lease and go back with a couple of alternatives. Member Morales made motion to
accept the withdrawal of this lease and was seconded by Member Bedore. The motion was
unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was FPR lease #3082 at 320 W. Washington in Springfield. This lease is a
two year lease that CMS is putting into place in order to get this lease out of holdover while a bid
is out on the street for Department of Insurance and FPR gets restacked. The end result of this
lease before the Board reduces the area occupied by both these agencies by 27,156 sq. ft. and that
reduction comes from the fact that FPR moved out of 500 E. Monroe and into 320 W.
Washington. In the first year, this lease will save the State $332,000 based on the reduced square
footage. Mr. Kanellopoulos requests that the Board approve this lease. A motion was made by
Member Bass and was seconded by Member Morales. By a vote of 4-1 the lease was approved.
Member Bedore abstained.
Next on the agenda was DES lease #3530 at 837 S. Westmore in Lombard. Ken Sharkey with
CMS and John Rogers with the DES were in attendance. Mr. Sharkey stated that DES has leased
this location since 1997 and has been in holdover since 2002 with no rental increase since 2001.
The current base rent is $5.75 per foot and the proposed base rent for the first year is $6.50. The
lease allows for a 3% increase in years 2-5 with a lease ending base rate of $7.32. This lease has
a 90-day cancellation notice. Member Bedore made a motion to accept this lease and was
seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
m:091203

6

 Next on the agenda was DES lease #5133 at 1515 East 71st Street in Chicago. Mr. Sharkey state
that DES has leased this space since 1993 and has been in holdover since 2005 and there has
been no rental increase since 2000. The proposed five year lease term has a 36 month
termination option. The first year base rent is at $18.81, which is down from the current rate of
$19.18. Years 2-5 allow for a 2% increase each year. There is a reduction of one guard while one
guard remains as part of the lease going forward.
Member Bedore wanted to refer everyone to the Governor Quinn’s memo on cost-cutting.
Governor Quinn has pledged to genuinely reduce spending and hiring. Expected by all SPOs and
their procurement personnel at the agencies will apply with vigor to determining the
appropriateness of all procurement in light of the financial circumstance we as a State are facing.
These measures are effective immediately. Then there is a memo from James P. Sledge Chief
Procurement Officer that says… “recognize the State is under fiscal hardship and requires a very
thorough level of scrutiny of procurement activities to carry out the principles articulated by
Governor Quinn. All agencies leasing staff involved in review of these procurements should use
utmost diligence and take a critical detailed look prior to advancing procurements under their
responsibility taking time to document within the PBC the suitability of this procurement”. In
light of all this, the Governors memorandum, the Director of the Budget talking about State
agencies having to cut and outside agencies such as caregivers outside the State are being asked
to cut 15-25%. Yet these landlords are being recommended for 3-5% increases and in this lease
before the Board we pay for everything. Member Bedore stated that we should follow the
Governor’s memo and quote him by saying “reduce spending”. These leases should be cut by the
same amount we are asking outside agencies to cut. Member Bedore made a motion to reject this
lease as presented and was seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was DHS lease #4068 at W. Chicago Avenue in Chicago. Mr. Sharkey stated
that DHS has occupied this space since 1986 and has been in holdover since 2001. The lease may
be terminated anytime after the 36th month with a 120-day termination notice. The proposed base
rent is $11.92 and in years 2-5 an additional 1.5% increase. Member Bedore made a motion to
accept this lease and was seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
Member Bedore asked the Chairman to put lease #5050 on East 47th Street in Chicago on a 30day review. Chairman Vaught stated that it can be put under review at the staff level and does
not need a motion. Member Bedore replied that was fine and made the request.
Next on the agenda was Legislation. Director Brown gave a brief update. He stated the Board has
been discussing the implementation of SB51 and there was an introductory meeting on the
subject with all four Chief Procurement Officers. Task forces within each agency have been
assigned to better articulate the needs of the existing organizations. Those task forces will cover
the following areas: conformity and application of contract documents, the nature of the
application of exparte communications and subcontracting, disclosures as well as the compliance
functions of public hearings on sole source transactions and emergencies. By the next meeting
the committee is hoping to have some conclusions that could be represented to the General
Assembly on the in progress.
Member Bedore stated that a couple of months ago, Mr. Kanellopoulos was requested by the
Board to report on energy costs and give a monthly report. The Board has not seen anything in
the last couple of meetings and wanted to know if there has been any progress. Donald Barnes
with CMS replied that the Energy Efficiency Committee has been meeting on a regular basis.
m:091203

7

 They are taking on a number of activities in terms of involving energy efficiency and the
renovation of State owned properties as well as accessing the communities to increase the energy
efficiency in the lease portfolio. There are a number of other activities on-going and as they
come into question they will be keeping the Board updated. Member Bedore asked if they could
submit a written report to the Board regarding leasing. Some of the leases that were approved
today did not have a mention of improving lighting and light sensors that the landlord should be
installing with no additional cost to the State. Member Bedore requested a report on this to see
where CMS is going and why Mr. Kanellopoulos had not put this into all leases that have come
before this Board. Mr. Barnes replied that they will provide a written report each month to the
Board.
The next Board meeting is set for January 7, 2010 at 11:30 a.m. location to be determined.
With no other business to discuss Member Bedore made a motion to adjourn at 1:10 p.m. and
was seconded by Member Morales. The motion was unanimously approved.

m:091203

8

 