Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black
Minutes – October, 2016
Present in Springfield:

Frank Vala
Larry Ivory
Bill Black

Via Telephone:

Rick Morals

Chairman Vala called the regular meeting of the Procurement Policy Board on October 20, 2016 to order.
Roll call was taken by Director von Behren. Chairman Vala, Member Ivory and Member Black were
present in Springfield. Member Morales was participating via telephone. Member Ivory made a motion to
allow Member Morales to participate on the telephone. The motion was seconded by Member Black. All
Members voted in favor by saying, “aye” and the motion carried. Member Morales made a motion to
approve present the minutes of the August 18, 2016 meeting as printed. Member Black seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor saying “aye” and the motion carried.
Next on the agenda was a lease review for the Environmental Protection Agency in Elk Grove Village.
Susan Florence was present for Central Management Services. Ms. Florence stated that this is an EPA
office housing their vehicle admission oversight staff and they have been in this location since 1986.
Member Black asked about the price for snow removal in the area compared to prices throughout the
State because it seemed a little high. Ms. Florence replied that it depended on the snow fall throughout the
year. Member Black asked if we only pay for it if we need it. Ms. Florence stated that was correct.
Member Ivory made a motion to not object to this lease and member Morales seconded the motion. All
members voting in favor by saying “aye” and motion carried.
The next lease on the agenda was for The Department of Human Services. Ms. Florence stated that this
building also houses another office, which works in conjunction with this staff and it is a gross lease.
Member Morales asked what the reasoning was to have the decrease in one lease and an increase in this
one. Ms. Florence stated that the leases were done at different times therefore the rates were different. The
rate for the other lease in this building is for store front space which the lessor feels is more marketable
and so the lease carried a significantly higher rate. Ms. Florence stated that their goal in negotiating both
leases was to end up using the total average of the total rents, so one lease went up and the other went
down and now both leases have the same rates and terms. Chairman Vala asked if this was a client used
building with multi visitors every day. Ms Florence stated that it was mostly a call center environment.
Member Ivory made a motion to not object to this lease and Member Black seconded the motion. All
members voting in favor by saying “aye” and the motion carried.
The next lease on the agenda was also for DHS. Ms. Florence stated that this lease houses the Mid South
Family Community Resource staff serving the Oakland area as well as the Food Stamp employment
training staff serving all of Chicago. Member Ivory questioned why the personal space per square foot
went from 155 to 254. Ms. Florence explained that the prior lease was a call center and those tend to be

1

 Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black
smaller because they don’t see clients and have a smaller footprint. Member Morales asked what is the
target space were always looking for. Ms. Florence stated that it was 275 square foot per person.
Chairman Vala asked why the cost of security was paid in the lease and not directly by the using agency.
Ms. Florence explained that the security guards are purchased off a master contract through CMS.
Member Morales made a motion to not object to this lease and Member Ivory seconded the motion. All
Members in favor by saying “aye” and the motion carried.
The next agenda item was an update on legislation. Director von Behren stated that there was no new
legislation report at this time from General Assembly that impacted the Board. Member Ivory asked if
there was anyway to have little more information ahead of time in reference to any Legislation that
indirectly impacts procurement so we can look at it and be a little bit more informed. Director von Behren
stated that the executive staff could certainly do that. The next Procurement Policy Board meeting is
scheduled for November 10, 2016. Member Ivory made a motion to adjourn and it was seconded by
Member Black. All members voting in favor by saying “aye” motion carried and the October meeting ot
he Procurement Policy Board was adjourned.

2

 