Chairman: Jay Stewart
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black

Minutes – November 13, 2014 Meeting
Present in Chicago:

Jay Stewart
Rick Morales
Larry Ivory

Present in Springfield:

Ed Bedore

Absent:

Bill Black

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 10:45 a.m.
The first item on the agenda was the approval of the Board meeting minutes from October 23, 2014. Member
Morales made a motion to approve the minutes as presented, with Member Bedore seconding the motion. The
motion was unanimously approved.
The next item on the agenda was the Auditor General Compliance Examination. Director Carter stated that in
the Board’s packet is the summary page from the Auditor General for the PPB’s recent compliance period that
ended June 30, 2014. We worked with the auditors and for the second consecutive audit we didn’t have any
findings or repeated findings and nothing to report, so the Board is in compliance. Chairman Stewart stated
that he is just speaking for himself, he thinks that’s very good work by the Board and staff in particular. All
agencies have to undergo the audit process and it’s pretty exacting. If you go to the Auditor General’s website
it’s very, very rare to see no findings on an audit. He stated that it is not impossible, but it’s very, very rare. If
anyone knows Auditor General Holland, you know that they are pretty thorough and they don’t mess around,
so he thinks it speaks well of the Board and the staff that this is the second consecutive audit with no findings,
which again is something that he thinks the staff deserves congratulations for. Member Morales replied
absolutely.
The next item on the agenda was the General Revisions to the Board Rules. Director Carter stated that the
staff has worked on an overhaul of the Board’s rules and he doesn’t foresee any sort of concerns or
complaints with this, the large part of the paper itself is an update of the FOIA rules to be more up to date
with what’s out there in the FOIA Act, OMA changes and stuff like that. We plan on trying to file in early
December with JCAR, but would be happy to send out copies ahead of time and deal with any concerns,
although he doesn’t foresee any and just wants to make sure everything is buttoned up and ready to go before
we submit. Chairman Stewart asked if there were any questions or comments at this time.
Member Bedore stated that he is not sure what page it is on, but it’s at line 260. Chairman Stewart replied that
he sees it for emergency meeting. Member Bedore replied yes that it may be called by the chair or at the
request of two members and their location shall be in Springfield or Chicago. What if we were having an
emergency meeting in southern Illinois, or at SIU or someplace else? Why does it state Chicago and
Springfield, and it doesn’t say may, it says shall. Director Carter stated that he thinks they can adjust that, he
thinks that the original thought was to ensure that we had the availability of video conferencing, but we’ll
open that up and change the rigidness of that structure for you. Member Bedore stated that a few years ago the
Board had an emergency meeting and some of the Board was in Champaign on Board business, so the
majority of the Board was in Champaign, so under this rule that would have been illegal. Chairman Stewart
stated that they it can say or other locations as determined by two members or the chair to allow for the
M:141113
222 SOUTH COLLEGE STREET, SUITE 231, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY: (888) 642-3450

 flexibility if it’s not going to be in one of those two locations, he agrees you’re not limited as long as it’s open
to the public and Board members can participate, the specific location doesn’t need to be restricted in the
rules. Member Bedore stated that it is under emergency meeting so there could be an emergency meeting
down in Carbondale. Chairman Stewart replied yes or in the Quad-Cities or anywhere, good catch. Director
Carter stated that he would make the change. Member Bedore stated that we are always having a problem, he
supposes it is required by law about having to be on State property. Member Morales replied that he believes
it has something to do with being an authorized building with public access, but it does have to be State
property and he thinks it was required by law before and he bets that it still is. Chairman Stewart stated that
under State law it has to be open and available to the public and he knows that some other bodies, local units
of government have gotten a little sideways with the Attorney General when they try to have a Board meeting
at an individual’s private residence. He thinks that if it is open to the public it probably qualifies and agencies
get into trouble if it is on purely private property, then they run into could anyone really show up. So he
thinks as a practical matter agencies try to do it on government property, but theoretically if you had a cast of
thousands that wanted to come to a PPB meeting and if we rented out some space for a giant meeting you
could do that but he thinks that the issue is that private property sometimes inadvertently gets public bodies in
trouble because people are excluded and that is when you run into it. It’s safest to have it on public property,
he doesn’t think the rules specifically address it or the Act that the case law that he has seen out there.
Member Bedore stated that he has nothing more. Chairman Stewart stated that the Board can continue to give
Director Carter feedback. He thinks that a lot of it is general housekeeping to reflect recent changes in the
Freedom of Information Act and the Open Meetings Act and just keeping the Board up-to-date so we are fully
compliant with the laws. Member Bedore asked if this needs a motion. Chairman Stewart asked if these were
going to be presented again before submitting them to JCAR. Director Carter stated that as a matter of
practice he will receive some informal comments if he has that ability and then in December he will make the
changes that Member Bedore wanted and bring it back. Chairman Stewart stated that Director Carter can
provide the Board with updates and make the changes and have the meeting in early December, which will
give him plenty of time to get it to JCAR and then assuming that everyone is comfortable with that language
the Board can make a motion to approve it and then Director Carter can move forward. We can do it now, but
he figures they could wait until they get the final language. Chairman Stewart wanted the record to reflect that
Member Ivory has joined and is present.
The next item on the agenda was follow-up items from the previous meeting. Director Carter stated that the
first item for follow-up is he spent a great deal of time trying to find something at Member Bedore’s and at
the Board’s request on what does it cost the University of Illinois to educate a student. Unfortunately the best
that he could come up with is that the U of I doesn’t have those numbers readily available. He made the
request and tried to do some research on his own. As a comparison he did find something for the University
of Minnesota, he knows it is another big 10 school, probably very different end of the spectrum when it
comes to cost, but even in their rationalization it is still an extremely broad and moving target because of the
different programs, the different years of students. Unfortunately, he could not find anything steadfast for you.
Member Bedore replied that was fine. Chairman Stewart asked if there were any further questions or
comments on this particular matter. No further questions or comments were made.
Director Carter stated that the next two follow-up items are a lead-in to facilities. He knows that Ms. Susan
Florence doesn’t usually handle these items, but she is available if there are any follow-up questions. He did
receive something that is kind of a starting point when it comes to talking about State-owned buildings as well
as State-leased buildings as a way of policies. He sees a lot of the stuff that Donald Barnes sent him really
speaks to energy consumption, light bulbs, thermostat settings and things of that nature so there are a couple
of documents in there at Board request, but again it leads into the facilities discussion.
Chairman Stewart stated that just looking at the materials that the Board has it is pretty clear they have a
program and a standard for State-owned facilities and an Executive Order from 2009. It looks like in the
materials there is somewhat of a policy for State-leased facilities if they occupy a certain percentage of the
space. Do they have a set policy on leased space as opposed to State-owned space? Susan Florence, Lease
Administrator with the CMS Bureau of Property Management, replied that honestly she couldn’t answer that.
She can tell the Board that their lease documents do specify temperature settings for leased facilities. They do
have policies in place to regulate the use of personal space heaters and fans and that kind of thing. The energy
management is not her area, but she would be happy to provide additional information. Chairman Stewart
2
M:141113

 stated that there does seem to be some materials in the Board’s packet, which looks like it is language from a
lease with various energy efficiency standards. Director Carter stated that Donald Barnes who handles this
said that he would be happy to provide a larger scale presentation, which he has done before and in the
interest of time sometimes Mr. Barnes has a lot of information, if this didn’t cover it maybe next time they
can get Mr. Barnes his own separate agenda item and he can come in and cover it. Chairman Stewart stated
that it could be handled as more of a bullet point, is this standard on every single lease, is it only for leases of
a certain size, does it apply when you rent one square foot, does it only apply for renting 50% of a building?
He thinks that the materials are very detailed that were provided, but what is not clear to him is, is this a oneoff or whatever property this dealt with or is there a matrix of some sort where if we are only leasing 3% of
the property perhaps this language is not in there, that is the sort of thing he would be curious to know. Ms.
Florence asked if it was the language regarding temperature regulation. Chairman Stewart replied that there
was one here on Energy Star, energy efficiency see requirements and then there is heating and cooling and
sustainability building standard lighting requirements. Member Bedore stated that at one time it was
presented to the Board a year or two ago and he vaguely remembers the number being close to 90%
occupancy of the building. Ms. Florence stated that she can say that if CMS is going out for solicitation for
new space they have all sorts of standards for energy efficiency and sustainability language in their APR
documents that would apply to any new build-outs, with existing facilities it is a bit more murky depending
on the condition of the facility and what they can get done in negotiations as far as upgrading lighting and
things of that nature, but they do strive to be as energy efficient as they can. Member Bedore stated that in
particular they have done that with the Bloom Building. Ms. Florence replied absolutely. Member Bedore
stated that is a perfect example and that is why he brought it up, because there are many buildings here in
Springfield that are occupied by over 90% of State agencies and they should be set to the same standards as
the Bloom Building. They have an Executive Order that has been in place since 2009 for high efficiency
lighting, he understands the heating and air conditioning, but it is down to even the details, lighting, which
they are doing at the Bloom Building and what he is recommending is that it should be done with all of the
other buildings as their leases become due and they have been a little lax in that. Member Bedore stated that if
you read the Executive Order, it is critical to use energy in the most efficient way possible to save taxpayers
money and to protect our climate and natural recourses. The Department of CMS shall be responsible for
implementing a program to increase energy efficiency, track and reduce energy uses and improve the
procurement of energy for all State-owned and State-leased facilities for all agencies. So clearly CMS is
responsible for the most efficient way of lighting, heating and air conditioning in these buildings whether we
own them or they have 90% of the occupancy of a building. There are many buildings and he will talk about
one of those buildings later that he believes should be set to the same standards as the Bloom Building. CMS
stated two months ago that the Bloom Building is going to save millions of dollars by this new energy
efficient lighting over the life of the lease. He didn’t say it was going to be immediate, but over the life of the
lease they will save a lot of money. Ms. Florence stated that clearly there is a benefit to upgrading to more
efficient lighting and they do try to do that in as many facilities as they can, it is sometimes a trade off, that
can be very costly in a large facility when they are asking the landlords to pay for that out of pocket and
sometimes that comes at the cost of fewer rent decreases. Member Bedore stated that at the Bloom Building
they had a reduction down to $12.50 from $17.00 and the owner is paying for all of the new high efficiency
lighting and that is all he is doing is setting this same type of standard for other buildings and that is what he
brought up a couple months ago that some people were upset about. That is his point, that they have set a
standard now of getting the lower rate and better efficient lighting. CMS occupies that building with 100%,
other buildings they occupy at 97% or 100%, why aren’t we doing the same-that is his argument. Ms.
Florence replied that she understands.
Member Morales asked if CMS is keeping track of energy audits? Ms. Florence replied that would be a
question again for Mr. Barnes. Director Carter stated that Mr. Barnes has all that data again, it is just very,
very substantial, so he will ask for some detail ahead of time to give the members plenty of time to read it
over and he can condense it when he presents it. Member Ivory stated that when we talk about affordable and
reliable energy efficiency it is hard to evaluate how well we have done whether we have an A, B, C or D. He
wishes there was some standard that we could evaluate how productive we are being in reference to reducing
energy consumption. He speaks to this on a different piece because he remembers a number of years ago he
was at a national convention and there was a group that had a liquid or something that if you put into the
system and you had states that were using it and had increased energy efficiency by 20% and the savings were
quite spectacular. He took the initiative to introduce the parties to parties here and has since been to another
3
M:141113

 conference and other State agencies were talking about how effective they were again in saving energy, but it
seems to never move anywhere. He has asked Ms. Florence where that was at, but he has gotten no response
back in terms of that request. Do you recall that question in reference to that subject matter? Ms. Florence
replied that she does and did follow-up on that, but apologizes she thought that information had been passed
on to him, she will try and track that back down. Member Ivory stated that he is just curious to know if it has
any real intrinsic value. If it doesn’t then that is great, but he would appreciate saying here is why it is not
working for us and why it is working for other people, and if it is a significant savings for the State and the
taxpayers he would think they would want to pursue that aggressively and at least try and make sure that we
understand the pros and cons and why it may have value and why it may not have value. Ms. Florence stated
that she will try and track that back down and have someone reach out to him on that. Chairman Stewart
stated that it may also be helpful for not every single energy audit, but for whatever audits that have occurred
and a couple examples of what was the outcome of the audit. If you do an energy audit and nothing changes it
is helpful to have that as a baseline. Member Morales stated that maybe one audit a year or how many
buildings….he is sure they keep track of that kind of information and it is a lot of information, but it would be
helpful. Chairman Stewart stated that a couple of specific examples, if there was an audit found with some
specific savings that were fully or partially realized this is a flavor of how it does play out in the real world
and what savings does the State realize, obviously an all in number of savings which may be beyond what we
can capture, but at least some specific examples would be handy. Chairman Stewart asked on the general
issue of energy used by the State were there any other questions or comments? No further questions or
comments were made.
The next item on the agenda is the CMS Lease Review. Director Carter stated that the first lease up was DHS
lease #5515 at 823 E. Monroe in Springfield. Base rent starting out at $12.00 a square foot and personal space
is 272. Ms. Florence is available if there are any questions from the Board. Member Bedore stated that he just
wanted a confirmation of what’s on the paper before the Board, is that true that the rate has come down to
$12.00 a square foot and that includes janitorial, gas, electric, water, and garbage, it includes everything
expect for $.06 for the alarms? Ms. Florence replied affirmatively. Member Bedore stated that in other words
this is a lease with square footage in downtown Springfield at 823 E. Monroe Street and the rate is $12.06.
Ms. Florence replied affirmatively. Member Bedore stated that’s a very good rate compared to other buildings
that are in the downtown area, is that correct? Ms. Florence replied that she would say that is a good rate, yes.
Chairman Stewart asked if any other Board members have a question or comment at this point. This needs a
Certificate of No Objection so would someone care to make a motion? Member Morales made the motion to
approve the lease and was seconded by Member Bedore. With a vote of 4-0 the motion was approved and a
Certificate of No Objection will be issued.
The next item on the agenda was HFS lease #5602 at 2200 Churchill Road in Springfield. Director Carter
stated that this rate starts out at a proposed $12.50 per square foot. It’s got a personal space of 274, and again
Ms. Florence is available for any questions. Chairman Stewart asked if any Board member has any questions,
comments or concerns. Member Bedore stated that he has a few questions. First the electrical cost, it seems a
bit high doesn’t it? Ms. Florence replied that it does, she has asked fiscal to pull a couple years worth of
utility bills and the rates have been pretty consistent. CMS does take advantage of flat rate level pay there
with CWLP. This is a high usage facility and it’s in the neighborhood of 350 employees, which is 350
computers, plus a computer training facility, printers, and copiers. There is a lot of pull from electric in that
facility. Member Bedore asked, but didn’t CMS reduce the number of printers and everything over the last
year. Why would the electrical cost still be the same? Ms. Florence replied that there is still some work to be
done there with the printers, which has to do with HFS. A couple of the systems that they use are not
compatible with… honestly she doesn’t understand all the ins and outs with that but that is something that
CMS continues to work on with HFS to further reduce the printers there. Member Bedore stated that wouldn’t
this building, that whole complex, be a prime candidate for the high efficiency to go in there and take a real
look at this? Ms. Florence replied perhaps. Member Bedore stated that this is one of the highest rates the
Board has seen and somebody has to look at this, don’t they? Member Bedore stated that he remembers
walking through this building with a gentleman named Matt Brown a few years ago. They toured this facility
and it’s a great facility, but they found a lot of open space and in your comments here you talked about it not
being utilized. Ms. Florence replied that CMS realizes that there is vacant space there and they’re working to
restack the building to better utilize that space. Member Bedore asked when they are going to do this. How
long has this building been underutilized? He knows when he was there it was definitely underutilized. Ms.
4
M:141113

 Florence replied that part of the of re-stack is dependent on the Bloom work being done, as you recall some
people will be moved out of there. When that work is done they will move some of the people out of
Churchill into Bloom and they will then renovate that space to backfill with the HFS/OIG staff from 5th Street
and terminate that lease. The rest of the restack will be done in phases where they can utilize, they can empty
out a space, use that as a staging area while other areas are renovated. When that’s done, the work is supposed
to be done within a year, they expect to have one entire floor vacant which they’re currently intending to
backfill with a DHS call center. Member Bedore asked if she was saying that within a year this is going to be
done. Ms. Florence replied that’s their plan, yes. Member Bedore asked if it was a realistic plan. Mrs.
Florence replied that they think so. Member Bedore stated that the line itself, that this facility is not being
utilized at its full potential. Ms. Florence replied that CMS has been through the building as well, they know
where the vacancies are, they know there are empty offices and empty cubicles. Member Bedore stated that
you can just walk through the building you see it, as he did once before. Member Bedore stated that there are
two things, one is that it’s totally underutilized which CMS is aware of and the second thing is the high
energy cost which the gentlemen that is coming next month, he would hope there is a full report on this
building and what can be done. Member Morales stated that he backs up what Member Bedore just said
especially with the energy cost, maybe they can find out when there was an energy audit on this building and
if there hasn’t been one maybe one should be done. If there was one done what were the findings? Chairman
Stewart asked if there are any other questions or comments by Board members. This is one that needs a
Certificate of No Objection to move forward, will anyone care to make a motion? Member Ivory made a
motion to approve a Certificate of No Objection with Member Morales seconding the motion, but he would
like to know the findings if there was an energy audit. If there was or hasn’t been one then one should be done
on this building. Director Carter stated that he would have Donald Barnes look into it and prepare for that as
well. With a vote of 4-0 the motion was approved and a Certificate of No Objection will be issued. Chairman
Stewart stated that he wanted to follow-up on Member Bedore’s and Member Morales’ comments, yes it is
good that they reduced the base rate and CMS deserves credit for that, but the Board spent a lot of time
talking about energy costs, ongoing costs, they do have an Executive Order so he agrees that if there hasn’t
been an energy audit done this should probably move up because this does appear to be one of the higher rates
the Board has seen for energy costs in any lease for quite some time, probably before he came on the Board.
So he thinks this would be a good test to see what they are doing on a proactive manner. Again, they
obviously did some work to get the base rate down, but perhaps there is some additional work to get done on
those carrying costs on the electric. Member Ivory stated that he is still challenged by making sure that as
they evaluate how well we are doing, how well we are not doing, he’s just a little puzzled as to how they can
best have a feel for our effectiveness or CMS’s effectiveness in terms of energy efficiency, maybe it is
something at some point in time we can examine and set a guideline from CMS that could give us a real sense
of where we’re at and a real way to evaluate at future dates with other people who may be coming on the
Board as to the Board’s performance overall and how well they’re doing because in most cases he doesn’t feel
he has any clue as to their effectiveness and how the effectiveness of CMS is doing at the same time on these
issues. Chairman Stewart stated he thinks it would be handy that since the Executive Order came into effect in
2009, how many new leases, we will talk about new leases, have been issued and how many energy audits
have been done? It’s not going to be a perfect analysis, but the numbers will tell the Board a little bit of the
story of is it being proactively managed with the audits. He agrees that there is an overall policy issue there,
but the audits probably seem to be the way to really check, he’s sure they don’t do it for every possible lease
the Board has done and would be surprised if that’s the answer, but what is the percentage of new leases that
gets these audits and then what savings, if any have been identified through audits thus far and again, it’s not
going to tell the whole story, but he thinks it would probably give the Board some idea for what’s going on
out there. Then maybe some of the standards will need to be re-evaluated, but just some very basic baseline
measures will probably give the Board a better story. He doesn’t know when the 2009 order was put out there
with a reference of approximately $120 million in energy cost. Someone calculated that number and he
understands we might have less property so you’re not doing apples to apples, but what’s the latest and
energy prices fluctuate he gets all that, but approximately what was our energy cost for the last full fiscal year
for CMS owned and leased facilities? He understands there are many variables, that 2009 number may not be
a benchmark, but then again it would be handy to have, one would assume with less property our energy costs
have gone down but, that’s just an assumption. So if we can have some of those from Mr. Barnes some of
those very basic local numbers it might be helpful.

5
M:141113

 The next item on the agenda was CMS Facilities. Chairman Stewart stated that the Board will move on to an
overall facilities report. Ms. Florence stated that she doesn’t have anything new to report, if anyone has
questions she’ll try and answer. Chairman Stewart asked if any Board member has any questions or
comments. Member Bedore stated that he would like to make a few comments. At last month’s meeting a
gentleman came forward and made a statement about issues that he raised at a meeting the month before. First
he stated that he’s not the owner of the Bucari Building. The fact as of today, he and his family and other
members are still listed as the owners of this building. CMS still has them as the owners and that’s all this
committee and himself have to go on, all the Board knows is that the owners were listed by CMS and
presented to the Board. So either CMS is wrong or the gentleman was wrong. Second, the reason why he
singled out the Bucari Building was because of the square foot cost. Let’s look at the building a half a block
away, the Illinois Commerce Commission at 527 E. Capital Ave. The square footage includes all costs and
that is where this building, a half a block away is $10.29 a square foot. The Bucari Building at 609 S. 6th
Street including all costs as of January 1 will be $16.75. That’s a difference of approximately 60%. That’s
why he made it an issue of this building. We have a building a half a block away where the State is paying
60% less in square footage rate. He believes that with a big difference in rate he believes that CMS should
start negotiating with the owners of this building so at the end of their 5th year is up they can have a new lease,
and if it’s based on other buildings around in the area were talking over a million dollars in savings. In
addition to these facts there is a new lease the Board has before them, well it’s under a 30 day review, and its
lease 6286 at 607 E. Adams for Commerce and Economic Opportunity. The owners listed by CMS are the
same owners as the Bucari Building. The total cost for the rate of this building owned by the same people is
$13.10 and yet the State is paying $16.75 at the Bucari Building. This is the same owners and yet they’re
paying 30% less in this new lease than they are at the Bucari Building. These leases show the State is paying
above the going rate at the Bucari Building and that is the reason he raised this issue. Member Bedore stated
that he believes the State can save millions of dollars by lowering the square foot cost and by instituting the
energy efficient program at this building. He has nothing personally against these owners, but these are the
facts that are presented to the Board from CMS. These are not his numbers, these are CMS’ numbers and the
facts speak for themselves.
Chairman Stewart thanked Member Bedore for those comments. He thinks anyone who has attended these
meetings on a regular basis knows Member Bedore has been highly consistent in pushing CMS, the SPO’s
office, whoever it maybe, to try and cut costs not just across the board, but when there are comparables to
measure against and he thinks all members of the Board have done the same, but Member Bedore has always
been strong on this issue of taking a look when it is either the square footage cost or an operating cost that
appears to be higher than others in the area, that is a common occurrence here. Other Board members have
done it so he appreciates Member Bedore’s comments and yes the Board itself has to rely on the information
that is presented to them. The PPB staff does a great job but obviously we’re not, and CMS does a great job,
reliant we are on the representation the Board receives in terms of some of the basic facts and figures. These
are not PPB generated documents, they are largely CMS generated documents. Chairman Stewart asked if
anyone else has anything to say at this time.
Mr. Egizii asked Chairman Stewart if someone was allowed to answer those kinds of questions when they’re
directed at him. Chairman Stewart stated there is public comment period where people will be able to speak in
front of the Board similar to last time. We will get to that and for any meeting of the Board there is
opportunity for the public to speak so that’s typically reserved at the end of the meeting so we will continue
that practice, but people will be able to address the Board as they deem appropriate.
The next item on the agenda was the Illinois Commerce Commission. Director Carter stated that he had at
Board request that the Commerce Commission come forward and give a very brief overview of procurement
practices including of minority participation. In attendance were Ms. Jane Fields, Chief Fiscal Officer and
Agency Purchasing Officer for the Illinois Commerce Commission and Gene Beyer, from the Public Utility
Bureau at the Illinois Commerce Commission. Ms. Fields stated that it is their understanding that the
questions today revolve around the utility minority contract reporting information that is posted on their
website. Ms. Fields asked if there are there specific questions they should address? Member Ivory stated that
if they could just give the Board a general overview and then there may be some specific questions that he
may have in reference to the information that is shared with the Board. Mr. Beyer stated that in 2012 the
General Assembly passed new legislation that was placed in the Public Utilities Act requiring the larger
6
M:141113

 utilities in Illinois to file an annual report with the Commerce Commission that described their successes and
their plans with supplier diversity contracting, specifically, they had to report on the numbers and goals for
minority owned, women owned, veteran owned, and Small Business Enterprises. In August of 2014 the
General Assembly rewrote that law and provided new guidance to the Utilities and expanded the reporting
requirements for all the information that’s to be in that annual report. The ICC’s role is to review what the
utilities, the substance of their reports, to review their plans, to post the utilities’ reports on the ICC website,
and after the reports come in this next year to host a public forum wherein all the utilities and the interested
parties may come forward to discuss the results and the results of their supplier diversity of procurement
practices and their plans for the future. The other ICC’s role has been to support these initiatives. They’ve
attended supplier diversity events, a recent event in Collinsville in October was well attended by the public.
And at these events the utilities describe what their procurement opportunities are, what their rules are for
example, safety and insurance limitations, and they encourage vendors to contact the utility as well as contact
the utilities primary suppliers to learn more about what the company has to offer and how they might be able
to do business with the company. The ICC has been very active in helping to draft legislation and providing
reviews of the legislation, and encouraging the utilities to do all they can to improve the results of their
suppliers diversity efforts. The next report is due in April of 2015, in previous years the report was due on
February 1st because this year the reporting requirements have been expanded, additional time was built into
the schedule so they are working right now with the utilities to get a heads up on their upcoming reports, as
well as to make suggestions to them on how their previous reports can be improved. The most recent meeting
was two weeks ago where they met with all the utilities who were involved originally. The utilities that were
in attendance were ComEd, People’s Gas, Ameren Illinois, and Nicor Gas. This year with the new legislation,
Illinois American Water, the State’s largest public utility water company, has been added to the companies
who must report.
Member Morales stated that they basically take the information and report it back. It was mentioned that you
make suggestions, does the ICC have any influence over the planning or have any input over the planning on
how these companies do what they do? Mr. Beyer replied that they have no authority in the law that’s been
given to them to participate in any of their planning, or their procurements. The utilities procurement
practices, as one might suspect, is very complex and detailed function at the utilities and they have been given
no authority nor do they possess the expertise to be involved in that. However, in the public meetings that
have been held and in the communications with the utilities, the agency has expressed deep interest in seeing
the numbers continue to improve from year to year. Member Morales stated that it was said that your
department has no expertise, but you make suggestions to them. Is that just on the reporting? Mr. Beyer
replied yes, the reporting is an important facet of this legislation, and it discloses what the utility has done in
the past year and what its plans are for the next year and the activities that it is currently engaging in. In order
to make those reports useful to the public they try to encourage the utilities to follow a similar format, to look
at each other’s reports and utilize the best practices as far as the information that is provided in those reports,
and to make those reports as useful and complete as possible so they want the reports to be good reports.
They do not however, for example, suggest to the utility that a number that 20% one year should be 23% in
the next year, the law doesn’t provide for any of that. Member Morales asked for example, when they see
zero across the board do you ever ask was there an improvement? You just said you don’t question that, you
just report it, so you would never, for example, on a Hispanic side they see zero across the board, was it zero
the year before or do you ever question that? Mr. Beyer replied that last year when the reports arrived he did
go through all of the companies’ numbers, because at that time they had two years to compare, they had the
2013 report as well as the 2014 report. He questioned every variance that he could identify, be it a huge
increase, a huge decrease, an usual number, the basis for the numbers, the accounting for the numbers, and he
sent each of the four utilities a series of questions last year to understand all of that. In the first two years of
the reports the only time they had a zero reported was in 2013’s report when Nicor reported zero for business
that was directed to veteran owned business. Other than that, all of the categories, minority, women, veterans
and small business have all shown numbers in both years. Mr. Beyer stated that he would add, as a result of
the review the ICC did last year where they challenged the numbers and questioned the number because they
want to make sure there is accuracy, and equal footing upon the utilities as possible. There are going to be
improvements in this next year’s reports. The utilities are working together to make sure they understand
how each of them gathers this information and reports this information to ensure as best as possible that the
numbers are comparable among all the utilities. Member Morales thanked him for his response.
7
M:141113

 Member Ivory stated that he has a couple of comments in reference to looking back. Not long ago there were
a lot of people, especially a number of people in his organization, fought very hard to make sure that smart
grid, and affordable and reliable energy, some legislation that was important to make the State competitive
with surrounding states for infrastructure and everyone pitched in together to get that done, and he remembers
being in some conversations that they had talked about this and most people know that the ICC carries a
pretty big stick when it comes to their influence over utility companies and he thinks we can all agree upon
that. Member Ivory stated that he thinks the question that he has is that when you say you just report the
numbers and you have the hearings, and he knows that State Representative Will Davis has played a real role
and he was in a meeting in Collinsville when they had the meeting with Richard Marks and Ameren. He is
just curious in terms of, it sounds like they’re just reporting the numbers and do little reaching out. Is there
anything as you take a look at the numbers from your perspective even though you may not have the legal
authority, is there anything that stands out when you take a look at the numbers that you see on an ongoing
basis. How well are you doing from your perspective? Mr. Beyer replied that he can’t say that they have
enough information with just two years of reports to suggest that there’s anything that they are concerned
about. Again though, they’re not really evaluating the reports on that basis. There are not guidelines in the law
to achieve certain percentages as there is in Illinois Law for procurement to achieve certain percentages. So
they don’t have those targets they’re trying to hit, however, you’re exactly right, the ICC does carry some
influence in these matters. He too was in these meetings with you Member Ivory in Representative Davis’s
office and at the Collinsville meeting we talked about the rate making associated with these sorts of expenses,
and he will say this, while the law doesn’t require the ICC to do much more than to accept these reports, place
them on their website and hold the meeting, he can assure the Board that in meetings that he has attended with
the Commissioners and the utilities and the public, the utilities have been outspoken in their extreme interest
in these issues, and in their encouragement of the utilities to improve their numbers. At the last meeting of
the utilities with the Commissioners, the Commissioners expressed interest in seeing the utilities develop a
supplier diversity counsel in Illinois like the utilities have done in a couple other states, most notably
California. The utilities began working on that and with Dr. Lowery, that he believes you might have met
before, has began working on that in Illinois and he thinks that in combination with their expended outreach
to contractors, subcontractors, and in their supplier of diversity events they are striving to increase these
numbers, in one respect because the ICC has strongly encouraged them to do so. Chairman Stewart stated
there we’re running into some room issues and thanked the ICC for coming in today. Some Board members
may have some further specific follow up questions and Director Carter will relay those to you, but
appreciates them coming in today to speak to the Board. Chairman Stewart stated that they have two items
left on the agenda, but with the interest of time we’re going to switch it around a little bit. Earlier someone
asked to address the Board, if that individual would please come forward and make their remarks and please
limit it to about ten minutes just because the Board still has a couple other items they have to wrap up before
noon.
Mr. Robert Egizii stated that fortunately for all of us he thinks he wasn’t personally attacked at this meeting,
but he still was attacked under the basis that he owned the buildings. Now he understands and is sure all the
members of this committee understand that two of the three main jobs that they have is to recommend and to
review. Every lease that they have and he manages 850,000 plus or minus feet. Every lease that he has with
the State of Illinois, which is probably 33% or 34% of their leases, which is the only industry in Springfield,
IL anyway by the numbers, by the percentage of what they own for their properties. So when he said he
doesn’t own them, he doesn’t own them and unfortunately, this committee hasn’t been able to look at the
leases or find out who does own them. Because he can give the Board all the percentages if anybody were to
ask. And you can’t compare a 6 story building only using 4 floors to a 15 story building when it comes to heat
and air. We don’t have a building like the one we’re in right now completing 100% State of Illinois lease that
has the temperature this room has in it right now. You can’t go to one of their buildings and find this, but he is
happy to give the ownership percentages and the people, if that’s what the committee wants, but it’s in every
lease and he appreciates being able to come up and defend what was said a while ago. That’s all he has unless
somebody has some questions. Chairman Stewart thanked Mr. Egizii for coming forward today. It’s a public
comment so thank you for coming forward with follow up questions we will follow-up. Member Bedore
stated that in your statement you said that you needed to defend yourself. All he can say is what is presented
to the Board from CMS shows you and other members of your family and other people as owners of these
buildings. Now if you have an argument with that he would suggest you would talk to CMS because what’s
presented to him and this committee is what he stated, so you don’t have to defend yourself against him
8
M:141113

 because he’s just reporting what’s presented to this committee. Mr. Egizii replied that’s the unfortunate part
sir, you’re not reporting what is written in the leases. Member Bedore stated that what’s reported to him sir,
is… Member Bedore stated that he can read it to him he has it right in front him. Mr. Egizii replied that he did
too. Member Bedore stated that all he can go on is what is presented to this Board by CMS. Now if you’ve
got an argument with that then he would suggest that he talk to CMS because what’s presented to this Board
is what he stated. Mr. Egizii replied that he thought, and maybe he’s wrong, that the whole lease is presented
to the Board because that’s part of two thirds what this committee is suppose to do is to review and
recommend. Member Bedore stated that they don’t get the entire lease sir. Chairman Stewart stated that he is
the most junior member of this Board and generally they get documents produced by CMS as opposed to the
whole, he means if that’s the case we would be killing trees by the dozens so to Member Bedore’s point the
Board reviews leases and the contract etc. etc. and make recommendations, but typically they are getting
summaries and analysis from CMS with the basic particulars of any particular contract etc. etc. like square
footage, janitor, parking, security, etc. There could be further follow up questions from time to time that
comes up, which may require further diving into the leases. Mr. Egizii stated that on the Bucari Building
53.75% is what he owns. On the 15 story building 12% is what he owns, which really he doesn’t know why
that comes up it really has nothing to do with anything and he wants to thank everybody for not reading part
of the last set of minutes because that was a personal attack and that’s over and he won’t bring it up if nobody
else brings it up. Chairman Stewart stated that he will talk to CMS to see if we can get something a little more
accurate reporting on some of these summaries to avoid these types of issues in the future. Chairman Stewart
thanked Mr. Egizii for coming forward.
Chairman Stewart stated that he thinks they have a little bit of time left to wrap up. With no further business
to discuss a motion to adjourn and go into Executive Session to discuss personnel matters was made by
Member Morales and was seconded by Member Ivory. Mr. Jeff Jurgens, the Board legal counsel, stated that
they also need to announce whether or not they would be taking any action after closed session. Chairman
Stewart replied no there are no further matters to discuss beyond adjournment.

9
M:141113

 