Chairman: Jay Stewart
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black

Minutes – October 23, 2014 Meeting
Present in Chicago:

Jay Stewart
Rick Morales

Present in Springfield:

Bill Black
Larry Ivory

Absent:

Ed Bedore

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 10:00 a.m.
The first item on the agenda was the approval of the Board meeting minutes from September 10, 2014.
Member Black made a motion that we accept the minutes as printed, with Member Morales seconding the
motion. The motion was unanimously approved.
The next item on the agenda was CMS Facilities. Director Carter stated that he included one item for followup from last month. Ms. Florence provided an updated description of the boundaries for lease #6269 in
Chicago. Member Bedore had some questions about what’s considered north Cook County or north Chicago.
She provided a memorandum as well as a map for the Board to look over. So those items are in there as
review and she has clarified the services area. The Board doesn’t need a motion for this lease it is just for
informational purposes.
The next item on the agenda was DHS lease #2776 at 5000-5020 Industrial Drive in Springfield. Director
Carter stated that last month the Board asked CMS to go back to the landlord to take another look at this to
see if they could find some further reductions specifically in the office space area. The Board described some
pleasure with the storage facility as well as the mailroom, but was concerned with the price when they looked
at the office space. CMS went back and worked with the landlord and they were able to drop the rate for the
office space and achieve some additional $70,000 in savings specifically tied to the office space. Ms. Florence
is here to answer any additional questions and this lease does need a No Objection from the Board. Chairman
Stewart asked if any Board member has any questions.
Chairman Stewart asked if Ms. Florence could give a brief description of the reduction that was achieved
upon further negotiations. Susan Florence, Lease Administrator with the CMS Bureau of Property
Management, stated that they had gotten a reduction in the rate initially of 1.89% and they dropped it an
additional 3.78% for a total of 5.59% and it is down to $12.50 per square feet for the first two years of the
office portion. Chairman Stewart asked if there were any questions or comments from the Board. A motion
for a Certificate of No Objection was made by Member Ivory and was seconded by Member Morales. With a
vote of 4-0 a Certificate of No Objection will be issued.
The next lease on the agenda was DES lease #4228 at 5608 West 75th Place in Burbank. Director Carter stated
that this lease has a personal square footage of 278 and overall 400 and the first year base rent is $15.43. Ms.
Florence is here to answer any Board questions. Chairman Stewart asked if any members have questions or
comments for this lease. A motion for a Certification of No Objection was made by Member Morales and was
seconded by Member Ivory. With a vote of 4-0 a Certificate of No Objection will be issued.
M:141023
222 SOUTH COLLEGE STREET, SUITE 231, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY: (888) 642-3450

 The next item on the agenda is the Calendar of Future meetings of the Board. Chairman Stewart stated that it
looks like the preliminary date of November 13, 2014. It will probably be a fuller agenda since this meeting
was so light. Chairman Stewart asked if there were any questions or concerns about the November 13 date at
this point. Chairman Stewart stated that with no concerns they will try to move forward with that and staff
will reach out to individual Board members to confirm that date.
Chairman Stewart stated that he knows that there is another item on the agenda and when talking with
Director Carter due to the interest of time he doesn’t think that this is something that is critical that the Board
goes into Executive Session at this particular meeting and so he proposed that it be postponed to the next
meeting unless any Board member is really inclined to do it. The Board agreed to move the Executive Session
to the next Board meeting.
Chairman Stewart stated that it is his understanding that there was an individual who wishes to make some
comments to the Board. If that individual could please come forward to the table and speak into the
microphone and introduce themselves. As you can tell the Board is trying to move things along today so
please make your remarks, if they could be sufficient but brief they would appreciate it.
Mr. Robert Egizii with Egizii Electric stated that he wanted to address the Board regarding the minutes from
the previous meeting. Mr. Egizii stated that unfortunately he was personally attacked, his company was
personally attacked at the Board’s last meeting by Mr. Bedoe, but he won’t say Bedoe, Bedore is his name
and Egizii is mine. He really has a hard time with that, but he really doesn’t, but he comes on every once in a
while and he likes to do that. Mr. Egizii stated that Member Bedore talks about the fact that the Bucari
Building and on and on about the Bucari Building in the minutes. Mr. Egizii stated that he does not own that
building. Now he manages that building and he manages a lot of buildings downtown. Unfortunately he has
been able to keep a lot of them full and that is because of their maintenance staffs that are all over this town.
This is Springfield and fortunately we don’t live in Chicago we live in Springfield. Now he addressed his
company, which has nothing to do with the Procurement Board. He addressed jobs that his company does for
the State of Illinois, it is not like he was flown in from some other country he has spent his life on the city
bills. Mr. Egizii stated that he doesn’t understand what Egizii Electric has to do with anything in front of the
procurement committee. We all know what exactly the rules are and you gentlemen should be commended for
doing this for nothing, because you don’t attack State employees and you don’t attack and try to belittle
people or landlords either here or in Chicago and you need to….this is a tough job they have, but the Board
can’t let one person try to lead it. He has no business doing what he did on a personal attack, none. When he
personally attacks my company he attacks my family and he would be happy to deal with him. Mr. Egizii
stated that his wife can get ahold of him in South Carolina, in New York, in Georgia and just about every
office they have. So he probably has access to 15 phonebooks he can get him day or night, 24 hours a day, if
he wants to attack him personally, but it shouldn’t be in front of this committee or whoever reads these
minutes and of course he has been reading them for two years and that is how he knows how he degrades
people. Mr. Egizii stated that he thinks it is wrong and he thinks that it should be removed from the minutes
and should not be part of it, it is on page 14. Mr. Egizii stated that he could go on to the Codes and we all
know what the 3001 is and dash 100 we understand all of that. He just appreciates the Board giving him the
few minutes they gave him and he won’t get into the rest of it since time is short. Chairman Stewart thanked
Mr. Egizii for his comments and the Board has heard what he has said.
With no further business to discuss Chairman Stewart made a motion to adjourn the meeting. The motion was
unanimously approved.

2
M:141023

 