PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales

Minutes – May 5, 2011 Meeting
Present in Springfield:

David Vaught
Ed Bedore
Mike Bass

Present in Chicago:

Rick Morales

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:07 a.m.
First on the agenda was the approval of the minutes from April 7, 2011. Member Bass made a
motion to approve the minutes of March 10, 2011. The motion was seconded by Member
Bedore. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was CPO Updates. In attendance for Higher Education was CPO Ben Bagby.
Mr. Bagby stated that in the beginning stages of SB51 implementations he was told by various
people that he was an outsider, cannot understand university needs, procurements were done
right and didn’t need further review and that he would not be adding value. As of today he still
remains an outsider and that is what the law intended. However, he believes that he can
understand the universities needs and can work with the university and procurement staff to help
them address those unique needs. As for things not needing review, Mr. Bagby stated that with
his experience at CMS looking at all agency transactions, showed him that things can be better
and the same is true for university procurements. Mr. Bagby stated that something common that
he has seen in both State agency and University procurements are common errors like bid
documents with errors, sole sources have been posted with appropriate reference to required laws
being left out, specifications have not been written with openness in mind, vendors have
performed work with no valid contract in place, and solicitations that have evaluation criteria
that did not match the type of source selection. There are more things being done to make
procurement more transparent to help prevent these types of errors. As for whether any of this
has any value: working to improve procurement, providing more transparency making it easier
for the State’s vendors and still meeting the universities’ needs will need to be determined by the
Board. Mr. Bagby believes that the value is there. Mr. Bagby stated that his four SPO’s began
their official duties this week and should have another one starting May 16, 2011. Integrating
their activities into the differing university processes is going to take a little work, but he did
structure the SPO and the university activities so the SPO would be concentrating on transactions
that he believes are a particular interest: professional and artistic and consulting, real estate
leases and sole sources. Mr. Bagby wanted to point out and make it clear that everyone in
procurement tried really hard to ensure compliance with the various laws and to do a good
procurement job within the confines of those laws. It is very difficult with staff cuts and more
and more requirements to do the job at the level they would like. Also, for the record, Mr. Bagby
has had very good cooperation from the university procurement staff when he had questions or
needed any information and provided comments or suggestions on a change.
m:110505
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 Mr. Bagby stated that the university is not at the full acceptance of everything, but believes that
over time this oversight function will just become a part of the daily routine. With all things
being considered he believes that they are moving in a positive direction and would be happy to
answer any questions that the Board might have.
Member Bedore asked about a letter regarding issues on renovation in the science wing being
built. It was available to bid eight years ago and then there was a change in governorship. Then
there was a bid in April 2011 and they are blaming everyone else on why their project is not
moving forward, but doesn’t understand if this was stopped by the former Governor, why this
project hasn’t moved forward. Mr. Bagby asked if Member Bedore was referring to the project at
Governor State University. Member Bedore replied affirmatively. Mr. Bagby replied that it is a
Capitol Development Board project and would defer to Fred Hahn, CPO of CDB to respond.
Mr. Hahn stated that he could not exactly address why a number of years went by and what was
happening during those years. It is still being reviewed. What did come to him as the CPO were
some contract actions that looked a little funny. Mr. Hahn knows the letter that Member Bedore
is referring to from the President of GSU, who stated that they followed all the laws regarding
procurement. Mr. Hahn stated that it appears it is not the case. Member Bedore stated that they
are placing blame on everyone else but themselves. Mr. Hahn agrees. Mr. Hahn stated that there
was at least a half a million dollars worth of work performed without a contract. There has been
work done outside the scope of contracts. There was a recorded qualification based selection in
2010 that in fact was not a qualification based selection. It was taking the paper out of the files
from nine years previous. Member Bedore stated that for many years the Board has had concerns
with Governor State University and doesn’t see any improvement. Mr. Hahn stated that he has
not been able to meet with the President from Governors State, but intends meet with her to
discuss this matter.
Member Bedore stated that he would like to see some real results and would like for Mr. Bagby
to come back to the Board and state that improvements have been made at GSU, CSU and all
other universities. Mr. Bagby stated that time will tell. It takes a while to change a culture of
activities and takes a while to really understand what really needs to be done. He stated that he
has been doing this for 33 years and has outlived some of the statute of limitations that he has
done wrong. You can’t expect someone new to come in and know everything, mistakes will be
made and just have to recognize that and learn from them.
Member Bedore made a motion to have Mr. Bagby and Mr. Hahn come back to the Board in
three months to provide an update regarding this issue. Member Bass seconded the motion. The
motion was unanimously approved.
Chairman Vaught asked if this was an architectural firm that thinks they can work without a
contract. Mr. Hahn replied that the architectural firm was probably given a verbal and e-mail told
to begin some work. Chairman Vaught asked how they can get paid without a contract. Mr. Hahn
replied they cannot get paid. They did get paid a portion of their work he believes because of
what the CDB has in its line item architect contract. In other words, to be more specific, there are
things that CDB puts as dollar line items and it’s AE contracts that allow for different types of
services to be performed. He believes the architect firm got paid around $250,000 out of two
payment vouchers because of being paid from a different line item within that contract.
Chairman Vaught asked if this was the work that was done before the contract was signed. Mr.
Hahn replied affirmatively. Chairman Vaught wanted to know who approves those vouchers. Are
they approved by the CPO? Mr. Hahn replied no they are not. Chairman Vaught stated that
m:110505

2

 someone who has violated the Procurement Code wants to be paid anyway, but the CPO has
nothing to say about it. Mr. Hahn replied that the CPO is also reviewing this and why it is being
brought before the Board.
Chairman Vaught asked why Mr. Bagby has four SPO because there are more than four
universities. How are they assigned? Mr. Bagby replied that they are assigned at a high level.
Amanda Baylor who has WIU, ISU, EIU and Tom Sestak who has the SIU system and Lee
Saulter (sp) NIU, NEIU, GSU, CSU and Roger Nondorf, University of Chicago and Champaign.
There is another one coming on Monday who will also be assigned to the University of Illinois
Chicago and Champaign. Chairman Vaught asked if the staffing is adequate. Mr. Bagby replied
that he does need additional staff, but is waiting to see what the budget holds and the number one
priority would be for Champaign Urbana. Mr. Bagby stated that for staff ratio he believes that
Mr. Matt Brown has more SPO to agency that he does.
Member Bass asked Mr. Bagby why some of the institutions are structured in a way that there is
a single point of contact. Is that correct? Mr. Bagby replied that is not exactly correct. Mr. Bagby
stated that it restricts the flow of communications and makes it more difficult to communicate.
The single point of contact or perhaps four was a determination what was made by one place and
believes that is the initial reaction to the people coming in and after a period of time it will relax.
An example is if a buyer puts out a specification that they need a new truck, but don’t specify on
year or model. A simple phone call clears that up. Instead it goes to one person, then to another
and then another. This is a little inefficient but Mr. Bagby stated that he understands and does not
want to be disruptive of the agencies’ operations and wants to be respectful of their time and
hopes that an easier solution can be worked out. Member Bass asked if he had the ability to
delegate beyond his CPO’s down to entities’ that he oversees or not. Mr. Bagby replied that he
believes that the structure of SB51 did not do away with the universities procurement functioning
and still needs to be there to identify the need and write the specification, write the bids, send
them out, etc. It could be seen as delegation, since he does have the procurement authority. Mr.
Bagby stated that he cannot do everything – it is impossible. A SPO at every location cannot do
everything – that is also impossible. There has to be a recognition that the universities and the
agencies that will be doing lots of activities. There has to be activities delegated, authorized,
allowed whatever the word is to others. That doesn’t mean aggregation of authority, but it does
mean that someone has to do the leg work, but decisions are made every day at every level and it
has to be accepted and allowed. Member Bass asked how the Board could help. Mr. Bagby
replied that he has been meeting with Aaron Carter and Will Blount from the Procurement Policy
Board on a frequent basis to just ask how it is going and if there are any issues with the
universities and sometimes he brings things to them as well. Things are going well and
developing a good relationship and understanding the areas where they have common ideas and
don’t always agree. As long as the lines of communications are open he has no complaints.
Member Bedore wanted to commend Mr. Bagby on the lease in Champaign with 220 square feet
per employee and that includes everything, washrooms, and conference rooms, play rooms, etc.
and hopes that Mr. Brown and Mr. Kanellopoulos would look to you for guidance. Mr. Bagby
replied that it was the good people at the University of Illinois who did that lease and deserve the
praise. No further questions were asked.
Next was Mr. Fred Hahn CPO for CDB. Mr. Hahn stated that he oversees the procurements of
the State’s vertical construction program. Mr. Hahn is assisted by a SPO and an assistant as well
as the monitoring of procurement actions through three procurement compliance monitors. Two
of the PCMs operate out of Springfield and the third operates out of Chicago. The Chicago
m:110505

3

 position has been vacant for about three months. When a construction project is identified and
funded procurement begins with the quality based selection of an architect engineering firm,
which prepares detailed bidding documents that are a format used throughout the construction
industry. Those documents are left for competitive sealed bidding, which are usually in a multicontractor method required by the Procurement Code. The AE also continues in a role
overseeing the construction project itself. In the last few years changes to the Code has permitted
the procurement of construction by a single contractor method by design build as well as creating
a comprehensive method for procuring construction management services. Single prime, design
build and construction management services are in a test phase at the CDB to evaluate their cost
and effectiveness. For the vast majority of its projects CDB continues to procure them through
their traditional design bid build method of construction with an AE and several trading
contractors as vendors.
Since September 2010 his office has reviewed 1200 contract actions. Perhaps a quarter of them
have been initial contracts with the rest being changes to bid contracts. They also review the
bidding selection award based phases of procurement. Generally the contracts actions CDB
reviews are turned around in a handful of days or less and that is not to say that contract actions
or procurements are without issues, in fact there are many issues. Difficulties in the process have
several reasons; perhaps paramount among them is a system that relies heavily on paper and
manually tracking that paper. CDB continues to work toward a more electronic system including
one which will result in a more user friendly way of providing all of the information that is
required to be in the Illinois Procurement Bulletin. The improved system should also permit a
more efficient review on approval of procurements both by the CPO office and the Procurement
Policy Board. Mr. Hahn believes that CDB is the last CPO that is providing an extensive amount
of paper as part of this process to the PPB. The PPB staff and Mr. Hahn have discussed with
CDB moving procurement actions to the Illinois Procurement Bulletin maintained by CMS, but
at this point they are allowing CDB to attempt to finalize efforts to work-up its electronic system.
Other difficulties have included re-structuring processes to obtain financial disclosures and
certifications when they are required. The new processes have contributed to both compliance
with legal requirements and faster processing of procurement actions. CDB process for
document retention and document review is important to this process, which involves scanning
them and making them electronic copies following which the original is destroyed. There is not a
set schedule for when hard copy documents must be submitted to this scanning process. This has
made it somewhat difficult to find documentation to support the review or procurement actions.
Numerous instances have been found where documents have been filed in the wrong place
essentially making those documents non-existent. There have been significant problems with
procurement actions and a significant one is with the GSU matter, which is starting work before
a contract is in place. More often this does occur with changes to contracts not with initial
contracts. There are also problems with time management of contracts. Frequent changes to
extend contract time are being made after the contract has expired. This takes up a large amount
of CDB’s time to try and figure out what went wrong and to provide the appropriate
documentation to the Comptroller and the Treasurer who have to sign off on extending those
actions and to the PPB. There are other problems with CDB’s change actions. Often the reasons
for the changes are not well documented; however, the cost is well documented. It is review by
estimators who are essentially independent from the process. Much less clear is how the
responsibility in cost for errors or admissions in the design are determined and allocated. Full
access to files becomes critical when reviewing change actions. Even more critical is having
access to the people responsible for creating and processing procurement documents and records.
And that has been an area of significant problems. Employees and vendors have reported threats
or the pressure of adverse actions by CDB because of communicating with the CPO’s office.
m:110505

4

 The situation has significantly improved by some discussions between himself, the new
Executive Director and the Chairman of the Board who are now taking on a more hands on role
in resolving those issues. In addition, a CPO liaison has been appointed by CDB to assist the
CPO’s office with significant issues about procurement actions or processes. Mr. Hahn stated
that management agrees that the processes do indeed need improvement. CDB and Mr. Hahn’s
office have formed a process improvement team, which will review, analyze and restructure the
architect engineer process and the change order process. There was a team developed to change
the way emergency procurements are conducted and are working together to insure procurement
communication reporting requirements are understood and met. Mr. Hahn stated in conclusion
that the process has not gone as smoothly as he would have liked it to, but improvements have
been made and continue to be made and long-term significant improvement will occur as the
processes move to a better, more cohesive electronic system and those improvements will lead to
better efficiency of the State’s construction needs.
Chairman Vaught asked about the communication problem with the vendors communicating
with the CPO. When do vendors communicate with the CPO as opposed to the agency? Mr.
Hahn replied that he doesn’t believe that there is any pattern to that. It may be for the status of a
contract action or may be where their role is in review of this contract action or it may be that
Mr. Hahn has called a vendor to find out about a contract action. Mr. Hahn stated that in the
context of something like that he has had more than one vendor say that they felt if they were
talking to Mr. Hahn that it would impact the relationship with CDB whether they were chosen
for contracts, whether they were treated fairly, whether they were punished, etc. There was
clearly a perception of don’t talk to the CPO’s office. Chairman Vaught asked if it has been
resolved. Mr. Hahn replied that they have taken steps to resolve this issue. No further questions
were asked.
Next was Mr. Bill Grunloh CPO for IDOT. Mr. Grunloh stated that he was going to provide an
update of implementation of SB51 from IDOT and his role for highway related construction.
Mr. Grunloh wanted to complement Secretary Hannig for mandating the staff that they embrace
this change and they embrace the transparency that was going to come from it and would like to
report that is what has been done. Mr. Grunloh stated that they have had nothing but full
cooperation from the agency and it has helped to make his job easier there. One of the first
objectives was to review every process that IDOT does. Mr. Grunloh stated that the vast majority
of the procurements that he oversees are done through the letting process. Mr. Grunloh believes
it is done through the purest form of procurement there is, which is an Invitation for Bid where
the lowest bidder is awarded and the vast majority is awarded in that fashion. Mr. Grunloh stated
that they went through every process from IFB to the emergency procurements to sole source. To
date they have gone through the processes for all procurements and types of procurements that
they do and have made changes and one of the biggest was to the emergency purchases and what
the process is on those. Mr. Grunloh stated that about 5-6 years back IDOT made the effort to
become ISO 9001 certified which is a quality insurance qualification. IDOT has continued that
work and since doing that they have a guideline to follow for himself, SPO, and the PCM. One
concern Mr. Grunloh stated that he had, was the communication reporting and the fear of
employees to talk with vendors. It has been rumored that employees are cautious talking to
vendors since there is a strict penalty and people are reluctant to do it. This is not the answer to
what SB51 is about. This is a major concern of his and he would like to try and figure out a way
for employees to start talking to vendors. Mr. Grunloh stated that he attended a conference in
Champaign and told 1000 engineers and IDOT employees that it takes two minutes to go and
m:110505

5

 make a report. It is not that difficult to do it. He believes that it is having an effect on the open
flow of information and does think that it is a critical thing that needs to be looked at.
Since July 1, 2010 through April 15, 2011 there has been 564 through the letting process for a
total of $1,087,359,000 and have had a total contract award of QBS of 386 contracts totaling
$217,643,000 and a total contract award for land acquisition, done through the RFP method, only
4 of those amounting to $2,875,000. Mr. Grunloh stated that the total highway procurement from
July 1, 2010 through April 15, 2011 equaled $1,307,000,000. Mr. Grunloh stated that he is fully
staffed in his office and has a SPO and PCM in place. In his perspective everything is going well.
Member Bass asked if Mr. Grunloh was better accepted since he had been with the agency. Mr.
Grunloh replied possible. No further questions were asked.
Next was Mr. Matt Brown CPO for CMS - General Services. Mr. Brown stated that he didn’t
want to repeat anything that his colleagues have spoken to the culture of change they are dealing
with as an organization. They have spoken to customary relationship issues anytime you are
working with a new system and in this system it is not only the authority, but it also added new
requirements at the same time making the transition more complex. Mr. Brown would like to
share more operational experiences that they have been having since serving the State agencies.
Mr. Brown stated that he has 30 SPOs deployed in the agencies. Operationally for the value of
procurement has been generally stated that the amount of $9 billion dollars is roughly handled
through the procurement office each year, but that annualized number has never really been
extrapolated and through various lenses he could come up with a rough number that he would
like to portray to the Board. The work that comes to them annually at $9 billion dollars can fairly
easily be extrapolated to about $60 billion dollars worth of effect at the time action is being
taken. Mr. Brown stated they don’t have a process in the State to forecast that far out. They deal
with contracts that are as short term as six months and long term as 10 years and systematically
this is an area of concern to him. This needs to be factored into the operational understanding and
in order to do that better processes need to be developed. System innovation is critical for Mr.
Brown and is critical for the support of the agencies to which he and the SPO’s he has appointed
serve. One of the challenges is that it is very difficult for those agency CMS works with and the
departments they work with to see that far into a process where they believe the oversize is not
adding value. That creates a lot of challenge and he works towards that every day. One of the
things that creates that hurdle for them to cross is the new requirements in the Procurement
Code. Beyond that Mr. Brown stated that they still focus on performance initiatives. They have
to think about contract effectiveness as procurement officers and spend a lot of time working
towards a certain specification is accurate, whether that specification will be, accurate towards an
item or a supply of a good or service, it is actually what is in the agencies mission. It is not their
job to question that, but if the documentation suggests that it is not towards the agencies’ mission
then they feel like it is appropriate to ask them if they are sure this is what they want. Does this
go towards their agency mission? This is not always a welcome question, but would like to have
the folks they serve feel comfortable that it is not about taking a procurement away from the
agency and that they don’t need something, but it is making sure that they get what they ask for.
Mr. Brown stated that there is also an issue of timeliness. In every procurement transaction that
CMS participates in from the time that it starts to the time the contract is executed. Generally,
procurements take too long, they need to go faster and be more efficient and the steps of the
procurement process need to be more directly towards the business values that the agency has.
Along with that, CMS oversees every mandatory part of the Procurement Code and a lot of the
time they are in conflict with each other. There is a balancing act to be involved with at that
level. This causes them to spend a considerable amount of time in areas of exception, sole source
m:110505

6

 hearings, emergency extensions, contracts to other than the low bidder, etc. These are a lot of the
hurdles that are faced with on a daily basis.
The other thing that Mr. Brown would like to share with the Board in working on all of these
operational areas is that each type of procurement they deal with has a significantly different
tempo and level of due diligence associated with it. One that the Board is familiar with is in the
area of leasing. Mr. Brown stated that this is a very time consuming effort to just procure the
leases let alone establish the policy for which leasing has functioned for the last several years.
Mr. Brown continues to work with Mr. Nick Kanellopoulos at CMS on finding a strategy to get
through this. They are both working toward dealing with these inefficiencies. Mr. Brown
believes that efforts so far are yielding appropriate success. Mr. Brown stated that there will be
plenty more for the CPO to share with the Board at a later date.
Member Bedore wanted to know what is being done to have the SPO’s be on top of contracts
that need to be re-bid. For example DCFS they have a contract about record keeping that
expired. Didn’t they know that in 10 years they would have to go out and re-bid this? Instead
they went out for a 90-day emergency. Then they decided to go beyond the 90-days and never
had a public hearing that is required under State statute and then it comes to the Board. Member
Bedore wanted to know where the SPO was. Mr. Brown replied that the awareness of that
contract was expiring was before the SPO for some time. In the process established a business
case that the agency would use to put their needs forward the SPO challenged the agency at the
onset towards sole source procurement. The agency’s intent was to say they like the services they
received for the past 10 years and really don’t want to make a change. These are for record
management services which are very difficult to establish a sole source argument that this is the
only vendor that could provide the service. The agency could have elected to claim that this is
sole economically feasible source that for budgetary reasons don’t have the ability to transfer
large warehouses full of records from one vendor to another and pay a potential up-charge to reclassify those records in a new fashion. At the point where it became critical the SPO put
forward to the agency that they need to make a decision and put forward a case that will get them
a contract. At that point the agency was not in a position to agree to the competitive selection
method. It was either put forward a sole source that may not stand or declare an emergency to
operate this records management function until a competitive selection could occur. In this case
they chose to seek the emergency route to get a new procurement which will be competitive. Mr.
Brown stated before that the procurement process doesn’t happen fast enough and is an area that
needs improvement. The reason for Mr. Brown’s focus on timeliness is if you look historically at
PBC’s and the duration of these procurements. It is very easy to see that a procurement of this
kind operated in a historical sense could have taken as long as a year to get established. To have
the PBC start to move to meet the agencies requirement to have appropriate vetting sole source
or not in this case, to go to the Office of Management and Budget to receive the clearance that it
needs for the amount of fiscal spend. All of these things need to be moving in a timely manner.
For this particular transaction the train didn’t even leave the station until long after current
practice started its timely execution.
Member Bedore asked Mr. Brown if there is anything that this Board could do to help. Mr.
Brown replied that this effort is underway. There have been several opportunities where he has
had a chance to work in meetings with SPO and Board staff to try to isolate on transactions that
seemed to be locked up for some reason. What is relevant to the procurement, what is relevant to
the relationship and as soon as there is some basic understanding of how those two separate the
Board’s staff has been very instrumental in getting all of the focus put back on the transaction.
That is very valuable. Their introduction into these and every one of those meetings come from
so many different angles so it is very difficult to anticipate where they could step in at the staff
m:110505

7

 level. Mr. Brown stated from his perspective that the PPB staff are starting to anticipate things
and are foreseeing as the Board has done through its record keeping and are seeing trends and
what agencies are doing. Mr. Brown stated that the only request is more training for agency
personnel at all level’s who don’t have any idea what the procurement process is. The Board
could be instrumental in that. Member Bedore wanted to know how CMS was doing on getting
the Secretary of State’s approval. Mr. Brown replied that all of the issues have been cleared and
if there is anything left it is technical and is waiting on signatures. Whitney Rosen, Legal
Counsel for the Executive Ethics Commission, stated that is correct. In a couple of weeks there
will be a publication in the Illinois Register showing that the Rules have transferred. At that time
revisions can be made of some of the particulars. No further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was APO Update – State Fire Marshall. In attendance for the State Fire
Marshall was Jodi Schrage. Ms. Schrage stated that in listening to a lot of this she believes that
the communication between the SPO and the APO is beneficial. Mr. Schrage stated that she
wears several different hats in a small agency and was not previously the SPO. There was an
SPO with this legislation and they were re-assigned and so when the APO role came about it had
to be assigned to someone within the agency. She stated that she has had a little bit of a learning
curve and had been involved with procurement in a project management perspective, but has
been beneficial to her to work with an SPO and has received training and has that
communication with the CPO’s office and be able to get guidance from them. Ms. Schrage stated
that it has been a positive experience.
Next on the agenda was APO Update – DHS. In attendance for DHS was Trudy Haffer. Ms.
Haffer stated that on behalf of Secretary Saddler and Assistant Secretary Matthew Hammoudeh
that they greatly appreciate the guidance the Board has given them with the rules and policy
regarding procurement. The DHS agency procurement office has been impacted by Public Act
96-0795. Their office has been acting in accordance with the principles of SB51 to ensure they
are operating with the accountability, transparency, efficiency and fiduciary responsibility to
maximize State dollars. DHS has reviewed their process and divided it into to three sections: the
Agency Procurement Office, Office of Contract and Management and Contract and Support
Services. Ms. Haffer provided the Board with a copy for their records. Ms. Haffer stated that
each area has specific responsibility to the process and the agency procurement office is
responsible for the review and processing of a procurement business case and all the solicitations
involved through submission from the program areas to the full approval and awarded
procurement business case. Contract management is responsible for executing the contracts and
doing so with due diligence. The contract and support services are responsible for contract
obligation and monitoring of the contract process. Each area serves as a check point for
compliance and due diligence with insolated decision making. The APO office is proud to say
that they are collaborating and communicating well with the Executive Ethics Commission and
other entities involved strengthening the process and moving forward in the implementation that
this monumental shift in procurement has taken place. Together they review the process and seek
the necessary additional resources, consistent training and time to allow for the changes so that
the process can be effective and true transparency and efficiency and are accurate procurement in
a professional manner.
Chairman Vaught stated that he does not see Agency Procurement Officer in the Procurement
Code. Ms. Haffer replied that no, the APO is not in the legislation. That came out in a memo
from the Governor’s Office. Chairman Vaught asked how many staff is in the agency
procurement office. Ms. Haffer replied at the moment there are three official staff members
including herself. They are looking at getting and seeking more staff. Part of that is due to the
m:110505

8

 need to fill current vacancies which occurred due to departing and retiring staff and are looking
for professionals who that can support the procurement process with the appropriate skills. The
other is due to the expanded duties and steps involved in the procurement process with the
additions to the processes the new act they are seeking new staff. No further questions were
asked.
Next on the agenda was CMS Facilities. In attendance was Mr. Nick Kanellopoulos, Director of
Property Management. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that the Board requested some statistics on
lease consolidation, re-bids and re-negotiations in Chicago. Since Governor Quinn took office
CMS has re-bid and re-negotiated 31 leases in Chicago and have consolidated 9 leases. That has
eliminated 417,442 square feet of space that use to be leased in Chicago and the total cost of that
square footage was $10 million dollars annually. Member Bedore asked what that number would
have been had CMS gone into the lease on the CJA. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he believes
that lease was about 20,000 sq. ft. of space. Chairman Vaught asked Mr. Kanellopoulos if he had
any updates on the HDA lease on Michigan Ave. Director Aaron Carter stated that the PPB staff
contacted HDA and they, through e-mail, provided a pending amendment that was sent to the
Board yesterday. Director Carter stated that it is not under CMS and PPB staff contacted HDA
directly. Member Bedore asked who is responsible for them. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that
HDA has their own statutory leasing authority to do their own lease. Member Bedore asked how
things are going with Mr. Brown and getting space standards set. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that
he and Mr. Brown have been working on the rules when they have time. Mr. Kanellopoulos
stated that he did have a presentation on the printer consolidation if the Board had time on the
agenda to discuss it. Chairman Vaught asked if he could make the presentation at the Board’s
next meeting. Mr. Kanellopoulos agreed. No further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was Contract Review of SIUE – Asbestos/AE Firms. Director Aaron Carter
stated that this is for a change order for an AE Firm for asbestos removal. An overview of the
project the PPB is concerned with the policy in procuring for amendment and that the University
is increasing the contract by 126%, which decreases the likelihood that a change in germane to
the original contract. Bypassing the requirements for competitive selection established by the
Procurement Code and Rules is not a measure of due diligence that can easily be validated. The
Board is also concerned with the policy of a vendor completing work prior to the posting
requirements or the Codes being met and not having received a waiver of the 30-day review
process. In attendance was Dave Heth Director of Financial Affairs, Rick Walker Assistant Vice
Chancellor for Administration, and Nancy Ufert-Fairless Director of Purchasing. Director Heth
stated that they didn’t have a prepared statement and has answered all the questions asked by the
PPB staff and would be happy to respond to any questions. Director Carter stated that the agency
comments that they would cancel the amendment and will seek competitive selection for the
services. Director Heth replied that they would if needed, but didn’t need to because the entire
project got cancelled. Member Bedore wanted to know what the issue was on this. Director
Carter stated it was the size of the amendment of the original contract as well as the work being
done without receiving a PPB waiver. No further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was Lease Renewal Review of ISBE – Alzina Building 100 N. 1st Street in
Springfield. In attendance for ISBE were Chief Financial Officer Linda Riley-Mitchell,
Controller and Division Administrator Robert Wolf and Director of Administrative Services
Dave Moser. Ms. Riley-Mitchell stated that she is pleased to say that this lease does not look like
the lease from five years ago. The lease has a term ending June 30 with an option to renew
another five years and ISBE chose not to renew and instead proposed a new lease for the Board
to review with an 11.4% reduction or $1.5 million. Their facilities are consolidated with those of
m:110505

9

 another State agency and don’t have their own building. ISBE occupies the second and third
floor and share portions of the concourse and basement. The first floor and forth floor are
occupied about 52% of the building. There are 404 ISBE employees and 44 contractors. ISBE
also has a responsibility for a series of various commissions and task forces related to education.
Education is something in which the public wants to actively participate in and anticipate even
more task forces in the years to come. The space is also used to house the technology
infrastructure and have about 180 different applications that are accessed by over 200,000 users
and get about 340,000 hits per day. The proposed lease has a rent price of $16.98 for office space
and $6.95 for warehouse space. One of the things that this lease includes is a reduction in the
amount of the space that had been classified as office space. That space will be re-classified to
warehouse space. ISBE would like to thank the Board, Director Carter and staff for their work on
this lease.
Chairman Vaught asked how ISBE worked with CMS on this lease. Ms. Riley-Mitchell replied
that CMS is also involved in negotiating for the other portion of the building that houses DHS.
The ISBE lease mirrors that from DHS in regards to the rent rate. Meaning that it is more like the
current DHS lease is than what the previous ISBE lease was. With no further questions a motion
to accept the lease was made by Member Bedore and was seconded by Member Bass. The
motion passed with a 4-0 vote.
Next on the agenda was the PPB Legal Counsel Renewal. Director Carter stated that it is that
time of year and this is the first of two possible renewals and wants to know the pleasure of the
Board on whether to renew Todd Turner’s services for the next year. The price will remain the
same at $24,700 for the facial year. Member Bedore made a motion to approve the renewal of
legal counsel services and was seconded by Member Morales. The motion passed with a 4-0
vote.
Next on the agenda was the discussion of PPB Policies in Conjunction with Public Act 96-1521
(HB1450). Director Carter stated that legal counsel was able to provide a recommended policy in
conjunction with this legislation. It mimics legislation with a few exceptions. It creates language
that any Board member can request that a lease be presented on the agenda for the rest of the
Board and also follows Chairman Vaught’s recommendation that no lease should be posted
within 10 days when practical. Director Carter also stated that a special meeting can be called if
an emergency comes up and the lease would not be able to be heard at the next scheduled
meeting. Chairman Vaught stated that the Board will need to discuss it more before making a
motion.
Next on the agenda was Legislation. Director Carter stated that he provided the normal
legislative report to the Board but wanted to touch base on a few things. SR118 committee met
briefly Monday to establish structure of the committee and met again this morning and had three
individuals participate and testified in the 45 minutes they allotted. Mr. Brown was able to speak
for most of the time, but paused his testimony until next time and U of I was given about 10
minutes this morning for comments and questions. As of the finalization of the meeting the
committee this morning did not have a second date set where PPB staff will testify. Also,
SB1352 regarding single prime contracts passed the Senate, but hit a bit of a complication and
they are trying to drop $5 million as the threshold and sounds like it will be $15 million when it
comes back out of the House and goes back to the Senate for concurrence.
The next scheduled meeting for the Procurement Policy Board will be set for Thursday, June 16,
2011 pending Board confirmation.
m:110505

10

 With no further business to discuss a motion to go into executive session to discuss personnel
was made by Member Bass and was seconded by Member Bedore. The motion was unanimously
approved.

m:110505

11

 