Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black

Public Hearing for Pacific Management, Inc.
Minutes – February 9, 2012
Present in Chicago:

David Vaught
Rick Morales

Present in Springfield:

Larry Ivory

Absent:

Ed Bedore
Bill Black

The Board started the hearing by confirming attendance at 10:15 a.m.
Senator Susan Garrett gave a brief opening statement.
Thank you for inviting me to testify today. Senator Garrett stated that the reason she requested this hearing, is that
she read a newspaper article that claimed the State still has contracts involving William Cellini, now a convicted
felon. Illinois law prohibits such arrangements, as you all know. The newspapers set off a fire storm with Cellini
attorneys claiming that Bill Cellini’s, New Frontier companies are no longer doing business with the State and that
Pacific Management, Inc. (PMI), who currently does manage several State facilities, no longer has any ties to
William Cellini. Senator Garrett continued that Pacific Management is part of the Cellini conglomerate. While it’s
easy to get caught up in the “who owns what” debate, a more serious concern is why is the State providing for
special arrangements and contracts for outside vendors to develop and manage at least 14 State facilities without any
oversight, disclosure, re-bidding or basic transparency? This unique arrangement is unacceptable, unaffordable and
unprecedented, by any State standard. Over the last two decades, the State has allowed developers to construct
buildings to be used for State business. These developers were all asked to respond today to a set of questions sent to
them by the Procurement Policy Board and, to date, have collectively not responded, even though the State pays
them millions of dollars a year. This is because of the special and unique arrangements we currently have in place,
these developers are not required to respond to questions like: (1) providing a list of the current owners of the
following property. These are the different State occupied facilities that the developers oversee and there were no
responses. (2) Property listed above has been identified as being managed by Pacific Management. For the property
listed indicate details of the following: was the contract with PMI competitively bid? If not, how was the contract
procured? What was the monthly fee, etc? Senator Garrett stated that she has not seen any responses to these
questions. These developers have dictated the terms of these contracts with little or no options for the State to make
any changes. These decades old contracts are expensive and void of any enforcement powers from the State even
though the State pays these developers-landlords millions of dollars. The developer-landlords of these State occupied
facilities get to choose the management company of their liking with no input from the State, no bids necessary, no
vetting, no transparency, and the State pays for management services, either directly or indirectly to the developers or
landlords, who the State has absolutely no relationship or information on. Millions of dollars a year and the State is
on the outside looking in, paying the fees to who knows who. Because of this unique lease-management
relationship, the State has abdicated its responsibility to unknown investors and partners. We are clearly not in the
driver’s seat and its costing taxpayers too much money.
Senator Garrett wanted to talk a little more about the newspaper articles when the Sun Times came out and stated
that it appeared that William Cellini still has an arrangement through New Frontier with some of the State occupied
M:120209

511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 facilities. The next article that came out stated that “no” that wasn’t the case and CMS made a mistake and that in
fact those contracts with New Frontier no longer exist. Then yesterday Senator Garrett called and asked to see that
documentation so she could understand what happened with these leases where New Frontier was originally involved
in, but were later found out not to be involved anymore. She believes that this is of particular interest because this
whole web is so confusing that not only would legislatures not be able to understand this, newspapers can’t
understand this and even CMS was a little confused as to how it works. Senator Garrett stated that what she can tell,
for example, CMS lease 4299 from 2002 to 2007, which was for the Department of Public Aid and the lessor is
Government Property Fund, LLC. They were sent a letter and didn’t respond. At that time, in addition to the lessor,
they also had an agent, which was New Frontier. New Frontier was a part of this lease where they got a percentage of
whatever the monthly rent was. They got a fee for participating. That is how they were on the lease when it was
FOIA’d by the Sun Times, but what you don’t see in this lease is that we paid $245,000 a month. Included in that
$245,000 a month is the management contract that we didn’t see and we really don’t know how that works. It is all
taken care of by Government Property Fund, LLC. It is not known out of this $245,000 a month how much is
attributed to the management of that particular building. In this contract it doesn’t state who the management
company is. In addition when the State pays their rent the fee goes directly to Government Property Fund, LLC.
Then they take that money and divide that up. In this case it does look like they paid New Frontier a fee for just
being on this contract. It is confusing and there is no oversight and we don’t have the ability to go in there and
understand how that management fee is being utilized. Now, this same contract was updated in 2008 and the same
lessor, Government Property Fund, LLC, but instead of having New Frontier it is now in care of Pacific
Management. Which is part of the Cellini conglomerate, but he has no ties according to State records. This fee has
now gone from $245,000 a month to $256,000 a month and the State now pays Pacific Management instead of
Government Property Fund, LLC and they distribute the fund how they see fit. For all we know New Frontier could
still be getting a cut and we have no way of knowing that.
Senator Garrett stated that her recommendation is to subject these unique arrangements that have been set up by
outside vendors, to the subcontracting laws of the State. Re-negotiate these contracts, re-bid and demand disclosure,
transparency and accountability. The current system is unethical and unfair to the State and our taxpayers.
Chairman Vaught thanked Senator Garrett for coming and bringing this to the Board’s attention and appreciates her
work on this. Member Morales stated that the purpose of today’s hearing is that Senator Garrett would like for the
arrangements and processes to be looked at because she feels that they need more disclosure. Senator Garrett replied
affirmatively. Member Morales stated that we are not specifically targeting any individual. Senator Garrett replied
that all she can say is that the majority of the State owned buildings have these unique relationships with a Cellini
conglomerate. For someone who has to work on the budget on a daily basis to expend a quarter of a million dollars a
month for leasing and managing a State occupied building is unacceptable. Member Morales replied that this is
always a concern for the Board of what the State spends and the Board is always scrutinizing CMS about. He doesn’t
disagree that we need to look at arrangements and processes to make sure that there is 100% fairness for the good of
the State, but again that is what we are focusing on and what this hearing is for and we are not focusing on an
individual as stated before. Senator Garrett replied that it is hard to separate the two unfortunately. She believes that
William Cellini does not have ties to the New Frontier Companies, but what she doesn’t know is if New Frontier is
somehow being reimbursed through these unique relationships. Member Morales stated that this could be the case for
any management company then so we would need to look at all of them. Senator Garrett replied that they should
look at any of them that have an unusual relationship where the State has no connection. Right now she feels that the
State doesn’t have a connection with the lessor or the management companies and believes that these contracts
should be put back out to bid, re-negotiated and get disclosure on who is who. The fact that the Procurement Policy
Board put out a letter to these developers/landlords and asked them questions and not one of them responded is
extremely troubling. Chairman Vaught stated that looking at page 135 Section 20-120 of the Procurement Code on
subcontractors, he believes that this section was amended or added in SB51. With the leases you are referring to all
are prior to the enactment of this subcontract section and it says that any contract under this Code shall state whether
the service of a subcontractor will or may be used. Chairman Vaught asked if the Senator is concerned either that the
definition of subcontractor or the non retroactive effect of this law is really part of the problem here. Senator Garrett
replied yes exactly. She printed out the amendment of subcontracting that really defines the role of subcontractors
and how they have to disclose relevant and pertinent information. Senator Garrett believes at the very minimum has
in place these developers would have had to respond to the questions that were asked of them. She doesn’t know to
the extent of authority the PPB has to insure that this happens but would highly recommend that the State take
immediate steps to do that. This is a slap in the face that these developers chose not to respond to any of the
2
M:120112

 questions and imagine paying millions of dollars a year and getting no responses as to who the owners of the
company are. By using the subcontracting provision they would not have that ability to ignore the State. Chairman
Vaught replied that is a very good point. Chairman Vaught stated that he doesn’t believe that the Board has any
authority on these installment purchase contracts. Generally those have been authorized by law probably back in the
1990’s, but the Board does have authority when there are existing leases such as the HFS lease. If that would have
come up for renewal where there had not been a competitive bid the Board has a binding authority on whether to
approve those renewals. The Board in the past has turned down the renewal of several leases, which they felt were
too expensive or found other problems with them. If they have not come up for renewal then it does not come before
the Board. Chairman Vaught stated that the Board has been viewed by the four caucasus as a source that makes
recommendations on procurement issues and has some ability to make recommendations. Chairman Vaught stated
that it sounds like Senator Garrett wants the Board to make a recommendation or think about making a
recommendation on subcontractor disclosures and perhaps there might be some of these disclosures retroactive and
be required by law not just when a new contract is entered into, but whether existing contracts could be subject to
that requirement. Senator Garrett replied that she does not want the Board to do this, but is asking and begging the
Board to do this. She stated that she does not stand alone in this.
Member Morales commented that he thinks it is great that Senator Garrett has taken the time to find these things out,
which is something this Board has been doing for many years. He cannot recall the millions of dollars the Board has
helped the State save and the things that they have found during the procurement process and is glad that they are on
the same page about doing that. Member Morales stated again for clarity that this should be the main focus and glad
that the Senator brought up the arrangements and procedures that are in place by the State that we need to take a look
at. He wanted to be clear that it was not about the first issue that was brought up, but about the processes that are in
place. Senator Garrett replied that she wanted to be clear that this should not be a witch hunt for William Cellini.
What this does is expose the fact that the Cellini conglomerate has a strong-hold on not just the landlord lease issues,
but also the management of 14 State occupied facilities with no oversight. So, no disrespect to William Cellini, but it
is not just a fly-by-night company, it is an empire.
Member Ivory stated that this is a very important issue in terms of transparency and clarity. In terms of the
Procurement Policy Board side whether to make a recommendation that may give the Board greater clarity so that if
an issue like this should ever surface again there will be a process in place to deal with it. No further comments or
questions were made.
Next on the agenda was Deputy Director for Property Management with CMS, Nick Kanellopoulos. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that all of the leases that are being talked about were procured by CMS. Chairman Vaught
stated that not all of them are leases, but installment purchases. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that is correct there are
four installment purchases. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that CMS, at the time, was involved in all of the transactions;
however, today only three of the four payments are made through CMS. The fourth one is handled by the Illinois
Student Assistant Commission (ISAC). Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that the Senator is absolutely correct about many
things. The State does not have any contracts directly with Pacific Management and as we sit here today these
management companies do not fall under the definition of a subcontractor. He has had this conversation with the
CPO’s office as well. Today there is no requirement on behalf of a lessor at the time the State does a lease for their
vendors to be disclosed and the ownership structures of those companies to be disclosed. When CMS focuses on
competitive bids their focus is to get the lowest price possible and therefore in most all cases CMS accepts the lowest
bid possible. In accepting the lowest bid if there is a management fee being paid out of that rent or other fees being
paid to other vendors out of that rent CMS cannot look at that. CMS is required by the Procurement Code to take the
lowest bid unless there is a justification for not taking it and that has to be posted to the Procurement Bulletin and in
most cases there is no justification for not taking the lowest bid. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he would also add that
it is not unique for buildings of the size that are being talked about for the owners to not maintain those buildings but
to hire a management company. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he would be happy to answer any questions.
Member Ivory asked if CMS had lost any competitive bids at any point in time. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that at his
time at CMS there was a long period of time where a large part of their portfolio leases were expired and CMS
needed to eliminate that issue. When CMS eliminated all of the expired leases they would renew a lot of their leases
directly with the landlords in the building in which they were in. Those are the leases that were mentioned before by
the Chairman where the Board would have to approve or reject that lease up until about June 2010. Since then in
almost every case CMS competitively bid their leases. They would go out with an RFI and the leases have been
3
M:120112

 awarded to the lowest bidder in probably every case. Mr. Kanellopoulos also stated that since September 2010 that
every contract that CMS does has to be signed off on by the CPO’s office. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he thinks
that the process of how CMS procures a lease is much more transparent today than it was several years ago and the
EEC and the PPB get and have access to all the information they get when they procure a lease. Chairman Vaught
stated that it was his understanding that his division of CMS has a responsibility to service and provides a facility
management role of their own. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that they are the facility managers for the State and do
manage facilities whether they are state owned or state leased.
Chairman Vaught brought up the installment purchase agreement for the Sangamo Building where EPA is that was
entered into in 1996 and is still in effect. Chairman Vaught stated that on page 9 of the information given to the
Board that during the term of the agreement the purchaser (the State) agrees to pay additional installment payments
and administrative expenses. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively. Chairman Vaught asked if that would include
these potential payments that Senator Garrett is concerned about that would go to others. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied
affirmatively that the way those payments work is the State pays the bank that is retiring the bonds and then the bank
keeps their money and then pays out to the management company that was assigned at the time these transactions
where entered into, which was New Frontier at the time. Chairman Vaught stated that his concern is on page 8 and 9
of the agreement, which says that the purchaser agrees to pay additional installments for administrative expenses.
That is not just the lease purchase amount. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively that CMS pays for the
management of the building, which is separate and apart from the retirement of the bonds to pay the bill. Chairman
Vaught stated that there is a statement in here in the same area that those have to be reasonable. How does CMS
determine that those additional expense payments are reasonable? Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that CMS gets an
estimate budget every year for each of the three buildings that are under CMS’ control and that goes through a
review process with the staff and see what has been budgeted and what work needs to be done. Since CMS does not
own these buildings they don’t have complete control over them. Chairman Vaught asked when CMS gets those
certifications of administrative expenses do they come from Pacific Management. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that
Pacific Management is the one who sends CMS what they believe is the budget for the following year on what the
costs are going to be for the operating expenses. Chairman Vaught asked if they knew of the additional expenses
where PMI was spending that money. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that there is a line item for all operating expenses.
Senator Garrett wanted to thank the Chairman for making the point that there is an additional fee that no one knows
who is getting that fee and she feels that it needs to be clarified and that the State is giving this bank all the
responsibility to make these payments to who knows who and we don’t know who those people are. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that he believes that there are trusts involved where the payments go to the bank to pay off
these arrangements; however, he doesn’t believe from their document that they don’t have the right to look into who
those people are. Senator Garrett stated that she doesn’t know any State that has a 21 year lease when the taxpayers
have no say into how those dollars are spent or any oversight or accountability. We don’t even know who we are
dealing with. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the method used to purchase these buildings was repealed back in 2004
to prevent future transactions without specific legislative authority to do so. No further questions or comments were
made.
Next was Pacific Management. In attendance representing Pacific Management was Attorney Bill Roberts. Mr.
Roberts stated that he didn’t have a formal presentation to make except to say that PMI has cooperated with this
Board and has submitted two packets of information to the Board and to Senator Garrett. The genesis of this, as he
sees it, was an erroneous article in the Sun Time for which they subsequently apologized. Mr. Roberts wanted to
make it clear that Bill Cellini has no relationship with PMI. Further, PMI has no contract with the State of Illinois.
Not that they couldn’t. PMI is owned by Bill Cellini Jr. and Claudia Cellini, neither of whom have been charged or
convicted of anything. Furthermore, none of the New Frontier companies have a contract with the State of Illinois.
Mr. Roberts stated that he has listened to what the members of the Board and Senator Garrett have said and there
does seem to be some confusion and would encourage the Board and Senator Garrett to sort out this confusion and
not rely on speculation. Mr. Roberts stated that he would also urge caution trying to go behind contracts or legal
documents that have been in existence for a long time. Both Federal and State law clearly recognizes the sanctity of
some propriety information and thus protected from public disclosure. If we are going to do it for everybody fair
enough, but it would be unwise to single out one or two or three groups who someone perceives as an empire to try
and do a unique investigation as a result of a policy.

4
M:120112

 Senator Garrett stated that this is not erroneous information that the newspapers put out. The newspapers put out
what was given to them by CMS and then CMS came back and said that they found additional information that
shows that Frontier Management on paper has been taken out of some of these leases. What these newspaper articles
pointed out is how confusing this process is and the reason why there may have been some mistakes made is because
nobody can get to the real information. Senator Garrett did receive letters from the Cellini company attorney asking
her to withdraw her request because it would cost the State too much money. How much more money can we spend
when we are spending a quarter of a million dollars one month with one agency paying it to people who we don’t
know. Should we stand by and let this happen without looking at ways to modify it? Mr. Roberts replied that it is
legal and moving forward the State can do what they wish, but again underscore the fact as far as he knows there is
nothing illegal about it.
Chairman Vaught commented that the role of this Board is that they do have some oversight authority to approve
lease renewals, but they also have this primary responsibility to try and consider the effect of the procurement system
and how it can work better. We have had a pretty substantial change in the procurement system in SB51 and had
made reference earlier to this section of the Procurement Code that requires some disclosure on new
matters/contracts from subcontractors and have heard from some in the business community that some of these
provisions might make it harder to bid and participate in the procurement system. The Board has a policy interest
here in trying to see that we have a procurement system that is competitive and produces a good reasonable cost
services for the State and also have some interest in disclosures and physical controls and what is really happening
out there. Chairman Vaught stated that he is interested in Mr. Roberts’ views as a person representing someone that
is involved in this about whether he thinks that subcontractor disclosures is a good thing or a bad thing or whether it
helps us or hurts us in terms of the overall goal of the procurement system. Mr. Roberts replied that he does not own
any buildings and is not in a position to comment on that. It is a complex issue and he does think that the State
benefits from a competitive market and there are needs for competitors to maintain proprietary information.
Member Morales summarized on why the Board was here. Initially this started as an inquiry by a Sun Times article,
which was later corrected or withdrawn stating that it was incorrect information. That led the Board to ask to
continue with a hearing to look at the processes which this State has and which we all know is not perfect. If the
request to not have the hearing was because of the cost involved is not because of the Board members because they
do not get paid for this. The Board is here for free to make sure that these procurement policies are adhered to. The
Board is not here as a witch hunt, but are here to recognize that we need to continue to look at these procurement
policies and make sure that they are correct for everyone involved in the State of Illinois.
Senator Garrett wanted to add that the misinformation that was in the Sun Times article really wasn’t
misinformation. It was information that is difficult to get who the participants are in these types of lease management
arrangements. CMS sent a bundle of these leases and in that bundle New Frontier was included. Looking further they
did find that New Frontier was not included. These articles just opened up the debate on how these leases and special
arrangements have been taking place over the last two decades. It is not a witch hunt, but the factual information is
hard to get and we have to be vigilant and get it right. Member Morales stated that he doesn’t disagree with that.
Member Morales re-stated the article correction statement – “Administration said it incorrectly provided the Sun
Times with outdated records showing that a company led by Bill Cellini managed 18 State leased buildings.
Administration said in a further review it shows those buildings are managed by Pacific Management Company
partly owned by Cellini’s daughter and son-in-law. We apologize for the confusion Quinn spokesman said”. That
was the correction that was placed in the paper. Chairman Vaught stated that everything the Board has will be posted
to the Procurement Policy Board website at ppb@illinois.gov. Mr. Roberts stated that the word confusion floats
around here and wanted to make it abundantly clear that Bill Cellini has no interest in Pacific Management and
Pacific Management has no contract with the State of Illinois although they could legally do so. Senator Garrett
stated that Mr. Roberts was correct that PMI does not have a contract with the State and it is disturbing. If they had a
direct contract with the State we would know who the players are and would be able understand, justify and provide
oversight on these unyielding costs, but it doesn’t make it right. The State should have oversight and that contract
should be directly with the State. Senator Garrett wanted to know what the next steps are going to be. Chairman
Vaught replied that from the Procurement Policy Board point of view the Board likes to consider those things and
decide if they want to make recommendations on a legislative response is the typical procedure. No further questions
or comments were made.

5
M:120112

 With no further business to discuss a motion to adjourn was made by Member Morales and was seconded by
Chairman Vaught. The motion was unanimously approved.

6
M:120112

 