PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Carmen Triche-Colvin

Minutes – April 2, 2009 Meeting

Present in Springfield:

David Vaught
Ed Bedore
Mike Bass

Present in Chicago:

Carmen Triche-Colvin

Absent:

Rick Morales

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:30a.m.
Member Bass wanted to request that he be put down as an “Aye” vote for the resolution for Terry
Healy from the previous meeting.

A motion to approve the minutes for February 5th and March 5th was made by Member Bedore
and seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimous.
First on the agenda was CDB. Director Matt Brown explained that this portion of the meeting
will serve as the public hearing for the approval of single prime contracts for New Construction
of Metro East Forensic Lab in Belleville and the Construction of a Performing Arts Center at
Western Illinois University. In attendance for CDB were Construction Administrator Ron Wright,
Project Manager Robert Bauer and Project Manager Rich Meyer. CDB is asking for the Board’s
consideration for the use of single prime with protected sub alternative delivery method as
allowed by the Procurement Code. The total cost of this project would be $36 million and its
construction cost would be $27.5 million. This would be a new free standing Forensic
Laboratory for the Illinois State Police of approximately 64,000 sq ft and associated site work on
2.42 acres in Belleville, Illinois. Spaces to be provided include testing laboratories, offices,
conference rooms, employee facilities, vehicle bays, firearms testing areas, training facilities,
lobby and mechanical & electrical spaces. The site will be developed with landscaping and
parking. This project shall comply with the Business Enterprise for Minorities, Females and
Persons with Disabilities Act and the equal employment practices of Section 2-105 the Illinois
Human Rights Act. Mr. Wright said he would be happy to answer any questions.
Member Bedore stated that in the past the Board questioned the development of the Springfield
ISP lab for the State Police and wanted to know what was going on with that. Mr. Wright replied
that to his knowledge this forensic lab in Belleville and the Codis DNA lab in Springfield is
somewhere in the priority list, but does not believe it is being funded. Member Bedore asked
how it is that CDB has come up with $36 million for the project in Belleville, but did not have
the funds for the Springfield Codis lab. Mr. Wright replied that CDB is being funded for design
of the Belleville lab with construction funds to follow. They have gone more than two calendar
m:090402
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 years with Illinois State Police and with the review of the Governor’s Office; that process tells
CDB what is the best option to fund. Mr. Wright is asking for the Board’s permission today so
they can prepare the specifications. Member Bedore asked to know why CDB has not come to
the Board with permission for design for the Springfield lab. CDB keeps telling the Board that
there are no funds, but found some design funds and anticipate getting funds to build this lab in
Belleville. He asked CDB to review and return with an answer at the next meeting. A motion to
approve this project was made by Member Bass and was seconded by Member Triche-Colvin. It
was unanimously approved. The next request from CDB was the approval for a new performing
arts center at Western Illinois University in Macomb. The total project cost is $71.8 million and
construction costs are $60.3 million. This reflects base bid, all known alternates and contingency
would be the maximum money spent. CDB also wanted to mention to the Board that the cost of
both projects will keep them under the $100 million cap and allow a little for inflation in case
something changes. This is a 127,000 sq. ft performing art center on the west side of campus and
features 1,400 seat Proscenium Theater, 250 seat thrust theater, a 150 seat experimental theater, 2
dance studios, 1 jazz studio, performance support and rehearsal spaces, scene shop, offices and
mechanical/electrical support spaces. Mr. Wright asked if the Board had any questions. Member
Bedore asked about the construction cost and total cost and wanted to know if the furnishings
were the difference there. Mr. Wright responded affirmatively. Chairman Vaught asked if the
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certificate was driven by the user or
CDB. Mr. Wright responded that WIU is an advocate for environmental sustainability and
insisted that it be a LEED’s standard. Member Triche-Colvin made a motion to approve this
project and was seconded by Member Bedore.
Next on the agenda was Higher Education. In attendance representing the Chief Procurement
Officer of Higher Education was Bob Baker. Mr. Baker wanted to make a recommendation for
an amendment to the Procurement Code to increase the small purchase maximum for
Professional and Artistic Services to $50,000. It is currently set at $20,000. An increase in the
small purchase maximum would decrease the number of award notices currently being
advertised on the Higher Education Bulletin by approximately 45%, but would only decrease the
total dollar amount of all Professional or Artistic awards advertised by approximately 7%. The
PPB would continue to review 55% of the Professional or Artistic awards currently being
advertised, but would see 93% of the dollar value, retaining almost the same level of financial
review and control. The benefit to Higher Education and the State Agencies is greater flexibility
to direct more purchases to minority, women, and physically disabled business enterprises would
greatly help in support of the State Business Enterprise Program. Mr. Baker said he would
answer any questions the Board might have. Member Triche-Colvin stated that in the State of
Illinois $50,000 is a low threshold, but is concerned with how it will be measured to make sure
that the business practices awarding these contracts are done in a manner that is diverse and fair
to the entire community of the State of Illinois. Mr. Baker replied that State Universities are
subject to the goal set by the Business Enterprise Program. The State Universities are subjected
to the same 19% goal. There is a considerable incentive to seek out firms in these categories.
Member Bass stated that he would like to see something similar in this area similar to the Board
establishes other small thresholds in the Code; up or down the Board reviews and recommends
the level.
Chairman Vaught stated that the Board just received the Illinois Reform Commission initial
recommendations. In their procurement section, they call for the cutting back of loopholes and
exemptions to the Procurement Code and seems to be implying a hold at $25,000 and above and
having those contracts at $25,000 and above be subjected to tighter requirements which exist
under the current law. Member Triche-Colvin asked if Director Brown could do some research
m:090402

2

 and see if the Board was to approve this and put a piece of legislation out there if it would die or
is it viable. Director Brown will do some research and come back to the Board in May with some
possible solutions. No further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was CMS. In attendance was Deputy Director of Property Management Nick
Kanellopoulos and CMS State Architect Ron Wheeler. Mr. Kanellopoulos wanted to give a brief
overview since last meeting and answer a few questions. CMS has terminated 18 leases
Statewide, which brings the total number of terminated leases to 35 since September 2008. Last
month Member Morales asked for a breakdown of agencies. Of the 35 terminations 21 are DHS
leases the rest are a mix, DOT, FPR DCFS, DCEO, and AGE. What this means for the State and
CMS is that the first years savings of these terminations is $5.47 million. Also there is a
reduction in 273,605 sq. ft. of leased space. Member Bedore asked if they were moved into State
owned facilities or other leased facilities. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that it is a mix of both. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that Member Bedore also had a question from last meeting about the RFI
on AGE that CMS had issued. Of the 50,000 sq. ft there are 199 employees that work for AGE
and would come out to 251 sq. ft. per employee. Chairman Vaught also requested a list of leases
that are over 6 months in holdover. Of the 106 holdovers there are 95 that are older than 6
months.
Giving the presentation on space standards was CMS State Architect Ron Wheeler. Mr. Wheeler
passed out a handout of the presentation, which provided much more detailed information. Mr.
Wheeler stated that his acting role with CMS is manager of Strategic Planning and Space
Management Division. At CMS they are developing new standards for planning and managing
property in their consolidated portfolio. One of the main issues that CMS has in managing
property is the information issue. There is a great deal of information to manage and those pieces
of information come together in their strategic planning and analysis tool, which is used to
compare properties in the portfolio. Once that information is put together, CMS begins to
compile performance metrics and look at the performance of each property. Whether they are
looking at total cost of the facility or cost per sq. ft., deferred maintenance cost, headcount or
population of those facilities, the cost per person in the facility, building area, potential vacant
space or looking for a strategy for consolidation; this analysis tool assists in this process. Mr.
Wheeler wanted the Board to be aware that CMS is not limited to the 800 facilities in their
consolidated portfolio. Out of the other 10,000 facilities available statewide there are 1,700 that
may have potential for redesign, whether it is current use or adapted use. CMS just wants the
Board to know they are looking at other State owned facilities in the State first before leasing.
One of the primary uses of this tool is to determine what the sq. ft. per employee is, using 300 sq.
ft. per employee as a hypothetical benchmark, and see where they might have vacant space.
Mr. Wheeler stated that every year the data is refreshed in an annual plan process which agencies
report back to CMS in July of every year and learn from experience what information to track.
Mr. Wheeler stated that in CMS’s portfolio, they focus primarily on office space. When
comparing performance at a facility, they compare like facilities. In their portfolio, 75% are
client service types that need to be compared against like facilities to be accurate. Once all the
data is together and have like facilities, they are establishing a mid-range of performance within
each sub type. Mr. Wheeler stated that CMS can program all new leased space below the current
median area per person for all office occupancy sub-types. That is better than 50% of the
portfolio. They can program most leased facilities below the mid-range level for office
occupancy sub-types and particularly for client service facilities, which means that CMS can
produce new space requirements that perform in the top 25% in their portfolio from each
occupancy sub-type.
m:090402

3

 Member Bedore asked what the standard is for square feet per person. What is being
recommended? Mr. Wheeler replied that CMS is in the process of setting benchmarks of where
they will target their performance. Today he is prepared to say that the 50% of the mid-range
CMS will always be in that range, but when new space is programmed CMS will be below that
range. Director Sledge commented that Member Bedore has previously been concerned on
CMS’s jurisdiction over other agencies to meet standards and it is an issue which is being
discussed with the Governor’s office and user agencies to address that issue. The space planning
issue was requested to be on the agenda in two months. Specifically to have new rules proposed
as well as modern philosophy on break rooms, conference rooms and video equipment. CMS is
going to field verify everything that an agency programs.
Next on the agenda was DCFS lease 5121 at 500 42nd Street in Rock Island. Mr. Kanellopoulos
stated that Steve Bradford and Chris Powers are in Springfield to represent DCFS on any
questions that might come up. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this lease is 16,400 sq. ft. office
space, with 309 sq. ft per employee. First two years the base rent is $10.50. Once the lease is
signed the lessor will carpet, tile and paint the interior and do work on the parking lot, which is
to be completed within four months of the commencement of the lease. Mr. Kanellopoulos asked
for the Board’s approval and would be happy to answer any questions. A motion was made by
Member Triche-Colvin to accept this lease and was seconded by Member Bedore. The motion
was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was DCFS lease 5501 at 800 Roosevelt Road Building-D in Glen Ellyn. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that this lease is 17,922 sq. ft. facility housing 58 employees which come to
309 sq. ft. per employee. This is a five year lease that includes the landlord repainting the entire
office and doing some other work within 90 days after the commencement of the lease. First year
base rent is $18.25, which is a reduction from $19.16 in the previous lease. Mr. Kanellopoulos
said he would be happy to answer any questions the Board might have. Member Bedore asked if
this was a negotiated lease. CMS responded affirmatively. Member Bedore made a motion to
accept this lease and was seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was DHS lease 5510 at 501 W. Washington Street in Bloomington. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that Henry Johnson from DHS is in Chicago to help answer any questions
on the lease. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this is a three year lease at 10,840 sq. ft. The white
papers provided to the Board were inaccurate and the total number of employees at the facility
was 27 with 5 community partners, which brings the sq. ft. per employee down to 338. The base
rent in the first year is $9.41. During the negotiations, CMS was able to reduce the base rent
down from the previous lease, which was at $11.30. Mr. Kanellopoulos believes that this is a
good lease at a good rate and asked the Board for their approval. Chairman Vaught wanted to
know why the vacant space due diligence does not include the whole metropolitan area and also
why is the janitorial is $2.45 per sq. ft. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that when CMS looks at
vacant space due diligence to take into account the facility closure act, which 25 employees have
to move more than 10 miles there would be COGFA issues. Member Bedore commented that the
due diligence is to include searching for 25% smaller locations. Mr. Kanellopoulos affirmed that.
This is why there is a five mile radius as a benchmark for vacant search. The janitorial at this
facility is provided by a State Use Workshop. These are severally disabled people who provide
the janitorial. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this does not mean that State use vendors are going
to get paid what they want, but they have a preference and if a workshop can serve; CMS has the
ability to look at the value of that contract and can work with that amount it does not get bid out.
Chairman Vaught asked if there were any other DHS leased facilities in the area to consolidate.
m:090402

4

 Assistant Secretary of Operation with DHS Jerome Butler, replied that there is a DORS office in
the area, but does not know if there is availability there or anywhere else in Bloomington. Henry
Johnson stated that DHS has looked at all DHS offices in the Bloomington area for possible
consolidation and was not able to find a facility consolidation opportunity to meet their
requirements. Chairman Vaught asked if DHS thought about consolidating with other agencies.
Mr. Johnson replied that they did not. Member Bass questioned Mr. Kanellopoulos about the
three year lease and what will happen since there is a termination clause after the 36th month. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that three years was all CMS was able to negotiate with the landlord at
this time. Member Bedore asked if DHS would furnish their strategic plan to the Board on how it
plans to over view its upcoming needs. A motion to approve this lease was made by Member
Triche-Colvin and was seconded by Member Bass. Member Bedore abstained. The motion
carried.
Next on the agenda was DHS Xerox Copier R & M Services, but Member Triche-Colvin
requested to have legislation moved up because she was unable to stay for the entire meeting.
Director Brown stated that there were two legislative items he would report on. One was the
liability of the Procurement Policy Board being involved in the voiding of contracts and he noted
that piece of legislation has not advanced. If it were to pass, it would create a large increase in
Board’s budget needs and staff responsibility. At this point, Director Brown stated that he does
not see this piece of legislation moving forward. Next, there were discussions placing limitations
on contract execution and an implied limit of 30 days. At this point that piece of legislation is not
moving forward and he does not expect it to move at this time. The last item was the discussion
the six month holdover provision and protections that might prevent someone from immediately
being refused payment as the law was applied. That bill is currently sitting in the House on
second reading and has an amendment attached to it. It sets out six months holdover limitation an
effective date of January 1, 2010 and established that the Comptroller shall only begin his
withholding payments on those leases in July 1, 2010.
Next was Xerox Copier R & M Services. In attendance was Assistant Secretary of Operations
with DHS Jerome Butler. Mr. Butler was under the impression that the services up for discussion
needed the Board’s approval. Director Brown stated that since the services have already been
performed the Board’s approval is not needed, but the Board wanted to make comments and
recommendations so this would not happen in the future. The Board was concerned with the
policy of engaging vendors with no written contract in place and subsequently requiring vendors
to pursue payment through the Court of Claims. The Board is examining how this lack of
procurement activity prior to acquiring goods or services is possible without competitive
selection and how the using agency is prepared to issue procurements in advance of anticipated
need. The Board has reviewed these transactions and has considered them to be regular, frequent
and routine types of service engaged by agencies and wants to find out what the remedy is for
this situation. Director Brown stated that the Board’s recommendation to DHS was to implement
controls to insure that vendors do not perform work without a contract in place. DHS was also
advised to adopt business practices to anticipate these types of regular procurements and was
also advised that procurement life cycles be assigned as well. DHS agreed to adopt the
recommendations.
Next on the agenda were administrative rules. Director Brown stated that the first administrative
rules were DOT – Contract Procurement. That rule is in accordance with this Board
recommendation to increase the small purchase and construction thresholds. It will go before
m:090402

5

 JCAR by the end of this month and these conforming changes are in line with the Board
recommendation.
Director Brown continued with CMS – Emergency Rule for standard procurement specific for
the application of Public Act 95-971, which restricts political contributions by vendors and
affiliated entities and requires registration with the State Board of Elections and requires that a
copy of the certificate to be submitted with or must accompany bid proposals. Contracts that
require solicitations to include compliance processes and contract certifications must be filed at
the Comptroller relative to the requirements of the law. It also established a staggered
implementation process, which allows a five-day grace period on filing the registration
certificates with the bid proposals and that is applicable up until August 2009. Member Bass
commented the vendors in Higher Education don’t get a grace period and that this has become
very confusing for vendors. Some vendors have been rejected for non responsiveness. The Board
reiterates their concerns and reminded CMS to disclose this event prominently. No other
discussion occurred.
Last was State Board of Elections – Campaign Financing – Emergency Filing. Director Brown
explained that this does not fall under the jurisdiction of the Board but he requested the State
Board of Elections to be present and explain where they are going with their process so
additional confusion might be alleviated. In attendance was Assistant Executive Director Rupert
Borgsmiller. Director Brown stated that Mr. Borgsmiller anticipated comments on the timing of
when the electronic database might be available, how that database will be integrated into the
process and what those possibilities are. Mr. Borgsmiller stated that the BOE has 4,500 business
entities that have registered with them and generally turn around the registration the day they are
received. BOE is working on electronic registration and are looking at one of the early
prototypes and actually put on it some of the registrations that BOE has gotten back to see if they
get the information they require from the business entities. BOE has every intention of meeting
the August 1, 2009 deadline as far as the electronic registration and also understand the
seriousness of this and the procurement process with the State of Illinois. The only pull back on
this is once BOE get the electronic registration running it is going to fall upon the business
entities to re-register with them electronically. That language is in the legislation and in their
emergency rules. No questions were asked by the Board.
Next on the agenda was the Procurement Policy Board’s Annual Report. Director Brown stated
that the Board was given a draft of the annual report and asked the Board to examine and make
any recommendations that might be incorporated in this year’s publication upon the Board’s
review.
The next Board meeting is set for May 7 at 11:30 a.m. in Springfield.
With no further business Member Bedore moved to adjourn, seconded by Member Bass. The
motion was unanimously approved.

m:090402

6

 