PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Diego Ferrer, Ricardo Morales

Minutes – March 17, 2010 Meeting
Present in Springfield:

David Vaught
Ed Bedore
Mike Bass
Diego Ferrer
Rick Morales

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:30 a.m.
Member Morales made a motion to approve the minutes of February 9, 2010. The motion was
seconded by Member Bedore. The motion was unanimously approved.
Chairman Vaught stated that the Office of the Inspector General requested to be moved up on the
agenda due to time constraints. The Board agreed.
First up was the Existing Contract Review of the Office of the Executive Inspector General
(OEIG) for Learning Management Systems Contract with Meridian Knowledge Solutions.
Director Matt Brown gave a brief summary. The Illinois Procurement Code requires a 3/5 vote of
this Board in order to conduct a review of an existing contract. The reason for this review is a
request from Senator Susan Garrett on the issuance of this contract and its subsequent
administration. Director Brown stated that he has been in some contact with OEIG and their staff
to develop some thoughts about the proceedings today and before any discussion occurs the
Board is required to take a vote. A motion was made to initiate a contract review by Member
Morales and was seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
This is the contract that the OEIG utilizes to provide on-line ethics training for State employees.
This is a system that has been required by State law for the past four years. This process has been
done electronically for the duration of those four years under this contract. Senator Garrett has
some additional questions about the contract that the Board could not answer in the context of its
pre-execution review of all State contracts. At her request it has become an agenda item. In
attendance for OEIG is James Wright, the Executive Inspector General, First Deputy Sydney
Roberts and Director of Ethics Training and Compliance Dave Keahl. Mr. Wright stated that
they would be happy to answer any questions that the Board might have about the contract.
Chairman Vaught asked that they provide the Board with a little background about the bids and
competitive selection so the Board could understand the subject matter. Mr. Keahl stated that the
original contract that was signed with Meridian in 2007 and was competitively bid. The purpose
of the contract was to deliver State employee ethics training via the internet. In the first RFP
process there were 12 bidders. There were four finalists and Meridian was chosen on the basis of
their technical response to OEIG’s business requirements as well as their price. It was really their
price proposal that distinguished them from the other bidders. Member Morales asked what the
term of the contract was. Mr. Keahl replied three years. Member Bedore asked why it was rebid
m:100317
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 after one year. Mr. Keahl replied that Meridian failed to meet one of the requirements in the
contract. One of the key elements of any course by the State that is provided on-line is a
requirement to comply with State law that the content be accessible to people with disabilities
and the vendor was unable to produce a course that met those standards through a subcontract for
that specific purpose. Member Bedore asked if OEIG was paying two contracts at the same time.
Mr. Keahl replied no. There were payments made in FY09 under the two Meridian contracts, but
the payments on the second contract began after the termination of the first contract. Chairman
Vaught asked Director Brown to explain how the Board will proceed and what to expect.
Director Brown stated that the Board’s review typically exists on three levels: 1. the competitive
nature of the solicitation as it was developed, evaluated and awarded; 2. the fiscal nature of their
administration, particularly in light of a contract being terminated and subsequently replaced in a
very similar if not identical fashion. The Board will be exploring the conditions in which that
occurred as well as the nature of competition for that transition from contract #1 to contract #2;
3. The Board will be looking for the types of expectations the agency has of the vendor
considering the first contract was terminated for cause. This will be the exploration the Board
will be doing in the upcoming weeks and will reduce those questions to writing for staff to
analyze and respond to. At that time it would be shared with the Board members and would be
placed on the next agenda.
Mr. Wright replied that they would be happy to provide the Board with whatever information is
needed. Mr. Keahl asked if the Board had any other questions that they could answer that could
help the process along. Director Brown responded that from the staff perspective no, but for the
Board’s benefit. For example, with the nature of the fiscal year questions in the contract itself
and how the contract lays out, could OEIG lay out for the Board what was the anticipated spend
in the contract compared to what was actually expended as you closed each fiscal year? Director
Brown stated that OEIG’s numbers reflect differently from solicitation to contract to actual
payment. So, there is a reconciliation question. Mr. Keahl replied that the difference between
what gets advertised when a contract is first initiated is based on an estimate of services that are
going to be provided as compared to what is actually expended. This is explained largely by the
differences in numbers of employees that were trained subsequent to the signing of the contract.
OEIG is spending less money currently than previously anticipated under those contracts.
Director Brown asked if they had a general number of employees trained. Mr. Keahl replied that
in FY07 they trained about 130,000 employees using the on-line training system. There were
about 6,000 lost as a result of community colleges no longer using OEIG’s services after FY07.
Then the State law changed in terms of their jurisdiction and then subsequent to that there were
minor decreases to the employees trained in the two subsequent years. What the Board will see
going forward is roughly 60,000 using OEIG’s on-line learning management system as a result
of the universities using their own resources to provide on-line training to approximately 70,000
of their own employees. Director Brown asked if that was for FY10. Mr. Keahl replied
affirmatively. Member Bass wanted OEIG to think as they are creating their response to the
review. Approach the question or answer a question that would be based on whether Meridian
had an implicit vantage point into the re-bid and in reality since they were the incumbent, but
from a deeper level now. Member Bass stated that it sounds to him on this initial conversation
that it was really the pricing component that drew the advantage to Meridian, which says on the
technical side there were not as many diversions. Mr. Keahl replied that OEIG scored on a total
of 2200 points and 600 were on price in the second RFP each of the three final vendors were
very close in terms of their technical scoring and Meridian was actually second in that process,
but their price was roughly 40% less than the second lowest bidder and there was even more
disparity in the first RFP. Mr. Keahl stated that he certainly did not think Meridian having
familiarity with their operations is all that accounts for the price disparity, because it existed the
m:100317

2

 first time around. Member Bass stated that it existed the first time around and they didn’t do
what they said they were going to do. So did they effectively price their bid? Mr. Keahl replied
that their inability to meet their technical specifications the first time around had to do with a
subcontractor who did not have the technical expertise in the familiarity with the State’s rather
specific accessibility requirements and therefore failed to produced an appropriate course. No
further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was OEIG’s lease #6006 at 32 W. Randolph in Chicago. Mr. Nick
Kanellopoulos representing the Bureau of Property Management for CMS gave a brief summary.
Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that the lease is a five year term that initially was posted to the
Procurement Bulletin and also was sent to the Board. It included a 1 ½% increase in rent and
through some discussions with the Board CMS realized that the rate would be unacceptable.
CMS went back to the lessor with that information and continued negotiations and posted an
amended lease to the Bulletin, which included a 10.85% reduction in the 1st year and the same
reduction through the entire term. This lease was for 17,000 sq. ft. of space, however during
negotiations the lessor provided information from an architect indicating that the actual square
footage occupied by OEIG had been re-measured and had been 18,598 sq. ft. The State Architect
reviewed the materials submitted and verified that the materials were accurate. There has been
no expansion of space it was just the discrepancy in space. All utilities are covered in the rent
rate with the exception of the electrical. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated he would be happy to answer
any questions. Member Bedore stated that the 10.8% decrease is great, but in addition the State
will be paying $350,000 more for the additional space that was just found. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied affirmatively. However, he stated that it is unlikely the space was ever exactly 17,000 sq.
ft. It is an old building.
Member Bedore stated that the point is that the owners of the building are not going to see as big
as a cut as you stated. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively. Member Bedore made a
comment from a Tribune article a few weeks ago. It stated “Over the weekend Quinn’s budget
director said that municipalities must share the pain of Illinois huge budget deficit by giving up
part of their income tax collected by the State”. That means every city across the State is going to
take a 30% cut. Then the budget director for OMB said “you need to take a look and say OK
does everyone have skin in the game”. Do these owners and the Inspector General have skin in
the game? Member Bedore stated he does not think so. When looking at the appropriation books
OEIG did not get cut, but also OEIG is asking for an option of 6,800 some feet of additional
space on the 17th floor. Over 10 years it is $1.5 million more. Member Bedore thought that the
State was in bad shape and every city had to take a cut, why does the Inspector General have to
be in downtown prime office space? Why pay downtown rate when the State is in trouble? If
OEIG wants to stay in the space then the minimum should be a 15% - 20% cut in this rate. Why
isn’t this being cut? Member Bedore does not think these owners are sharing the pain. Do they
have skin in the game? Member Bedore said they don’t. Why is the State in this location? On top
of that when you take a look at this there is a lot of storage space, conference rooms and
understands file space, but that is all the more reason that they should not be in downtown prime
space for unmanned space. Member Bedore asked if Mr. Kanellopoulos compared the extra
space that was deducted to other leases. Member Bedore said he did a comparison on just the
leases today. On South Indiana in Chicago 17% space for supplies, conference room, storage and
file rooms. On East Madison 18%, Marion 25%, Western Ave. in Chicago 14%, Randolph Street
in Chicago is 37%. Almost 40% of this lease money is going for storage and conference rooms,
which could be on the West side in a warehouse somewhere. Member Bedore does not
understand this, where is the pain. The budget director said that everyone should share the pain.
Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that as for the files being in storage versus being at 32 W. Randolph
m:100317

3

 that is not accurate. The OEIG is required to have all active files and all closed files from the past
two years on site. Member Bedore stated that he was not arguing that point, the point is why do
they have to be downtown? Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the OEIG’s office is a block away
from JRTC; it is two blocks away from the Bilandic building and very close to numerous other
State offices. Member Bedore asked if they were close to the offices in Springfield. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that there is an office in Springfield. Member Bedore asked what their rate
in Springfield was. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he did not have that rate. Mr. Kanellopoulos
stated that the point he is trying to make is one way OEIG conducts business is State employees
can walk over to their offices to file a complaint. It makes it easier for employees considering the
vast number of employees in Chicago are within blocks of their office and can walk there. It
makes sense to have it off site because there could be a chilling effect if you had to walk through
State offices to be seen walking into the OEIG. Member Bedore said that he agrees with that. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that is the reason it is downtown. Member Bedore said that it should be out
of the loop. So, they would have to walk an extra two blocks. Why does it have to be in prime
downtown space across from the Daley Center building? It doesn’t and you know it doesn’t.
Also, there is an option of adding an additional 6,800 square feet. Member Bedore stated that he
is going to make a motion to have that stricken from this lease. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that
the only way that option will be exercised is if OEIG increased their headcount and if that occurs
due to their requirements to add more staff in Chicago then it would be posted to the
Procurement Bulletin and the Board would see that. Chairman Vaught stated that he agrees that
the Board would see it, but would it come back to the Board for review. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied that it would not be an agenda item. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that a white paper would
be submitted to the Board if the expansion option was exercised. Member Bedore asked why
OEIG is not getting cut and the Procurement Policy Board is getting cut by 22%, the State Police
is getting cut by 15% the city of Chicago, Springfield, Bloomington they are all getting cut by
30%. Member Bedore is making a proposal that this be cut by 20%. Member Bedore stated that
about a year ago the National Realtors Association stated that commercial leasing was being
decreased across the country. A 20% reduction and we have not seen that here. Member Bedore
stated that OEIG should either move out of downtown or reduce the rate by 20%. Member
Bedore wanted to know what skin they have in this. What skin do the owners have in this?
Member Bedore said he does not see any.
Chairman Vaught stated that the Governor did propose a one year change for municipal
reimbursement and the leases that we are doing are a little more permanent and are not the same
thing for comparison. Chairman Vaught knows that the State Police is being cut, but those
numbers are not finalized yet and he does not want anyone to misunderstand. Chairman Vaught
does agree with Member Bedore’s facts. Chairman Vaught wanted to know why CMS is not
reducing the size of these lease by applying the new space standards. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied
that the space is being used and there are no vacant areas or offices. Chairman Vaught asked if
there is an applied standard and like that for DCEO, who currently has 100,000 sq. ft. in
Springfield that exceeds the space standards, but in the new lease for DCEO when it was bid they
are being reduced to 57,000 sq. ft. So, if DCEO can take a 40% reduction in space why can’t
OEIG take a reduction in space when it is in more prime and expensive space than DCEO? If
there is going to be a standard it should be applied across the board to achieve savings and not
just in rate, but also in use of space. Why is this organization exempt from that? Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that they are not exempt. The rules specify the standard of utilized and
used space. In existing space CMS looks at issues like the cost of reducing the space to achieve
that standard and this space would have to be re-built out again to achieve those kinds of
numbers. Every office and workstation would have to be shrunk to achieve the overall decrease
of square feet per employee. It wasn’t to change each and every lease that comes before the
m:100317

4

 Board. Member Bedore stated that OEIG has 37% of this lease for back office operation and no
one is questioning on whether it is being used or not used. The point is can they be somewhere
else and not pay $20 a square foot. Yes you can and that is the point. OEIG should have never
been there. The rate is way too high. OEIG can go to another building and it can be set up the
way they want it.
Mr. Wright was given the opportunity to respond and stated that OEIG has had skin in the game
for the last three years and have had a flat budget for the last three years. Much like the Board
with increased responsibilities, OEIG also has increased responsibilities with legislation that was
passed last August. OEIG is to act as a hiring monitor as well as review revolving door
determinations and his last count each agency was suppose to put together a list of people who
would have to have this revolving door determination on whether they can take employment
elsewhere. The list OEIG just received was about 4,000 people and it gives them 10 days to turn
around this determination. OEIG is severely understaffed and that is the reason why they are
asking for more money and resources. Mr. Wright stated that OEIG would also like to see a
lower rate in rental fees. Many of the employees come into the office via public transportation
and if they are to move and still have the public transportation accessibility OEIG is willing to
move. Member Bedore stated that this Board has been more than flat for the last few years and is
getting a 22% cut. OEIG might have been flat, but is not getting cut. Member Bedore stated that
he can find OEIG a savings of $400,000 – $500,000 by lowering the rent and that can be used for
other things in appropriation. Member Bedore stated that by lowering the rate by 20% and
dropping the option and you have got it. There is over $300,000 there and you can use that for
something else. You talk about how you save money to the State and got money back. Member
Bedore stated that in the past five years this Board has cost the State $1.3 million dollars to run
and can document that we have $31 million dollars in savings in that 5 year period by the Board
and believe that is a really good return. Member Bedore just stated that he showed OEIG how to
save $300,000 - $400,000 if they are willing to do it and if CMS is willing to do it. Member
Morales asked if the expansion option could be taken out. Mr. Wright replied that from OEIG’s
perspective it was only in there in the event that they get additional resources. If they do not get
the additional resources then there is no reason to seek this additional space. Member Morales
asked if it was taken out and OEIG did get additional resources can they expand then. Mr.
Wright replied that he did not know. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that CMS could amend the lease
to add that type of square footage and would come before the Board for their approval. Member
Bedore made a motion to object to this lease for a 20% reduction in the rate and to take out the
option for the additional square footage. The motion was seconded by Member Bass. The motion
was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was CMS facilities. Mr. Kanellopoulos wanted to give the Board a brief
update. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that on the Concordia lease CMS was able to go back to the
lessor and get the $450,000 used towards rent abatement over the term of the lease. The
holdovers are currently at 22. There are 17 in holdover and 5 that will be expiring between now
and June 30, 2010. In August 2009 the goal for CMS was initially to reduce costs of security by
$4 million dollars. On March 22, 2010 security reductions will be just a little over $4,013,900 in
security reductions. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he will continue giving updates as they are
made.
Chairman Vaught wanted to know where CMS was on the rules process. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied that one of CMS’ attorneys is working with JCAR and they were sent a draft to format
and it was sent back with questions and requests for additional information, which was provided
m:100317

5

 to JCAR. CMS is waiting to get back a formatted draft from JCAR and at that point CMS will be
ready to file. No further questions were asked.
Chairman Vaught stated that there are policy issues outstanding on SB51 including discussion on
amendments. Chairman Vaught asked the other Board members if they think Director Brown
needs to be more involved in that so the Board is a little more informed and it is clear that the
Board’s views are being expressed. Director Brown replied that he would deliver the Board’s
intentions to remain engaged in this process and maintain communications that are required to
work both policy and implementation levels. There have been a number of phone calls recently
and levels of participation are just now coming forward. He would be happy to report to the
Board on the content of each of those meetings and the Board level of participation.
Director of Operations Doug Kucia with CMS stated it is exactly their intention based on the
implementation side to involve the PPB at this point. This has been a pretty dogging task and for
the sake of efficiency and time management, CMS wanted to have things more fully flushed out
and analyzed so the interaction between the PPB and the various subcommittee groups would be
productive and fruitful. Mr. Kucia stated that Director Brown was very helpful in a previous
meeting that was held and moving forward, CMS intends to involve the PPB in terms of
implementation in their discussions. Chairman Vaught asked if CMS is recommending to the
General Assembly that changes need to be made to SB51 on sole source. Mr. Ben Bagby Legal
Counsel for CMS replied that CMS did propose at one time that the sole source provision be
changed so when there is an objection to a sole source posting that the particular posting go to a
hearing and not every single transaction that CMS has. Mr. Bagby believes it was presented
again, but does not know the status of it. In FY09, the four CPO’s did about 1,200 sole source
transactions and of those, CMS did about 352 and when a hearing is done on each one of those it
involves a great investment in staff time. Mr. Bagby wanted to update the Board on their sole
source hearings. Senate Bill 51 had a requirement that a public hearing be held. Since CMS had
not done hearings before and thought it would be a good idea to do a pilot hearing to figure out
what it takes to manage these sole source hearings and what impact they might have. There have
been 12 hearings over the past several weeks that dealt with 49 sole source postings. Out of the
49 hearings, only 4% actually had a sole source issue that should be dealt with in a public forum.
Mr. Bagby stated that notes were taken and comments were considered from the audience and
the PPB representatives on the course of events. After that CMS reported their experience to the
SB51 sole source hearing subcommittee. If the Board has any suggestions CMS welcomes them.
No further questions were asked.
Mr. Kucia wanted to make the PPB aware of the timeline. April 1st CMS expects to have the first
part narrative and recommendations completed. April 14th is the CPO meeting at 10:00 a.m. in
Springfield and they are in the process of scheduling an April 22nd meeting where the
recommendations will be presented to the PPB, EEC and the Governor’s office and all
Constitutional Officers. Then there will be a systems focus to make sure come July 1 that there
will be an electronic solution to the subcontracting requirement and recording of vendor
communication.
Next on the agenda was DCFS lease #5230 at 1911-1921 S. Indiana Ave. in Chicago. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated this lease is a 125,265 sq. ft. lease. It is a five year firm lease. This office
contains many administrative functions for DCFS. Two of the nine floors are open 24/7 for
issues dealing with children. That is why the electricity and security cost is higher. The current
lease is $18.19 per sq. ft. It has been the rate since 2002. The proposed lease drops that to $17.25
per sq. ft. A separate parking lease was also eliminated that existed in the building, which cost
m:100317

6

 the State $1.09 per sq. ft. per month. There is an estimated total cost reduction of 7.3% for
savings of almost $250,000 in the first year. Included with the lease the lessor will carpet and
paint throughout and install a master switch to help lower the cost of electricity by shutting off
all unnecessary lighting in the building. Chairman Vaught asked how many moved in from the
consolidated site. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied 80. Member Morales wanted Mr. Kanellopoulos to
explain the parking and how it goes from 373 to 290. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the lessor is
re-striping the lot and making the spaces wider. There will be no adding or subtracting of any
spaces. Member Bedore stated that CMS was paying this rate for 373 spaces and now it is being
reduced to 290. CMS was paying a $1.09 in the rate for additional spaces in a different lot. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that the $1.09 was on top of the
$18.19 because it was a separate lease. Member Bass wanted to clarify that CMS is not renewing
the second lease for the parking. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively. Member Bedore stated
that in the current lease the $18.19 included janitorial and now janitorial is being covered by the
State and you still say we have a savings. When you take $1.40 a way the rate goes to $16.79 and
from that the proposed rate is an increase of $0.46 and the State is now covering the janitorial.
Chairman Vaught stated that you have to look at the total cost, which shows the decrease from
the previous lease. Member Bedore stated that it is an increase on the rate and not the total cost,
and the State is still getting fewer parking spaces. Chairman Vaught asked why DCFS needs
fewer parking when 80 people were just added. Mr. Chris Tower, representative for DCFS,
replied that more staff is using public transportation. A motion to approve this lease was made by
Member Morales and was seconded by Member Bass. With a vote of 3-2 with Member Bedore
and Member Ferrer voting “no” the motion was approved.
Next on the agenda was DHS lease #5817 at 319 E. Madison in Springfield. In attendance were
Mr. Tony Baptist with CMS and Drinda O’Connor with DHS. Mr. Baptist stated that the total
square footage is 41,677. This is a five year lease with a 120-day termination notice. The base
rent is $12.95 with an additional $1.07 for janitorial, which the lessor will provide. There are 102
staff member currently there now. DHS has received approval to hire additional staff which will
bring the total headcount to 141 in the next 60 days. The current sq. ft. per employee is 336 and
when all 141 are hired it will bring it down to 243 sq. ft. per employee. Chairman Vaught
requested more explanation on the increase. Ms. O’Connor replied that their DD Division is
getting 23 new staff plus 3 contractual and approval for that and the 23 are coming as the result
of the HOWE closure. DHS Mental Health office is replacing 6 staff who are retiring and the
same with the Alcohol and Substance Abuse Division who has one staff member retiring. DHS is
looking at moving 6 additional staff from the Harris building and that accounts for the total.
Member Bedore asked when the last increase was on rent. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied January
2002. Member Bedore made a motion to approve this lease and was seconded by Member Bass.
The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was DHS #5239 at 1107 W. DeYoung in Marion. Mr. Baptist stated that the
total square footage is 10,875 of space. Lease #4121 is being terminated at 102 W. DeYoung
also in Marion and will be relocated into this lease. Base rent is $11.50 for the term and the State
will cover the cost of utilities. The total square foot per employee is 225. There is also a security
guard that will be terminated on March 31, 2010 that will be taken out. Member Bedore stated
that this is a 17% increase. If you take the total rent over term and add the two leases it is still
less than the proposed lease by $203,000. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that Member Bedore is
correct. This lease was bid out and CMS received four responsive proposals and the incumbent
lessor was the lowest bid received. CMS was able to achieve a lower rate than the one proposed
in the RFI because it would have involved a build out of merging these two offices and was able
to accommodate it in the existing space. Member Bedore stated that there is no doubt that there
m:100317

7

 are reductions in the square feet and everything else, but there is also an 18% increase in the base
rent. Member Bedore made a motion to reject this lease and go back and re-negotiate for a lower
rate. The motion was seconded by Member Bass. With a 4-1 vote with Chairman Vaught voting
“no” the motion was approved to reject this lease.
Next on the agenda was DHS lease #5323 at S. Western Blvd. in Chicago. This is a 43,228 sq. ft.
office that has 124 employees. CMS is proposing a five year lease. The current lease has a rate of
$17.93 per sq. ft. and the proposed rate is at $15.24 with a 1 ½ % increase in years 2-5. This is a
very highly trafficked office and it is well utilized and asked the Board to approve this lease.
Member Bedore made a motion to approve this lease and was seconded by Member Morales.
The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was Legislation. Director Matt Brown gave a brief summary. Director Brown
stated two pieces of legislation have emerged and are not reflected in the summary document.
They are Senate amendments that developed yesterday and today. The first amendment is for
SB2887 and was passed unanimously out of committee to establish Procurement Policy Board
review to leases that are competitively selected similar to what we do currently do with renewal
leases. The other piece of legislation was SB375 and was posted as an amendment on the
calendar yesterday. This is a bill to the Procurement Code that would require all contracts in
excess of $250,000 in value to be re-bid at the next expiration of that contract. Member Morales
asked what this bill would accomplish. Director Brown replied that it does two things. The most
impact is that it halts renewal or extension not withstanding any other provisions of the Code. No
contract entered into under this Code may be renewal or extended by the State if the total value
of the contract for the initial and all of its renewed and extended terms exceed $250,000 and
must be rebid at their next opportunity. No renewals shall be exercised under this law. It further
states that a new contract must be let by competitive bid. This subsection does not apply to any
emergency procurement or any procurement exempt under the Code. Chairman Vaught stated
that many of the contracts have already been bid and have renewal clauses in them. Director
Brown replied affirmatively. Chairman Vaught thought this has gone a bit far. Director Brown
stated that the analysis the PPB was able to do resulted 1,000 contracts annually are issued in
excess of $250,000 aggregate value. Predominately contracts of that size have renewal terms
associated with them. Some of those 1,000 contracts a year are stand alone term contracts, but
most are not. In the database over a four year data capture that in excess of 10,000 contracts to
this value exist and if they have renewal options those are still active. Director Brown continued
that there are 8,000 contracts that are in existence today with renewal options available to them
currently that will be forced into a re-bid environment. Member Bedore wanted to know who
sponsored the Bill. Director Brown replied Senator Kotowski. Member Bass wanted to know
what the driving force was. Director Brown replied it is turnover. There has been no debate on
the floor on this because it was a floor action that was sent back down to committee for
discussion. Chairman Vaught stated that needs to be more discussion on this because there has to
be a balance. Member Bass asked what the underlying bill was. Director Brown stated it was a
shell bill that was Senator Cullerton’s bill from last year. Director Brown wanted to know what
the Board direction on SB2887 was. The Board replied they are in support of the bill. No further
comments were made.
The next Board meeting is set for April 8, 2010 at 11:30 a.m. in Springfield.
With no other business to discuss Member Bedore made a motion to adjourn and was seconded
by Member Morales at 1:30 p.m. The motion was unanimously approved.
m:100317

8

 