Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Bill Black, Larry Ivory, Ricardo Morales

Minutes – July 16, 2019
Present in Springfield:

Bill Black
Larry Ivory
Ed Bedore

Via Telephone:

Rick Morales

Acting Chairman Ed Bedore called the July meeting of the Procurement Policy Board to order.
Acting Chairman Bedore made a motion to accept the meeting minutes as printed. Member
Morales “so move” with Member Black seconding and all members voting “aye” the motion
carries. Acting Chairman Bedore says for discussion on our minutes. I have a few questions
regarding the new lease Procurement process. Back in April, 90 days ago we note in the minutes,
that we were working on revisions to lease documents. Do we have any update on that?
Executive Director von Behren says he has not seen any updates as far as any changes that have
been made, we will reach out to CMS and make sure that is an agenda item for our next meeting.
Acting Chairman Bedore says he has a comment about the digitization of the records. We have
the Auditor General report about the lack of inventory control at DOIT. I think that falls under
this Board. This is a major issue I think we should be looking into. We need to reach out those
agencies and see where they are with regards to digitalizing their records.
Next item on the agenda is the Conflict of Interest Policy which we all have a copy of. I have one
question on the word “personal relationship” Jeff can you explain? Mr. Jurgens states this might
be something we want to flush out sometimes in these types of policies, you will see a expand
beyond a financial interest, and they will talk about some personal relationship. So, this would
apply if you have a relationship with somebody that had something that came before the Board
you would recuse yourself. This is probably on a stricter end of a policy this might be something
that we define a little further, or maybe just take that portion out, and leave it to a purely
financial interest, or an organizational interest that’s what is applied there. Member Ivory states
in his role as a State President of the Illinois Black Chamber of commerce, I have a lot of interest
what we consider in the guidelines of what we consider to be conflict of Interest. I may need
clarification to make sure I stay with the guidelines. For instances if I see a procurement come
out and it has no minority goals on it. Because I’m on the BEP Counsel this is something that
Members would not participate in because it’s not minority participation is that a conflict of
interest we need to clarify that. Mr. Jurgens says so I guess that where I would go back in and we
keep it strictly at a financial Interest because obviously that would be a financial interest. I think
in a situation like that I think the intent of the statue, and the role of the Board is they want
people with diverse back grounds and were going to advocate for those different interests. So,
this is not intended to prevent something like that. This will be something more design if you

 you’re not acting independently in the best interest of Board, and of the State. But the financial
interest is clear, but you got some kind of bias because of some personal relationship or
something like that, and again that’s hard to define and lots of times they will see in policies like
this they will leave it up to the Member to decide whether they can be objective to the matter or
not. But this might be something that we leave as a financial interest. Member Ivory gives one
more example when your African American, Hispanic, Caucasian people will call and say this
procurement out there is wrong, and you need to look at that. Executive Director von Behren
states that this is still in the draft policy that’s why its being presented to you, so you guys can
have this for discussion. I’ll work with Jeff we will come up with either a more defined
definition of what that means, or we will be edited it out, and present it at the next meeting for
you guys to look at to see if it’s a little more reasonable. Member Morales says so many gray
areas have been discussed serving on the Village Board just because I know somebody that is
presenting a bid so, do I recuse myself because I know that individual and I have no interest in
their company. I won’t be gaining anytime of financial interest, but I do disclose that I might
know the individual, but if there is any type of financial interest, I will recuse myself from that,
our policy does not (at least for the Village) provide for a personal relationship it provides for
financial. So, I’m familiar with that so I’m leaning towards that right now in agreement with
what Matt is talking about. Mr. Black states that Rick has summarized what my concerns are
with the Board that I serve on, its better to be just out front. If a guy presenting a bid to a
Government agency is a close personal friend of yours, you should just say that and vote if your
comfortable doing that. But that personal relationship can get awful tricky. Acting Chairman
Bedore states Matt, and Jeff get to work on that, and present it at the next meeting.
The next agenda item is the policy of agency representatives being here for leases. Acting
Chairman Bedore states the only question he has, and Matt can explain this, The Board monthly
meeting the Lease being presented maybe rejected by the Board Matt you want to explain?
Executive Director von Behren says there was discussion the Board had suggested that part the
policy be if an Agency Representative is not present at the meeting, the Board would not then
vote on that lease. What I wanted to do is leave the Board some room to make a determination. I
would suggest that if the Board Members want and a Lease comes before them, and an Agency
Representative isn’t here to answer questions, the Board may either reject the Lease or vote not
to approve the lease. By leaving the language as “may” instead of “shall” it allows some room
that one time out of a hundred, somebody was supposed to be here and missed a flight, traffic
and couldn’t come and the Board was perfectly okay with the Lease, and the board wanted to
approve it anyways this allows the Board some flexibility to still be able to approve that Lease
without the Representative here, and not putting you in a box where it says you can’t approve the
Lease, because you have a policy that’s says you won’t. So, this still allows you to be able to
reject, or not approve a Lease by an Agency Representative not being here, but it also allows you
to approve it if you so choose. Mr. Jurgens also add on to that. I think if we went with shall it
would be situation where we might be required to do some rule making. Because then were
setting up a new require, this is basically sending a message like hey you better be here. But if
we go with it’s an absolute rejection then were setting some new requirements, and definitely
looking at some rule making. This is still sending the same message, and obviously to can reject
it now anyway this is just putting into writing what the practice is going to be and letting
everybody aware that this is a real possibly. Member Black says that he likes shall in this
position, and your comments about rule making are well said. I would like to give us more of a

2

 you like to take action, but you can’t be here to explain it. Executive Director von Behren says
but if we leave it as ‘may’ and Agency gets their Lease rejected perhaps that sends you a message
that people need to be here because we can say we have done it in the past and we will do it
again based on our policy. That was my reasoning of the language and again this is here in front
of you guys to discuss the language, and decide what you want because ultimately, you’re the
final decision makers. Member Morales asks can we go with shall with additional wording there
has to be away to say shall unless the Board thinks otherwise something to that effect. Acting
Chairman Bedore asks Mr. Jurgens, to my understanding if we use the word shall then that
means we have to go through the rule making process? Mr. Jurgen Replies I think would need to
look at that and make sure were on solid ground there. it seems like to me were establishing new
requirements. Member Black says it would be a sufficient change its not presently before any of
those people. Member Morales says we talked early as Ed mentioned about why can’t we get
department heads to attend PPB meetings. Well we don’t hold them accountable. If they don’t
want to come, they don’t get to come. Executive Director von Behren states that Mr. Jurgens and
he can dive into some of the requirements for rule making. Acting chairman Bedore asks how
long would the rule making process take months? Mr. Jurgens replies yes multiple months,
maybe even a year. Mr. Bagby says a minimum of 3 months. Mr. Jurgens says we could go on
two separate tracks, you could adopt the current language and set the policy and we explore is
rule making would be required for the ‘shall’ language. Acting Chairman Bedore says that’s a
very good point. We could pass this policy statement with “may” and work on the rule making to
put “shall”. Executive Director von Behren says CMS is on board with us requiring other
agencies to be here, they want that. Because they don’t have the answers to everything, the
CPO’s office reached out to me and they think it completely reasonable to have a Representative
here. CMS has also sent me contact individuals who handle each Agency, so I can reach out to
there people to let them know this is our policy now, and then reach out to them before the
meeting, and say you have two leases on the agenda next month you need to have a
representative present, so you have several agencies that are in agreement with this sort off
policy requiring a Agency Representative to be here. Acting Chairman Bedore asks do we want
to pass it the way it is, and then work on changing. Executive Director von Behren says that’s
perfectly acceptable if you want to do that. Member Morales says Mr. Chairman I would
recommend that we do that, Member Ivory, and Member Black all agree. We have a motion to go
with the Lease review policy statement the way its printed do I have a motion on that Member
Black so move with Member Ivory seconding the motion with all Member voting “aye” motion
carries.
Next on the agenda no Legislation to report. Acting Chairman Bedore says were trying to get a
consensus from the Board what day of the month to meet? We seem to be having a problem since
this is are first meeting since April we have had only two meetings this year, its important for us
to realize that Legislation under Govern Rauner raise its ugly head again. Where he wanted to do
away with this Board, and if we don’t have a meeting then were feeding into that idea. Meeting
twice a year why the hell do we need them. What day would we like to see this Board Meet?
most Members agree on Tuesday, Wednesday. Executive Director von Behren says second
Tuesday of the month we will have a tentative schedule together for fiscal year 2020 and send it
out. Acting Chairman Bedore says I know some of our appointments have expire is there a desire
to continue on this Board? Executive Director von Behren says he needs to reach out to the
Legislative Leaders to get reappointments because I think almost everyone appoints have expired

3

 and haven’t been renewed. Acting Chairman Bedore asks do we want to move forward, and serve
another term or do we have other commitments, and that we can’t participate in this Board
anymore? All Members are available and wish to continue on the Board.
Next on the agenda is public comments Acting Chairman Bedore says the new state budget and
the CDB, and the Capitol Improvements were all passed. We have some major amounts of
money for the University of Illinois. We have Urbana, Champaign, and Chicago, and Springfield
$574 million dollars, worth of improvements. Illinois State $89 million, Northern $77 million,
and Southern, and including Edwardsville is $188, and $23million for Northeastern, and almost
$119 for Eastern you add them all up together and its over a billion dollars’ worth of capital
improvements. New buildings, a new math and statistics, build a new Science Building,
construction $9 million for a computer search, and Learning Center, $35 million for a new
Library building in Springfield so on and on. So there is going to be buildings in every facility,
every branch of the U of I. I know that we have had discussions months ago now, regarding
minority participation, Veterans participation and we have found every branch has their own
system, and that was bad in the past. When they didn’t have that much money what’s going to
happen in the future when they have $1.1 billion dollars’ worth of new construction. I think we
really got to work together here and find out what’s going on. The last time we have this
discussion, we found out that everybody was doing there own thing. If there is some Legislation
that needs to be changed or whatever it is we got to get on it, they have budgets in the past this
new one I don’t know how the U of I is going to handle it, and we should be very concerned
about that. we got to come up with a policy that is followed by all the Universities in a procedure
that is all followed.
Member Ivory says we have to define how do we do what’s best for the State of Illinois and a
strong foot print and with that much money being spent we should have some oversight that’s a
part of our responsibility. The question how we define what that oversight is, and what do we
want to see happen that we can say we impacted in a way that’s meaningful that’s in the best
interest of that state. Acting Chairman Bedore says Bill Black had mentioned this about the
Nursing the Building will it was an emergency we had to okay it even though we all knew about
it in the last 5 years the Building was condemned, and they would never get a Certificate for
Nursing if they stayed in that Building. Whatever happened to that project did it come in on time,
on Budget, or what was the Minority participation of that Building we. They had us under the
gun to approve the Construction Contract for that Building. Because the Nursing Program
wouldn’t start the new semester, so we said go ahead and do it, did we ever get a report? Member
Morales I agree with your comments it’s something that you and I have experience for many
years, with Higher Education and it hasn’t been under control for some years, and continues to
be so, it does need to be looked at a little closer. Member Ivory says he thinks the issue was rules
with the CDB was the fact that the rules would allowed you and I remember it being
intentionally involved in that conversation. We have never got any real resolution and maybe
between Matt and a number of us together have some goals and objectives that we are trying to
achieve.
Ben Bagby CPO for Higher Education states he wants to tell us about diversity. First of all, we
have a new SPO’s and now she is in charge of our New Diversity and Special Programs. She is
primarily BEP, Small Business and Veterans and she’s going to be the person make sure that all

4

 the SPO’s and Universities know that BEP is a short hand for all these others. This is something
that has to be thought about all the time. In terms of the State Purchasing officers, I have told
each of them they have been doing this for a while, that each solicitation there is a BEP goal, and
that the Universities have to justify whatever goal they have or don’t have. There are situations
were a goal is not appropriate. We have a monthly meeting. I call tell all the University
Purchasing Directors and BEP is always an agenda item. Mr. Bagby talks about how he is
involved with BEP and has been involved since, it started and has helped write the rules, and
which they are still operating and do need to be adjusted and we are also working with them on
that. BEP is not something they are not interested in we are pushing it. The CPO role is limited
the BEP act establishes that State agencies establish the goals in any particular project and they
deal with the utilization plans. I only come in on couple situations primarily just to publish
results. But we still have to push a button to approve a transaction. Mr. Ivory says if he could
speak to that issue I do recognize the fact the Junior colleges, and the Community Colleges are
God awful in terms of their performance across the Board and that was documented facts, even
going back years ago none of the Junior Colleges had any minority participation and that’s going
back 50 or 60 years ago. I see some improvements. There is still more that needs to be done.
Acting Chairman Bedore entertained a motion to adjourn with all parties voting “aye” the
meeting adjourned.

5

 