Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Bill Black, Larry Ivory, Ricardo Morales

Minutes – October 16, 2018
Present in Springfield:

Frank Vala
Larry Ivory
Ed Bedore

Via Telephone:

Rick Morales

Chairman Vala called the October meeting of the Procurement Policy Board to order.
Member Bedore made a motion to allow Member Morales to participate by via telephone.
Member Ivory seconded the motion all members voting “aye” and the motion carries. Member
Bedore made a motion to accept the meeting minutes as presented. Member Ivory seconded the
motion all members voting “aye” and the motion carries.
Next on the agenda was the emergency administrative rules for CDB. Director Von Behren states
at the end of the General Assembly session they passed a statue exempting the large portion of
the procurement code for CDB for the construction that needs to be done at the Quincy Veteran’s
Home. Part of that statue required CBD to promulgate administrate rules for how they’re going
to handle this progress. These are the rules that they are presenting to JCAR and are in front of
the Board today, and CDB is seeking a certificate of no objection.
Amy Romano General Counsel for the CDB and Don Broughton Administrator of Contracts for
the CDB were present. Ms. Romano says the rules before you are very limited, and scope
application in time. These are rules that only be applied to Construction Projects at the Quincy
Veterans Home. No other Veteran’s home can utilize these rules for any other construction
projects. It’s also limited in time by statute. The lift of the Procurement Code is only in effect for
3 years I believe, and these rules by statue would be in effect for 5 years. There is a little
disconnect that probably needs to be fixed down the road. We don’t see how you can have a 3
year and a 5-year time frame on those two things currently they will have to be fixed in the
future.
A little back ground on the drafting that we started by using CDB old administrative rules. Some
examples are several of the definitions have a lot of language that come from the Procurement
Code, and the Procurement Code has a set-aside program for Veteran’s small Business that we
thought was particular to maintain here. We spend a lot of time working with our CPO Art
Moore on how to roll this out. We have also worked with Mr. von Behren on how to roll out this
process. We have worked with Veteran’s Affairs, Executive Ethnic’s Commission, and also the
Comptroller’s office because the Procurement Code touches a lot of different agencies. We were

 trying to work with all of them to make sure we were still maintaining their rules, and duties
throughout this process. We did file for an emergency rule making, September 18th is when it
was expected by JCAR we concurrently filed for regular rule making and non-emergency rule
making that’s been published in the Illinois Register October 5th so the 45- day comment period
is ongoing. Were here to answer any questions, thanks for your consideration.
Member Bedore said one comment he wants to follow up on, it says that the selection committee
Public Members that is a member is a residence of the Quincy home, and one Public Member
who is a resident of Quincy. Who names these people? Ms. Romano replies that’s something that
were working through the process that was a requirement in statue that the particular section of
CDB design-built act was amended for these projects to have residence of the city of Quincy.
Member Bedore states he doesn’t have a problem with it he just wanted to know who would
appoint them. Mr. Broughton replies the current act has in there where the selection committee
involves a member of the design, or construction committee, and then a member of the monority
association. When this was put together that wasn’t carried over Legislation instead it had a
Member of the Committee, and a resident of Quincy. So that’s where the Design Build Act, and
the Selection Committee is a little different. So, to answer your question about who would make
that decision, our QBS administrator Brett Lance who does all of our QBS selections and also
deals with Design build selection. He will reach out to different committee organizations, and
also reach out to Quincy’s Veteran’s home to get recommendations as he has done in the past.
Member Bedore asks, so he will contact the Quincy Veteran’s home? Mr. Broughton says it’s a
process that he does he reaches out to explain to them, when they get involved, time restraints
and what they need to do to seek out in that and take a look at the names and from there make a
decision. Ms. Romano says to follow up on that the partners of Partner of Veteran’s Affairs staff
is already committed to work with us for that piece of Quincy’s Veteran’s home.
Chairman Vala asks will that selection Committee include minority, women business, Veterans
will they have some input on this, will they be on the Committee? Mr. Broughton replies the way
the committee is set up and based on the Legislation that was passed is that there will be CBD
Staff like there is normally is at which there is a Member from our fair employment practice unit
that represents the concerns, and the conclusion of Minority Business, and Veterans and then the
two public Members by the way the act is put together would be a resident of the Veteran’s
home.
Chairman Vala states that he doesn’t consider a Member of the Veteran’s Home, of being a
representative of the Veteran’s that work there, that is a Client that we are serving in the
Veteran’s home. Where is the coordination to make sure that these other Veteran’s and
minorities and women owned businesses have an opportunity there for them to have some input?
Mr. Broughton replies and what we’re talking about here specifically is with the design build
project. So, the large building replacement that they contemplated the largest project of all the
sight is expected to be a designed building. Mr. Broughton says when the Legislation was passed
the makeup of the Members was changed and the Legislation was passed so we have to work
with that. But the one thing that was important to us was that we preserved the Minority and
Women Business participation that’s in the BEP Act and that was not affected by the Quincy

2

 Act. So, it was very important to us to make sure we included them in our rules because if we
didn’t then that would have been an oversight basically forgotten about, but we still had that in
our rules, that were going to do the Veteran’s goal just like we do now. Ms. Romano says the
minority, and female goals will remain intact and the BEP was not at all impacted by this
Legislation.
Member Bedore asks about section 930-320 Minority Women and Veteran’s participation. There
is one word in this whole paragraph that bothers me. CDB may establish set a side goals for
qualified Veteran’s owned small business. Member Bedore says that he would like to see
something on the lines of shall. Mr. Broughton states the reason why it’s written like that is,
when we have very small projects something that might be $20,000 or it might be something
specialized, where there would only be one trade. There is not that opportunity on those small
projects to have sub contracts and suppliers to meet the goals. Member Bedore says aren’t you
setting the goal for overall? Mr. Broughton says what happens on the projects that are larger to
where we have the ability to carve out pieces for sub-contractors and suppliers then the goal is a
little bit higher overall. Currently at CDB the threshold in applying goals, small goals but the
general rule is a $250,000 project. Member Bedore asks what is the overall estimated cost for
this whole project? Mr. Broughton says right now he believes that its $230 million on the large
building. I know that there had been concerns with regard to the emergency projects but what we
did at CDB was we put goals on that emergency, and those goals are being meant. I guess it’s a
pat on our back. it’s been our policy not to put goals on an emergency project, but we chose to do
that here. so, were trying to address the concerns. But again, when you have those very
specialized very small projects, it’s very practical if the vendor you have is the only one that
could be possible working that before doing any work.
Member Bedore says you were aware there was an Armory years ago. I talked about it should be
almost 100% Veteran’s this is a Quincy Soldier’s Home. Is there some way we could tighten this
up a little? The small projects you wouldn’t specialized but overall your talking $230 million,
that’s a pretty nice size project. Ms. Romano says on 4 pieces of the larger project we have
assessed goals. Member Bedore says what goals have you set for the Veterans? Ms. Amy says I
think for the bridging firm so far, the contract that was selected the contract is still under
negotiation if I understand correctly, has brought in a Minority goal of 17% and Female Goal of
4% and a Veteran goal of 5% is expected to be used for the bridging firm on that particular
project. I think the overall goal was 20% and if my math is correct that 21%. Mr. Broughton says
there was a 20% combined with 5% on the Veteran’s which the Legislation is 3% but we put 5%
on there. We feel like we’re doing what were supposed to be doing with this program to make it
work.
Chairman Vala states that his concern is were not building a Veteran’s home were building a
City. It’s not going to the $200 million it’s going to be much more than that, and this is one
opportunity for this Procurement Board to finally set down rules that somebody is going to have
to explain why they didn’t follow. I strongly believe that section 934320 should say must and not
may. Member Bedore asks is there some way that it can be worded somehow where you have
your specialized contract for a product, that you know is only coming from ABC Corporation
and its not a Veteran’s. Is there a way to word it that these goals must be met? I think this Board
has been talking about this Veteran’s issue for some years. I remember when we were talking to

3

 Senator Duckworth when she did the Veteran’s thing. So, this goes back many years. This is not
something that just popped up with this Board, and the concern of this Board. It just brothers me
to see the word may. I think the Chairman has come up with must.
Mr. Broughton says he understands that you’re looking for a little more teeth. But to have the
ability it’s feasible. Member Bedore says I’m not arguing you done a good job. It’s just who’s
going to be here six months, or five years from now. this is a long-term project. While you have
good intentions in what your saying is straight, but the next person might say hell no. We don’t
want to do this, and with the word may, they could say we decided not to do it. Mr. Broughton
says the rules are under JCAR consideration which allows them to be changed. So, we think that
we can do a little bit of re-wording there. Because our intent when we first put this thing
together, was the main intent of anything was to make sure that we preserved the Veteran’s
Program because it was in the Procurement Code and when you say were exempt from the
Procurement Code for these projects and if we didn’t include those in the rules, then there
wouldn’t be a requirement. So, we understand, and we agree with your assessment that there
needs to be a little more teeth into it.
Member Ivory stated from my experience with not only the PPB but also in BEP Counsel, we
had a heavy conversation on the language of “may” and may is so objective and leaves so much
room for us to have a debate. Let’s remove that and put shall, and that way you always get a
chance to come back and say under these circumstances we exempt this Procurement based upon
size. Mr. Broughton says I think we can make this work and address your concerns. Member
Ivory asks when you select someone from the Veteran’s home and you also select someone fomr
the community for the Committee, do you guys look at their background to see if they have any
other pervious Construction or background experience, so they can be a more informed
participant not just a Committee person with a little bit of background about who is selected. Mr.
Broughton replies, yes that is a challenge that were taken very seriously after those
recommendations to come us that those people have some type of background. Member Ivory
says a facility that is going to build, and obviously it impacts Veterans and the highest priority
should be to have Veteran’s participation, we appreciate that you guys have went from 3% to
5%. I was a part of the selection team that that helped established the 3% goal years ago. we
thought it was low glad to see you guys are going beyond that with 5%. Ms. Romano says that
this has been on our radar a bit. With Quincy it’s been a challenge sometimes to achieve the
goals that you have established. Mr. Martinez is looking very hard to try and get some additional
support outreach so that we can support the goals that are put on the projects in that particular
location.
Member Morales thanks the Board for topics and points that they touched, I had the same
concerned with 930.2320 concerned with the word may. Those were the concerns that I had
Executive Director says we will postpone the vote today to have this section rew roked and CDB
can come back to the next meeting to present the changes.
Next on the agenda we have the proposed Administrative Rules for the CPO for Higher
Education. We have Shirley Webb and Margaret van Dijk. Ms. van Dijk stated that The CPO of
Higher Education has filed a proposed amendment to administrative rules which will incorporate
all of the Legislative changes made in 100th General Assembly as well as a couple from the 99th

4

 General Assembly. We last did a major update of the Administrative Rules in January 2016. We
did increase the small purchase threshold in September of 2016, but this will incorporate changes
made in 26 different Public Acts. We worked extensively with the Universities on these, we been
actually working on these administrate rules since last summer. We have provided an initial draft
to the Universities in November of last year as well as March of this year, and when we got the
pre-draft back from JCAR that was at the end of July. We decided to wait the additional months,
so we could incorporate any additional Legislative changes on basis any acts signed by
Governor.
I can give you some of the highlights we add back in the exemptions for Institutions of Higher
Education. We establish rules for an evaluation committee, confidentiality during the evaluation
process, and how to address potential conflict of interest by committee members. We provided
guidance for opening bids, or proposals, how State witness conduct their behavior, and consider
opinions, and alternatives for scoring purchasing. We put in requirement for small purchases.
Requirements for purchases over $20,000 at minimum Universities contact 3 different Vendors
and have those contacts be in writing and they promote small and diverse business, and that all
that information be contained in a Procurement file. We make a variety of statutory changes
that’s related to State Use, as well as Hub Zones, again the joint cooperative group. Specifically,
an item that CPO Bagby is aware that this Committee is very interested in relates to BEP People,
and Veterans Goals and there are 2 specific additions made to these administrative rules. They
try to promote and encourage the use of BEP and Veterans Own Business. With that we are
available to answer questions.
Chairman Vala says he appreciates the input parameters that you established. But speaking for
myself and hopefully for the Board, we have not had a good relationship with the Universities
bidding I don’t believe that there has been one project before use that hasn’t been multiple
questions, and most of them unanswered, a misunderstanding of what you call tax money, and
what was called University money to make expenditures. So, I really think that Mr. Bagby ought
to be here for us to continue with the questions. Ms. van Dijk replies let me give a particular
response to that issue in terms of one of the rules that we have done that I think tries to address
some of those concerns. So, in the Procurement Code there is a particular statutory requirement
that if there using State funds that Universities and State Agencies can’t engage the Vendor for
prior to there being a contract signed and in writing and if they do that they have to file what’s
called a late execution affidavit with the Comptroller’s office. They have to get the Comptroller
to sign that Affidavit. Treasury Office to sign that Affidavit, and the CPO to sign that Affidavit.
That’s limited in the Procurement Code to state funds and we have seen numerous instances of
where they are using University funds. University basically engage vendors and contractors
without having a contract signed and in place. We think that is a bad policy, so we added a rule
that says regardless of the source of funds, you have to have that contract signed and put into
place before you basically engage that vendor, and if you don’t you have to provide that
information to the Chief Procurement Office so we can determine whether or not there’s a
problem with the University. We’re trying to engage some of those particular differences
Chairman Vala regardless of whether or not its State funds, or University.
Chairman Vala says we go back to my statement where does University money come from? Ms.
van Dijk says that often times its tuition dollars, sometimes its grant donation, sometimes its

5

 money they generate themselves. Chairman Vala asks do you have a definition in here of what
small generated funds, and what University funds that were implied? Chairman Vala says $90
million dollars was presented to this Board as University money for a contract up in Chicago.
Ms. van Dijk says so a couple things on that, most of the Procurement Code it applies regardless
the source of funds, and it says that in the first section of the Procurement Code it says the
Procurement Code applies regardless of the funds. So, whether there University funds, whether
they are funds that are generated, or appropriated by the General Assembly those funds are
subject to the Procurement Code there are some exceptions. Donations are listed as an
exemption, and there is the 1-13 exemption as well. But in general, the Procurement Code
applies regardless of the source of funds. Chairman Vala asks the amendments you want to make
here? Ms. Vandyke says no that’s just the Procurement Code that’s not us doing anything.
Member Bedore asks on section line 853 renewal any renewal on Real Estate Lease at which
renewal is not present may be allowed, what is your explanation of this? It says may not be
present, but you can still go ahead. Ms. van Dijk says I think there is a provision in the
Procurement Code, that says even if a contract for Real Estate doesn’t contain a renewal
provision in it where is specifically provides for a renewal that there can be renewal. Am I
incorrect or am I remembering some article? Mr. von Behren says that’s where our Board gets
our extended oversight when we must have those Certificates with no objection from the Board
for those Leases because, they basically were in the space we liked the rate, stay there for
another 5 years. The Code calls it a renewal or an extension. To call it a renewal kind of
confusing, because we think the renewal would already be in the Contract in the provision, but I
think it’s more of an extension. But this Statue actually says renewal or extension of a Lease
provided that the CPO determines it’s in the best interest. The CPO submits that renewal to the
Board the Board does not oject in writing within 30 days and the CPO publishes the renewal or
extension the appropriate volume of the Bulletin. So, that’s that section where all those Leases
come from this Board for are approval. It’s says renewal, but the Statue says renewal or
extension, and we have always called it extension of the Leases already in place not really a
renewal. There is no way to change the Statue. Member Bedore says if you have a Lease and it
had a ending date, but there was a provision for extension, any renewal of Real Estate Lease for
which a renewal provision is not present maybe allowed. I am totally confused on that last line.
Mr. von Behren says the way the Statue is written let’s say we do a 5 year Lease just a straight 5
at the end of that Lease if the State determines that they want to stay there another 5 years under
section 30 ILCS 500-40, they can do an extension of the Lease as long as the following four
things happen. CPO says it’s in the best interest in the State to extent it for another 5 years, or for
however long they want. They provided that written determination to this Board and this Board
determines that does not object in writing in 30 days and then we publish it in the Bulletin as
long as those things happen we can extend the Lease. I think the confusion comes in under the
term renewal because also in article 40 there’s another section that uses the term renewal, and
actually speaks to a situation, where we have Leases may include a renewal option and option
maybe only exercise only when the SPO determines it is the in the best interest of the State, and
they exercise that option in the Procurement Code, and again those Leases come in front of this
Board so there are two sections of article 40 that discuss renewals. This section under 40-25
lengths of Leases is what you’re talking about, where you have a 5 year with a 5-year renewal
which is what we usually see. Section 5 is basically an exemption for putting it out for bid
staying where we are and extending the Lease, and those come before our Board and we issue a

6

 Certificate of no objection, or we object to them if we don’t think it’s in the best interest. The
rule is basically just pointing to that section if there is not a renewal they can still extend it to
concerning to those other sections which reference article 40-15 of the Procurement Code itself.
Ms. van Dijk says and in general if a contract does not contain a renewal provision under the
Procurement Code a University or a State Agency can’t just on there on say “well were going to
review this”, this section of article 40 of the Procurement Code is the exception. Member Bedore
says going back up to section line 840 what is different because we had a little concern in the
past regarding architectural and so forth and so on. Is there anything really changed in here? Ms.
van Dijk replies I don’t think so. I am just referring to QBS is a method of source selection just
as a IFB is a method if source selection just as a RFP is s method of source just as Construction
Management is s method of source selection. Member Bedore says and do you have a Conflict of
interest provision in here? Ms. van Dijk says one thing that have done in these particular rules,
and we read every audit that actually comes out on every State agency, or State University.
Because a lot of times the Audit’s come forward with issues that impact the Procurement Code.
whether there an Audit against the University or not. We try to learn lessons from everybody else
mistakes, and one thing we have done in these rules is to establish rules for evaluation
Committee’s and Conflict of Interest for the Members who are sitting on those Committee’s to
try to make sure we avoid any of those appearances.
Member Bedore says so you corrected that type where it’s all internal in one-person name’s all
the committee, and that person have a Conflict? Ms. Van Dyke says yes were trying to avoid that
by establishing clear rules on that process. Member Bedore asks where in section 1000 you’re
talking about your bids who is going to meet the entire goals request a full or partial waiver,
make good faith efforts meeting the goal. Who’s going to decide this? Ms. van Dijk says in the
Universities I guess I could say that each University does it different. I’ll talk about the
University of Illinois they have a compliance diversity. Member Bedore asks why does
University of Illinois has one set of rules, and Northern has a different rule regarding how they
select a Committee is that what you just said? Ms. Van Dyke replies well I can see that the
University of Illinois system for both Champaign, Chicago, and Springfield I guess because there
a larger University. Because specific group of people who work with their Universities on
establishing goals and they serve as there Good Faith Committee. Every University on every
Procurement that has a goal, should have a Good Faith Effort Committee. That basically reviews
solicitation and has a goal on it. If the goal is not fully meant basically the utilization plan
indicates that you haven’t meant the goal. Member Bedore says, you just said that the U of I.
UIC, and UIS they have a group that looks at their goals, and how they are being met, what
happens in Carbondale? Ms. Van dyke says every University has the BEP Liaison, and BEP
Committee that is basically implement the policies, and procedures of the BEP Act. U of I
because it’s a larger one I guess because that is more people serving that capacity. But this is my
understanding, and then again, the CPO doesn’t have direct jurisdiction over BEP but each
University when they’re ready to a solicitation out in the street, are supposed to establish a goal.
Member Bedore asks if they can establish a different goal then at the main University then. Ms.
Van Dyke says correct CMS in 2012 set out a policy on here’s how you set goals, they basically
walk through, and here are the various factors that you take into consideration on setting a goal.
So, on each Procurement, on each University, each State Agency it goes through that process to
determine should this goal have 20%, 30% 10% goal wherever the University establishes that

7

 goal. The solicitation goes out, and then if the goal is not meant in full or exceeded by a
particular vendor then there is supposed to be a Good Faith Committee in each University, or
State Agency and Agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor it’s my understanding that
BEP and CMS serves that function. But they review to determine whether or not the vendor has
made a Good Faith effort or not. One of the things that rules do, is required as part of the public
Procurement file in rule 4.2080 that entire goal setting process that the University went through,
how they establish the goal, what factors they looked at becomes part of the Procurement, and if
the goal is not meant a determination was made by the University to wave that goal in some
fashion and that information be contained in as part of the Procurement file, which is a document
that is available to General Public 7 days after publishing the notice of award, so that we have
the ability to look into how that goal is set, and if the goal was not met or exceeded what the
circumstances were if the University granted either a full or particle wavier .
Member Bedore says my point is are the goals different in Carbondale, and Northern then the U
of I. Ms. van Dijk says so the overall goal for the State is 20% and that’s broken down etc.
Member Bedore says he understands but each particular solicitation goal has to be an established
on the basics of availability. Ms. van Dijk says let’s just say your putting out two very similar
solicitations one down in Carbondale, and one in Chicago, on the basis of training material that
has been provided by CMS you have to take into account the availability of Minority Vendors in
that particular area you could end up with two different goals, depending on the availability of
Minority Vendors, and again that’s my understanding on the basics of CMS guidance that was
issued in 2012. Member Bedore says he really has a problem with the U of I system Champaign
Urbana has a controller, Northern has a Controller, and Carbondale has a controller, right? Ms.
van Dijk replies to her understanding. Member Bedore says Carbondale has a Comptroller, and
an Assistant Comptroller, and an Administrative Assistant and blah, blah. I don’t understand why
there isn’t one Comptroller, one Treasurer, why there isn’t one Board that reviews all the
Minority Contracts. You know why Carbondale is or Eastern different then the U of I what’s
different between the big Universities, and the small ones? Why isn’t there overall a board that
reviews all the contracts for the U of I everything. Ms. van Dijk says again you might be getting
outside of the CPO jurisdiction a little bit here, but it my understanding that the BEP Counsel is
delegated to each of the Universities, the ability to set goals. Member Bedore says do you know
what the goals are for each University?
Ms. van Dijk says the overall goals for the State are 20%. Member Bedore asks what are they
doing for the Veterans? Ms. van Dijk says on the Veterans their overall goal is 3%. Now that’s as
its define basically state Contracts so, CMS sets the definition for what a State contract is. now
as we have advised the Universities if that overall goal is 20% on a particular Procurement. Let’s
say it’s not availably and that have issued some kind of first waiver the goal is 10%., and overall
at the end of the year there going to have to make up those dollars, on another Contract. So, the
next on contract if it’s at the same side might have to have a goal of 30% in order to try to reach
that goal of 20%. So, if you don’t reach it on one particular Contract overall at the end of the
year in order to try to meet those goals you probably have to make them up somewhere else, and
that’s something that the CPO’s Office continually stresses with the Universities that if there is a
waiver or an exemption that gets granted on one particular one.

8

 Member Bedore says do we have any figures on how the U of I is regarding Minority, and
Veteran? Ms. van Dijk says I can say roughly last year BEP report was about 5%. Am I incorrect
n that Member Ivory? Member Ivory replies your right its 5% there was a hearing just recently
Member Bedore, where they had a hearing with the Universities, that was not a very positive
hearing at all. Member Bedore says there again your goal is 20%, and 3% and we just heard that
they hit 5% where is the compliance in this? We can set these things all we want as we went
through with the last group. There is nothing that says you must do this. Ms. van Dijk says right,
and there has been a couple of changes to the Business Enterprise Program Act that are trying to
establish some penalties. Member Ivory can talk to them, but one of them was a change last year
to the BEP Act that specifically identifies that once a Vendor has committed to meeting a goal,
it’s no longer a goal. Before you agree to do it it’s a goal but once a Vendor agrees to do
something it’s no longer a goal its now a deliverable that part of that Contract.
Member Bedore says, and when the Vendor doesn’t he agree to 20 and 3 and he comes up with
5% what happens nothing? Ms. an dijk says so two things needs to happen, number one there
actually has to be follow-up by the Contract Administration unit of the University to actually to
determine whether or not Vendor progressively is meeting that goal or not. But there should be
quarterly reports, semi -annual reports, you know if you got a 3-year Contract you don’t want to
wait till its 95% done in order to try and found out whether or not that Contract goal is being
done or not. So, the Universities need to do contract administration and they need to be actually
checking in on their Vendors. I would argue at least on a quarterly or a semi- annual basis to say.
How is it that you’re during towards meeting the goal, the other thing is in terms of this
particular rules we have identified in a couple of the different sections in terms of defining what
can that Contract be cancel for, which included the failure to meet the agreed upon deliverables
of the goals as being the reason for Contract cancellation. But we need the universities to do their
part here. It’s a breach of contract when they do not meet there agreed upon deliverable, and at
the point it’s no longer a goal it’s a deliverable.
Member Ivory says for the record the University of Illinois is doing better than most. ISU is less
than 1% most of the Junior colleges are less than 1% that don’t come close to hitting of the goals.
Joliet Junior College, is the oldest Junior college in the United States of America they have yet in
the whole History ever have an African America Worker, or a Hispanic ever had a Contract in
Professional Services in their history. You have any consistency with Junior Colleges, now does
this apply to the Junior Colleges? Ms. van Dijk replies no we only have jurisdiction over the
Public Institutions of Higher Education 9 Universities total of 13 Campus. Member Ivory asks
who would have compliance with the Junior Colleges? Ms. Van Dyke replies those are all going
to be the individual Colleges. Member Ivory says the process good Faith Effort as you know
there is a lack of consistency, in terms of what is define Good Faith Effort, and there has been no
consistency into what we consider Good Faith. I have been consistency in what we call Good
Faith Effort to be and not to be. Ms. van Dijk replies no! and I would point first to CMS rules on
the BEP Program and specifically has a rule its 44 Illinois Administrative Code Rule 10.9.1 it
defines Good Faith Effort, and its define as one of three things. One they do contact at the BEP
Council 15 days in advance, the Solicitation Seeking Assistance. Two that you reach out to
Trade Organizations, Unions etc. and three that you advertise in the official State Newspaper.
That is what is describe in CMS Administrative Rules as Good Faith Efforts. Those rules have
not been updated since the early 1990’s. Member Ivory ask as a CPO when you take a look at the

9

 Procurement process the SPO, CPO they are the vanguard of the Procurement process, in terms
of making sure the Procurement process was fair, and transparent, and hold every accountable. If
a Good faith effort is not meant you guys have no oversight in terms of the Good Faith Effort.
Ms. van Dijk replies we do not. But the one thing we are at least trying. There are instances
where the CPO’s Office or an SPO can’t even get information of how Universities set a goal, or
what factors they considered in determining whether to grant an exemption, or a Waiver. So, one
of the things that these rules do is to actually say that all of that has to be part of the Procurement
file. Member Ivory states that he has a lot of questions, that won’t get answer today. But we want
to make sure were timely on terms of our end time so I’m going to yield that and maybe we
come back and have a more personal conversation and they maybe bring it back to the General
Board. Ms. van Dijk says one thing I do want to point out is with Ben being Sick today. Is we did
provide advance copy to the Executive Director so that it could get on today’s agenda. But our
first notice period doesn’t expire until November 26th, so these have only officially been
published since Friday of last week. So, we still have a lot of opportunity for dialogue discussion
on how it is that we didn’t approve these for next month’s meeting or any questions, that Shirley
and I can’t answer for you today to make sure Ben can come back and answer for you.
Chairman Vala asks when the University lets a Contract, and the Contractor says he’s going to
meet the 20% and he doesn’t isn’t that fraud? On the contract it says that 40% of this work is
going to go. Let me give you an example City of Springfield they let Contracts, and if a
Contractor does not hire within their standards which in requires Springfield Illinois residency to
be in employed in that Contract they lose a percent in there Contract they have to pay the city
back. Is this something that the University could entertain?
Ms. van Dijk replies in terms of fraud that’s a criminal term. which basically requires intent. The
short answer to your question is whether or not it’s something that the University could entertain
is yes. They need to do Contract Administration in general the CPO once we do the Procurement,
and make sure the Procurement was done correctly and get a signed Contract so to speak ,its
turned over to the University to make sure that the Vendor is getting the deliverables, doing what
is it that they were hired to do, meeting the goals and all of those types of things. We
occasionally get involved for example one of things that we have done in these rules, and this has
been a particular problem related to the use of BEP Subcontractors is the utilization plan will
identify, if I’m going to be using be a VIP Vendor, I’m going to be using Veterans Vendor, and
on the bases of that they basically get awarded the Contract because you have met the goal, and
they that Subcontractor never here’s from the prime Contractor again and the work is never done,
and somewhere along the lines the Contractor has swap out Subcontractors who are used. Well
there not supposed to be doing that. You are basically able to change a Subcontractor for good
cause and if it’s a BEP Vendor you actually have to do it with compliance with Rules that CMS
has set up again through the BEP Counsel., on replacing that Subcontractor but again it’s for a
good cause. We didn’t have a definition in our rules of what a good cause is so we have
identified about 9 or 10 different elements of what good cause is for replacing a Subcontractor,
and reminding them as well there suppose here supposed to get the CPO to sign on them, on
when they’re going to be replacing the Subcontractor. We actually have to see what the good
cause is, and again were trying to make it harder for “fraud” for it to accrue with subcontractors
getting swapped out without anyone’s knowledge.

10

 Chairman Vala states that he was bold over the fraud it happens if they don’t reply. Have you
considered a financial penalty if they don’t? Ms. van Dijk replies that the Universities have it in
their Contract. The problem is getting the Universities, and the State Agencies to do Contract
compliance Shirly, and I can tell you hundreds of Stories. Chairman Vala says that’s what I’m
asking were working on new rules and were working on a change so why can the University will
the University, should the University come up with a financial penalty if the contractors are not
in compliance. If there not employing the Veterans. Ms. van Dijk states that she’s not trying to
ship the blame here Chairman Vala, but with the CPO’s office has jurisdiction over is making
sure that the Procurement is done correctly, and that the Contract was enter correctly. The
Universities, and the State Agencies responsibility once they have that contract to properly
Manage it. Chairman Vala replies that’s what he’s hoping for.
Member Bedore states that since your coming back next month we need to work on some type of
language where there is some type of penalty. I can understand missing the goal one or two
percent, but five percent compared to 23. Member Bedore recommend that we should really get
into this whole thing of Contract Administration with the U of I obviously there is a problem,
and we really should speak to that issue. The Board agreed to able the vote until the next
meeting. Member Bedore a motion that we adjourn meeting, with Member Ivory Seconding the
motion. With all Members Voting “aye” meeting adjourned.

11

 