Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black

Minutes – March 8, 2012 Meeting
Present in Chicago:

Rick Morales

Present in Springfield:

Ed Bedore
Larry Ivory

Present via Telephone:

Bill Black

Absent:

David Vaught

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:05 a.m.
Member Morales made a motion to serve as Member Black via telephone and was seconded by Member
Ivory. The motion was unanimously approved.
Member Morales made a motion to have Member Bedore be Acting Chairman in the absence of Chairman
Vaught. The motion was seconded by Member Ivory. With a vote of 3-0 with Member Bedore abstaining
the motion was approved.
First on the agenda was the approval of the minutes from the February 9, 2012 Board meeting. Member
Ivory made a motion to accept the minutes as presented and was seconded by Member Morales. The motion
was unanimously approved. There was also a motion by Member Morales to accept the minutes from the
February 9, 2012 Pacific Management Contract Hearing and was seconded by Member Ivory. The motion
was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was the BEP Rules Review. Director Aaron Carter stated that CMS has submitted BEP
Rules Title 4 Part 10 with the Business Enterprise Program. These Rules mimic the recent change in statute
in overall changes; the State contracting goals are now 20% from 12%. It also increases the sales limitation
for applicants to the Business Enterprise Program up to $75 million from $31 million. Staff
recommendation is support as presented. With no questions or comments a motion was made by Member
Ivory for a no objection and was seconded by Member Morales. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was the Chief Procurement Office for General Services Rules. Director Carter stated
that this set of rules are on the agenda as an update. The staff’s full analysis has not been prepared yet and
communication is on-going with the Chief Procurement Office and staff. The Board did provide an initial
analysis of some of the questions and concerns they have and the CPO is working on a response to those
questions. CPO Matt Brown is available for any interim questions today. Director Carter anticipates a full
staff analysis of these Rules for the April meeting. Acting Chairman Bedore asked Mr. Brown how the
procedure is going. CPO Matt Brown replied that the process is regulated by the Joint Committee on
Administrative Rules and is time regulated so the first 45 days is considered the 45 day public notice period.
During that period there are opportunities for interested parties to provide comments to his office as well as
to the JCAR. During that 45 day notice period there are 3 scheduled public hearings. At the conclusion of
those public hearings and the receipt of comments during the 45 day notice period, the Chief Procurement
Office will be in a position to move to second notice. Mr. Brown stated that it is their anticipation they will
M:120308

511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 not move on the 45th day, but will wait for the next scheduled PPB meeting and spend that time fully
analyzing questions and comments raised by both the Board and members of the public. Mr. Brown stated
that ideally once these core rules are established, on-going discussions with affected State agencies and
outside parties will lead to yet another round of refinements to follow this set. Acting Chairman Bedore
asked when they are anticipating hearings. Mr. Brown replied that public hearings will be held on March
14, 15 and 19 in Carterville, Springfield and Chicago. Member Ivory stated that he knows that there has
been some significant conversation as it relates to the CPOs and SB51. Member Ivory stated that he trusts
Mr. Brown’s opinion and wanted to know from his perspective what some of the biggest hurdles that he
thinks will need to be overcome to make this procurement process successful and better for the State of
Illinois. Mr. Brown replied that for the process in general, there needs to be some new and modern
automation. Most of what is being done now is in electronic form, which is web based, systems based both
with an in-house version and a public version, at least in his portfolio, exchange of electronic information
between both the vendors they do business with and their State processes that needs an element of
modernization, which will add to efficiencies and clarities. The second thing that is needed is a refinement
of certain processes in general. Mr. Brown stated that he could speak to some of the conversations on sole
source and emergency hearings and how quickly they occur, how effective they are and how decisions
relative to those hearings effect timeliness of delivery of the goods or service. We need to stay focused on
those at all times and make sure their processes reflect that focus. Thirdly, he believes we need to create
some more harmony within the State agencies who are indicating what the State needs to buy. Mr. Brown
stated that we need to provide the best level of service possible so when a need is identified it can be
delivered on time, on schedule and on price. No further questions or comments were made.
Next on the agenda was CMS Facilities. In attendance was Deputy Director of Property Management at
CMS, Nick Kanellopoulos. Mr. Kanellopoulos provided an update to the Board of activities since the last
Board meeting. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that in leasing, the total cost reduction now stands at $4.38
million, which is an annualized figure. CMS has eliminated 1.93 million square feet of leased space since
Governor Quinn took office. This week CMS has unveiled a project where they created a spreadsheet with
26 columns of data on all of their leases. A PDF version is available on CMS’ website (cms.illinois.gov)
Look for Property Management and click on leasing and it will take you directly to that page. This
spreadsheet will be updated monthly. Among the 26 columns of data you will see location, agency, size,
FY12 cost data both total and broken down, etc. CMS hopes in the upcoming months if there is feedback
they hope to add more data if that is available. There is also ownership information as well. The current
version of the PDF is searchable where you could search for a particular agency, city, or street which makes
it more user friendly. Acting Chairman Bedore asked of those 26 columns if they provided the power source
or who they buy their electricity from. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied no. He said that it would be a large task,
but could be done. Acting Chairman Bedore commented that in order to give a real detailed report of where
they buy their services from it would be a burden. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that they would have to go
into every individual file. Acting Chairman Bedore stated that he would like to discuss this further later
about a bill that is being introduced by Senator Garrett in the Senate. Mr. Kanellopoulos asked if it could be
discussed during the legislation part of the meeting. Acting Chairman Bedore replied that would be fine.
Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he would like to give an update on a couple of snapshots of work that CMS
has had done by their real estate consultant Jones Lang LaSalle in the Chicago area. He stated that he would
like to give the Board an idea where CMS would be not by the end of the fiscal year, but by the end of
summer. CMS expects to achieve about $6.7 million in cost reductions from their efforts in reviewing the
Cook County portfolio and recommendations on how CMS could better utilize State owned buildings in the
area, but also one or two of their core facilities in that area. One that has already been talked about is to
move the DCFS office in Skokie into the ISAC building in Deerfield. DCFS filed with COGFA and
COGFA requested a recommendation from them and believe they have 30 days to do it. Once they file their
recommendation it starts the 50 day clock ticking unless COGFA requests a public hearing. The FY12 cost
of that facility is $724,000. The intent is to close this facility. Also, last month CMS re-bid the DCFS lease
at 2nd and Emerald in Chicago and by reducing the square footage it reduced the rent CMS will achieve a
first year’s cost reduction of $1.24 million off of that re-bid. The Governor also announced in his budget
address that CMS intends to close a DCFS facility at 3518 W. Division. That facility will move to a State
owned facility in the Chicago Medical District at 1026 S. Damon. CMS also intends to move out of, what is
considered the 2nd most expensive lease in the State, which is the HFS lease located at 32 W. Randolph in
2
M:120308

 Chicago. The FY12 cost of that lease will be $4.11 million. There are 330 HFS staff in that building. CMS
intends to accomplish this in two ways; CMS hopes to move most of the staff to the HFS/DHS headquarters
building at 401 S. Clinton and the remaining staff is intended to move to the DES headquarters at 33 S.
State. CMS hopes to execute this entire plan by the end of summer. Acting Chairman Bedore pointed out it
was the Board who raised this issue when this lease was originally done. He stated that the Board was not
happy with it and is glad to see as time goes on that the Board was probably right. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied affirmatively.
Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that Jones Lang LaSalle’s next task is to do this same job in Springfield. They
have started doing some ground work and are looking at the Hanley Building starting in the next few days.
Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he knows that one of the agenda items is the IDOT lease on Stevenson Drive
and CMS intends to close that facility. He is not sure if all of the 109 staff could go to Hanley, but they
could be split up between Hanley and the rest of the IDOT staff at the EPA Building in Springfield. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that he will keep the Board informed as that continues to progress. Acting Chairman
Bedore commented that he hopes that Jones Lang LaSalle takes a long hard look at the Hanley Building
because the whole center core is records. There are hundreds and hundreds of square feet that are dedicated
to paper records. It is a grand building, but those days are over and we do not need a big room to hold
proms and other things. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he understands and would keep the Board up-to-date
with the progress they are making. Acting Chairman Bedore wanted to confirm that CMS was intending to
close lease #6348 on Stevenson Drive. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively. Member Morales asked
what the agreement is with Jones Lang LaSalle. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that CMS has a contract with
them to do many things. One of them is to give CMS a strategic plan on the CMS portfolio. Another thing is
to look at properties to determine if CMS should surplus them or utilize them in a different project, but they
are taking a look in a lot of areas of the State’s real estate portfolio. Member Morales wanted to know if it
was on-going for a certain time period. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the contract has been in effect for a
little over a year and he believes with renewals it is a three year contract, but does not have that information
at this time and will forward the correct information to Director Carter. Acting Chairman Bedore asked
what the dollar amount was. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the strategic plan is at no cost. There are costs,
for example, as some of the work in Chicago does require architectural work so that is being paid for. If JLL
was to identify buildings and those buildings were to be re-utilized and leases went in there would be a fee
structure for that. Nothing has been paid to date on that fee structure. The only thing that CMS has paid for
is architectural fees to design the layouts for the re-stack and consolidations that CMS is doing in Chicago.
Acting Chairman Bedore asked how the firm was selected. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied through an RFP and
he believes that there were three other bidders. No further questions were asked.
Next was an update on the AIG Building. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that CMS Benefits has been moved into
the building. As of today, there are 505 ISP full-time staff and 145 spots for CMS Benefits. Also, Gaming
Board is currently in AIG and has 52 staff, which totals 702 staff currently in the AIG Building. Mr.
Kanellopoulos forgot to add the 6 staff from the Governor’s fiscal staff are also there, which makes it 708.
CMS has finalized plans for the Attorney General’s office and their 75 staff and the Gaming Board with
their 35 additional staff. If all that works out the total will be up to 820 staff. CMS finalized the floor plans
for the Attorney General’s office and then the Attorney General’s office came back with questions
regarding asbestos issues in the facility. CMS is currently conducting air quality tests and will also have
their vendor give CMS a report regarding when needed improvements are done, to get the AG in there, what
abatements might need to be done. When CMS has this report, CMS staff will be ready to present the
information to them and the Attorney General’s office will make their decision at that time. CMS is
currently ready for the Attorney General move and the Gaming Board, but are not ready to pursue any other
moves until they get the yes or no from the Attorney General. Acting Chairman Bedore asked if their
contract has expired. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he believes that they did do an RFI for a lease and have
entered into another lease with the current landlord. The lease does allow them to get out at any time in the
first year and will use that opportunity to determine if they decide to move into the AIG. Acting Chairman
Bedore commented that CMS is negotiating in good faith and they go out and re-sign the lease at the
present location. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that in his opinion the Attorney General’s office had to because
the lease was in holdover and the six months time period in holdover was running out. It would have been
impossible to move them into AIG by December 31, 2011, which is when their deadline was. Acting
Chairman Bedore stated that CMS has been working with the Attorney General for the past six months and
3
M:120308

 they are currently holding things up for you. Shouldn’t there be a deadline given to the AG on this? Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that when they present the air quality testing CMS will give them a deadline.
Member Morales asked how many staff was in the AIG Building. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied currently 708.
Acting Chairman Bedore stated that there are 708 with 35 for Gaming which is 743 and if the AG comes in
it is 818. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmative. No further questions or comments were made.
Next was the report on Printer/Electronic Consolidation. In attendance was Will Walker with CMS. Mr.
Walker gave a quick re-cap of the digital imaging being done at three agencies. At the Prison Review Board
there are 300,000 paper files that they are trying to get digitized. About 150,000 of them are closed inactive
files, but those files still need to be gone through and prepped. CMS is looking to partner with an
organization called “Gone for Good”. They are a disabled work center under the State Use vendor program
and are trying to get them to pick up the boxes to be prepped and work with them to ease some of the pain
in the process. Currently, they are trying to procure a scanner and the associated support software to begin
the process of building a platform so the agency can start digitizing all in-coming and existing files.
CMS also had a meeting with IDOC, PRB, BCCS, CMS, and State Archives, which is a lot of people in one
room talking about this process. They realize there is significant overlap of documents and need to figure
out which documents are really needed, how to eliminate duplication and how they are going to
communicate with each other and are trying to move down this path to reduce some of these redundancies.
The other area CMS is looking into is digital signature format so you don’t have to have documents print
them, scan them, sign them, scan them and send them to someone else so they can do the same thing.
DHS continues to move along quite well. They are exceeding their document target. So far they have
ingested over 1 million documents into Content Manager, which exceeds all expectations. Now they think
the savings is going to be in the neighborhood of $61,000 a month or $730,000 annually.
Mr. Walker stated that with CMS Benefits they are still trying to procure a scanner and should have that
done very soon to start scanning all 22,000 files of theirs and get them started through the process.
Mr. Walker stated that IDOT, as you mentioned before, is a big beast with a lot of paper. CMS sat down
and talked to them about what they have and where they are going. As stated before there is 801 cubic feet
of material in the IDOT records center. If you look at what they have across the State CMS was able to
narrow it down and think they have somewhere in the neighborhood of 25 million pieces of paper to figure
out how to put on to a computer. It will take a lot of time, effort and people. IDOT has already retained
somebody and put someone in charge of that whole process. They are looking to start in the voucher area
and work through that then the payment center. IDOT also wants to look at their blue print process. Right
now it is about 25 blue prints they produce for each project and would like to narrow it down to 10 and then
hopefully down to just one or two blue prints per project.
Mr. Walker stated that with telecom the savings keep rolling in and there was an increase of 5,500 hours in
savings with a grand total of savings at $432,000 as they continue to eliminate phone lines, cell phones,
pagers, air cards, data circuits and miscellaneous service reductions.
Mr. Walker stated that in the area of printer reduction they still continue to work through agencies. They are
currently working with Department of Labor, CMS Benefits, Public Health, ISP and DCFS and now have
7120 fewer devices and now with an estimated savings of about $3.7 million.
In the I-Cycle program there was a 21% increase of paper recycled. They are up to 79 pounds of paper
recycled per State employee. Plus, they are no longer paying someone to haul away all of that paper to a
landfill they are actually making money on this deal. In this fiscal year, CMS has generated $83,000 in
income by shredding paper, bundling it and have it hauled away. They have taken a system that cost them
money and has turned it around into a revenue generating system. They are currently in the process of
procuring an industrial sized shredder for the Chicago area and can begin to tackle that monster over the
next six months.

4
M:120308

 Mr. Walker stated that with the electronic recycling program there was nothing to report at the last meeting
because they had a system that was being brought up-to-date. Currently they have recycled 88,000 pieces of
electronic equipment. This no cost program has saved the State close to $3.9 million. There is still no
update on the GSA program and are still looking at auctions and what is going on with other agencies and
should pick up in the months to come. Member Ivory asked if IDOT had a plan or strategy for ridding them
of the backlog of documents. Mr. Walker replied that they have just started the process and all they have
done so far is identified what they have. Then they are going to look at how much it is going to cost, what
they have to secure and how many people they will have to put on this process and analyze how long this
process is going to take. In conjunction with that, they are also looking at going forward with putting their
vouchers program online so they don’t create the paper any more. They do not have a timeline yet, but the
conversations have started and have put someone in charge of it. Member Ivory stated that it was an
excellent suggestion about using IDOT as a model for bigger agencies. Member Ivory wanted to know if a
feel for the massive amounts of paperwork and the saving could be or if they’ve done an analysis in terms
of once this is done what the saving could be. Mr. Walker replied that they are working on a formula right
now to try to narrow that down so they can define the savings on how much they will be saving. The
standard formula is about $.04 per piece of paper. However, they are different because they have these huge
blue prints and bigger documents and more money involved. They are trying to isolate that because that will
be an even larger savings. Instead of taking a standard point of view on how much it is going to cost per
square foot in terms of real estate savings and rent savings and how much it cost per sheet of paper. Mr.
Walker stated that he could do some calculating and get a number for him at the next meeting. No further
questions or comments were made.
Next on the agenda was Legislation. Director Carter stated that there are a couple of specific bills of which
the Board asked him to work with a member of the Board and the General Assembly to get the trailer bill to
SB1750 regarding University procurements. Director Carter stated that he was able to work with a member
of the Board and it was filed in both houses as HB5680 and SB3806. Both of those bills are in committee.
Acting Chairman Bedore asked if there was any objection from any group. Director Carter replied that they
have not come forward in any committee yet and he has spoken with CPO Bagby again. Since SB1750 has
passed, CPO Bagby has procedures in place to work out some of the Board’s concerns, but until it has been
called in committee in either House he would not know of any opponents unless the Universities want to
come forward and specifically tell the Board they didn’t like it. Acting Chairman Bedore asked if CPO
Bagby had any comment. Mr. Bagby replied not at this time, but did offer to answer any questions anyone
might have. The other two bills introduced by Senator Garrett are SB3296, which amends the Code and
changes the definition of a subcontractor to include management firms. Specifically, it says the definition of
a subcontractor now includes management and service companies that enter into third party facility
management service contracts. Senator Garrett also introduced SB3297 on property disclosure, which
further heightens the disclosure in the Code for these management companies and any sort of ownership
interest within. Acting Chairman Bedore stated when we go out and lease, the contract is between the State
of Illinois and the owner of the building. Now if this owner wants to hire ABC Corporation as its
management firm isn’t that between the owner and the ABC Corporation? If you go out for an RFI and if
you grant a lease to this owner it is because it fit all the needs and it is the lowest bidder. Acting Chairman
Bedore stated that if he was a building owner and put in a bid for $9.00 and met all the criteria the State
says ok you have the best bid. Then he goes and hires a management company. He asked what if he adds
insurance on the building. Isn’t that a service contract? He would have to then list his insurance. What is the
State going to do - say “no we don’t like Allstate we like Farmers?” Electric prices, that’s a contract the
owner has. With all of these cities now going to opting out of. So should the State then go to the owner and
say we don’t like Commonwealth Edison we like Joe Brown’s Electric Company? There are some leases
that go through where it is all new carpeting, which has to be over $20,000. So what has to be done? Do we
have to get the list of the carpet company and all of the owners of that carpet company? Acting Chairman
Bedore stated that he understands what the Senator is trying to do, but he thinks that we are going a little
overboard. This is going to be such a burden on the State by listing every owner of every entity. Acting
Chairman Bedore stated he didn’t think that we are a police state yet. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that at the
end of the day CMS’ position on these bills is going to stay neutral in the sense that we are just mechanics
and their jobs are to execute the policies that the General Assembly passes and the Governor signs into law.
CMS does see the difficulties in executing the work that is required by these two bills and in some ways the
examples he pointed out are also the simple ones. Mr. Kanellopoulos gave the example of one of the more
5
M:120308

 difficult ones. If you were going to build a road and he got awarded a contract he would sub with five other
people to do different work on that contract. In many of the situations that CMS has the property manager
exists long before they submit an RFI. It is usually the management company that submits the RFI. So,
under the reading of subcontractors it is questionable whether that relationship should be disclosed because
it is pre-existing. They did not get hired to service the contract they were there before. Mr. Kanellopoulos
stated that he is not giving a legal opinion just giving his first blush reading of the statute. There are
difficulties in the interpretation and there are certainly difficulties. There are janitorial contracts,
extermination contracts, smoke alarm contracts, burglar alarm contracts, monitoring contracts, etc. There
are lots of services that go into certain buildings and there are a lot of vendors that could pile up. There will
be a lot of work to do and at the end of the day vendors already hate the amount of disclosure and the
amount of certifications that have to be done to try to be one of the contestants to get a contract with the
State. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that with adding more disclosures it will just lessen competition because
there will be some people that think that it is not worth the money or time to try to compete for a State
contract especially when the State is behind in paying their bills. At the end of the day CMS is going to do
what the General Assembly tells them to do, but it does make the job harder to do and it does lower
competition.
Member Ivory asked Mr. Kanellopoulos what his perspective would be on the impact that it will have on
how it will affect small vendors in terms of this piece of legislation. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that most of
their landlords will qualify to be small vendors if they choose to get that type of designation. Most of the
400 lease CMS has are fairly small. He believes that the smaller companies that don’t have a lot of
involvement with State contracts are typically the ones that trip up and fail to disclose properly and it makes
it very complicated. On the other hand you have sophisticated management companies, which might be
hesitant to deal with smaller businesses that may not be able to properly provide these disclosures or they
don’t feel confident they could do things or provide certifications necessary. Member Ivory inquired that it
could limit competition to some degree. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied he doesn’t see how adding a bigger
administrative burden doesn’t lessen competition. Acting Chairman Bedore stated that he believes that this
bill has gone too far and this bill was to get publicity, which it got. He said that we are setting policy here
and thinks that it is a burden to the State of Illinois to get all of this. Acting Chairman Bedore stated that he
understands the intent, but in his opinion that this bill has gone too far. Member Ivory stated that with his
investment banking background we might be overreacting to some degree with current situations in an
attempt to balance it out and may have taken some aggressive steps that may be an over-step or over-reach
in this situation. Member Morales stated that he doesn’t see how either of these bills will benefit the State of
Illinois at all – if anything it just creates more difficulty and businesses will not want to do business with the
State of Illinois. Member Morales stated that he would be interested in finding out how much more is it
going to cost to hire somebody to look into these things after asking for them. Acting Chairman Bedore
stated that he didn’t know if there was a sense of this Board and would not like to do this without the
permanent Chairman being here, but maybe the Board should give direction to Director Carter for
testimony. Director Carter stated for the Board’s information that these two pieces of legislation are being
discussed right now in the Senate Procurement Committee. It is his understanding that the Senate
Procurement Committee is going to work on one bill as a whole on procurement matters this spring session.
He stated that the Board could act today, but believes that there is still time. No further questions or
comments were made.
The next scheduled meeting for the Procurement Policy Board is set for April 5, 2012 pending Board
confirmation.
With no further business to discuss a motion to adjourn into executive session was made by Member Ivory
and was seconded by Acting Chairman Bedore. The motion was unanimously approved.
The Board returned to open session and a motion to initiate the final renewal of the Board’s legal counsel
contract was made by member Ivory and seconded by member Morales, the motion was unanimously
approved. With no further discussion a motion was made by member Morales to adjourn, the motion was
seconded by member Ivory and unanimously approved closing the meeting.

6
M:120308

 