PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Diego Ferrer, Ricardo Morales

Minutes – October 8, 2009 Meeting
Present in Chicago:

Rick Morales

Present in Springfield:

David Vaught
Mike Bass
Ed Bedore

Absent:

Diego Ferrer

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:30 a.m.

Member Bedore stated that there was a correction on the bottom of page three of the minutes. It
states that “it will likely fall 14% this lease” and should read “it will likely fall 14% this year”.
Member Bedore made a motion to approve the minutes as corrected for September 16. The
motion was seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
First on the agenda was CMS – Administrative Rules. In attendance was Deputy Director of
Property Management, Nick Kanellopoulos. Also in attendance was Scott Seder with CMS. Mr.
Seder gave a brief update on the Administrative Rules. The Rules that CMS had submitted are
going to be withdrawn due to technical concerns raised by JCAR staff. The publication
withdrawal will be tomorrow and currently the revised version approved by the Governor’s
Office has also been submitted to JCAR to be vetted. CMS is undertaking the responsibility of
revising all of the all rules relating to property management. CMS is starting with the leasing
reps and working its way up through management and providing the actual copy of the rules for
input. The goal is to update the rules, remove obsolete practices and references and to put in new
green standards and practices to do a better job with putting the public and using agencies on
notice as to how CMS does business. Chairman Vaught asked when the new rules will be refiled. Mr. Seder replied that a draft of the rules were pre-filed at JCAR for vetting and as soon as
they tell CMS is it good, the rules will be published, possibly as soon as next week.
Member Bedore asked when the other rules were withdrawn if the Board would get a copy of the
new rules. Mr. Seder stated that he could forward the Board a copy of the draft today. Member
Bedore asked if these rules and regulations are going to be more specific regarding square
footage and things of that nature or are they going to be dealing in generalities again. Mr. Seder
replied that they are going to be more specific. Member Bedore stated that he could wait until
they are vetted by JCAR. Member Bass wanted to clarify that CMS is doing a new segment as a
response to the rules being pulled and that the greater intent is a total re-do of the section in
relation to property management and that CMS is going to be working on over time. Mr. Seder
replied that is correct. CMS is doing one very small rule that will be filed very shortly, but CMS
is undertaking a process of revising all rules at the same time and will have another filing once
those have been vetted. Member Bass asked if there was a timeline. Mr. Seder replied that he
could provide one at the next meeting.
m:091008
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 Next on the agenda was Facilities. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he had updates for the Board.
The current holdover count is at 99, of which 69 are currently in holdover and 30 that will be
terminating between now and June 30, 2010. He also wanted to tell the Board that CMS has
entered into a statewide contract CMS has with Integeris Electricity. Through that contract, CMS
has locked in pricing beginning May 1, 2010 and will lock in prices for 36 months thereafter.
That pricing will lead to a 16.9% drop in electricity costs in ComEd territory and 16% drop in
Ameren territory. Also 25% of that electricity will be purchased will be certified green generated
power and 5% of the 25% is guaranteed to be Illinois wind generated electricity.
CMS Portfolio Manager, Roger Nondorf gave a brief update on the status of the copier contract
from last month’s board meeting and also provided a handout to the Board. Mr. Nondorf stated
that when looking at the numbers, on the list provided, it indicates that an agency had processed
an order under a master contract for the equipment that is referenced, the value and the ultimate
resolution either being cancelled or deferred are indicated in the description. Mr. Nondorf also
made a note that most of the transactions on this list were under $10,000. Member Bass asked if
CMS made the “could not justify” decision or did it come from the agency. Mr. Nondorf replied
that under Chief of Staff Stermer’s memo, issued February 2009, it pointed to four points of
criticality for all procurement activity. There were subsequent memos under Director Sledge that
further defined the process. At the point those orders were being placed, CMS was going back to
the agencies placing those orders and asking for their justification in the context of the four
points of criticality. To the extent that they could not justify their criticality those orders were
shut down. No further questions were asked.
Member Bedore requested to reorder the agenda and that CMS start with HFS lease 5602 at 2200
Churchill Rd. in Springfield. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that Carol Green representing HFS was
present in Springfield to answer any programmatic questions. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this
is a five-year lease with 105,324 sq. ft. facility housing 349 employees, which is 302 sq. ft. per
employee. CMS negotiated a rent reduction in this lease from $13.98 to $13.00 sq. ft. in base
rent. It is estimated the total cost in the first year will go down 10.5 % due to the reduction. In the
early summer two other HFS leases were terminated in Springfield – lease 5601 at 6th and Allen
and 5543 at 1011 S. 2nd Street. The end result was that about 100 employees were moved at the
end of June into Churchill. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that some of the Board members toured this
facility and reported vacant cubicles and active phone lines. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that HFS
has approved to back fill 8 positions at that facility also they have been approved federal dollars
for 10 more potential hires. Although this is a large facility with a lot of people working there he
believes the sq. ft. per employee is a good rate. This facility offers the ability to expand or
consolidate in the future. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this is a good lease and asked the Board
for their approval.
Member Bedore stated he wanted to make a statement from previous meeting minutes that stated
“CMS stated that field verification is done by the leasing rep or the facilities manager”. Later in
the same minutes the Chairman asked CMS what is the process and CMS replied “that the
current process in any lease is there is a field verification where either the leasing rep or facility
manager or both go to the site and confirm headcount at the facility and see if it is consistent
with what was submitted on their annual plan and what was submitted on their space request”. A
few months back the Board was told that the headcount was done by verifying the active phone
lines. About a week ago Director Matt Brown and Member Bedore walked through the three
buildings at 2200 Churchill Rd. and spent two hours doing so. The first thing that was noted was
there were many vacant cubicles. When checked, all vacant cubicles had active phone lines, but
m:091008

2

 the leasing rep did not reference the 30-40 vacant cubicles. So there could not only be four
vacancies as stated in the white paper. Member Bedore stated that this is false information.
Again the information given to this Board is false. There is another good way of judging how
many people are in these facilities is that everyone drives, since there is no public transportation
nearby. On Friday afternoon about 1:30 p.m. there were 175 cars in the parking lots and there
are supposed to be 353 employees. Went back another day and counted 220 cars. Besides having
the headcount wrong based on active phones lines, the State is also paying $21 a month per
phone to in vacant cubicles. Member Bedore wanted to state that the owners are doing a great job
by keeping the buildings in great shape. They also talked with the facility manager and talked
about the air conditioning going out previously and within an hour and a half they had people out
there to get it repaired. But it should be in great shape since it is a $13 million dollar lease over
the next five years. Before the last meeting the Board was going to question the high rate being
charged, but CMS found out about it and the lease was withdrawn an hour before the meeting
and today CMS comes back with a much lower rate. Now after these vacancies have been found,
again CMS found out about this and CMS came back and listed additional employees. When
walking through these buildings you will find a conference room on every floor. There are also
two large training rooms, a very large lunch room with TV’s, unused office rooms used as
storage, a large unused smoking room with junk in it, there is one large room with three people
in it with a bunch of junk. Ten other people could fit in there if all of the junk was moved out.
Then there is a bunch of open space that could be utilized with cubicles. When you add up all
this vacant space you could have at least 75-100 people move in. Member Bedore said HFS has
other leases in Springfield and commends them for moving some people in and limiting leases.
But another one could be done. The lease at 400 North 5th Street has a termination option to
leave at anytime. This lease is costing the State $5.1 million dollars over five years. These
employees could move into HFS in Churchill and save the State $5.1 million dollars. That was
the main purpose of touring this building.
On a side note Member Bedore stated that there was no reason to hire more people. During the
tour of HFS on Churchill folks did not seem to have enough work to keep them busy. Member
Bedore and Director Brown thought they were in a party room. When asked if someone left,
retired or if it was a birthday the responses was oh no it is always this way. There were Japanese
lanterns and umbrellas hanging all around from the ceiling. There were three guys leaning over
cubicles talking about the Cardinals. Not too far away there was another group of people talking
about the Glenwood football game that night. Looking down the cubicles and there was a
gentleman leaning back reading a comic book. The next cubicle was reading the sports page
from the paper and in another was reading a book with his feet on his desk. There is no
argument to be made that HFS needs to save this space for vacancies because these folks do not
have enough work. There is no excuse because it was not break time or anything else and these
people are way underworked and supervision seems to be lacking from CMS. When asked about
various offices that were closed and the response was that it was Friday and they do a lot of field
work. It was interesting to find that supervisors do field work on Friday afternoons. The real
issue is to save the State $5.1 million dollars be moving HFS employees from 5th Street to
Churchill and Member Bedore strongly recommends for CMS to do this. Chairman Vaught
asked how many people were at the 5th Street location. Ms. Green replied that at 400 North 5th,
she did not have the exact number with her.
Chairman Vaught asked if Mr. Kanellopoulos wanted to respond to any of the comments that
Member Bedore brought up. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the headcount is verified by CMS.
Chairman Vaught stated that this question has been asked a number of times; that the Board gets
these verifications and that these documents are to be signed yet this document is not signed and
m:091008

3

 no one knows who verified the headcount. The reason the Board is asking for a signature is to
establish some kind of accountability for who comes up with these numbers. Member Bedore
stated that he could guarantee that there are more than four vacancies in this facility and this
white paper from CMS states that there is only four. Member Bedore stated that a few months
ago CMS verified headcount by the number of active phone lines and the phone lines at every
vacant cubicle where active. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that at one time that method was used to
verify headcount, however, today CMS works with the agency to verify the actual people in the
facility and he believes there is a misunderstanding between actual and budgeted headcount
numbers. Budgeted headcount does not mean every workstation in the facility would be filled if
the budget headcount was realized. What the numbers meant to show is that this number could
fluctuate between the actual and budgeted. Ms. Green replied that Mr. Kanellopoulos is correct
and Ms. Green was contacted by the CMS leasing rep and worked with the HFS liaison to get the
headcounts from the various units within those buildings. There has been a lot of movement in
and out of these buildings with different consolidations and they also lost about 100 contractual
programmers within the last three years. Member Bedore stated that goes back to the point that
they have lost 100 employees – HFS could move in 100 people and eliminate the lease on 5th
Street. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that they will look at the lease on 5th Street between now and
the next PPB meeting. They should be able to determine whether or not that lease could be
terminated and consolidated at this location or other locations in Springfield. Member Bedore
wanted to get some answers on why they are asking the owners to put in wash sinks, grease traps
and other things for a cafeteria. Do you believe a paid cafeteria in a State building will make it
when it did not work at other State buildings? Why are you asking the owner to make these
improvements for a cafeteria instead of reducing the rate? Ms. Green replied that one of the
reasons HFS asked for that is because there was a cafeteria there before at no cost to the State,
but that kitchen moved out and couldn’t pass Dept of Public Health’s criteria in order open one
out there until the sinks and grease traps were installed. It was going to cost $1,700 to get them
installed and that is why they are trying to get the owner to install them at no cost to the State.
Member Bedore asked if she believe it will work. Ms. Green replied that the one in the past did
work and many employees have requested to get the cafeteria back. Member Bedore made a
motion to postpone this lease until the next Board meeting or until they get answer on what CMS
is going to do about moving in additional people and terminating other leases. It was seconded
by Member Bass. It was unanimously approved.
Next was the Official Review of DCFS lease #5516 at 467 East Main St. in Galesburg. In
attendance for DCFS was Cindy Mills. This is a 7,600 sq. ft. lease. CMS reviewed this lease due
to the issues with the landlord who was threatening to evict DCFS from this location. CMS renegotiated the lease and negotiated a 90 day termination option at anytime during the lease. CMS
does intend to bid this lease out within the next 6-8 months in the attempt to find a new location
for this lease. However, there was a need to renew the lease in order to pursue other options in
the meantime. Member Bedore made a comment that in the past Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that
CMS wanted to go to full service leases. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied the goal it has is to enter into
as many full service leases as possible, however, that is not going to be possible in every case
and was not possible in this case. Member Bedore stated that this lease was a full service lease
and now the new one is not. Member Bedore stated that if that is the case then the 8% increase is
the rate is false. The actual increase is at 22.3% because the State is now paying for the utilities
that were included in the past and is not an 8% increase that was just stated, but a 22% increase.
It is contrary to what you are trying to do. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that first, he stated that it
was 8.75% increase on base rent plus utilities and there was no attempt to mislead the Board.
Second, this was the deal the lessor demanded to do the lease and CMS felt they needed to enter
into the lease to prevent eviction. Lastly, the five year lease is a part of that and CMS could not
m:091008

4

 enter into a short term agreement. However the 90 day termination option at anytime during the
lease gives CMS the flexibility to terminate in the future. Member Morales wanted to point out
that the landlord is telling the State what to do. When did it get to the point where terms are
being dictated to us? Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that there are times and there are lessors that are
fed up with the situation they are in. There is more to this with this lessor than just the situation.
Also the new base rent rate is clearly below the current market data for the area at $16.43.
Although there is an increase before taking on the utilities and look at the total direct cost which
is estimated at $14.97 is clearly below that as well. Member Morales stated that the total annual
cost is $20,000 a year more. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively. Member Morales asked
who was paying for the improvements. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied the lessor.
Chairman Vaught said that in the white paper CMS stated a vacant space analysis is completed to
ascertain consolidation possibilities of this facility and other State owned or leased property in
the city of Galesburg would reveal no viable consolidation opportunities. Chairman Vaught
stated that in Ottawa a consolidation was done with three or four different agencies and does not
understand the process that doesn’t find any agency consolidation potential in Galesburg, but in
Ottawa; the same type of community; it could be done. Chairman Vaught asked what the process
is and asked Mr. Kanellopoulos to tell the Board a little more about it and why in this case it has
not found those opportunities. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied the due diligence analysis looks at
current space either State owned or leased that are currently occupied to see if there is vacant
space available that the facility could be consolidated into versus renewing leases or doing a new
lease. What happened in Ottawa was there were four offices, three agencies DHS, HFS, and two
DCFS offices and working with these agencies is a long process. When bidding it out CMS was
not able to come up with a viable building, but in one of the current buildings was able to do a
build out to accommodate the other agencies. So, that is the difference between the due diligence
and Ottawa. However, what CMS plans to do here is to try to put out a bid that will include
multiple agencies. Member Morales asked DCFS if this office is needed to service this area and
there is no other choice. Ms. Mills replied yes that it is a high volume area and DCFS does need
this and does have accreditation standards for the department that need to be maintained for
federal dollars to come in. Member Morales asked if the lease was approved for renewal and
later bid out what happens to the servicing requirements. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that it would
be bid out in that service area. Ms. Mills stated that DCFS would be in agreement to another
location close to that area, if DCFS has a couple offices that are being looked at to close
potentially between 30-50 miles within that area. In other words, DCFS would be in agreement
to another city close to Galesburg. Member Bedore wanted to go back to Mr. Kanellopoulos’
previous statement that it is a good rate going from $12 to almost $15 and that the BOMA rate at
$16. He stated that if you go to any of those towns out that way and he would bet that there will
be 100 leases under $12. There is no way in Galesburg you are going to pay $25 a square foot.
Don’t say it is a good rate because of what BOMA says. It is not a good rate because it is a 22%
increase. Member Morales wanted to point out that the increase was for the next five years and
would not go up during the term. And would not be there more than five years because it is going
to be bid out. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively to both. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that
CMS will bid it out in hopes it will lead to a new lease which could consolidate multiple offices
into one lease at one location. No further questions were asked.
Next was DHS lease #2363 at 3910 W. Ogden Ave. in Chicago. In attendance was Henry
Johnson with DHS. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this lease was a 27,345 sq. ft. office that
houses 64 employees. CMS was able to reduce the square footage from the previous lease by
3,804 sq. ft., which is still 427 sq. ft per employee. The rent rate here is $14.14 and is a 23%
increase for the 1st year, but there has been no rent increase since June 2000. Mr. Kanellopoulos
m:091008

5

 believes that this rate is fair and will have Mr. Johnson explain the programmatic use of the
office. Mr. Johnson stated that one of the things DHS is still negotiating with CMS is sq. ft. per
person based upon their standard. You will find that DHS leases will generally have a higher
square footage than the normal lease. The primary reason for that is their filing system, which
requires DHS to have five five-drawer files in to the hundreds at the local offices. Because of the
population shifts requirement DHS is running out of space in the office only because they need
file storage. CMS is working with DHS to address that and moving into high-density file storage
and will see in the future it being addressed through that. Mr. Johnson stated that another issue is
the volume of the clients coming through the offices. Normally from 8:00 a.m. to about 2:00
p.m. DHS has a large number of people and cannot create enough waiting area to keep people
from having to line up outside. These are the two reasons their square footage are higher per staff
and will always look overstated in comparison to other leases. Mr. Kanellopoulos asked the
Board to come and visit any of the locations in Chicago at 8:30 a.m. any day of the week to see
the program and how it works. Chicago has a higher volume than others in the State. No further
questions were asked. Member Morales made a motion to accept the lease as presented and was
seconded by Member Bass. It was unanimously approved.
Next was DHS lease #4424 at 1308 W. 105th Street in Chicago. This is an 18,759 sq. ft. office. It
is not a normal DHS office and has 586 sq. ft. per employee. This facility has services that other
offices do not provide. It has open study areas, computer labs, a daycare center and this office is
fully utilized. There is a 3% increase in the first year based on the $11.54 with a total direct cost
of $15.52. Mr. Kanellopoulos believes that this is a good lease and asked the Board for their
approval. Member Bedore stated that it looks to be a good lease, but wanted to know what the
lessor pays for. The State pays for gas, electric, water, lamps, janitorial, garbage pest control, air
freshening, alarms and real estate escalator. Member Bedore is having a hard time understanding
when there is a lease and the State pays rent aren’t you suppose to get more than just a bare
building. Isn’t the lessor supposed to take care of pest control and waste removal and everything
else? Member Bedore stated that he is having a hard time the with non full service leases. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that the goal with CMS is to try to get as many full service leases as they
can, but will not be possible on some as it was with this one. He stated this is a good lease for the
State and asked that it be approved. A motion to approve this lease was made by Member
Morales and seconded by Member Bass. By a vote of 3-1 the lease was approved. Member
Bedore stated he would vote against this lease.
Next was DES lease #2646 at 4931 W. Diversey in Chicago. In attendance was Rey Carmody
with DES. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this is a 12,250 sq. ft. facility. When this lease was
submitted to the Board CMS counted 19 employees at the facility, but there have been additional
employees added to the facility through stimulus money and the unemployment increased in the
Chicago area. With the addition of 30 more employees it will bring the sq. ft. per employee to
416. This is a very busy office and there has been a 39% increase in claims. The lease rate is
$11.41. This is a 58% increase over the previous rate, however, there has not been a rent increase
since 2000 and $11.41 sq. ft. in Chicago for that area is still very low. The total direct cost of
$13.76 is also very low. Mr. Kanellopoulos asked that Mr. Carmody explain the increase in staff
at the facility. Mr. Carmody stated that Mr. Kanellopoulos explained it well. He also stated that
the amount of traffic has increased significantly within the last year and this office is no
exception. The difference between the white paper and their current staff is that it has gone up
from 19 to 26 and will be hiring 4 additional staff for this office before January 1, 2010 with
stimulus money. Mr. Carmody also wanted to add that DES will also be expanding in many of
their metro Chicago office a resource area. Computers will be set up for people out of work or
laid off can come into the office use the computers to match their skills with employment within
m:091008

6

 the State. The Diversey office will be doing some expansion for that in the waiting area. Mr.
Kanellopoulos asked if there were no questions that the Board approves this lease. Member
Morales asked if the increase in staff will be permanent or temporary because of the stimulus
program. Mr. Carmody replied that in the near term they will be full time and would expect for
them to be on for at least a year. Member Bedore stated that a 58% increase is something the
Board needs to look at. The other is the square footage at 345 and now it is stated that there will
be additional people. This was not known when the lease was being drawn up in July and
August. There was no stimulus and you didn’t know you were going to get these people and now
all of a sudden the stimulus has worked its way down and you may be hiring some additional
people and will be able to fit them into this facility. When this lease was drawn up DES didn’t
know that for certain; that this would continue to have been way out of line. This goes to the
point about standards. There is no way you could have known that you were going to receive this
stimulus money in July when the lease was being worked up. This just goes into the pattern of
total distrust. Member Bedore reiterated that DES did not know they were going to get this
stimulus funds and yet you were going to continue with the lease. But now that they have this
money and can fit15 or 16 more people into this office. With the same square footage DES could
still put in more people. This is just like the Ashland building in Chicago when the Board was
complaining about the under use of a building and all of a sudden you found space in these
buildings for 100 and some people. Member Bedore stated that every time you go to these
buildings you can always put in another 25% more people and you just proved it. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that CMS did know that the claims at that office did increase by 40% and
did know that applications at that facility jumped 20% and did know that on a normal day about
425 people walk through the door. So this office is being fully utilized and they need more
people to handle more cases at this point in time and this facility can handle it. Member Bedore
stated that the number of employees can be doubled without increasing the square footage. No
further questions were asked. Member Bedore made a motion to accept the lease and was
seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next was DOC lease #4355 at 1301 Concordia Court in Springfield. In attendance from DOC
was Carol Chrans. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this is a 224,694 sq. ft facility. There are 332
employees that work there. This is space that has office, dorms, dining areas, gymnasium
auditorium, which is used for training DOC staff. DOC has been there since 1979. It would be
very difficult to duplicate this type of facility elsewhere. The proposed rent rate is $14.35 a sq.
ft., which is a 6.1% increase in the first year and there has been no increase at the facility since
2005. The total estimated direct cost is $16.67. Unless any members have any questions Mr.
Kanellopoulos believes that this is a good lease and asked the Board for their approval. Chairman
Vaught asked if there were any other tenants at the facility. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied no. The
lease expired in 2006 and now CMS is doing a new lease in 2009. Chairman Vaught asked if this
is a headquarter office in Springfield why is there no purchase option in the lease? Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that this lease is being entered into a provision which is technically an
extension of the old lease. Chairman Vaught stated that there is no extension to extend the old
lease. Chairman Vaught asked if CMS has the Attorney General’s opinion that a purchase option
is not required in this lease. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that no, but the Procurement Code states
that a purchase option is required on initial leases of 100% of the facility.
Chairman Vaught requested the Board’s legal counsel give them a legal opinion on this.
Chairman Vaught stated that he does not support this lease because it is not justified not to have
a purchase option for this type of lease. Member Bedore stated that this is a $17 million lease and
the largest to come before the Board. This lease needs to be looked at very closely. There is a 6%
increase in the base rate. This facility is an old Concordia Seminary, which is a school campus.
m:091008

7

 Member Bedore said he had a few questions to ask. One - there are 21 buildings that the State is
paying rent on. There is a quad, church, gym, power plant, garages plus other building and
homes. Why the janitorial increased from $782,000 to $1.5 million, which is a 90% increase.
Two - is why the office space is being increased by 7,000 sq. ft. There has been no increase in
employees. Why was this third floor needed? If the space in not needed the owner does not need
to install an elevator to get people to the third floor. Member Bedore stated that everything he
has read over the last several months is that DOC is being reduced. So, why is 7,000 sq. ft. more
of clerical space needed? If the need to go to the third floor could be eliminated then the amount
for the elevator could eliminated and that could be used to reduce the rent. Three - why doesn’t
CMS consider using the old District 9 State Police building? Another idea is there are some new
prisons that are not being used. What better place to train new correctional officers, but at a
correctional facility? Four - the white paper states that 119,000 sq. ft. are for office space. That
leaves 105,000 sq. ft. for power plant, garages and other buildings. That is 105,000 sq. ft. that is
not office. If there is 105,000 sq. ft. so why are we paying $14.35 for a garage and power plant?
This Board a few years back had the same situations with the State Fire Marshal’s office on
Stevenson. When it came to the Board from CMS they had $14 sq. ft. for the facility. Member
Bedore just happened to know the facility and about 30% of that facility was a garage. Once it
was brought to everyone’s attention the State now pays $14 for the office and pay $7 for the
garage. Member Bedore wants to know why the State is paying $14.35 for the entire facility. It is
incomprehensible how the State would be paying the rate of an office facility that you would pay
for downtown Springfield or Chicago. Why is the same rate being paid on a garage to store
trucks as we are for the office space? Five - how many maintenance people are employed at this
facility? Is the State paying an operating engineer to run the power plant? Does it meet EPA
standards? It is hard to comprehend how anyone from CMS could bring this lease forward with
21 building when correctional officers are being laid off in financial straits. There are so many
questions on the lease and he proposes that this lease be postponed until the Board gets these
questions answered.
Member Morales is supporting the postponement of this lease. Member Morales did have two
comments on the renewal terms. When the lease was executed it was for a term of five years and
did not include a renewal term option. Member Morales would like the Board’s legal counsel to
explain what the difference between no renewal option and extension’s if it was included in the
original lease and also to hear more detail that talks about maintaining an escrow account from
which $50,000 per year can be spent for repairs or improvements. Under the new proposed lease,
the account has been increased to $625,000. Member Morales wanted to know if that is normal
to be out there to be used at their discretion or whatever that might be. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated
that CMS is going to withdraw this lease and will bring it up at a future meeting and will be able
to respond to the concerns brought up by the Board. Member Bedore withdrew his motion for
postponement. No more comments were made.
Next was DPH lease #5479 at 500 E. Monroe in Springfield. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that Gary
Robinson was there to represent DPH. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this is a 29,088 office lease.
This is a five year lease that is meant to replace a 90-day lease that is currently in affect. The
proposed rate is $13.50. The total cost is estimated at $13.86 and CMS feels that this is a really
good rate. There are 101 employees, which comes to 288 sq. ft. per employee. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that he or Mr. Robinson would be happy to answer any questions. Member
Bedore asked if the Jefferson location was in receivership. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied
affirmatively. Member Bedore doesn’t know why CMS would want to approve a lease that the
State can’t get out of for three years without knowing the overall plan for Public Health. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that if DPH was to move from Jefferson, that facility is a total 120,000 or
m:091008

8

 130,000 sq. ft and add 29,000. To look at one facility to put everyone together would not be
possible to move DPH into one facility that could potentially be 150,000 to 160,000 sq. ft. of
space. The purpose of this lease and the 3 years firm is that CMS was able to obtain the $13.50
rate for five years and believes that is a good rate and suits DPH needs. Member Bedore stated
that he wasn’t suggesting that DPH be moved into one facility, but maybe into a complex of two
or three buildings. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that CMS never said they didn’t have a plan, but is
not able to discuss in public what is going on with that lease at this time. Chairman Vaught asked
to hear DPH’s perspective on their plans. Mr. Robinson stated that he has been with DPH for 31
years. He replied that he is not involved in the lease negotiations, but his personal opinion,
despite some of the improvements necessary at that location, he believes the advantage of that
building to Public Health is that it is their main campus and has 80% of their employees at that
facility. It is two buildings side-by-side and DPH occupies all but 1 ½ floors of that facility. They
have been there a long time and there has been a lot of investment in the space like cabling, fiber
optics and satellite on top of one of the buildings. Although it is not the best building in the
world he would like to see a negotiated lease for that building. Mr. Robinson said he cannot
predict what is going to happen in three years, but he believes that this is a good lease. A motion
to approve this lease was made by Member Bass and was seconded by Member Morales. By a
vote of 3-1 the lease was approved. Member Bedore stated he would vote against this lease.
Member Bedore asked the Chairman that the Board not approve any more leases until the Board
sees the standards so they have something to go on. Chairman Vaught stated that Member
Bedore raised a number of good points, but the lease process must keep going to get the holdover
number down before June 30, 2010 deadline. Chairman Vaught stated that the Board can’t stop
the leasing process, but they can reject any leases that are not in the State’s best interest. No
further comments were made.
Next on the agenda was Legislation. Director Matt Brown stated that at this point the legislation
tab is continually open on the agenda because of the amendatory veto of SB51. There has been
no indication at this time what the General Assembly plans on that particular amendatory veto.
The General Assembly will take up the subject next week and maybe at that time he might have
some indication of where the General Assembly intends to go and whatever message is sent if
any he would be happy to deliver to the Board.
The next Board meeting is set for November 5th at 11:30 a.m. in Springfield.
With no other business to discuss Member Bedore made a motion to adjourn at 2:00 p.m. and
was seconded by Member Morales. The motion was unanimously approved.

m:091008

9

 