PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory

Minutes – September 13, 2011 Meeting
Present in Chicago:

David Vaught
Rick Morales
Larry Ivory

Present in Springfield:

Ed Bedore
Mike Bass

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:07 a.m.
First on the agenda was the approval of the minutes from July 29, 2011. Member Bedore made a
motion to accept the minutes as presented and was seconded by Member Morales. The motion
was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was Rules Review on IDOT Title 44, Part 6. In attendance was CPO Bill
Grunloh. Mr. Grunloh stated that the rules are listed on the JCAR no objection list with very
little public comment. Mr. Grunloh stated that he would be happy to answer any questions that
the Board might have. Chairman Vaught stated that in Section 6.20, which refers to things that it
does not apply to and among those items is the purchase of care and does not see under the
definitions as a defined term. Mr. Grunloh replied that IDOT does not do purchase of care
agreements and it was added in for a clean up to cover it all. Legal counsel for IDOT, Ellen
Schanzel-Haskins stated that the Procurement Code has the definition of purchase of care
contracts and did not include it in the rules, but would be happy to do so if needed. Todd Turner,
legal counsel for the Board, stated that the purchase of care is defined in Section 1-15.65 and that
purchase of care is one of the items that is excluded and not subject to the Procurement Code.
Member Morales asked Director Carter if the changes the Board suggested had been made.
Director Carter replied affirmatively. Member Ivory stated that he had a question on Section
6.600 and if there should be more information to the Procurement Policy Board in reference to
any suspensions so that we may weigh in and have it on record. Mr. Grunloh replied that one of
the questions from JCAR was the process written into their rules and how much due process do
they give and why do they give so much due process. Basically in all of IDOT’s suspensions and
debarments and throughout the years that IDOT is a legacy of provision and over the years
working with the industry that IDOT has more due process than any other agency. Mr. Grunloh
stated that he has not reviewed any other agencies, but JCAR commented to IDOT why they
have so much due process in protests, debarment, etc. Member Ivory asked if Mr. Grunloh could
explain what the CPO’s discursion is in terms of suspension, debarment, etc. Mr. Grunloh replied
that the suspension process in a nutshell is that you would be suspended, but then you have the
option for a hearing. There is a protest officer who handles these hearings and they are in a trial
like setting. When the hearing officer prepares his recommendation on all of the information that
m:110913
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 was given to him he then gives that information to the Chief Procurement Officer and, with the
result of SB51, the decision would be left solely to the CPO.
Legal counsel for IDOT Ellen Schanzel-Haskins stated that the processes that are in place
provide an opportunity for any contractor who is engaged in some sort of criminal violation or
integrity violation or procurement process itself to be given full due process rights. As a former
federal prosecutor she stated that their due process rules are very extensive. At the present time
IDOT has about 32 trucking companies on suspension because of being involved in criminal
violation of fronting in the Chicago area. There are several other contractors who are on
suspension for various other reasons, but in all cases they move swiftly and provide due process
in a full hearing on merits. Mr. Grunloh stated that it starts on subpart (i) section 4 6.480 and
there is about 10 to 11 pages with the full process laid out.
Member Bass wanted to know that the changes in that section of the rules are a revisory change
for SB51 and anything that became apparent in procurement reform. Is that fair? Mr. Grunloh
replied that Member Bass is correct and that 99.9% of the changes that are seen in this document
are a result of SB51. There are a few clean-up items, but most are changes resulting from SB51.
Member Bass asked about the term 5-10. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins replied that it is a little
problematic because IDOT always had a five year suspension, but there is a provision in the
statute that allows 10 years so IDOT has moved it to 10 years. Member Bass asked if there is a
process for the CPO’s office to report those types of things to the PPB’s office. Ms. Schanzel
Haskins replied that after the hearing is done and the decision has been rendered then it is
reportable to the PPB. It was always their intention to do that, but have not got that done as of
yet. Mr. Grunloh stated that they could do a notice to the Bulletin when these situations come up.
Mr. Grunloh stated that when a decision like this has been made he has no problem with posting
it to the IDOT Bulletin and making it available to the PPB. With no further questions or
comments a motion to approve the rules was made by Member Bass and was seconded by
Member Morales. With a 4-0 vote the motion was approved with Member Bedore abstaining.
Next on the agenda was CMS Facilities Update and ISP Headquarters/Franklin Life Building. In
attendance was CMS Deputy Director of Property Management, Nick Kanellopoulos. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that as of today and since the Governor took office CMS has consolidated
121 leases. The total cost of those leases at the time they were terminated were about $18.5
million and there were 1.13 million square feet of space. All of those leases were moved into
existing owned or leased space. Also during that time CMS has re-bid and re-negotiated 201
leases. The difference between the total cost of the old leases and the new is about $15.7 million
and on average the new lease produced an 18% reduction in total costs. Also, the 201 new leases
have 533,000 less space being leased with a reduction of about 11.8% of leased space. Also,
when you add in security reductions in these transactions the annual total cost reduction is about
$37,338,000 and the total reduction in square footage is about 1.66 million.
Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that a question was raised at the last meeting about energy savings and
what has been done at other leased facilities. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that at the last meeting he
spoke of a rebate program offered by DCEO. There have been six locations where landlords have
taken advantage of that program to retro fit their buildings with more energy efficient lighting,
exit signs, etc. There are a lot of locations where the State pays the electrical bill so the State is
the direct beneficiary of these projects being done. Also, it has been asked if the State is
deploying motion sensors in State facilities to achieve energy savings. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated
that at a regional office in Marion, IL part of the building was re-done several years back and
120 sensors where installed. In other State owned buildings, like the Bilandic Building all of the
m:110913

2

 bathrooms have motion sensors and you will find that in a few other facilities around the State as
well. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he will continue to give the Board updates of their progress
moving forward. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he wanted to give the Board an update on the
State’s energy cost reduction since the Governor took office. In FY09 the usages were 546
million kilowatt hours. Since that time due to reduction and usage and reduction in square
footage there has been an accumulative cost reduction of about $8 million since FY09. In the
area of natural gas CMS believes the same type of results has been achieved and an accumulative
cost reduction of about $6 million. Another update Mr. Kanellopoulos wanted to tell the Board
about was CMS efforts on the amount of Green Power purchased by the State. In January 2009
the State was purchasing 24.5 million kilowatt hours of green power for the statewide electricity
contract. Since that time CMS has taken two major steps. One is with CWLP – CMS entered into
an agreement whereby 100% of the power provided the CMS managed facilities by leased and
owned are certified wind energy power. Also, in May 2010 CMS increased the purchase of
certified green power from ComEd and Ameren service areas from 5% of the total to 25% of the
total usage and 5% of the usage is certified Illinois green power. The overall effect as we go on
from 24.5 million kilowatt hours of green power purchased before the Governor took office to
176 million kilowatt hours of green power purchased in FY11. What this means that among
States that participated in the USEPA Green Power Partnership Illinois received an award for
being #2 on that list for the amount of green power purchased.
Member Bass asked if there was a cost differential if they would have bought regular power
through CWLP and you are getting certified wind power is the rate per units the same? Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied no there is an increased cost to buying the wind generated power and that
is figured into the accumulative cost. Member Bass asked if he knew the relative spread on that.
Mr. Kanellopoulos replied he did not have that with him, but would provide it to the Board.
Member Bedore asked about a lease with a $20 per square foot rate, which is high because of
amortization of fixing up the classrooms. He also noticed that they spend $1.50 on electricity and
wanted to know with the renovation are they putting in motion sensors. This would be an ideal
time to install them. Member Bedore wanted the U of I to be aware of this program because it
looks like they didn’t apply it to this lease. Member Bedore also had question on lease 6393 with
a 20% increase from $15.30 to $18.30. Is there a reason for such a big increase? Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that this lease was competitively bid and only one offer was received from
the incumbent lessor. In this case there was only one bidder and no one else even seemed
interested in submitting a bid. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that there is some good news that they
were able to reduce the square footage from 5,457 to 3,500. The current total cost of this lease is
$109,000 and CMS was able to reduce that to $77,600. Although there was an increase in base
rent they were able to decrease the square footage.
Chairman Vaught asked why this lease hasn’t come to the Board for review. Chairman Vaught
asked if these leases had termination clauses in them. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied they did. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that the Paris lease is what caught CMS’s attention. CMS went to DHS and
the plan that they came up with is that DHS will give CMS the information for their office that is
currently located in Paris, Charleston, Sullivan and Tuscola. CMS is going to put out a bid to
consolidate those offices into one. CMS intends to locate an office Coles County that will service
the six counties that were previously serviced by separate offices.
Chairman Vaught wanted to know if the DHS lease in Carmine from two months ago had gone
out for bid yet. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied not yet – CMS is still waiting on some additional
information from DHS. Chairman Vaught stated that he just told our new Board member that
m:110913

3

 when the Board gets representation it is expected to be carried out and they generally have been.
Now you are telling the Board that this is wrong. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that it is going to be
carried out, but is just hasn’t been yet. Chairman Vaught wanted to know who is holding this up.
Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he will find out.
Member Bass commented that his frustration is that the Board has talked about DHS over the
years and potential consolidation and different plans. Don’t you have to put it on them to bring
something forward so that CMS can understand how this should be addressed? Member Bedore
made a request that DHS attend the next Board meeting and have them answer questions from
the Board.
Next Ken Sharkey updated the Board on the printer consolidation. Mr. Sharkey stated that CMS
started doing consolidation on printers, copiers, scanners and fax machines and replacing them
with multi-functional devices. To date CMS has eliminated 2,220 desk top printers, 332 fax
machines, 795 scanners and 371 copy machines. That comes to a total of 3,718 and the annual
projected savings from this program is $1,915,449. The primary contributing agency that
generated the majority of these savings is DHS. DHS has devised a comprehensive plan to
expedite this cost savings initiative. The execution of this plan has been pretty terrific. CMS has
recently held a couple of meetings with the Executive at DCFS and their combined efforts have
lead to the formation of a similar large scale plan for DCFS to achieve significant savings. CMS
hopes to report later this calendar year on the results of those cost savings efforts by DCFS. At
the beginning of this calendar year BCCS started tracking annual savings that were realized with
the reduction of the bureaus’ phone and data lines. This year-to-date savings has resulted in the
annualized cost savings within BCCS of $34,129. At the beginning of this fiscal year other
bureaus within CMS started looking at reducing their telecom expenses as well. To date CMS
has eliminated the following: 95 phone lines, 8 cell phones, 6 wireless air cards for laptops and 1
pager. The total savings of this project generated another $23,866 in tax payer savings. OMB has
identified 17 phone lines that have been eliminated and this cost savings is $4,488 per year. So
with the combined effort between CMS and OMB is $62,485 in cost savings and reduced
telecom lines. DHS is in the process of identifying telecom savings within their agency. CMS
has recently provided assistance to DCFS to identify potentially more savings at that agency.
Another program under review is each legislator’s have a toll free number, which is 177 numbers
that CMS is billed each month. CMS pays over $44,000 annually for this free number service.
Going back six month CMS found out that 110 of those lines had no activity. CMS would save
$31,000 per year if eliminated. Another 37 had fewer than 100 calls within the same six month
period. If those lines were reduced CMS could capture another $5,640 annual in savings. There
are about 20 legislators that use their numbers a bit more frequently and perhaps have them
transfer these toll free numbers to their individual supported offices. The House has given them
thumbs up to move forward and CMS is currently working with the Senate. No further questions
were asked.
Next on the agenda was State Police Headquarters. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that CMS has had
numerous meetings with ISP since the last PPB meeting. There is a plan in place, which is
considered phase one of the consolidation. The plan has two components; first the Gaming Board
is already in the AIG Building. Now that the video gaming has had their court issues cleared up
they will be hiring about 50 people. CMS has confirmed with the Governor’s office and OMB
that this is real. CMS has worked out a plan that will accommodate the new hires in the building.
Also, CMS plans to terminate a lease in Springfield that has a 136 headcount and cost the State
$804,000 a year. With these two moves CMS expected to have it happen very quickly and will
increase the headcount at the Franklin Life Building by 187 people. Once phase one is complete
m:110913

4

 CMS will sit down with ISP and Gaming Board and the other agency moving into the building
and work out phase two of the restack. CMS expected this to be done very quickly and
anticipates that this will be done by the end of this calendar year. Member Bedore wanted to
know what the cost would be to rent space somewhere else for the Gaming Board. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that it would be a lot more. He stated that the space CMS is identifying is
pure office space. They are going to reconfigure the cafeteria and make a shared conference
room and take out some conference rooms in other areas. To give you a better idea of the
difference is the lease CMS is looking to terminate is 40,132 square feet and believes the
building can accommodate all of the people and are looking at something between 16,000 and
18,000 square feet of space. These plans are not finalized yet and might need to be adjusted a
little. The space that is currently being used is not efficient and part of it is that CMS doesn’t
have to recreate all of the common areas because they are already there being used by the other
agencies. It is just not 51 people that will be housed at AIG, but to house them in a lease you
would have to provide everything else and the lease would be larger than the space they will
occupy here. Member Bedore asked for Mr. Kanellopoulos to confirm that CMS is saving
$814,000, but also saving the space for 51 employees that you would have had to go out and rent
space for. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied correct and that the figure that CMS is using as a goal is
that they have identified potentially 65,000 sq feet of office space at AIG that could be better
utilized. To go out on the market in Springfield today for that space the all-in cost would be
about $15-$16 a square foot. That would be about $1.7 million that would be eliminated by
utilizing this building better. Once CMS moves into the project they can estimate for the Board,
not just leases but what the value of that is. Member Bedore wanted to know if the Gaming
Board was moving into the area that they currently occupy. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied
affirmatively. Member Bedore wanted to know if the 136 people moving in would be moving
into the 7th Street building. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied no that they are moving into three of the
buildings. The original plan was to empty out most of the 7th Street building, but for the first
phase and working with ISP that the simplest way to do this and would require the least, if any,
build-out and could accommodate security concerns would be to empty out entire floors rather
than a building. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he believes that it is the 6th floor of three of the
buildings will be vacated and that is where the lease will be going to go. He stated that there
might be some more space on another floor. Again the plans have not been finalized, but CMS
and ISP determined that this would be the most efficient way to do this and also answer the
security issues. This still will be capturing the same amount of space, but it will be configured
differently than originally thought when CMS toured the building. Member Bedore stated that
the ultimate savings would be about 65,000 square feet. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that if
everything works out right CMS should be able to do the equivalent of about 110,000 of leased
space into 60,000 – 65,000 square feet of space at Franklin Life Building. Member Bedore
wanted to know when CMS anticipates phase two being complete. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied
that at this time he didn’t want to make an approximation because he would be guessing. Mr.
Steve McCurdy with CMS stated that there was an on-going elevator issue that might hold up
phase two. There are currently only one set of elevators that are working and are currently in the
process of getting the non-functioning elevators serviced, but it might interfere with the timing
on phase two completion. Member Bedore asked that this be a standing request that this update
will be on the agenda each month. Chairman Vaught replied affirmatively. No further questions
were asked.
Next on the agenda was the Illinana Expressway. In attendance was John Baczek with IDOT in
Schaumburg and legal counsel for IDOT Ellen Schanzel-Haskins. Mr. Baczek gave a brief
overview of the project. Mr. Baczek stated that both Illinois and Indiana are working in a
partnership to work on a study of the Illinana corridor. It is a corridor that covers a 950 square
m:110913

5

 mile area, which is bounded by I-80 on the north, I-55 on the west and I-65 to the east. It covers
a little bit of Kankakee County as well. The planning process, which will follow the requirement
of the National Environmental Policy or NEPA would be pursued in two tiers with tier one
currently underway. This includes an evaluation of transportation system needs as well as the
development and evaluation of multi-modal system alternatives and will result in a preferred
transportation system alternative and conceptual level of detail. The stakeholder outreach will be
the key element of the study and will be based on both IDOT and Indiana DOT’s context
sensitive solution (SCC) policies and procedures. This encourages frequent and meaningful
communication with all the stakeholders during every aspect of the project. They are currently
working on this environmental impact statement. It is anticipated to be completed for this tier
one portion of the project in spring of 2014. That will result in a record of decision. At that point
they would be able to go into tier two of the environmental impact statement, which would allow
them to go into more details. Tier one is the concept and defines the mode of transportation to
address as well as the location of that. Where tier two will go into the actual detailed engineering
like number of lanes, turn lanes, interchange location, etc,. Mr. Baczek stated that it was brought
up at the last Board meeting for more information on the consultants that are working for the
project on behalf of the Department. Mr. Baczek stated that Parsons Brinkerhoff is the prime
consultant for the team of consultants who they have under them. They have a team of 14 other
sub-consultants working for them. Of those sub-consultants five of them are disadvantaged
enterprises companies. Within the team of consultants they have got whole areas of issues
covered from traffic and transportation modeling issues to public-private partnership expertise.
Mr. Baczek stated that an organizational chart of the staff that is working on this is being
provided to the Board members. This is background information for the Board members so they
can see who all is involved in this project.
Ms. Schanzel-Haskins stated that she would provide a brief history of the project with reference
to the way it came about and to the legislation and the law itself. Chairman Vaught stated the
Board is interested in that because when reading the statute there are interim reports and then
when the thing gets finality the Board is supposed to make findings. Because this is a new
procurement technique and because of the role of COGFA and the Procurement Policy Board to
weighing in on it providing information as things progress to base their decision on instrumental
until waiting until the end.
Ms. Schanzel-Haskins stated that the way IDOT began with this is having meetings with Indiana
to discuss initially going from I-65 in Indiana to I-57 in Illinois. IDOT then later decided to go
all the way to I-55 to have the most economic growth and create the most jobs and help then
infrastructure, inter-modal, the rail and traffic. IDOT entered into meetings with Indiana and the
looked at Indiana’s legislation because they already had legislation on the books in order to do
public-private partnerships, but their legislation was very specific to two or three projects. IDOT
looked at their legislation and compared it to what they wanted to do, had meetings and then
prepared their legislation to not entirely track Indiana’s legislation, there are a few differences.
IDOT was able to get the bill passed through the legislature and does put forth a process that
involves the Procurement Policy Board and COGFA. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins stated that IDOT is
in the initial stages with a memorandum of understanding with Indiana, which was signed in
December 2010 after the Governors of both states signed the Illiana legislation in June 2010. The
memorandum of understanding provides for Illinois to pick up 75% of the cost and Indiana to
pick up 25% of the cost because of the mileage within each respective State of the environmental
assessment in the need for process. The tier one which Mr. Baczek was talking about is already
covered at this point and the engineer and the working group from Indiana and Illinois are
preparing the tier one environmental study. They will be doing that in each respective State, but
m:110913

6

 it will be one environmental impact study at the end and they are expecting a record of decision
on that. The tier one process requires a lot of public input and public meetings and assessment of
environmental issues. When you get to tier two, which is the actual design, the legislation will
kick in. IDOT and INDOT will proceed to do a procurement that will be a competitive request
for proposal. It is the same for both Indiana and Illinois law. The goal is come up jointly with
two potential entities that could finance and engage in the public private partnership (P3). Those
are then submitted to the Procurement Policy Board and to COGFA. At that point there are 30days, pursuant in the statute, for the PPB and COGFA to give their recommendations on whether
IDOT has appropriate people or whether it is in the best interest of the State, etc. Once input has
been received several public hearings are held as provided by law and then the final decision on
the two bidders to accept or to move forward with the project lies with the Governors from both
Illinois and Indiana. It is the Governor’s call with the advice and consent of OMB and Illinois
and the Indiana equivalent. When that occurs and there are good offers and it looks like a viable
project and can move forward then it is moved to the construction and financing phase. Illinois
law tracks Indiana law, although Illinois has a few more things than Indiana about how this will
take place. It has all of the precautions built into it to be sure IDOT has an independent audit that
will provide financial statements each year and a termination ability if needed that the property
that is acquired on behalf of the State of Illinois stays owned by the State, but it is then either
leased or whatever arrangement has been made with the P3 partner for the term of the P3 and at
the end of the P3 or on termination on the property is still in the State’s hands. Initially all the
procurement through this law goes through the procurement processes and the CPO’s office and
the PPB. The Board will be weighing in on various procurements, but when the Board’s part is
really crucial is when they have the two offers and are ready to award.
Mr. Grunloh stated that everything that will be done will be quality based selection or land
acquisition would be posted to the Bulletin just as they are now. The Board’s role would not be
any different; this would be all covered under the Procurement Code. Even the interim stuff still
has to go just like everything else is done at IDOT. Member Bedore asked if the Board will get
anything on the consultant that was hired. Mr. Grunloh replied that they were hired under a
quality based selection and was posted to the Bulletin prior to the award. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins
stated that the consultant IDOT currently has is just for the environmental portion of this phase.
Member Bedore stated, as he did before in the previous meeting, of what the Board’s role really
is. He is confused and doesn’t want it to come down to two potential offers and have IDOT say
here they are you have 30-days, pick one. Member Bedore stated that he does not work like that.
Chairman Vaught stated that he just read that the report shall equip the status of public-private
agreements or other contracting. Is that not the interim contracting for tier one or consulting or
anyone else? Roger Driskell w/IDOT replied that IDOT is not in a public-private partnership
arrangement at this time. Chairman Vaught stated that he has heard that from both him and Ms.
Schanzel-Haskins, but he will read it again “or other contracting in any on-going or completed
studies”. This is coming from Section 60A. That is after public-private agreement it said “or
other”. If the Board is going to be informed of this just like Member Bedore’s concern that at
some point the Board will be faced with a 30-day decision and it seems to him that the monthly
reports where suppose to prevent the sense of surprise. Chairman Vaught wanted to have some
clarification of what that means. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins replied that IDOT does prepare a
legislative report every month and thought it was being provided to the PPB. Chairman Vaught
replied that it is being provided, but it does not mention a contract to anybody for a tier one
environmental report. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins replied that it is a point well taken and must remedy
this to make sure that you are getting what you need. Mr. Baczek stated that he wanted
clarification of what the Board wants to make sure that it is in the meeting packet for the next
m:110913

7

 Board meeting. Chairman Vaught is interested about the preliminary contracts, which are clearly
not a part of the public-private partnership, the things that are done in advance of the final
financing. This seems to be one of the places where the potential surprise or lack of information
would be.
Ms. Schanzel-Haskins stated that IDOT will provide the Board with not only the generic report,
but will also give actual information about the environmental and how that is progressing and the
contracts involved in that. Also, the land acquisition as they move forward with that as well.
Member Bass asked if design build is allowable on the roadway construction. Ms. SchanzelHaskins replied that they do have a new law that does allow for that.
Member Ivory asked to know the break-down of the BEP participation in terms of category, in
terms of ethnicity across the board. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins replied that at IDOT when they talk
about the participation they are talking about Disadvantaged Business Enterprises that is a
combination of women owned business and minority owned businesses. Under the federal
regulation and IDOT is required to use those federal regulations in all of their contracts. IDOT
can provide and will provide the break down on this particular situation for the Board. No further
questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was EIU Renewable Energy Center Presentation. In attendance was Paul
McCann, Director of Business Services and Treasurer for Eastern Illinois University, along with
Monty Bennett, Director of Purchasing and Ryan Siegel, Director of Sustainability. Mr. McCann
stated that the project had its origins back in the early 2000 and EIU had a full plant that was
failing. The current coal boiler was installed in 1925 and has out-lived its usefulness. The current
location of the plant was at the far end of the south campus, but now it is in the middle of
campus. EIU has had significant system failures and deferred maintenance issues within the
project. There is about $16 million worth of deferred maintenance in the facility. Primarily it was
built as a coal plant and EIU has tried to add natural gas over the years. The insulation within the
boilers is falling off the walls along with many other things. Now EIU is looking towards a
renewable energy center. When they first started looking at this process EIU didn’t have a lot of
good things to be heard when they started talking about coal. EIU started looking at what their
alternatives where. EIU hired a consultant back in the 2005 – 2006 timeframe that recommended
the university look at wood as a potential fuel. Currently the plant sits a few feet south of Old
Main, which is the main administration building on campus. What is being proposed in the
project is that the facility would be moved out about a mile to the edge of the property along
Illinois Route 130. The community wanted EIU to make it look better and less like an industrial
site and more attractive. In the facility there will be four boilers, two natural gas boilers and two
bio-mass boilers. One of the bio-mass boilers will generate enough electricity to cover the
operations of the plant itself. The two bio-mass boilers are about 50,000 tons of steam and the
natural gas boilers are about 40,000 tons. Any one of the boilers can just about handle the load of
the campus. Where the issues are is on high peak days like the coldest days of the year and
maximum air-conditioning where they would have to run two boilers at the same time. EIU’s
desire is to do all of that with the bio-mass boilers. Right now the fuel specs are 2 ½ inch wood
chips. Their EPA authorization is for virgin material, which means they can take wood out of
forest, but can’t take used building materials. They also do have a requirement that it does have
to be less than 10% bark. The timeframe originally started back in 2009 and EIU has approval
for the 20 year payback. Ground breaking was done back in December 2009 and today EIU is in
the process of commissioning that plant and October 7, 2011 there will be a ribbon cutting
ceremony. EIU will save about 6 million kilowatt hours of electricity and 13 million gallons of
water and 50 million pounds of steam. What this will amount to in the way of campus usage will
m:110913

8

 be around 30-40%. From an environmental standpoint the emissions will be significantly less in
all of the main categories that the EPA looks at. As part of this overall program EIU does have
22 other energy conservation measures that are permitted in the University Energy Conservation
Act. Those additional projects then allow for the payback of this project within 20 years solely
from energy savings. In terms of cost, EIU is looking at about $55 million for the actual renewal
energy center and $25 million in other projects with a total cost of $80 million.
Member Bedore wanted to know what will be done with the old plant. Mr. McCann replied that
they are going to de-commission the old plant and turn it into a student service center. Member
Bass asked if EIU got special legislation in order to do the plant. Mr. McCann replied that they
did get a pilot legislation to do the plant. Member Bass asked if that took longer. Mr. McCann
replied yes it does. No further questions or comments were made.
Next on the agenda was Legislation. Director Carter stated that there was no new legislation
since the last Board meeting.
The next scheduled meeting for October of the Procurement Policy Board will be set pending
Board confirmation.
With no further business to discuss a motion to adjourn was made by Member Bedore and was
seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.

m:110913

9

 