PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Terrence Healy, Chairman
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Carmen Triche-Colvin

Minutes – September 24, 2008 Meeting
Room 9-036 at the James R. Thompson Center in Chicago
Connected via video to
Room 115 at State Capital Building in Springfield
2:00 p.m.
Present in Chicago:

Terry Healy
Carmen Triche-Colvin

Present in Springfield:

Ed Bedore

Present via Teleconference: Mike Bass
Rick Morales
The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 2:10 p.m.
Director Matt Brown conducted roll call and stated the requirement to have two members
participate by phone is to have at least three members in person or via video. A motion was made
to approve the telephonic attendance by Member Bedore and was seconded by Member TricheColvin. The motion was unanimously approved.
Approval of the minutes of the August 27, 2008 meeting was moved by Member Triche-Colvin
and seconded by Member Bedore. The minutes were unanimously approved.
First on the agenda was CMS with the Document Management agenda item – In attendance was
Acting Deputy Director of Procurement, Rick Hughes. Director Brown gave a brief summary
regarding the request from Member Bedore at last month’s meeting. Member Bedore requested
CMS to address the cost of document storage/document retention as it relates to leases. Director
Brown stated that part of the Procurement Policy Board staff mission over the last two years has
been collecting copies of transactions related to document management. Not only for warehouse
and paper, but for imaging as well (i.e. microfiche and digital imaging for computers). What the
PPB has come to believe is that this is a significant responsibility the State of Illinois which has
also a high cost associated with it. Multiple solicitations and procurements are used yielding a
variety of awards and storage solutions for the mass of these documents whether in digital or
paper form. The purpose of this agenda item was to get this conversation started with the
participants of each CPO office and will hopefully result in a coordinated effort to come up in
the short term with some document management solution for agency users and a long term
enterprise-wide solution the State might be able to employ to address this need.
Mr. Hughes stated that this discussion topic should generate ideas. He agreed that this is an issue
that needs to be addressed. Mr. Hughes said he would also like to hear what the Universities
think about this topic. Bob Baker, Chief Executive Officer, IPHEC was present and offered his
m:080924
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 thoughts. Mr. Baker stated that the State Universities are organized individually so each
university establishes separate policies for archiving documents for different lengths of time,
different processes for copying documents, storing them, and disposing of them. It would be
useful to talk about developing some commonality. The State Universities are looking at
developing an RFP and ultimately a contract for contract management software and consulting
services and might have a document management component to it which may be one in which
the universities could use to develop a common system. Chairman Healy stated that there should
be some uniformity between the Universities when possible. Mr. Baker replied that each
University establishes their own systems for document storage along with different time periods
for archiving and disposal of records. Member Bedore commented that this is a good step
towards resolving this issue and with input from the various Universities, various departments,
the Board and CMS that some standards can be developed. The State of Illinois is a very large
corporation and he would sure hope that some standards could be developed rather than have
every department do their own thing.
Director Brown wanted to elaborate that the State Records Commission created rules effective
FY08 that recognize digital records, electronic micro-imaging and electronic storage media. The
commission establishes standards for quality and accountability in conversion of records to a
digital form and related disposal of the original records. The commission did not establish
guidelines in selecting service providers or formats that a provider could utilize or document
products or services. That is something that they are certainly a part of, but stopped short of
identifying products due to the magnitude of the project. Director Brown has been in contact
with that office and they are aware of the Board’s interest in this and would, at a minimum, be an
equal partner in this. Chairman Healy asked Mr. Hughes for the next meeting to give an
estimated date and a more detailed report of when he feels this might get started. No further
questions were asked.
Next was the Administrative Rule for Domestic Products – Director Brown stated that this is a
consideration of administrative rule change related to the Domestic Products Act. A year ago the
Domestic Products Act was amended to require pre-qualification lists to be established in
advance of procurements. These lists are designed to recognize a domestic product status for
vendors who would like to participate in the procurement. It has been a long time developing
these rules because the process for determining how that would work was challenging. The
suggestion at the time by CMS was to cross-reference other pre-qualification rules. In analyzing
that, the PPB has come to the conclusion that those pre-qualification rules do not support the
Domestic Products Act, but serve a different function. The suggestion Director Brown has made
is that CMS withdraw this rule and begin anew as this rule-making is about to hit its one-year
expiration, open the relevant sections and bring forward a new rule that addresses the subject in
its entirety. Chairman Healy asked if CMS would like to make a comment.
Ben Bagby, legal counsel for CMS, stated that they are at second notice right now on this
particular rule and not sure they agree with an opinion from JCAR that these rules are not
adequate to address the issue. On the other hand, CMS can also see JCAR’s point and also see
the Board’s position on this that the basic rule on pre-qualification is dated and is about 10 years
old. CMS can go back and look at that and in conjunction with the Domestic Products provision
alter pre-qualification to come up with a better rule that addresses all of these in a more
comprehensive fashion. CMS is not opposed to withdrawing the rule. A motion was made by
Member Bass and was seconded by Member Triche-Colvin to withdraw the rule. The motion
was unanimously approved.
m:080924

2

 Next on the agenda was lease #3016 – 300 W. Adams St., Chicago – In attendance for CMS was
Deputy Director of Property Management, Marcia Armstrong and James McDaniel and Ken
Murphy from IDOT. Ms. Armstrong gave a brief summary of the lease and terms. This lease is
60 months with 23,836 sq. ft. The beginning rate is $22.75 for a total rent value of $542,269.00.
The rate includes everything except for electricity and the security needs at that location.
Termination option for this lease is 180 days at any time by either party. The total direct cost of it
is $24.53. Member Bedore stated that they really need to look at the square footage per
employee, which to him is 434 sq. ft. per employee. That is outrageous. Member Bedore stated
that 37% of this lease is for lobby, conference rooms and file rooms. Over 1/3 of this lease is for
that type of activity. Member Bedore also had an issue with the rate. He stated that there are
other places in the Chicago area for less than $22.00 per sq. ft. Member Bedore stated opposition
to this lease because of the 434 sq. ft. per employee, over 1/3 is being used for lobby, conference
rooms file rooms and lunch rooms and the rate. Member Morales wanted CMS to expand the
rationalization on the square footage. Ms. Armstrong stated that the personnel space in this
building does equal about 15,000 sq. ft, which would be about 245 sq. ft per person and the
remaining space is lobby, library, mailroom, large file room and several conference rooms. A
recent site evaluation revealed no apparent vacant space and Ms. Armstrong asked that James
McDaniel explain more on that. Mr. McDaniel, the Acting Director and Chief of Business
Services at IDOT, stated that IDOT is open to looking at any other opportunity that might exist
as it relates to the space at this location. One of the things that CMS and IDOT have discussed
recently is the idea of minimizing the need for people who need to be in the loop area. Mr.
Murphy stated that the Director would be willing to take a look at staff and view their activities
and see if they are able to move to another location. Chairman Healy asked why the idea of
relocating was not considered and researched before the lease came to the Board. Mr. Murphy
agreed with Chairman Healy and stated that IDOT was always open to the idea, but did not feel
or know that it was a possibility as far as IDOT actually moving. Chairman Healy wanted to
know the percentage of space used for conference rooms. Mr. Murphy replied that there is a lot
of conference space because of the nature of the previous tenants who held public hearings in the
large conference room.
Ms. Armstrong stated that this location also housed the Criminal Justice Information Authority
and they had worked out an agreement with IDOT to share some conference space. Also to note
that there is a termination clause in this lease of 180 days. The intent was to move forward in the
short term to renew this lease and get it out of holdover. At this point CMS is working with
IDOT on a revised space request, which looks at the need for staff and the location to be
downtown, but also look to the legal staff to see if there is any co-habitation or other efficiencies
CMS can drive. Chairman Healy asked if there was still a need for an open meeting where you
would need the conference space. Mr. Murphy replied that they would not have the type of
public hearing that would require that much space. Member Triche-Colvin stated that she
understands why they want to get this lease out of holdover, but she also stated that this Board
has been here before and the space request and requirements that we are talking about are major
components of leasing. The whole situation of the large conference room, the large lobby areas
and the conversation about previous agencies sharing the space; in the process of taking or renegotiating this lease, it appears that none of that was taken into consideration. It only appears
that it is being taken into consideration when it comes before the Board and we start asking
questions about space requirements. Ms. Armstrong stated that this lease was at a much higher
rate initially and CMS was able to negotiate it down by $2.25 per sq. ft. and stated CMS is in a
difficult situation and they have a lot of grandfathered issues that they are working to improve
upon. However, CMS is also in a situation where they are at risk for eviction in the shorter term
and have had a lot of pressure to reduce holdover leases and not have them be longer than six
m:080924

3

 months in holdover. Chairman Healy asked over the past 10 years how many leases were
terminated after the termination opportunity was available. Ms. Armstrong replied that she didn’t
know how many have been terminated, but could find that information out and forward it on to
the Board. No further questions were asked by the Board. A motion was made by Member
Triche-Colvin to accept this lease, but no second was made. Chairman Healy asked if CMS
would like to pull this lease off until next month. Ms. Armstrong replied yes.
Next was DCFS lease #3861 at 8 E. Galena, Aurora, Illinois – Ms. Armstrong introduced Bill
Schmidt from DCFS to discuss any questions regarding the lease. From the last meeting there
was a photo of broken tiles in a restroom and since then, the photo have been updated. An
addendum was distributed today to confirm that CMS had gone back and looked at the site visit
information and since they did not include that there were improvements as a condition of the
lease CMS wanted the Board to know that improvement had been performed prior to the
negotiation of this lease. They included roof improvements, interior painting, miscellaneous
toilet repairs, updating tile in the restrooms, replacement of stained and damaged ceiling tiles and
in addition the HVAC has been balanced to help maintain even temperatures throughout the
facility. CMS’s understanding is that the staff at DCFS believes that the building is well
maintained and the lessor is very responsive and Mr. Schmidt can elaborate on that if necessary.
A motion for approval of lease #3861 was made by Member Triche-Colvin and was seconded by
Member Bedore. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next was DHS lease #3395 at 610 W. Root St., Chicago, Illinois – This lease was asked by CMS
to be put on the agenda as an emergency item. Ms. Armstrong stated that the last lease was
negotiated in 1996 and CMS wanted to avoid any potential eviction and wanted to show the
landlord that they are trying to work in good faith to re-negotiate this lease. CMS does realize
that this lease has vacant space of about 9,000 sq. ft. and are working to field verify and more
closely work with DHS on solutions for this building as well. As of right now, the budgeted
headcount is 99 and the square footage is 39,162. CMS has re-negotiated a three year term with
120-day notice at anytime after the 12th month. This rate has been at $9.75 since 1996 and while
the increase may look a bit large at 22.5% CMS has negotiated extensively with the landlord and
have gotten it down to $11.95. This would equate to less than 2% increase every year since 1996.
Chairman Healy wanted to know how much vacant space was there. Ms. Armstrong replied that
it is about 9,000 square feet. Chairman Healy wanted to know why they are going to be leasing
vacant space. Ms. Armstrong replied that CMS wanted to renew this in the short term and is
going to look at re-locating office staff and is working towards filling up the space and just
wanted to get it out of holdover. CMS believes this is a good rate over all and would like to hold
on to the space in lieu of reducing more expensive space somewhere else. Chairman Healy
wanted Ms. Armstrong to go over the 2% increase in holdover. Ms. Armstrong replied that the
request was to negotiate if it lapsed into holdover again a 2% increase for every year that the
lease was in holdover and CMS had negotiated a 2% increase as a holdover rate if it lapsed into
holdover.
Member Bedore stated that he would not approve this lease with this provision in it. He also
wanted add that the Board take a hard look at the year 2010, which is at $12.43 and compare it to
the last lease at $13.02 in Aurora. Member Bedore wanted to have the Board keep these rates in
mind for next months meeting when discussing the Harvey lease. Member Bedore stated he
knows the area well at 41st and Root St. because he lived at 32nd and Root St. The landlord is
only charging CMS $12.43 per sq. ft. and CMS did an outstanding job negotiating this rate down
and hoped they would do that for other leases.
m:080924

4

 Chairman Healy stated that he does not agree with this increase and the fact that they are leasing
vacant space. Ms. Armstrong wanted to clarify that the reference to vacant space is based on
their new head count space standards and is not vacant, but might have a 500 sq. ft. office and
they could put two people in that office. CMS has stricter standards, they are downsizing and
need to remix it overall and get more people into that space, which may require some build out
and additional cubicles. Ms. Armstrong stated that the space is not vacant, but needs to be better
utilized.
Director Brown made a comment that statutes specifically require under the subject of rent
without occupancy that, except when deemed by the Procurement Policy Board to be in the best
interest of the State, no State agency my incur rental obligations before occupying the space
rented. The concern is that a particular space is identified as vacant and there is no demonstration
that occupancy is occurring gives this Board pause to make sure that it is in fact fully utilized
space. It might not be utilized to its potential but is in fact utilized. Chairman Healy stated that
looking at this lease, he is not happy with the amount of square footage per person and he
understands that CMS is trying to work towards changing that and would go along with this lease
with the rate that is there, but not the 2% holdover escalator. Nick Kanellopoulos, legal counsel
for CMS, stated that the landlord for the property attended the meeting and heard the comments
and is willing to accept that rate of $12.43 in holdover and take out the 2% penalty for holdover.
Member Triche-Colvin wanted to make a motion as amended with the 2% penalty taken out for
lease #3395 and was seconded by Member Bedore. Member Bedore wanted an assurance from
CMS that other people are going to be moving into this building. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that
CMS would not be ready by next meeting, but in two months come back to the Board with a
solution. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was the Capital Development Board on a project request to construct
Transportation/Technical Center at SIUC – In attendance was Ron Wright, Construction
Administrator, Jim Underwood, Deputy Director of Construction and Marcie Garrett with the
Project Managers Office. Mr. Wright stated that they are bringing forth for the Board’s
consideration, a project delivery method not new to CDB, but new in the size of the project that
has been done. CDB has done projects similar to single prime but at the time they were called
“protected sub-contractors” like the IEMA Center here in Springfield. That was a specific act of
law. The second project was the four-phase Capitol Construction Project on the HVAC
mediation. Phase one has already been contracted in that manner. That being said, this public act
gives CDB the opportunity from the legislature and Governor to move over a three year period
$100 million a year for projects no less that $20 million in construction project value. These bids
go on the street, a single prime contractor must identify the four other major subdivisions of
work in the current 30-30 section of the Procurement Code. They must identify the price and the
name on the day of bid. CDB will double check that in writing with each of the four major subs;
traditionally that is general mechanical, electrical, ventilation and fire protection and cannot be
terminated without CDB’s written permission. The project in which CDB is asking the Board’s
permission on is the construction of a technology and education center for SIUC. This is one of
several projects CDB will bring before the Board over the next few years. The University has
given their support of this project delivery method. Three buildings will provide classrooms with
ample space for automobile training, mechanical for aircraft training, and a very popular
program for SIUC. The estimated total construction cost is $54.5 million. When they award, with
the Board’s permission, will be 24 months from the inception of the contract award. They will
meet all the MFBE goals as CDB does and will report annually to the legislature and Governor’s
Office and would be happy to answer any questions the Board might have. Chairman Healy
asked if this still falls under the State prevailing wage. Mr. Wright replied affirmatively. A
m:080924

5

 motion was made for approval by Member Bedore and was seconded by Member Triche-Colvin.
The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was the Six Month Holdover – Director Brown made a brief statement.
Director Brown stated in short, about two years ago the legislation was introduced to the General
Assembly that would limit expired leases issued by the State of Illinois to exist in a holdover
period for no longer than six months. That legislation was brought forward in various forms in
previous years and none of those bills passed. They were much larger pieces of legislation that
many considered ethics issues. The six month holdover provision was not part of the ethics
package passed by the General Assembly. The purpose for the agenda item today is to reconsider
the subject whether it should be moved forward as an item for the Board in the next General
Assembly. Member Bedore and Member Triche-Colvin expressed that the Board needs this piece
of legislation. Chairman Healy stated that he would like all Board Members present to put it to a
vote and believes that Member Bass has disconnected suggested this could be put on the agenda
for the next Board meeting.
Next on the agenda was the discussion of the next meeting. Chairman Healy wanted the staff at
the PPB to work with each of the Board members and get the next three meeting scheduled.
As no other items of business were to be considered, a motion was made to adjourn at 3:50 p.m.
by Member Bedore and was seconded by Member Morales. The motion was unanimously
approved.

m:080924

6

 