PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory

Minutes – October 13, 2011 Meeting
Present in Springfield:

David Vaught
Mike Bass
Ed Bedore
Larry Ivory

Present in Chicago

Rick Morales

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:07 a.m.
First on the agenda was the approval of the minutes from September 13, 2011. Member Bedore made a
motion to accept the minutes as presented and was seconded by Member Bass. The motion was
unanimously approved.
Member Bass stated that this meeting will mark his final meeting on the Procurement Policy Board. He
stated that it has been an enjoyable and educational time for him. He is thoroughly privileged to have
served in this role he has a great respect for what the Board does. More importantly he has grown to
understand and get close to the other members. This is truly an issue for him due to new duties he will be
taking at the University that will make remaining on the Board not possible. He stated that he will have to
change the role that he is humbled by the professionalism and the excellence that is not only on the Board
but in the agencies and the people that work in State government. Although there have been times when
the Board didn’t agree on things in the end they came to a conclusion that is best for the process and the
system and he takes a great deal of happiness in that. Member Bass told Chairman Vaught he appreciated
the privilege. Chairman Vaught thanked him and said that he will be sorely missed. Chairman Vaught
stated that Member Bass has been a long standing member of the Board and everyone knows that his
expertise and knowledge has been a great asset that he will be missed. Member Bedore stated that
Member Bass and Member Morales have been the longest serving members of this Board besides himself
and it has been a real privilege to serve with him and he will be sorely missed. Member Morales stated
that he would like to thank Member Bass for all of his service and advice that has been given. He also
appreciates what he has done for this Board and the State. Member Ivory stated that being the newest
member of the Board he is disappointed that he will not be able to collaborate and share ideas with
Member Bass, but hopes that they can meet in the future.
Chairman Vaught asked the Board if it would be alright to move item six up due to a conflict.
Item six from the agenda is Rules Review for IDOT. In attendance were CPO Bill Grunloh and Legal
Counsel Ellen Schanzel-Haskins. First up was 44 IL Adm. Code 6. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins stated that
recently the department was tasked by the legislature to study obstacles to prequalification and to report to
the legislature with reference to how IDOT could better cover the needs of small businesses,
disadvantaged business and women and minority owned businesses in terms of the prequalification
process. IDOT conducted a very thorough and thoughtful study of these issues. The first issue was to
increase the unaudited capacity of small business to be able to bid on contracts. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins
stated that over the years IDOT has increased the unaudited capacity level of prequalification to bid
several times. They were at $500,000 and thought it was a real obstacle. The study that was conducted
m:111013
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 came up with the same results. IDOT came up with a new rule with JCAR to increase the unaudited
capacity from $500,000 to $750,000. It was taken up by JCAR last week. It is in place and it is important
for the department to make a thorough study and be able to speak with some serious basis and what will
help and what will not, but it was also important for IDOT to get this in place because of a big letting
coming up and there are several projects on this November letting and it would be very important for
these small businesses and women and minority businesses to be able to compete. Member Bedore
wanted to know how many firms that this will affect. Mr. Mike Copp, Prequalification Engineer with
IDOT, replied that his section handles all the prequalifications and also the authorization to bid process.
Currently there are about 800 prequalifying firms with the department and he would say that there are
probably 250 – 300 that are prequalified in an unaudited status, which means they do not require them to
submit an audited financial statement by licensed CPA agent. They could fill out the forms themselves.
Currently the rules are if you did that you were limited to a bidding capacity to no more than $500,000
and this emergency rule has changed that to $750,000.
Member Bedore asked again how many firms will that affect. Mr. Copp replied about 200-300 firms.
Member Bedore wanted to know how this was an emergency when IDOT had over two years to put this
into effect. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins replied that they did not have two years to put this into effect. The law
that tasked IDOT with the study was effective as of July 1, 2010. IDOT then very aggressively put
together a big committee to study all kinds of issues surrounding prequalification and made a report to the
legislature and this was one of the matters that IDOT thought was important and was interested in doing it
as an emergency rule because of the November letting and didn’t want it to go by and have 200-300 firms
not eligible to bid on certain projects. Member Bedore asked if they were still eligible under $500,000.
Ms. Schanzel-Haskins replied affirmatively. Ms. Schanzel-Haskins stated that they are trying to address
obstacles to prequalification and to bidding. This was a great opportunity for IDOT to do this. Member
Bedore stated that he doesn’t have a problem with the concept, but with how long it takes to get things
done. Member Bedore stated that he is opposed to the emergency aspect of this. The goal is good, but he
doesn’t understand why it had to go to a large committee and take so long to get done and now has to be
done as an emergency. Member Morales stated that he does not disagree with his comments, but said that
you have to look at it a different way. What you said is true, it is government at its best that is what
government does. It slows things down and takes a long time. The concept here is to give these firms
more of an opportunity to do well and grow and will benefit them and we are all in agreement with that,
but he doesn’t think that the Board should slow it up even more. Member Morales does agree that the way
they are doing it is not correct, but let’s not be another obstacle. A motion for no objection was made by
Member Morales and was seconded by Member Ivory. With a vote of 4-1 and Member Bedore voting no
the motion was approved.
Next Rule was 4 IL Adm. Code 650. Mr. Grunloh stated that the main part of this rule is dealing with the
target market, but would like to point out in the beginning of it IDOT addresses a promise that was made
at the last Board meeting about advising and notifying the Procurement Policy Board when IDOT
suspends contractors. This is a result of PA 97-228 and effective this past summer July 28, 2011. IDOT
has been tasked to find ways to deal with discrimination that was discovered and determined by the
Department and with consultation with the CPO’s office and the Department they analyzed that
information and came up with several remedies that are allowed through this rule to deal with whatever
type of discrimination that may occur. He would be happy to answer any questions the Board might have.
With no other questions or comments Member Bedore made a motion to not object to the new rule and
was seconded by Member Morales. With a 5-0 vote the motion was approved.
Next on the agenda was CMS Facilities and State Police Headquarters/Franklin Life Building. In
attendance was CMS Deputy Director of Property Management, Nick Kanellopoulos. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that currently about 3 months into FY12 CMS has reduced its total cost for leasing
by $39.7 million annually. This is the cost they have eliminated from their portfolio since Governor
Quinn took office. CMS has eliminated 1.67 million of leased space around the State. There are three
transactions that Mr. Kanellopoulos would like to highlight for the Board that CMS has completed
recently. One is on Friday; CMS terminated the CMS Bureau of Benefits lease in Springfield. This is the
group that is going to be moving into the Franklin Life Building as stated from last month’s Board
m:111013

2

 meeting. That lease cost the State $804,740 in FY11. It is a 90-day termination so they will be moved in
on or before January 5, 2012. Next up for approval today, is the renewal of the other half of the DHS
building, which is Harris II. The total cost reduction there is almost $1.3 million annually. It was a 41.3%
reduction in total cost of the existing lease, plus two other leases will be moved into that facility. The
third transaction has been posted, but not published yet. CMS terminated two DHS leases in Chicago that
are located in the Wicker Park area and are moving them into much cheaper space in a DHS space in
Humbolt Park. The total cost reduction that the Board will see is $742,000 annually. This is a 50%
reduction in the total cost in the three combined leases. At last month’s meeting CMS discussed briefly a
DHS lease in Carmi and Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he mentioned CMS will take that lease and
combine it with another DHS office and consolidate. On September 14, 2011 CMS put together the specs
for that combined office and sent it do DHS for review. As soon as that has been reviewd it will be
published with that combined office and put out to bid. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated he would be happy to
answer any questions the Board might have.
Chairman Vaught asked about the two other leases in Paris and Watseka. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that
they are still gathering information and are still putting together the combined bid for those offices.
Member Bedore stated that those leases were from July 2011. Why are you still waiting for information
from DHS? Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that it is not just DHS, but CMS also gathers information about
each individual office. CMS staff goes to each office and sees exactly what the operations are and then
CMS has to combine those offices. CMS also has to queue them up because CMS has leases that are
getting ready to expire and need to get out to bid very quickly and some of the other leases, although
important to the Board, are put aside until the critical leases are dealt with. These will get handled as soon
as CMS can, but are not high priority. Chairman Vaught stated that it is not critical that there is 694
square feet per employee in one of the leases that was renewed, which has been on the agenda for about
four months. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he didn’t say that. Chairman Vaught stated that it is way
outside what the Board has ever talked about, 694 square feet per person. This keeps coming up and
nothing has been done about it. Chairman Vaught stated that Paris is 431 square feet per employee and
nothing has been done. Member Bedore stated that he would think this should be a priority. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that he understands the Board’s point. No other questions or comments were made.
Next was State Police Headquarters/Franklin Life Building. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that they have been
working with ISP and with CMS Bureau of Benefits to finalize phase one of the restack for the Franklin
Life Building. CMS is preparing for phase two of the restack and have targeted two groups to take a hard
look and see if they can put them into the building. First agency is the CMS Mail and Messenger Service
which is in leased space that costs the State about $120,000 a year. CMS is looking to see if that operation
will fit into part of the Franklin Life Building that cannot be used as pure office space, but would be good
for this type of operation. Also, CMS is working with the Attorney General’s office located in Montvale
Plaza that contains several of their operations. They have about 50 attorneys and some support staff
working there. One of the reasons they are looking is that they have out grown that space. CMS is going
to look to see if they can accommodate the AG needs and hope to have an update at next month’s PPB
meeting of their progress. Colonel Patrick Keen with ISP stated they have already begun moving
divisions/units and are in the process of moving some other units and have a target date of October 17,
2011. There are still two units that they are still in the process of trying to figure out where they are going
to be located. There is a plan, but they are trying to finalize that. Colonel Keen stated that they are on
track and will continue to move their people around to make space. Member Bass asked if the space
standards have been finalized yet. CPO Matt Brown stated that CMS is actually in the final stages of the
reformation of all of the administrative rules. In the Secretary of State’s transfer of those rules they did
not transfer to the Chief Procurement Office part 5000, which are titled and owned by CMS. Those are
the property management rules. The portions that relate to procurement in those rules have been
embodied in the EEC’s administrative rules to be filed with JCAR by the end of the month. Then the
remaining rules, which relate to facility operation, still reside with CMS in part 5000. The content for the
division of those rules is about 90% separated. There are about six sections of those rules that have
language that transcends both operations and procurement. Mr. Brown believes the division of those is
very clear, but it is going to require CMS to go in and redline a large portion of those title 5000 rules to
get them off their books. Member Bass asked who will own space standards. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied
m:111013

3

 CMS will still own space standards. They will replace a lot of rule making part 5000, which deals with
the actual procurement. CMS would immediately file their update to 5000 of which would update the
rules that will remain under CMS’s control and would repeal the ones in part one that would be under Mr.
Browns authority as CPO. Mr. Brown stated the final barrier that they would have to cross between the
two organizations is to establish what components of occupancy standards that deal with use of square
footage, type of occupancy and classification of real estate is how the embed a portion of that which is
institutionalized in rules to guide each subsequent solicitation. A lot of accomplishments have been made,
but not at the pace they intended to in waiting on the Secretary of State. Mr. Brown stated that the rules
they intend to file will be available by month’s end at JCAR and available to the Board.
Next was Ken Sharkey with Telecom Savings. Mr. Sharkey stated that last month CMS reported to the
Board savings in telecom operations of $34,129. Those estimated annual savings were achieved at OMB
and CMS. This month CMS would like to report additional telecom savings derived from other entities
which include the Legislature, Human Services, Revenue, Corrections and Transportation. The updated
estimated annual savings now stands at $138,468. The types of reductions include 291 fewer phone lines,
65 fewer cell phones, 31 fewer air cards for laptop computers, 2 data circuits and 30 miscellaneous
changes in services. Chairman Vaught wanted to know out of DHS, DOT and DOC who had the biggest
savings. Mr. Sharkey stated that the biggest dollar savings would be in the elimination of those 800 toll
free numbers for the legislature that CMS actually pays for, which was $49,000. Chairman Vaught asked
out of DHS, DOC and REV who would have the next greatest savings. Mr. Sharkey stated that it would
be DHS. Currently DHS has eliminated 17 cell phones, DOC has eliminated 18, REV has eliminated 14,
and DOT has eliminated 16. Currently with air cards for laptops DHS has eliminated 6, REV eliminated
12 and DOT eliminated 7. It is still early since the agencies have just started sending in returns within the
past 30-days. There will be more to report at next month’s meeting. Chairman Vaught just wanted to
know how the agencies were responding and thanked him for the update. Mr. Sharkey stated that the
agencies that will have the biggest hurdles are DHS and DCFS because of big cuts in their budgets. They
need to make some significant gains. Chairman Vaught asked that in the future CMS will be picking up
these other agencies. Mr. Sharkey replied affirmatively. In the area of print type devices CMS has now
reduced 2,326 personal desk top printers, 365 fax machines, 795 scanners, 425 copy machines and the
estimated annual savings is $3,567,967. In the month of October there are some significant reductions that
are under way at the Department of Tollway and also at Employment Security. CMS will have those
numbers to report next month.
Member Bedore wanted to know if the CPO is involved with any of this. Mr. Sharkey replied that the
EEC does sign off on all of the final cost of the network printers that get installed. CPO Matt Brown
stated that Mr. Sharkey’s statement is accurate in that regard and it is tedious at that level to try to review
each transitional document, but the CPO’s do review it for type and style of production based on the
utilization in each agency. For example, a pleasant surprise was that in the remote locations for DOC in
the facilities themselves the CPO’s have seen 70% reductions in equipment utilization. Another example
where they hoped to see more reduction, but was willing to provide relief once justified was an area for
DCFS which was less than 20%. Across the board savings are significant and the CPO’s work directly
with the evaluation team that goes to each facility, regardless of agency, and make sure that they are
prompted to bring back the biggest return they can. Chairman Vaught wanted to know if there have been
any collateral benefits starting to be achieved in places where they are very paper oriented. Mr. Brown
replied that this is basic office automation needs. It does not speak to workflow. It does however allow the
CPO’s access to see workflow initiatives in each agency. As they identify the volume of paper they are
handling and the machines that they are using to generate their work they are recognizing the types of
processes they use and suggesting workflow.
Member Bass stated that there is a statute that allows the use of digital signatures and yet it seems that we
can’t seem to get it done. Mr. Brown replied that there have been several entries over the years, some he
was familiar with when he worked with the Board. Mr. Brown stated that he has explored while working
as CPO to accept digital signature from vendors and at the point where they can originate a solicitation,
receive a response from the solicitation electronically is seamless for us, but often not possible for the
vendors that they are trying to encourage in bidding and as they sought to introduce digital applications
m:111013

4

 they have gone back and audited procurement submissions and questioned for whether or not vendors in a
varying degree of segments could participate and the information CMS continues to come up with is that
the vendor community as a whole could not embrace providing digital signatures. Mr. Brown stated that
CMS could internalize that and do our work from a digital side, but everything that CMS would be
evaluating would remain paper based in order to promote inclusion.
Mr. Sharkey stated that in the area of electronic recycling in the past 18 months, CMS has recycled
68,481 electronic devices. The State utilized two state use vendors to perform this electronic recycling.
This new arrangement has provided an annual savings of $2,697,422 when compared to the past
contractual cost associated with the previous vendor. The other area of recycling is the I-Cycle program.
This program was created by the Solid Waste Management Act of 1986. In the past the recycling efforts
reportedly occurred at more than 225 locations around the State. The State currently recycles paper,
cardboard, aluminum cans, and telephone directories, scrap metal and florescent light bulbs. CMS is
undertaking a review of the I-Cycle program to more fully capture the volume of potential recyclable
materials. Recently CMS has been focusing their efforts in the southern region of the State. CMS has
engaged five southern State use vendors to partner with the I-Cycle initiatives. These State use vendors
provide coverage to 13 counties in southern Illinois for the I-Cycle program. This new arrangement
provides recycling services to 40 facilities housing a wide spectrum of State agencies. CMS has a one
month report from the vendor. They have 3,478 pounds of paper and 50 pounds of cardboard. CMS is
also reviewing other areas of the State that might also be underserved by the recycling program and will
be establishing a monthly reporting system to track the actual results of the I-Cycle program and look
forward to sharing those numbers with the Board in future meetings.
Next on the agenda was the contract review for DHS Lease #4234 at 100 South Grand Ave. East in
Springfield. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this DHS lease is also known as Harris II. During the renewal
of the other half of the building known as Harris I CMS was able to get a great rate and was able to
reduce a lot of square footage. What use to cost the State about $3 million a year to lease would now cost
the State in the first year $961,000. When CMS did that they also took a look at the other half of that
building, which is Harris II. The Harris II lease wasn’t set to expire until October 2012, but it had a 365
day termination option. CMS decided that 365 days would be enough time to redo that lease. So it was
terminated. The landlord contacted CMS and was able to negotiate that CMS could redo the Harris II rate
for the same amount as Harris I. CMS also looked at consolidations they could do within that space. In
the Harris I lease CMS was able to reduce 112,000 square feet of space to 54,000 square feet of space by
applying their space standards. With Harris II they took all the square footage that the Harris II lease had,
which was 101,700 and tried to better lay it out. Should the Board approve this lease, in February 2012
CMS will move a lease that is currently located at 822 S. College and at the end of June 2012 they will
move another lease located at 806 S. College and move an additional 56 more employees into Harris II.
This will give them a square foot per employee of 250 overall. Chairman Vaught asked what the total
headcount was in this building for both leases. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied Harris I is 271 and Harris II is
350 and will be 406 when the two consolidations happen next year, so a total of 677 in the end. Chairman
Vaught asked if there had to be a 20% reduction in this building would there be excess space. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that yes that would happen anywhere. Chairman Vaught asked if there was a
termination clause. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that Harris II is firm for three years. Part of the reason is
because the landlord at his cost is doing renovations to be able to restack and bring in those additional 56
people. There will be new paint throughout, carpeting, electrical upgrades and also at the lessor’s expense
is building a few break rooms that currently don’t exist. When doing the Harris I lease CMS got rid of the
lunch room so the estimated cost of those improvements is $500,000 and the landlord is undertaking those
and requested that we agree to a three years firm based on that. Chairman Vaught asked about the Harris
I’s termination clause. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied Harris I can be terminated at any time with 120-days
notice.
Member Bedore had a few comments. He told CMS they did a great job on the rate and the building and
this owner is going to spend about a half a million in upgrades. Member Bedore was wondering if CMS
insisted that he put in motion sensors for the lights. Since all this work is going to be done this would be
the perfect time to have them installed. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that if the Board approves this lease
m:111013

5

 that CMS will make sure that motion sensors are installed as part of the electrical upgrades at the lessor
cost. Member Bedore wanted to know why there is a break room on every floor. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied that CMS normally looks at the number of employees to see what the appropriate size break
rooms would be. These are small break rooms on each floor versus large break rooms on every other
floor. When CMS redid Harris I there was a lunch room in that lease and it went away. These would be
replacing a larger lunch room that existed in Harris I and working with DHS they thought this was the
best route to take. Member Bedore wanted to know who pays for the equipment that goes in there, i.e.
refrigerator, microwaves, tables and chairs, etc. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that as far as appliances go
CMS does not provide it and does not believe there is a master contract for that. Member Bedore wanted
to know who pays for them. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he believes that CMS has paid for some in the
past. Member Bedore made a motion to approve this lease with the exception that the landlord foots the
bill for installing motion sensors throughout the leased area. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that the condition
will be implemented before the lease is signed. Member Ivory seconded the motion. With a vote of 5-0
the motion was approved.
Next is ISP/IGB Lease #6416 at 8151 West 183rd Street in Tinley Park. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this
is a lease that will house the Illinois Gaming Board. This lease was bid through an RFI and only one bid
was received by the incumbent lessor. CMS negotiated lease as a five year lease and is for the same
16,500 sq. ft. of space. The estimate for the first year’s total cost will be about 10% less than the current
lease. Mr. Kanellopoulos would be happy to answer any questions the Board might have. Member Bedore
wanted to know why CMS only went out in a five mile radius when this agency covers all of northern
Illinois excluding Cook County. Wouldn’t northern Illinois mean Lake County, Kane County and DuPage
County, not Will County. Member Bedore is just wondering why they would limit the area to a five mile
radius of the present building. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that there is nothing special about the present
building. It was built-to-suit for this agency and does service the needs. The boundaries within which it
was bid was a little over 37 square miles. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he agrees with Member Bedore
and CMS did work with the agency and those were the boundaries that were agreed to and put out to bid.
There was a lot of office space within the area that was bid and CMS only received one bid. Member
Ivory wanted to know the rationale for the 37 mile radius. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the boundaries
were given to CMS by ISP. The person who put this thing together is on vacation. When looking at the
file there was definitely correspondence between CMS and ISP on the boundaries and this is what was
agreed upon. Mr. Ivory stated that it is surprising that in this type of economy people are looking to fill
vacant spaces and everything else. When there is only one bidder you are not able to negotiate the best
price and in some cases it might be put back out again and look for additional marketing to see if there
could be some competition and drive the price down. Member Bedore commented that this was a buildto-suit facility and that the rate only came down two dollars. If the amortization payments were completed
in the previous lease, why wasn’t the rate lower? Steve McCurdy with CMS stated that he does agree with
the Board and if needed they will go back to ISP and re-negotiate the boundaries and send it back out to
bid and see if they can get more responsive bidders. Member Bedore made a motion to reject this lease
and was seconded by Member Morales. With a 5-0 vote the lease was rejected.
Next on the agenda was Department of Human Services Facility Plan. In attendance was Matt Grady,
Chief Operating Officer for DHS and also Matt Hammoudeh Assistant Secretary of Operation. Mr. Grady
stated that Secretary Saddler sender her apologies for not being present. Mr. Grady provided a handout
presentation to the Board. Mr. Grady stated that Secretary Saddler is committed and recognizes her
responsibilities to manage the DHS facilities responsibly and more efficiently. Mr. Grady stated that
significant progress has been made on consolidations. Since 2009 DHS has closed 33 facilities,
consolidating staff into other available staff and in other underutilized space. These closures resulted in a
reduction of 357,018 billable square feet and an annual savings $5,851,269 million. Of these savings
$3,887,532 million represents the base rent savings. In a concerted effort on the part of CMS insured that
any new leases entered into by DHS were as favorable to the State as possible. CMS also utilized the RFI
process to attract as many potential lessors as possible for each leased space. A review of DHS leased
space resulted in the re-negotiation of new leases with reduced square footage at a lower price. These
strategies resulted in an overall reduction of 276,711 square feet, which is a 13.83% reduction and an
annual savings of $6,821,857 million. DHS intends to continue its efforts to utilize resources as
m:111013

6

 efficiently as possible, identify and implement opportunities to close and consolidate facilities and save
the State dollars. Through the guidance of the Procurement Policy Board DHS has made significant
progress by working with CMS to eliminate holdover leases, following the policy guidance issued by the
PPB and reducing the numbers of equipment in their inventory and transitioning to multi-functional
devices. DHS is moving towards implementing the new space standards as set forth by the PPB and
providing quality service delivery to their customers while continuing to work with the PPB and other
stakeholders to gain further efficiencies for the State of Illinois. DHS has closed many offices, achieved
significant savings and are in the process of consolidating and closing additional offices. DHS executive
leadership team is exploring the future potential consolidations and closures. Mr. Grady stated that DHS
is committed to continuing their work with CMS and the PPB to be as efficient as possible in their
operation, while maintaining their goal of providing quality service delivery to their customers. DHS is
working towards this goal with all of their stakeholders and thanks the Procurement Policy Board for its
commitment to the State of Illinois. DHS recognizes that more could be done to gain further savings yet
their budget is providing an environment of very diminishing resources. Working with their stakeholders
DHS must focus on prioritizing their effort so the greatest savings and efficiencies may be realized.
Although DHS has limited resources they are prioritizing their focus on efficiencies not only in their
property procurement portfolio, but also in their human services delivery model. Mr. Grady stated that he
would be happy to answer any questions the Board might have.
Chairman Vaught stated that there are many good things in this report and the Board knows that and he
did talk with Secretary Saddler the night before in Chester and she did have a conflict although she
wanted to be here at the Board meeting. Chairman Vaught said that he does disagree with a lot of the tone
of the report and doesn’t think that you are there yet. For example: this report does not really
acknowledge Executive Order 10 in its intent. It still tries to view your facilities operation as separate and
apart from the consolidated effort mandated by Executive Order 10 and for the record DHS’s general
counsel is resisting. The IGA implementation in that area and this attitude of resistance at DHS has been
noted for a long time and it is reflected in this report. Chairman Vaught does not think this is appropriate.
He knows that DHS has saved a lot of money, but $6 million since 2009 is not good enough. CMS’s total
is $37 million since 2009. Your $6 million out of $37 million is only 16%. That is not keeping pace with
what is happening elsewhere. The numbers just don’t support the conclusion that you have done a great
job. They do support the conclusion that you have done a good job, but good can be the enemy of great.
He believes they have a long way to go. Chairman Vaught is particularly disappointed in the data that was
furnished. You furnished this year on active cases and FCRC in just the Chicago metropolitan area.
Where is the data on the rest of the State? It is incomplete. You provided a map on human capital
development, but you didn’t give the Board any case load information. There are offices all over the State
in excessive numbers. There were just three that just came up for renewal where the offices should have
been closed. Watseka, Carmi and Paris leases should have been terminated and gone, but instead CMS
has to go out and bid those leases and the landlords know that DHS has been slow in closing them so they
raise the rent 20% - 25% and that doesn’t help. So, when you are going slowly and the landlords are
taking advantage of us you are not getting anywhere. We still have a lot to talk about and the Board
appreciates the report. It has a lot of data, but he would like to see a statewide analysis in their
attachments on case loads. Particularly as it relates to this new capital development map and would like to
see general counsel stop dragging their feet on implementing the IGA on Executive Order 10 on facilities
management and he told those things to Secretary Saddler and will also say it again for the record and for
the Board to know that this is not adequate.
Mr. Grady stated that DHS appreciates the Board’s comments and he knows when Secretary Saddler
asked him to take this position she noted to him many of the things you just referenced and that was just
60 days ago. He sees that as her commitment to making these changes that you are talking about happen.
She has put on my shoulders and the shoulders of his staff that responsibility. DHS also did a reorganization or re-alignment of their staff. Facilities are now under a quite capable person, Melissa, and
have been working very closely together along with CMS and Mr. Kanellopoulos and his team to put a lot
of these things into motion and make them happen. Over the past 30 days he has been working closely
with Theresa Starling over at CMS talking about telecom and making some things happen there. DHS is
not taking the Board’s comments lightly and he does not know what happened a year or two ago when
m:111013

7

 you made reference Executive Order 10, which was done in 2010. The only thing that he could speak of is
what has happened in the past 60 days.
Chairman Vaught stated that resistance on IGA has been going on the last 60 days and is coming out of
DHS general counsel’s office and he doesn’t like it. He does want to say that he knows that Secretary
Saddler has great confidence in you and he concurred with her and appreciate the change that she has
made there. Things are getting better, but there is a long way to go here.
Mr. Grady replied that he totally agrees with the Chairman and said that they will be working very closely
with the Board.
Member Morales stated that he mentioned a reference to space standards set by the Board. What are
those? Mr. Grady replied that they have a listing of standards that where set by CMS and the agreement
of the PPB, but doesn’t have them with him. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he is half right. The standards
are set by CMS and there has been an approval, but they have not been codified yet, but they are
following them. Member Morales stated not to beat a dead horse, but there is a reason DHS was chosen as
the lead agency on this is probably because the most improvement is warranted with that area.
Member Ivory asked how DHS ensures the Procurement Policy Board that there is going to be some
measurable results. Do you have a game plan or strategy that you hope to achieve as a new leader in this
particular role in terms of overall strategy game plans and savings that you think you can achieve? Or
have you gotten to a point where you have your sea legs under you that can do that or is that something
that you anticipate. Member Ivory believes that will go a long way in terms of rebuilding some of the
confidence that may not be here at this point in time, but in terms of how we plan to use legal counsel and
how you plan to be more efficient and get some real direct results from all of the work that you will be
doing.
Mr. Grady replied “yes”, in the last 60 days that he has been in this position, he has been working with his
staff and trying to set goals for them and also working very closely with Mr. Kanellopoulos and his team
is quite competent. DHS is in the process of selecting goals and prioritizing a number of initiatives that
are on them in order to move forward. At this point in time he is not ready to share exactly all that
Secretary Saddler and he have discussed in terms of where they are going to go from here.
Member Bedore asked that at the next Board meeting if the Board will have an answer on these leases and
Carmi, Paris and Watseka which have all been out there since July. Member Bedore understands that Mr.
Grady has only been there 60 days and heard earlier that all the time was taken up by producing this
report. If that is an answer then that is pretty pathetic. He would hope that at this next Board meeting
DHS will give the Board the answers on these leases that have been pending and not just a report and talk,
action. Member Bedore stated that DHS has 146 leases throughout the State of Illinois. We all know that
times are tough and he is sure that if you look at those 146 leases that rack up $32 million annually there
could be some saving there. A 20% saving would go a long way. The time for reports and nice glossy
pictures has passed. The Board has been hearing from DHS for many years and now they have been
hearing about it for the last 60 days. So, he is sorry and knows that he is new, but there should be results
by November.
Chairman Vaught stated that the Board really does want Mr. Grady to come back and he is not trying to
be imprudent here. The Board knows that he has a lot of challenges ahead of him and not to mistake the
Board’s tone as not wanting to be cooperative about this. Mr. Grady stated that he understands.
Member Ivory stated that DHS didn’t answer Member Bedore’s question if DHS would feel confident
that in November that those things would be taken care of. Is that a possibility? Mr. Grady replied that he
will make an honest effort towards accomplishing some of the things that are on the list. He said that he
would not be able to accomplish everything on the list, but knows that the Board expects some traction.
Mr. Grady stated that he is hearing the lack of responsiveness as the Board is saying and the one thing
that he can say is that he will get some traction and will be responsible.
m:111013

8

 Member Ivory suggested that if they don’t get it done if you could come to the table with what the road
block is and why it is not done. He believes that it would go a long way because it may be some things
that are out of his control and it is important for himself to understand that there is a rationale for it then
the Board wants to be sensitive to it and if there is not a rationale and some other people are in the way
from getting the job done the Board needs to know that too.
Mr. Grady replied that one of his strong suits is communication and doesn’t have any problem with that.
Chairman Vaught wanted to tell Mr. Grady what the Board thinks might be an obstacle in those three
leases that have been hounding the Board for the last few months. This is why he has referred to these
exhibits. This is very good data on their case loads in the Chicago metropolitan area and he appreciates
that. The Board tends to believe that they will be different in some of these down state offices where you
still have scores of offices down state in areas where the case loads are much smaller. The Board would
like to see that data and that will help them understand. If the case load is really high in Watseka and they
are really important to keep that office there then that is one thing, but the Board is jumping to the
conclusion that the case load is not very high in Watseka compared to the case loads that DHS has shown
in the Chicago area. So the Board doesn’t understand why DHS has to renew that lease at all and don’t
understand why they would have to renew it because of the lack of competition at increased rent and that
is why this issue came up starting in July with Watseka, Paris and Carmi where the Board believes that is
the case. The data will help the Board understand if there is some compelling reason for DHS to keep
those offices open. It would greatly simplify the situation if DHS could consolidate those and don’t have
to face those low competition areas. Chairman Vaught said that he understands his point about
prioritization. He knows there is huge saving in the Harris Building and that should be the priority over
Watseka, Paris and Carmi and understand that. But it would help the Board understand why DHS is even
bothering with this low priority areas when DHS could cancel the lease and consolidate out of them then
it doesn’t have to divert you from these higher priorities. Chairman Vaught stated that if you could
understand a little more of the specifics of the frustration and can have that back-and-forth then the Board
will understand that and think it would enhance your working relationship with CMS and with the
Procurement Policy Board.
Steve McCurdy with CMS stated that CMS and DHS shot themselves in the foot about six months in a
row here and need to do their best to stop doing that. Mr. McCurdy stated that he personally doesn’t
understand the nuances of all or the specifics of all of the relocations that people do, but it is his
understanding that CMS needs a space request from DHS and have no doubt that CMS will have that and
CMS will have the RFI on the street before the November meeting. Mr. McCurdy stated that he had no
doubt that Mr. Grady and Mr. Hammoudeh will move heaven and earth to make this happen and CMS
will do the same thing.
Next on the agenda was an update on the Illiana Expressway. In attendance for IDOT was John Baczek.
Mr. Baczek stated he will provide the Board with a brief update on Illiana. Mr. Baczek stated that since
the last meeting IDOT has had some local public meetings and done some additional project management
activities and a few task force groups. There has been some progress and everything is moving in a
forward motion. Some of the things IDOT is looking forward to completing include having another public
meeting and getting into the alternatives. Mr. Baczek stated that some of the issues that were raised at the
previous meeting regarding the DBE participation in the contracts and the Illiana breakdowns. As far as
the DBE contract requirement it was an 18% DBE requirement. The contract was awarded to Parsons
Brinkerhoff and a team of sub-consultants that they put together. The team includes 19.39% DBE
participation, about 10.4% Caucasian women owned business, about 8.3% is Hispanic owned business
and .6 % is African American owned businesses. That total contract value 19.39 % is roughly about $1.8
million out of the total $9.065 million contract. The other $4 billion is other small consulting contracts.
As far as the P3 progress, the Department is continuing to explore options and opportunities for what the
P3 could include. IDOT is learning more about it since it is new to the Department. There was a meeting
today with the statewide consultant, Jeffrey Parks and Associates and their sub consultants and just talked
about what their understanding is on Public Private Partnerships around the nation and try to get a better
handle on how IDOT can apply those experiences towards the Illinana project. Mr. Baczek said that was
m:111013

9

 all he had for an update and would be happy to answer any questions the Board might have. Mr. Grunloh
stated that he just wanted to add that the Board requested that the Board would get additional notice on
future procurements. On paragraph three of the report another consultant contract was awarded and
executed this past month and has been added to the reports as well as being posted to the Bulletin.
Member Ivory asked if the additional contract been awarded? Mr. Grunloh replied he believes it has and
referred to Mr. Baczek to confirm. Mr. Baczek replied affirmatively. Member Ivory wanted to know if
there would be the same break down in terms of participation level. Mr. Grunloh replied that he wasn’t
sure, but the break down will be determined by the sub-contractors of the prime firm. Mr. Baczek replied
that is correct and that other contracts are what is known as a project oversight contract. Basically IDOT
is hiring a firm and they will provide someone with expertise and experience in managing large contracts
like the Illiana project. IDOT has hired a firm to specifically provide a person who works out of IDOT to
help manage that project. As part of that contract IDOT didn’t specify a DBE percentage. Member Ivory
wanted to know what the size of the contract. Mr. Baczek replied $2.67 million. Chairman Vaught asked
that this contract for one person is being paid $400,000 already in less than a year and will be paid
another $2.67 million over the life of this contract. Mr. Baczek replied affirmatively. Chairman Vaught
clarified that this person was getting paid over $400,000 a year. Mr. Baczek replied that there is a
multiplier factor as far as whenever you hire a consultant. Mr. Baczek stated that there is one person who
is at IDOT, but that person has other staff supporting him in his duties. Member Ivory wanted to know
when IDOT hired that one person was there some type of criteria that you were looking for. Mr. Grunloh
replied that it would have been done through the consultant selection. No further questions or comments
were made.
Next on the agenda was Legislation. Director Carter stated that there was no new legislation since the last
Board meeting.
The next scheduled meeting for November of the Procurement Policy Board will be set pending Board
confirmation.
With no further business to discuss a motion to adjourn was made by Member Bass and was seconded by
Member Ivory. The motion was unanimously approved.

m:111013

10

 