PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Diego Ferrer, Ricardo Morales

Minutes – August 13, 2009 Meeting
Present in Chicago:

David Vaught
Diego Ferrer
Rick Morales

Present in Springfield:

Mike Bass
Ed Bedore

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:35 a.m.

A motion to approve the minutes for July 9th was made by Member Morales and seconded by
Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
First on the agenda was CMS Facilities. In attendance was Nick Kanellopoulos, the Acting
Director of Property Management. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that holdovers are down to 78 to act
on by June 30, 2010. Mr. Kanellopoulos wanted to give the Board a more accurate count where
they were in holdovers by giving a report of the leases needing action and leases that will be
terminating before that date that will need to be acted on. This will also include leases that are
posted to the Procurement Bulletin, but will require the Board approval. When you add them all
up the count is at 128 holdovers. Another topic Mr. Kanellopoulos wanted to mention is the
security issue. CMS will now define in detail about what security is provided at each facility and
the cost.
Next on the agenda was the 364-day lease white paper. Director Brown stated that it was added
to the agenda for discussion because the 364-day white papers do not contain all the data that the
other submissions have. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the 364-day agreements are in response
to leases that the Comptroller will not pay rent on because they are in holdover beyond contract
limits for more than six months now. CMS has been working with Illinois Office of the
Comptroller (IOC) and came up with a short term agreement that is under a year and will be put
into place for the lease that will be affected. The landlord will continued being paid under this
agreement. These agreements will not change any of the terms to the original lease. Member
Bedore stated he does not understand this process. He also referenced lease 5613 on Second
Street in which the lease expired in March. He stated the Comptroller stopped payment in
February and asked isn’t there any type of program that told you last year that certain leases will
be expiring. Member Bedore stated that it seems that CMS does not do anything until the
Comptroller stops payment and then they move into action. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that when
the Comptroller made the decision on the payment, it was a new decision and had not been done
previously. When that decision was made CMS had to work with the Comptroller and come up
with an agreement that would be acceptable in order to continue payments. Chairman Vaught
asked if it was a holdover lease. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively. Chairman Vaught
stated that CMS has known for some time that CMS has holdover leases and have been working
m:090813
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 with the legislature on holdover leases to a deadline to solve this problem. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied affirmatively for both. Chairman Vaught stated that through those negotiations and new
statutes that one of them is already signed. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied affirmatively. Chairman
Vaught stated that June 30, 2010 was established as an end date and seems that the Comptroller
is acting outside the legislative intent and trying to pursue an earlier deadline. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied that as an attorney that he does not see the basis for the Comptroller to create that cutoff.
However, in the end they make the payments and make their rules and CMS will abide by it.
Chairman Vaught stated that he understands, but the rules that were made are inconsistent with
the recommendations by this Board and the legislation that has passed. Director Matt Brown
stated that those are two separate issues. The legislation that has been passed deals with the
duration of contracts not to exceed 10 years not the holdover period and holdover expiration
going away on June 30. So the Comptroller’s application here is that they have a contract by
nature of a five year firm commitment and the addition of five holdover years that has now run to
the boundary of 10 years in total. Chairman Vaught stated that all the actions taken by the
Comptroller are the result of the change of the law. The Comptroller applied this interpretation to
existing statue. Director Brown replied that they are only reinforced by the change in law.
Member Bedore stated that his original question has not been answered. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied that CMS did not have the approved form from the IOC to execute to solve this issue
until now. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that it wasn’t the white paper that was the issue, but the
agreement on the contract form that would be used and that process went much slower than
expected.
Member Bass asked if this lease terminated on March 31, 2009 and stated that he really wanted
to know at what point when working with the IOC did CMS have occupancy of a space where
there was no lease. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that technically the lease was in holdover period.
Member Bass sought explanation that took the contract back from the point in time that CMS
came to an agreement on form and then initiated the start date of the contract back to the date the
holdover started. The negotiation with the IOC was a sort of instrument that they would accept to
recognize payment when there was no contract at that point to do payment under their
interpretation. Chairman Vaught asked too about the court of claims impact to which Mr.
Kanellopoulos responded it should not be necessary with the agreement. Mr. Kanellopoulos
replied that there was an agreement made by both sides and that this contract dates back to the
current lease that was in place and that is why no terms were changed. Member Bass asked if the
original contract was terminated.
Next on the agenda was Facility Field Inspector. Director Matt Brown stated that this topic is a
follow-up from previous conversations raised by Board members about how due diligence work
occurs. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he wasn’t clear on what the topic was and said that CMS
could give a presentation to the Board next month that show business processes that have been
put into place in the past couple of months. Member Bedore stated that he would like to hear that
presentation and would also like to see the field inspectors name and signature on the white
papers. Chairman Vaught asked for an update on administrative rules for the September agenda.
Member Bedore also asked before moving on to the next agenda items for some discussion about
energy consumption and sustainability practices.
Next on the agenda was IPHEC Paint – SIUE. Director Matt Brown stated that the Board took
this review because in subsequent years the paint contract established for all State universities
had derived a very narrow specification and dealt with a brand specific paint product. As this
contract was reviewed for a second time it was suggested to the agency that the brand specific
designation might be too restrictive and were concerned that the general policy used within
m:090813

2

 Higher Education to permit brand specific procurements to proceed was not within the expressed
requirements of the law. The Board’s interpretation was that for each brand specific designation
there needed to be a written determination for that procurement. As a result of the Board’s
concerns the IPHEC group determined that a rebid was necessary and the results of the rebid
were competitive. Rosey Murton, the Assistant Director of CPO Support for Higher Education,
replied to Director Brown that the bid was under evaluation and there were four vendors on the
second round and expect the results of the rebid within the next couple of weeks. Member Bass
stated that there were two things that he read in the analysis. One on the brand name or equal
specifications; the other was origination of documents. Does that mean at the time of the request
the file was not complete, what is the implication there. Director Brown replied that when staff
does their review of the procurement they establish the required level of documentation and
approvals had been met. The original response to those requests was a generalized statement
about the permissive use of brand specific or equal documentation, which was not adequate. It
was requested that an expressed brand specific authorization is required. That document was
requested and it was produced, however, it was not produced at the onset of this procurement
initiative. Member Bass asked was that a question of not having a specific document or having
not produced it. Director Brown replied that the distinction was that HE was operating under a
blanket policy that authorized the brand specific method. The PPB’s interpretation was that it
was not sufficient and that each procurement, in advance of its solicitation, should outline why
the brand specific product is required and what its necessity was. As a result HE produced the
letter, but was not done in advance of the determination. Ms. Murton stated that since that time
HE has taken steps to prevent this from happening again. An e-mail of directions was sent to all
directors, which explain all the procedures and going over the HE rule that specifies what needs
to be more specific and needs to be in the procurement file.
Next on the agenda was the official review of DPH lease #5613 at 828 South 2nd Street,
Springfield. Mr. Kanellopoulos introduced Gary Robinson, CFO of Public Health. This is a short
term agreement for 8,770 sq. ft. This facility houses 11 total headcount and is a training center
for DPH. Mr. Robinson stated that he knows that Member Bedore and Director Brown visited
this facility and was not fully occupied that day. Mr. Robinson stated that the training facility is a
critical part of the agency. The facility has a 10 ft. dish on top that links with the Center for
Disease control programming, custom fitted video conferencing, built in mics with a 100 sq. ft.
viewing screen and that particular site is their business continuity site, that has a redundant T-1
line built in, wired for generator back-up, 25 phones lines sitting there, 15 LAN lines all in the
case of an emergency situation. Mr. Robinson stated that he is not here to say the resources there
cannot be replicated somewhere else or that it is the most sophisticated room in the world, but
presently why the need for a continuation of this lease in the short term for this ready-made
training room and that it still houses a few employees.
Member Bedore and Director Brown walked through the facility and Member Bedore wanted to
detail the other Board Members through the building. He stated that when entering the facility
there was a key pad, but it is not being used because there is a guard there. The first area is the
Plumbing Inspection area. There were a couple of ladies there doing their work and a few empty
cubicles and then you go into another office, which is the file room. Then you head into another
large office and it is storage. Then in another office it was told that the person is out in the field a
lot and then the other office is a break room for four people. On the second floor is a well
equipped room with a lot of phone lines, great training facility and a large open area. The
employees asked if we were from CMS, because a year ago CMS told them that they were going
to move and consolidate and then CMS never came back. Then when talking with the employees
on the upper levels they too stated that about a year and a half ago DPH was going to consolidate
m:090813

3

 and move and that never happened. Chairman Vaught wanted Mr. Kanellopoulos to reply on this
move. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that he was not in his position a year ago and doesn’t have all
the details. Member Bedore stated that the most disturbing part of the facility is when going to
see the restrooms. There is a big steel door that goes into this fireproof staircase. It takes two
people to open and it leads to a narrow walkway that leads to another steel door for the men’s
restroom. Member Bedore believes that this building does not comply with ADA regulations.
Member Bedore strongly recommends to the Board that this lease be terminated by December
31, 2009. Chairman Vaught wanted Mr. Kanellopoulos to respond to the ADA compliance. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied that he understanding is that the building is ADA compliant. He will
confirm that and check with facilities to confirm their compliance. Chairman Vaught asked if
this facility is shared with other agencies. Mr. Robinson replied that yes it is, but does not have a
breakdown of who used the facility within the last year. He did state that the training room was
booked 163 days out of 248 and have had about 4,000 people come though the facility in the last
15 months. No further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was the official review of DCFS lease #6276 at 15115 South Dixie Highway,
Harvey. In attendance for DCFS was Chris Towers. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this is a lease
that CMS recently put out to bid. This lease is 35,000 sq. ft. with a first year rent rate at $15.00.
There are currently 135 employees at the facility, which comes to 250 sq. ft. per employee. This
is a 14,200 sq. ft. reduction at the current facility. When it was bid out it was bid inside the entire
DCFS service area. Proposals only came in from one bidder. Over the current total cost of the
facility CMS achieved a 41% reduction. Director Matt Brown stated that the policy concern is
over the lack of standard lease practices and how the State maintains lease hold within the
facilities that it bids as well as making determinations through an alternate method, which would
be directly negotiating with the lessors of facilities CMS currently occupies. This lease has been
on the Board’s agenda several times. It was recommended by the Board that CMS revise its
administrative rules so that occupancy can occur at the highest and best use. As a matter of
policy CMS should establish standards and requirements for its agency clients to determine what
facilities are no longer being utilized. CMS should also set up standard terms and conditions to
identify how rate escalators and special requirements for effective administration of State leases
are utilized. The Board has been arguing for more routine and standard methods of securing lease
holds in facilities and this specific lease marked that concern.
Member Bedore stated that looking at these numbers it is a great savings and this Board can take
100% credit for the reduction. But this lease, even though it has had a 41% reduction is still out
of line. There is $19.69 sq. ft., the present lease, which included $7.76 sq. ft. for build out. So the
base rate was $11.92. So now it is going up to $15.00 per sq. ft. That is a 26% increase. Also, in
the third – fifth years it goes up another 10%. This landlord has no additional expense and yet the
State is going to be giving him a 26% increase and years 3-5 he will get a 10% increase for what.
Member Bedore stated that CMS did this advertising and went 7 miles south of Harvey and cut it
off on the North end. Member Bedore states that he is baffled by this on why CMS didn’t accept
a bid that was only 4 miles north in Blue Island. Chairman Vaught wanted to hear more about the
boundaries. Mr. Towers replied that CMS wanted to keep the boundaries in the Harvey area.
There was another facility in the Tinley Park area but it was closed and now the only office in
the south suburbs is the Harvey office. That is why the boundaries were expanded to the south.
Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that when this lease was originally bid the northern boundary was
147th Street. When the new space request came in from DCFS, CMS expanded it to 135th Street
and the expansion was done in each direction and covered the entire service area.

m:090813

4

 Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that in the original lease, there was no breakdown of amortized cost for
improvements vs. base rent and stated that there is no basis of that build out of $7.76 being
accurate. Member Bedore stated that this number came from CMS and everyone else in his
position before him. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the number is a guess and did not have
information on to total cost of improvements and what was built into that. That is why things are
broken out now to make them more transparent. Chairman Vaught wanted to clarify on the
boundaries and how far west it goes. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied Harlem Avenue. Chairman
Vaught asked how many square mile it covers. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied it is about 141 sq.
miles. Member Bedore stated that he did not have anything else to say on this. It was asked if
local advertising was done and if the Board of Realtors was notified about the RFI. Mr.
Kanellopoulos responded that they just used the paper with the largest circulation. Questioned
about the rules Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that they are in process with JCAR. Chairman Vaught
requested that discussion be held to the next meeting. The other Board Members concurred.
Next on the agenda was DOC lease 1505 at 805 Freeman Street, Carbondale. Member Bass
made a motion to approve this lease and was seconded by Member Bedore. The motion was
unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was DHS lease 2776 at 5000-5020 Industrial Drive, Springfield. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated CMS took the Board recommendations and re-posted and submitted as one
lease covering the entire operation at 5000-5020 Industrial Drive. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that
if you look at the total cost of the three current leases opposed to the proposed lease there is a
$118,293 reduction, which is a 5% reduction in total cost. Since the last meeting DHS has
terminated two warehouse leases in Springfield and the total savings is about $118,000. Mr.
Kanellopoulos asked for the Board’s approval. Member Bedore questioned the break rooms in
each building. Ms. Drinda O’Connor with DHS stated that CMS is terminating two DHS
warehouse facilities and 20 additional employees will be moving into those areas. Member
Bedore requested updated pictures of those rooms at a future board meeting. Ms. O’Connor
replied that they will be moving into the facility on Sept 20th and will have updated pictures for
the October Board meeting. A motion was made to accept this lease by Member Morales and
was seconded by Member Ferrer. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was DES lease 3879 at W. 119th Street, Chicago. This was a 15,000 sq. ft.
facility and was reduced to 13,300 sq. ft. with a headcount of 39 employees, which is 333 sq. ft.
per employee. This is a five year lease with a base rent starting at $11.38 for the first year. Mr.
Kanellopoulos believes this is a good lease and asked the Board for their approval. A motion
was made to accept this lease by Member Bedore and was seconded by Member Morales. The
motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was DES lease 4228 at 5608 W. 75th Place, Burbank. This is a 10,400 sq. ft
facility. There are a total of 30 employees at this facility, which comes to 347 sq. ft. per
employee. There is a large waiting area so people do not wait outside the door. There is a large
conference area/training area. The rent rate is at $15.43 for the first two years. Member Bedore
and Member Ferrer recused themselves from this lease. A motion was made to approve this lease
by Member Morales and was seconded by Member Bass. The motion was approved.
Next on the agenda was BHE lease 5614 at 431 East Adams, Springfield. This is a 13,000 sq. ft
lease with 34 total headcount, which comes to 382 sq. ft. per employee. The base rent is fixed
rate of $14.62 sq. ft. in the first 5 year and a fixed rate at $15.21 in the renewal five years. The
Board of Higher Ed’s Executive Deputy Director, Mike Baumgartner stated that this is their only
m:090813

5

 facility in the State apart from a very small room in the Thompson Center that is used on
occasion. BHE provides many functions to private colleges and universities throughout the State
of Illinois. The location has been ideal for the agency and would be happy to answer any
questions the Board might have. Member Bedore asked if Mr. Baumgartner felt the $14.62 was a
fair rate for Springfield since most of the leases the Board been approving are around the $12 to
$13 range. Mr. Kanellopoulos believes that this is a good rate since everything is included in the
rate and there are no indirect costs to the State. Member Bedore made a motion to approve this
lease and was seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
Member Bedore had a few questions he wanted answered that are not on the agenda. Member
Bedore has a question on the lease in Marion, IL. The sq. ft. is 7,265, which is a reduction of
735 sq. ft. Today CMS is paying $67,000 for 8,000 sq. ft. and under the new lease of 7,265 CMS
is paying $76,000. There is another case where the sq. ft. is reduced, but the rate is increase of
25% in the base rate. How can that be justified? Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he did not have
that information with him, but if the Board wanted to discuss it next month CMS will hold on
any action and discuss it next month. Member Bedore said that lease 6292 is a lease on West 18th
in Chicago and wants to know how CMS is paying $25.50 sq. ft. even if you take all the extras
out it is still $19.00 sq. ft. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that this is a special situation with DES.
They are required under federal statute to have one comprehensive one stop shop in their service
area. No further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was Legislation. Director Brown stated that SB51 has been the Board’s focus
and at this point we are still uncertain of the potential amendatory veto that might be made
before the Governor’s deadline next week. Once that deadline incurs there will be a better
understanding of what might be in the amendatory veto and how it will affect operations for the
Board and the CPO agencies.
The next Board meeting is set for Sept 3rd at 11:30 a.m. in Chicago.
With no other business to discuss Member Bedore made a motion to adjourn and start the
executive session on personnel at 2:15 p.m. and was seconded by Member Bass. The motion was
unanimously approved.
Executive session adjourned at 2:45 p.m.
The meeting was adjourned at 2:45 p.m. by Member Morales and seconded by Member Bass.

m:090813

6

 