Chairman: David Vaught
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black

Minutes – April 5, 2012 Meeting
Present in Chicago:

David Vaught

Present in Springfield:

Ed Bedore
Larry Ivory
Bill Black

Absent:

Rick Morales

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 1:05 p.m.
Chairman Vaught introduced the newest member of the Board, Mr. Bill Black.
First on the agenda was the approval of the minutes from the March 8, 2012 Board meeting and the March
21, 2012 Emergency Meeting. Member Bedore made a motion to accept the minutes as presented and was
seconded by Member Ivory. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was CMS Facilities. In attendance was Deputy Director of Property Management at
CMS, Nick Kanellopoulos. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that since Governor Quinn took office the total cost
reduction from consolidating, re-bidding and renewing leases stands at $4.68 million, which is an
annualized number. CMS has eliminated 1.97 million square feet of space the State formerly leased. Mr.
Kanellopoulos stated that in FY11 CMS spent $712,000 on snow removal in the State of Illinois. The FY12
was only $222,000 just to show how the weather plays in the variability of certain costs in facility
management.
Member Bedore wanted it to be on record that in the special meeting that took place on March 21, 2012, the
Board discussed the Lawrence building in Chicago and he wanted the record to show that the original RFI
that went out did come back with a much lower rate, but it was rejected by the new director. Even though
CMS went out for a re-bid the first bid was lower and contrary to what the Board was told at the last
meeting the first time around was a lower bid. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he was not sure what material
had been provided, but the bid that CMS accepted the second time around was lower than the low bid the
first time. Member Bedore wanted it on record that CMS was willing to go with the first bid, but bowed
down to an agency director rather than what was good for the State. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he
respectfully disagrees. Chairman Vaught stated that Member Bedore’s comments would be on record.
Next was the DHS Lease #4731 at 2605 Woodlawn Road in Sterling. Director Aaron Carter stated that this
lease is for 7,200 square feet with a headcount of 13 staff members including a budgeted headcount of 11
with two partners. This is a lease renewal and Board members were concerned about the overall square foot
per person being 398. Director Carter stated that Mr. Kanellopoulos could go into more details on the lease.
Mr. Kanellopoulos stated that this lease is up for renewal. The State has five leases in Sterling. There are
two DHS leases, a DES lease, a DCFS lease and a DNR lease. All of the leases are with the same landlord,
but different locations. The State had been working for several years to attempt to consolidate these leases
into a project that the city of Rock Falls was working on across the river. It was to be a building owned by
the City of Rock Falls, and through an intergovernmental agreement, would consolidate leases that are in
Sterling into that facility. A couple of things happened around that time. One, that deal fell through and
M:120405

511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 when the final price tag of the intergovernmental agreement came to us we saw that it would just not work
for the State. At the same time the landlord for all five of the Sterling leases found out that the State was
attempting to consolidate those leases. The landlord came to CMS and said that she would reduce the rent at
all five leased facilities for five years if CMS would stay at those locations. CMS was able to negotiate a
20% reduction for all of the leases for five years and also for a couple of the leases the landlord took on the
janitorial cost from the State. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that since the consolidation fell apart CMS thought
it would be in the best interest of the State to take the reduction on all of the leases. Mr. Kanellopoulos
stated that he understands the Board’s concern about the square footage at this facility is a little high,
however, he believes it was in the State’s best interest to get the 20% reduction on all of the leases and
capture those savings for five years. With the base rent at $7.87 for the next five years it is a great rate and it
is in the best interest of the State to go forward with this lease even though the square footage per employee
is high.
Member Bedore wanted to know what happened to the consolidation plan. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that a
couple of things happened. At the time of the negotiations, CMS was looking at a burned out warehouse.
There were going to be a lot of improvement costs going into this facility. At the end of the day it would
have been more expensive to consolidate these five leases than what is currently in place. Mr.
Kanellopoulos replied it was determined that it was not in the best interest of the State to move forward
with that project. Member Bedore wanted to know if it is true in the last year of the lease that the rate goes
up to $10.24. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that that is correct because the 20% reduction goes back five years
back when it was agreed to starting in October and at the end of that five years it will go back to the
schedule that was in the renewal and that year of the lease was $10.24. However, after September 30, 2013
CMS can terminate the lease at any time. Member Bedore wanted to go back to Mr. Kanellopoulos’
comment about the square footage being a little high. Member Bedore is not sure what his definition of little
is, but 396 square feet per employee is a lot higher and he doesn’t know how this can be approved in good
conscience. Member Bedore asked if there are supposed to be some standards and some rules and asked Mr.
Kanellopoulos if he can justify it. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that he justifies it because CMS was able to
obtain a very large reduction in cost on five leases and that saved CMS almost $90,000 in the first year over
what these leases would have cost with no changes. Member Bedore asked how much would they be saving
if CMS was able to get it down to 200-250 square feet per person. Member Bedore stated that what good
are the rules when the Board is approving leases that are double the amount. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied
again that it was in the best interest of the State to capture the cost reduction.
Chairman Vaught asked if he could give an estimate of what it would cost if the square footage was
reduced. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that it is unknown because CMS was not able to bid this lease or any of
the other leases out. It is unknown what the market is in Sterling/Rock Falls and what the cost would be.
Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that $7.87 a square foot is an extremely low rate and he would be surprised if
CMS has many leases in the State of Illinois where the rent was lower than that. Member Bedore replied
that there is no question that it is a very good rate. His question is on the square footage. Member Bedore
wanted to know how it is in the best interest of the State if you don’t know what could have been done with
200 square feet per employee. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that CMS had an opportunity when the
consolidation fell apart to amend these leases and get the 20% reduction and CMS felt that this opportunity
would go away once it became public that CMS would not be consolidating these leases. Member Bedore
stated that instead of trying to consolidate all of these leases why not move another agency into this building
and get the square footage down. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that the reduction was offered with the
requirement that all five leases were amended at the same time. Member Bedore disagrees that this is not in
the best interest of the State. He also asked to see their rules and regulations at the next meeting and see
what their recommendation is. Mr. Kanellopoulos replied that CMS has provided draft rules to Director
Carter and they have also been provided to CPO Brown so they can be discussed before filing.
Todd Turner, the Board legal counsel, stated that since this is just a renewal it does not need the Board
approval to renew unless there is an affirmative objection from the Board. A motion was made by Member
Bedore to object the renewal of lease 4731 and was seconded by Member Black. With a 2-2 vote the motion
did not pass.

2
M:120405

 Next on the agenda was DHS lease # 5663 at 201 N. Mississippi in Pittsfield. Director Carter stated that this
is a 364-day short term lease. The square footage is 4,714 and total headcount is 7. There is Board concern
that this lease would be ripe for possible consolidation and that the 364-day lease may not be appropriate.
Mr. Kanellopoulos stated this lease is on a list to consolidate and move to the DHS office in Quincy. The
issue here is that the consolidation cannot be completed before the current lease expires. The lease expires
on April 9, 2012 and therefore CMS has a 364-day lease posted to simply bridge the gap between the time
the current lease expires and the time to consolidate that lease into Quincy. This lease can be terminated at
any time with 30 days’ notice. CMS believes that they can get the consolidation done within the next three
months. This is the reason that this lease was put in place. No further questions or comments were made.
Next on the agenda was an update on the State Police Headquarters/AIG Building. Mr. Kanellopoulos
stated that at the last meeting that the last step in determining if the Attorney General’s office would be
moving in was the air quality testing. According to the Department of Labor who came in to take the
samples, it would still be another three weeks before getting those results. Mr. Kanellopoulos stated if that
is the case then at next month’s meeting he should be able to tell the Board if the Attorney General’s office
is moving in and when they are moving. If they don’t move in, CMS will provide the Board a list of what
they are doing to further consolidate leases into the building.
Next was the report on Printer/Electronic Consolidation. In attendance was Will Walker with CMS. Mr.
Walker stated he wanted to bring the Board up-to-date on the digital imagining and what is being done.
Currently they are working with the Prisoner Review Board (PRB). So far they have sent 23 boxes or
approximately 1,031 closed and inactive files to “Gone for Good”. This is a State Use Vvndor that hires
disabled individuals here in Springfield and is using them to go through the files to clean them up at a cost
of $13.35 a box. Most of the work has been done by the PRB staff on the weekends, who are working
overtime to try to get this done. Mr. Walker stated that in order to expedite this CMS is going to hire a 75day contract employee. One hundred and twelve boxes of files previously prepped by the PRB staff have
been taken to the Secretary of State as of March 18, 2012 for microfilming. Additionally, a high volume
scanner with the associated image capture software was delivered on March 27, 2012 and is awaiting
installation by the vendor.
DHS continues to march forward. The three forms they put online have started to escalate and more and
more of their agencies are using them and more people are getting used to it and have started to pass what
they originally thought they would save. They are now looking at savings close to $1 million a year just by
putting a few files online and getting people used to the practice of not inputting data and then printing it off
and putting it in a file. All of this will save paper, time, energy and space. There are also 57 more files that
are being looked at to put online at the DHS office and the savings there will be huge when it is all done.
On March 27, 2012 the Bureau of Benefits had a high speed scanner with associated image capture software
delivered and installed and a 75-day contract employee will soon start working on this and he will give an
update to the Board in the near future.
At the last meeting the Board asked about some dates and data and where they were going to go and how to
quantify IDOT. Mr. Walker stated that in his conversations with IDOT they formalized the electronic
records initiative by forming an electronic records information management steering committee. The
steering committee is tasked with the development of policies and procedures for the management of
electronic records and information to ensure compliance with the State Records Act. Over the next two
weeks they are going to start to define some metrics quantitatively, metrically and qualitatively so they can
figure what they are up against and just how much money will be saved.
Mr. Walker stated that another area is the Illinois Interstate Compact Unit. They work under the DOC,
which is a small sub-agency that has gone paperless and might be able to steal some of their ideas going
forward and how we can relate those ideas directly to the Department of Corrections and perhaps PRB
going forward.
In telecom savings there is another $6,000 in savings, which brings the phone reduction to about $500,000 a
year. Print reduction savings are moving forward rapidly and are at about 7,400 fewer devices and the
3
M:120405

 savings estimate is close to $3.8 million. They are continuing to work with the DOC and Illinois Student
Assistant Commission and are now going to start tackling DCEO. The I-Cycle program continues to be a
great program with more interest from agencies. So far about 4 million pounds of paper have been recycled
and about 2,700 pounds of plastic. So far this year $83,000 has been generated in income. One more area
that is being focused on is that they are going to install a second baler in Springfield so they can double
their efforts. The only way to make money is by having it baled. The current rate is about $300 a ton.
So far CMS has disposed of 94,000 monitors, computers, printers and fax machines and has prevented 470
tons of electronics from entering Illinois landfills and the savings to the State is a little over $4 million.
Next on the agenda was the Chief Procurement Office for General Services Rules. In attendance was CPO
Matt Brown. Director Carter stated that before the Board is the analysis conducted for both General
Services CPO Rules as well as Higher Education Rules. The Board’s staff and the CPO’s staff have had
open dialog to some of the points, but further clarification is needed. After the open dialog the Board’s
attorney reviewed the Rules as well. Today most points were agreed upon with a few outstanding. Staff
recommendation would be that the Board supplies any points that are left with any sort of disagreements
and supply those to JCAR as part of their first notice comments along with any additional comments the
Board might have today.
CPO Brown stated that he can say that they have concluded the three public hearings during the first notice
period on the General Services Rules. They received a varying degree of participation and comments from
each of those hearings and have taken those comments under consideration. The CPO’s office has also
received specific comments from the Procurement Policy Board staff and comment received independent of
those public hearings all of which have been under consideration and will be advanced to the staff at JCAR.
Under their review of these documents there will be discussions on any outstanding points that need to be
refined to bring the broadest applicable interpretations to these rules as they can and seek JCAR’s
concurrence and second notice filing and ultimately a JCAR meeting. The General Services Rules are in a
position to be filed for second notice now. That ability was made available to them on March 26, 2012
when the first notice period expired. Their expectation is to continue to coordinate with the efforts of CPO
Ben Bagby as the Rules for Higher Education greatly compare to the Rules of General Services and where
every extent practical would like them to match.
Member Bedore asked if the Board was going to go over the points for clarification the PPB staff had with
the Rules. Director Carted asked if the Board just wanted to discuss the points that the PPB staff didn’t
agree with. The Board agreed. Director Carter stated that on the General Services Rules page 3 item 78
section 1-2030(f)(2), staff comment was to address the method of filing with the PPB and the Auditor
General. Director Carter stated that the CPO’s response was that the Code does not describe the method of
filing. The preferred method of filing may differ among stakeholders and their preferences may change. It
would be more appropriate not to restrict the rule unnecessarily. Staff responded that they believe the
purpose of the rules would be to describe a method for filing and legal counsel for the Board tends to agree
with that comment.
CPO Brown stated that this is an area that they have dealt with in a number of instances thus far. Where
they have the greatest disparity in their work product is, at least in General Services, working with 60
different agencies and trying to get them to comport. If this is a matter of simply signing a form or a page
and the requirements of the section don’t ultimately require 10 separate things to be included in the form,
they would simply be prescribing a form with a header and addressed to the appropriate parties. One of the
things that the CPO’s office has done repeatedly was to ask for agencies to revise such filings so that they
are more understandable, but at its origin the nature of the agency filings is the most difficult thing to bring
into continuity. CPO Brown stated they have deferred to the PPB, for example, in some other form
templates that are not statutorily prescribed and they choose to do that for reasons of uniformity. He stated
that they would choose to do something like that, but that it is a different function than establishing in rule
the consistency of a form that might need to change. Changing a single form document as part of an
administrative package could be very complex. The CPO’s office will continue to work towards an
agreement here.

4
M:120405

 Director Carter stated that the next one was number 79 1-2030(h). After the hearing the CPO’s
determination should be published and a new affidavit filed. Staff consideration is that the notice of the
hearing could extend as an established rule, but the posting of the results of the hearing are not addressed in
rule. In addition, the original emergency affidavit only covered the original 90-day emergency, particularly
the cost and term justification. If an extension of an emergency is granted an updated affidavit should be
filed with the PPB and the Auditor General. CPO Brown stated that one of the things that they are
challenged with is how to provide the most up-to-date information that can be provided about a
procurement-particularly an exceptional procurement. If they have an exceptional procurement that requires
additional reporting requirements they would like to be able to provide updates in an appropriate manner.
One of the things that they have in this regard is a statute that is silent. It doesn’t say continue to file new
affidavits for every subsequent change. The filing of an affidavit is a significantly procedural event. CPO
Brown stated that one of the things that they would like to do is create as much efficiency as possible to
supplement those affidavits. The affidavits, again, are at a point of origin while the responsibility of the
CPO’s office is to vet and again are the point of origin at the agencies. If they file subsequent affidavits for
each and every change there will be a separate series of affidavits to deal with. One of the things that they
proposed going forward with these rules is to be able to have the addendum and the updating of a single
original affidavit. It will make a single document representative of the transaction. CPO Brown stated that
he doesn’t think that they have any disagreements with the idea that the latest and the most up-to-date
information is necessary and is required by law. It is just that they don’t want to take a document of origin
and continue to re-create that. Particularly in an emergency environment that could change a number of
times during the emergency. CPO Brown stated that he would like to have a practical outcome to this and
could come to that conclusion, but is concerned with filing a new document of origin every time an original
form is updated. It might be a little confusing. Member Bedore asked what the Board does if they object to
something that CPO Brown just said. Director Carter replied that since his arrival the only thing that they
have done for Rules is grant a no objection to the Rules. Director Carter stated that with the expansiveness
of these Rules the Board is to provide the Board’s comments to JCAR without a no objection to the Rules
or an objection if it is the will of the Board. Todd Turner the Board’s legal counsel stated that when the
Board doesn’t agree with the CPO that we make note of it and then direct staff on whether they want the
PPB staff to comment to JCAR about disagreement to the Rule or whether the Board is satisfied and don’t
need to provide a comment to JCAR. CPO Brown replied that he would offer an invitation for any
disagreements that would remain after discussions continue to be registered with the people at JCAR. One,
it will make it a matter of public record before the body who needs to approve the Rules to be adopted.
Second, it gives them a forum by which to continue to refine these. The Rules making process is a very
specific and deliberative process and want to find the best and most efficient process that can be put into
Rules that is appropriately at Rules level. CPO Brown stated that is it as effective or is it more effective to
use an original affidavit document every time or is it as effective or more effective to amend the original
document and keep a single live document in the context of a procurement file.
Director Carter stated that the next one is noted under 127 1-2060(e)(1). Member Bedore wanted to address
page 24 about the Procurement Compliance Monitor’s (PCM). Member Bedore stated that when he looks at
the Illinois Procurement Code it says that the monitor serves, but shall report to the appropriate procurement
officer. Member Bedore stated that he is confused and wanted to know who the PCM’s should report to.
The EEC has no Rules out there and don’t know what they are doing. They don’t have any Rules in place.
These people where appointed by the Governor and what are they doing? They don’t have any Rules and
we don’t know what they do. There are all kinds of problems with interference. You can talk to any agency
and all they do is slow things down and according to the Procurement Code they should report to the CPO.
Member Bedore is confused on what the PCM’s do. CPO Brown replied that at this point there are no
proposed Rules by the Ethics Commission to guide the PCM’s. He does know that the Ethics Commission
has taken the position that the PCM’s should, from a structural stand point, report to the Commission for the
aspect of the organizational tree and are clearly part of the procurement organization as the Code indicates,
but have been separated from the Chief Procurement Officers. Member Bedore wanted to know how they
separate when it says “shall report to the CPO”. CPO Brown replied that he understands his concern.
Member Bedore stated that by internal rules the EEC has decided that the PCM’s should report to
someplace else. The Code says “shall report to the appropriate CPO” it doesn’t say “may” or “should” it
says “shall”. It is the Legislature that passed the law and it says “shall” and then the EEC comes up and says
that they should report to someone else. Chairman Vaught stated that there was a suggestion by the PPB
5
M:120405

 staff to define this role as review and report. In the re-draft that came back the CPO has changed it to
oversee and review. Chairman Vaught said it seems to him to have a very different meaning than to review
and report. He is curious as to why the oversee language is being suggested. CPO Brown replied that one of
their challenges is and has been for some time now the identity of what reporting means and the choice of
overseeing and reviewing. He thinks that they used to generally speak to the idea that Procurement
Compliance Monitors are recognized in statute to have a broad field of vision here. The question of
reporting ultimately is a statutory question and he thinks that there are a lot of people who would still like to
see that addressed. Their efforts in the Rules was not to carry that same concern down to the Rules, but can
appreciate the Board’s concerns for the responsibilities of the PCM’s. Chairman Vaught stated that is his
concern, which maybe he is not perceiving it as a concern. Chairman Vaught stated that it seems that there
is a statutory intent. If there is a statutory intent to view these newly created officials one way and then the
regulation somehow treats them differently. It seems to him that you changed the statutory intent. He reads
that it is the statutory intent that it is the CPO who is the oversight person in the procurement process and
not the PCM. When you change the idea of reviewing and reporting to overseeing it is creating confusion
about what the relative roles are. CPO Brown replied that he does understand what the Chairman is saying
and would offer that the language that was offered originally to which the Board’s staff commented on did
not include this language and did not include the further interpretation. The original proposal existed to say
PCM’s have rules and responsibilities established in section 10-15 of this Code. This includes monitoring
procurement activity of State agencies, having access to records and systems and attending any procurement
meetings. CPO Brown stated that they spoke to the function in the Rules originally that the monitors did.
Their original proposal did not speak to anything in an organizational structure. It may well be as easy to
revert back to and not have the organizational structure in the Rules. Member Bedore stated that somewhere
along the line this Board has to address this issue. There is a legislative intent here that is being totally
ignored and he believes that this Board has a role here to speak about this in a future meeting.
Director Carter stated the next one is on page 125. Director Carter stated that the Code does not offer
exceptions for software licenses and licensing to exceed 10 years. Staff’s considerations are that Section 2060 of the Code sets the maximum duration of a contract to 10 years and it does not make any exceptions for
software license’s even if payment is paid in full in the first 10 years. Director Carter stated that the CPO
response was that these are effectively an outright purchase of a license. This reflects the reality of the
market and this rule has been in place since the effective date of the Procurement Code. Director Carter
stated that legal counsel for the Board commented that the Code does not allow this exemption and the CPO
cannot add exemptions that are not specifically allowed by the Code.
CPO Brown stated that one of the things that the State encounters in its business practices within the
procurement life cycle is not just how they procure it, but what we do with it while we own it and how we
properly dispose of it and potentially procure it again. There are a number of items that the State of Illinois
purchases that have a working life that exists beyond 10 years. Often times these are in areas of technology
like TV and computers. The State has aircraft and watercraft that are complex pieces of equipment that
clearly have a life expectancy beyond 10 years and is typical in some industries to engage by the way of
contract on-going relationships so that the useful expectation and life of a piece of equipment can be fully
realized. While we may have fully completed and satisfied a procurement and related payments the use of
contractual agreements continue to bind the two parties so that the relationship between manufacturer and
owner of the asset can be established for the useful life of the equipment. It is not that the procurement
officer would intend to bind the State to on-going obligation or to bind the State to subsequent
procurements, but it is very much in the State’s interest to be able to maintain its contractual obligations for
assets that have a long life expectancy. CPO Brown stated that if we are not able to maintain those
contractual obligations then the vendor/market place which supports that has the ability to withdraw from a
level of support that they would commit to for any other asset that might last 10-30 years. It is really in the
State’s interest to be able to craft an agreement that doesn’t bind procurements and bind future expense, but
it does maintain the commitment and relationship on those long term assets.
Member Bedore wanted legal counsel to repeat his comment. Mr. Turner replied that he said that the
duration of contracts Section 20-60 of the Code limits the duration of contracts to 10 years and what this
rule is doing is, in the case of software, is creating an exception that a contract can go past 10 years. Mr.
Turner stated that he doesn’t disagree with CPO Brown’s logic, but what he is talking about would require a
6
M:120405

 statutory change and he doesn’t see how in the Rule-making process can make an exception to a statutory
section that has no room for exceptions at this point. Member Bedore wanted to clarify that statutorily we
cannot do this. Member Bedore stated that legal counsel’s suggestion is that we follow the statutes, just like
we should be following the statues on the PCM’s. Member Bedore stated that he agrees with CPO Brown
regarding the value of this, but doesn’t know how we could be in favor of a contract beyond 10 years if it is
in the statute that prohibits that. He believes that would be an objection. Chairman Vaught replied that he
agrees with Member Bedore.
Director Carter stated that the next one was on page 127, which adds that renewals are subject to Section 530 of the Code. Staff consideration is that while it is understood that renewals, whether above or below
$249,999, are subject to PPB review, further clarification in this section of the Rules would enforce that
position. CPO Brown replied that in this particular section there is no disagreement that renewals as part of
the definition of contract in the Code are subject to the review of the Procurement Policy Board. CPO
Brown stated that they specifically reference the threshold at $249,999 because the Code further expresses a
structure and function for doing so. Their theory was that the definition of contract being inclusive of
renewals covered that term. If there was something more express about how the Board chose how to review
renewals it may be more appropriately placed in the Board’s Rules since it isn’t a statutory function
generally as compared to the $249,999 express responsibilities to which they have to take particular action
on. CPO Brown stated that he is more than interested in having further discussions so that they can clarify
that and thinks that it is a minor concern.
Director Carter stated that the next one is on page 173 section 1-5035(a). The PPB resolution dated October
5, 2010 requires disclosures for small purchases that exceed $25,000 including sole source and emergency.
Staff consideration is that the Rules specifically say that for sole source and emergencies that exceed
$25,000 a disclosure shall be obtained in whole or in part when practical, which does not comply with the
recommended policies of the Board. CPO Brown replied that we have concurrence with the threshold of
$25,000 and reflect upon the Board’s resolution. As stated in the response they are considering making an
appropriate change, but are not sure what that appropriate change is. There are a number of functional
considerations on how the disclosure forms are used and to be able to reflect $25,000 level of disclosure
which is different from a statutory perspective then the Board could authorize a small purchase level
creating a differential between the mandated financial disclosures and the Board approved small purchase
threshold and just need to work through those nuances.
Director Carter stated that the next one is on pages 181 and 182. He said that it was the same issue at hand.
It stated while the Code allows for the creation of a prequalified list it expressly mandates that the State
Board of Elections registration certificate be submitted with each bid. Staff considerations are that the CPO
does not have the authority to alter the provisions of the Procurement Code through Rule. PPB legal counsel
comments that while the exception makes sense the statute makes no exception currently. Chairman Vaught
asked if the same comment applied to both page 181 and 182. Director Carter replied affirmatively. CPO
Brown replied that one of the things that they have struggled with greatly is having good and effective
procurement in the State of Illinois is the rate by which we continue to lose vendors either by statutory
disqualifications or their unwillingness or lack of desire to participate in such a complex procurement
process and certainly not to mention any concerns that vendors have always brought before the public
bodies about their ability to get paid in a timely manner. All of those things have been in procurement
administration for some time. In this area particularly they have made an effort to try to provide relief by
establishing that if a vendor where able to put such a registration on file and suggest that the registration on
file is to be accompanying their bid proposal and it is their intent that the on file document accompany their
bid proposal and have been inclined to accept that. We know that it runs to the edge of what the statutory
requirements are to file this document with the bid. But if they know they have it in hand and know that the
vendor is certifying that is the document that they intend to attach to their filing they have seen fit to
propose it in Rule if that is acceptable.
Director Carter stated that the PPB identified one section in the Higher Education Rules that they have not
already addressed with CPO Brown. Director Carter asked the Board if they wanted to go over all the points
the Higher Education Rules, which has already been discussed, or just discuss the one which has not been
addressed yet. Chairman Vaught asked if CPO Bagby has any other comments he wanted to add on the
7
M:120405

 points which have already been discussed. CPO Bagby replied he might have two points he would like to
touch on. CPO Bagby stated that on the method of filing with the Auditor General and the PPB the
emergency affidavit is the only concern he has was that if they told an agency how to file and it turned out
that the Auditor General or the PPB wanted something different later on it is at least a 90-day process to
change a Rule. It seems like it would be more effective to do that as a matter of practice outside the Rule.
Again, he does not believe that it is in their role to tell the Auditor General how they are going to receive an
emergency affidavit nor would they want to tell the Board how they are going to receive it from Higher
Education. The Auditor General takes it in written form through the mail and the PPB takes it
electronically. CPO Bagby said that he thinks that they need to respect the ones who are requiring these and
their methodology rather than tell an agency this is the way you will do it and be contrary to our colleagues
desires. CPO Bagby said that he wanted to go over to 4-2060(a), which has to do with the perpetual license.
He thinks that it is possible that the problem is of his making since he wrote that language back in 1998 and
thinks that it might be something that needs to be re-written. The essence of this is that a perpetual license is
really a one-time outright purchase of a license just like when you buy a desk, you buy it outright. That desk
can last you 10, 20, 30 years or in the case of filing cabinets 40 years. A license is good forever. If you want
an update you will have to pay for it, but you can use that existing license today, tomorrow or 20 years from
now for that one time license fee that was paid. It can be written to reflect that a perpetual license is actually
a onetime purchase instead of having it read as though it is going on forever contract. CPO Bagby believes
that it is a reasonable thing to do. He can see the concern and he would have no problem changing it to
reflect what is really happening here, but there has to be the ability to have a perpetual license otherwise
you would not be able to provide those written comments to use because of the system that allows them to
do it was a perpetual license. Member Bedore clarified that CPO Bagby is going to work on that. CPO
Bagby replied affirmatively.
Director Carter stated that the other one in question for Higher Ed from the PPB is on page 176 section 42030(f)(3). The Code requires that at least an estimate of the cost be published and when an estimate is
published and once the actual cost is determined the actual cost must also be published before the 10th day
of the next month. CPO Bagby replied that they are in agreement with that, but didn’t know what the
concern was. CPO Bagby stated that the answer that they gave was that he was going to go back to each of
the Universities in the appropriate manner and talk about this particular point that was raised. He has
worked with the Universities for about two and a half months on revising the initial draft of the Rules. CPO
Bagby stated that there are 9 separate Universities/Campuses which do not have a single control, such as
State Agencies do and try to work out something that works out for every one of them at once. This is
something that he does want to work out and will go back and work out something that is a little more in
keeping with this if it works.
Member Black wanted to follow up with CPO Bagby about the estimated cost and the actual cost.
Obviously that is only when tax money is involved, correct? CPO Bagby replied that there are several
situations with the Universities, where the law talks in term of State funds, which has been interpreted for as
long as I know and the Universities tell him that means funds appropriated by the General Assembly and
then there are locally held funds raised through tuition fees and other things that are not always treated
exactly the same as the appropriated funds and it is different. You have to look at each one of these where it
says a requirement and see what was actually said about whether it is State funds or however it was defined.
Member Black stated that it has been an argument in the General Assembly for some time and always
thought it was somewhat suspicious that it does not include funds raised by private donors administered by
the division of intercollegiate athletics, correct? CPO Bagby replied that the Procurement Code itself
applies regardless of the source of funds. Now some of the activity is within the Procurement Code it might
be different depending on the source of funds. An example is in the BEP Act. It covers State funds as being
defined as appropriated funds. Those are the ones under the BEP program the Universities have to report
and have the goal against. Now they do on the other ones to a degree anyway voluntarily, but that is a
situation where the non-appropriated funds are treated differently by law. In terms of how the Universities
expend funds that come into the athletic department may depend on how they come in. A donation can be
restrictive and if that donation says that it is for payment of ABC person only and pays for more than half of
the payment for that person you are allowed by the Procurement Code to comply with that and there is no
bidding requirements associated with it. Member Black said that when he sits for an hour and a half and it
8
M:120405

 gets real serious he gets a little itchy and thought we should make the hiring of coaches part of the
procurement process and then it would really be fun. CPO Bagby stated that the hiring of employees is
exempt from the Code. Member Black replied that he takes all of fun out of it. Chairman Vaught stated that
Director Carter is going to share this discussion with JCAR. Director Carter replied that he is going to
discuss with the CPO on the items the Board has asked to talk about and also supply the Board comment to
JCAR and part of the Rules process. No further questions or comments were made.
Next on the agenda was Potential Conflict of Interest for BLDD Architects – University of Illinois
Champaign/Urbana. In attendance for the University of Illinois Champaign/Urbana (UIUC) was Joe
Vitosky. Director Carter stated that this is a contract with the University of Illinois Champaign/Urbana. It is
a contract for BLDD Architects and to clear confusion this is not related to the prior contract in reference to
the Assembly Hall that the Board has heard previously and voted to void the contract for. This is an
amendment to the original contract of which there was an original disagreement and thought the Board
should see these. The Board did not see the original contract for this and are now seeing the amendment
where there is a potential conflict of interest that would have come forward initially. The Board is seeing
this for the first time even though it is an on-going contract since it is an amendment and will let Joe
Vitosky speak to the details of it.
Mr. Vitosky thanked the Board and stated he would like to talk about the Natural History Building and the
potential conflict with BLDD. On September 8, 2010 the University advertised for services. He did state
that there was an earlier study done for the Natural History Building, which the building was dedicated in
1892, and is officially on the National Register for Historic Places. Since 1986 that study found structural
inadequacies, the closure of nearly half the facility and became one of the most critical priorities for the
Urbana/Champaign campus. The building serves Geology, Zoology, and Integrated Biology within the
College of LAS. Therefore, due to that, they advertised for architectural services. In their ad they advertised
for the conceptualization phase for projected deliverables including design documents, assistance for bid
and award, construction administration, outside observation and close construction support. UIUC
proceeded with conceptualization phase. The initial contract was awarded in December 2010 for $367,689.
As they went through…Member Bedore asked what that was for. Mr. Vitosky replied the $367,689 was for
the conceptualization phase only. Mr. Vitosky wanted to step back because Director Carter wanted him to
explain the process. Member Bedore asked if that conceptual design contract was put to bid. Mr. Vitosky
replied affirmatively. Mr. Vitosky replied that is why he was going to step back a bit to explain. Mr.
Vitosky stated that in their advertisement UIUC asked for all phases and these services to be delivered.
They had 34 different firms, which were sent to Director Carter. Of those 34 firms that submitted, four were
selected for a short list for interview purposes. From those four firms that were interviewed BLDD was
selected as the top candidate. Member Bedore asked what were those four. Mr. Vitosky replied BLDD,
Bauer Latoza, Holabird & Root, and HBRA. Mr. Vitosky stated that there is a selection committee and he
can read those names if the Board would like. Within the University there was Tony Vidalia, Kevin Duff,
Fred Hahn (not CPO Hahn), Matt Tomochiefski and Elvis Covaro. Member Bedore asked if this is a
historic building. Mr. Vitosky replied affirmatively. Member Bedore asked if Holabird & Root were one of
the four. Mr. Vitosky replied affirmatively. Member Bedore stated that Holabird & Root have done more
historic buildings than anybody else. Did you know that they did the original Soldier Field in Chicago? Did
you know that they did every historic building in Chicago? He thought he would just toss that out in case
you didn’t know that. The selection committee may have not known that. Mr. Vitosky stated that he would
make sure that the committee does know that, but he is sure that no architects that don’t
understand…Member Bedore interrupted stating that if you are considering an architect to work on a
historic building he couldn’t think of a better one and he does not know anyone involved. Member Bedore
stated that he was involved in the rehab of Soldier Field. He knows Holabird & Root and calls on them
whenever help with a historic building is needed and he finds it hard that this other firm keeps coming up
and keep giving them business and ignoring other firms in the State of Illinois. We have the Capitol
Development Board and have issues with them and the reason they have gone to a second or third bidder is
because they have said they want to spread the work around and don’t want to keep giving it to the same
engineering or architectural firms. But the U of I seems to have a one track mind that they only give it to
this person’s husband, the business. Member Bedore just wanted to get it on the record that the other firms
that bid on this are known historically as one of the best firms working on historic buildings, but I guess that
doesn’t matter to the U of I. Member Ivory asked in the selection committee is there a criteria that you use
9
M:120405

 to determine which of the four were best suited to win the contract. Could you explain to him, did you have
six selection criteria? And he is curious to see how subjective they are and is curious on how they did it.
Mr. Vitosky replied that they advertised the criteria in their ad in broad categories. The program’s definition
asked for prior experience in selecting the appropriate problematic approaches and functional solutions for
renovation projects. They also included past success in identifying search space in basing of sequencing for
similar projects while building maintains comparing occupancy. Under the design criteria they asked for the
quality of design work presented, instructional and research facilities, dedication to experienced staff to the
project and respectful resolutions with projects that involved historically significant structures. The ability
to understand the University standards. The experience with sub-consultants with building systems designed
and similar facilities. Experienced design or remodeling projects receiving LEED Gold Certification. Under
project management they asked for and looked for experience with institutional compliance project
management process, quality control assurance measures, documents design coordination and team
communication, committed extent and duration of principles involved on the project, define capabilities and
integration of individual project manager team leaders, adequately explain successful cost control measures,
project estimating and responsible budgeting techniques, previous project success with projects at the
University of Illinois, ability to develop over a project timeline and maintain schedule. Under “chemistry”
they asked for a strong cumulative composition of overall team, project team chemistry, and previous
successful collaboration. Under “other” there was interview preparation, creditability, ability and clarity and
presentation with specific examples of projects with similar scope, size and level of complexity. Member
Ivory asked that in the scoring was it a close scoring or was it a pretty obvious that the one that was selected
was head and shoulders above the rest? Mr. Vitosky replied that it was a close scoring with BLDD #1 and
Bauer Letoza #2.
Member Bedore asked if the second bidder does any work with the University now. Mr. Vitosky replied off
hand he could run a report and let him know, at this time he does not know. Member Bedore stated that one
of the criteria is very interesting. How well do you work with the Universities? Member Bedore stated that
he is sorry, but he’s sure BLDD has a very good relationship with the University. They keep getting all of
the work, they certainly know the University. One of the criteria is how well do you work with the
University and University staff. Well they obviously work very well he has his wife there on the facilities,
so he has to get a very high mark on that. Mr. Vitosky replied with all respect they could run a report and
show the Board all the firms that are working at the University. BLDD has a small number of contracts with
them. Member Bedore asked if they have the contract with the Assembly Hall. Mr. Vitosky replied no.
Member Bedore stated that he thought they did. Mr. Vitosky replied that under the Assembly Hall they
picked four firms and they were one of the four firms and what they had was a design presentation and from
those four firms they had picked that was AE Firm. Mr. Vitosky stated that currently they have one open
contract with BLDD for the digital computing lab remodeling for $429,000, which was given to them in
2009 and there is $50,000 left on the contract. Member Bedore asked what this contract is worth. Mr.
Vitosky replied that this contract is worth $4,671,289. Member Bedore stated that this was a very sizable
contract. Mr. Vitosky replied affirmatively. Mr. Vitosky stated they went forward and finished the
conceptual phase. They are at the point where they would like to write the amendment to proceed with the
remainder of the contract and proceed with the project.
Member Black asked if the amendment meant that there was no conflict of interest. CPO Bagby replied no,
the amendment would actually go to the actual design phase, the second phase of the project. What the
Board is doing is looking at the potential conflict of interest and determining whether or not there is reason
to raise an objection or to look at the situation and decide that the conflict is not of any note and allow this
to go forward today. Member Black stated that he has some serious concern that there may in fact not be a
strict actual conflict of interest. If he was with another firm or on the outside looking in and see someone’s
spouse who actually works on the architectural review committee of buildings like this and if it looks like a
conflict of interest it might be a conflict of interest. CPO Bagby replied that it is a reaction that could be, but
on the other hand it could also be that there is no conflict of interest in fact when you look at the
circumstances. Member Bedore stated that CPO Bagby’s and the University’s argument last time was that
they built a wall around Jill. She didn’t have anything to do with the review. Is that correct? CPO Bagby
replied affirmatively. Member Bedore stated that what Member Black and Chairman Vaught are saying is
why it is limiting this to an actual conflict. If you read the minutes from the July 2011 meeting the Board
raised the same question that Member Black is raising that it gives the appearance of a conflict of interest.
10
M:120405

 What you have created here is a wall around this woman whose husband is the principle of this firm and
who has 8% interest in the firm, but is also the principle. Yes she is walled off from reviewing the proposals
and he agrees with that, but is she walled off from drawing up the spec’s and everything else. If you read
back to what she does, she has the responsibility of dealing with vendors and drawing up the specs. CPO
Bagby replied that when you are looking at a general job description, he will dispute that. But the situation
here is that when there is a bid on which BLDD bids she is taken out of that role and her supervisor takes it
over. Member Bedore replied that he agrees with that, but has a problem with it before it goes out. She is
well aware of this contract that is going to be prepared and go out on the street and the person sitting next to
her at the dinner table is her husband and the principle of this firm. They don’t talk about it? He is sure that
they don’t. So he doesn’t get a heads up that there is going to be a bid going out on the street about this and
maybe he can get his ducks in a row? CPO Bagby replied that he thinks it is possible for professional
people to understand their positions with each other’s companies and the necessity for keeping their actions
separate. The Procurement Code would require that and he listened to Jill Maxey and listened to her
husband like everyone else in the room even the Procurement Officer did and came across as very
creditable and trustworthily and thinks that you also have to look at the situation that under 50-35, the
section we are dealing with, there is a potential or perception like Member Black mentioned that there could
be a conflict. This gets looked at to see if it is actual and you will also notice in that same section of the
Code Section 50-35 was not intended to prohibit a contract from being entered into. It is to be examined
before it is entered into to determine whether or not somebody is taking advantage of the situation. Member
Bedore stated that he would quote what CPO Bagby said in the July 2011 meeting, “she prepares programs
that are used for facilities and the development of professional service agreements”. Both of you are talking
after the fact. Yes you walled her off and she is not on any review committee, but she is certainly part of the
preparation of service arrangements to go out on the street and you state one of her roles is she is the
supervisor of the people that are reviewing the contract. She is the supervisor and the people of the review
committee and you are saying, oh she is good, she is wonderful and would never have any influence. She
doesn’t have to say anything to the people who work below her that she is their supervisor and this is her
husband. Come on Ben this is the real world. CPO Bagby replied that he thinks in a situation like that it is
more likely that the subordinates are going to be extra careful so they don’t do that because there is review
such as what is going on here, such as by the Auditor General and such as the internal auditors and if
something like that is occurring there should be consequences, but they have not seen anything like that.
Member Bedore stated that they don’t have to worry about that because the Board will object to it and then
you will ok it. They did it the last time and got away with a couple hundred thousand dollars well let’s try
for $4 million. Ben will roll over again so don’t worry about it. CPO Bagby replied that he thinks that roll
over is kind of an inopportune word. CPO Bagby stated that he has looked at this for a very long time and if
you look at when they started this and made the decision it took him a long time to make that decision and it
wasn’t done lightly. Member Bedore stated that he would not say anything more on this issue because it
will not matter because CPO Bagby will take it back to the U of I and they will say let’s roll on and we
don’t care because we are the U of I, we are above the law. CPO Bagby replied that the U of I does follow
the law, is cognizant of it, and does a good job. Now the situation that we are in here is similar to when a
Board meets and a contract is put before them and a Board Member has an interest in the company. That
Board member has to recuse himself, but the rest of the Board can vote on that contract. You can’t stop
things like that otherwise the Board would never be able to function. Again, this is a situation where you
would have to look at the specific circumstances. CPO Bagby stated that they are certainly willing to listen
to suggestions on how to make the Board feel better, to understand better and to show that there is no
situation where there is over reaching on the part of Jill Maxey, BLDD or the University. We also have to
recognize the law says there is opportunity to look at the specific situation. It is not a prohibition. It is a call
to review and consider.
Member Ivory commented that he made the decision after the Board gave their decision and thought that
the Board considered it and looked at all the factors and stated that based on their experience of what they
saw there was an apparent conflict of interest. Member Ivory stated that CPO Bagby decided to disagree
with that and what is shocking to him is that when he takes a look at all of the factors and have heard his
explanation in terms of they are very professional. He agrees that they probably are and may not have
intended to do anything wrong, but the reality of it is when you have a person in her position and influence
of power she doesn’t have to say anything. Member Ivory stated that if he worked for someone who had
power over him it is implied or human nature to be sensitive to that fact because frankly when she is getting
11
M:120405

 ready for the next promotion and she has some say so about it she may say that you will not get denied.
Member Ivory thinks that we created an issue that never needed to be an issue and he believes that it is an
issue of creditability. If you see no conflict in what the Board is looking at and the facts being looked at
then he questions the judgment that CPO Bagby made here. Because no reasonable person could look at all
of those factors and say it is ok because it is a quality based selection process and here is the other conflict
on top of that. You have the quality based selection process a negotiated fee. It is probably likely that in the
negotiation of a fee that there could be some give and take and in an environment where there is a conflict
of interest you just kind of add to the piece and is sure that CPO Bagby believes what he is saying, but
thinks that it was a error in judgment to go against the wishes of the information that the Board had looked
at and have examined. Member Ivory stated that he is a little surprised that CPO Bagby made the call and is
not sure if the Procurement Policy Board has the power to stop it. Member Bedore stated that the Board
could vote to object to it and then CPO Bagby will hold a meeting and then the U of I will do what they
want. CPO Bagby replied that he believes at the last meeting that Member Bedore wanted him to conduct a
hearing to gather the facts and then make a decision, which is what he did.
Member Black stated that some interesting points have been raised by previous speakers and he doesn’t
know the Maxey’s and is sure that they are upstanding people. You don’t get to be a Director at the
University of Illinois without having some apparent abilities. Member Black stated that he would not have
any problem if she was the Director of Student Housing or Director of Student Enrollment or if she was in
charge of campus material, but when someone is the Associate Director of Planning of the Facilities and
Services Planning Division and Chairs the Architectural Review Committee, which interoperates the
University of Illinois Champaign/Urbana guidelines and standards for professional services consultants.
That is a position very close to what is being bid. He doesn’t question her and is sure that she is a wonderful
lady and her husband is an outstanding gentleman and a good businessman, but thinks that you can see how
a normal person would look at this and say whoa that’s a little strange. Member Black is not saying there is
a conflict, but the position she holds with the contract in question and her husband being a principle it raises
the appearance of a conflict. He is not saying there is or questioning your judgment he would just think
sometimes that you take a step back and look at this concept that is before you and turn your head a little bit
you might see where a person will look at it and say it sure looks like a potential conflict of interest to him.
CPO Bagby replied that he cannot disagree with anything he said because that is what started this whole
process because of the potential conflict.
Chairman Vaught stated that it seems to him that there is a general agreement or an admission that there is
at least an appearance of a conflict of interest. In all of the definition that he has seen of conflict of interest
is the appearance is virtually the same as a conflict and the Code doesn’t go much further in its definitions
to give us more values on that, but one thing the Code does not do seems to be the recognition of an
appearance of conflict and then there seems to be this argument at the University that they agreed to some
kind of Chinese wall to wall these people off, but doesn’t see anything about this Chinese wall in the statute
and don’t see the basis of that argument whatsoever in the law. Chairman Vaught stated that he has not seen
any notation to that and he doesn’t see it when he looks at the statute so he doesn’t think that it has any
place here. One thing that is clear here is SB51, which was passed a few years ago, and this section was
added to SB51 and he was at a lot of the discussions and committee hearing throughout the whole process
and it was very clear that the General Assembly, given our recent history, was trying to set a higher
standard. He doesn’t want to see the higher standard eroded by something not in the statute like this Chinese
wall concept. Chairman Vaught thinks that there is a conflict here and thinks that this contract should be
voided and hope the Board does not have to hear about this contract again. Member Bedore made a motion
to void the contract and send it back to bid and was seconded by Member Ivory. Chairman Vaught stated
that there has been a motion made and seconded to void this contract under the appropriate provision of the
Procurement Code and to take further action. With a 4-0 vote the motion was passed.
Next on the agenda was Legislation. Director Carter stated that there were a few items on legislation.
Senator Garrett’s bill SB329 and SB3297 were amended and passed out of the Senate and Representative
Jack Franks picked those both up in the House. Currently they are both in Rules committee. They didn’t
take a position in committee; just testified to the content. As of this morning, SB3511 had not been
changed, but we expect it to be in the Senate Omnibus Procurement Bill this year. He would expect it any
day or maybe early next week and will get it to the Board as soon as the changed amendment comes out.
12
M:120405

 HB4136, the Procurement Bulletin/Vendor Portal creation bill had an amendment that squashed the
objections to it as far as he knows. He thinks that everyone with the exception of one is on board now and
the only outstanding entity was CDB. Lastly, HB4568 gives the CPO the ability to review documents
necessary to determine what is or is not subject to the provision of the Code and also allows the PCM’s to
do the exact same thing. There are some concerns for different agencies underneath the Governor’s office
about that bill and would anticipate it will end up in the Senate Procurement Committee as well.
The next scheduled meeting for the Procurement Policy Board is set for May 10, 2012 pending Board
confirmation.
Member Bedore wanted to make a motion to congratulate Board Staff member Josh Floyd on his upcoming
marriage and Chairman Vaught seconded that motion.
With no further business to discuss a motion to adjourn was made by Member Bedore and was seconded by
Member Ivory. The motion was unanimously approved.

13
M:120405

 