PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Terrence Healy, Chairman
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Carmen Triche-Colvin

Minutes – July 23, 2008 Meeting
Room 2-201 at the James R. Thompson Center in Chicago
Connected via video to
Room 349C at Stratton Building in Springfield
Present in Chicago:

Terry Healy
Mike Bass
Rick Morales
Carmen Triche-Colvin

Present in Springfield:

Ed Bedore

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 11:36 a.m.
Approval of the minutes of the June 13, 2008 meeting was moved, by Member Triche-Colvin
and seconded by Member Morales. The minutes were unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was IDOT Relocation of Traffic Safety to Harrisburg – Director Matt Brown
responded that at the last meeting it was requested by the Board to extend an invitation for IDOT
to attend this meeting to discuss the relocation of their Traffic Safety Division to Harrisburg. In
response to that request IDOT declined the invitation to attend, but responded in writing to three
questions that the Board had forwarded with the invitation. The questions were: 1) How many
jobs are a part of the plan to move to Harrisburg? Response – A publicly discussed number of
140. 2) Will CMS manage the facility? Response – Please contact CMS on this question. 3) How
will the build-out process be procured? Response – A new facility is being purchased, which
consists of 32,000 sq. ft. and will require some interior build-out/remodeling which will mainly
consist of interior finishes including ceilings, partitions and floor coverings. There will also be
some mechanical/electrical modifications required. As the process proceeds, the Capital
Development Board will engage design firms selected through CDB’s normal procurement
procedures. The administration and supervision of design and construction will also be done by
the Capital Development Board. IDOT and CDB together will make the selected design firm
aware that they will be required to work with CMS to assure compliance with CMS space
utilization guidelines. IDOT has reached out to CMS to begin discussions on using the template
used by CMS for the State Police build-out in the AIG building.
Member Bedore stated that this letter requires response. Member Bedore commented on the
article in the State Journal Register this morning that clearly stated that the person in charge of
CMS, Maureen O’Donnell, and Milt Sees the head of IDOT will be appearing before COGFA
and to him this lack of participation is utter contempt of this Board. Yet, for this other committee
they are sending all the big guns. Member Bedore restated from the letter that “we will be in
compliance with CMS established space guidelines”. Previously Member Triche-Colvin and
Member Morales have asked for the space requirements and evidently IDOT has them from
m:080723
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 CMS. Member Bedore asked if Member Triche-Colvin or Member Morales has received copies
of any such requirements. Both responded that they have not. Member Bedore stated that it all
ties together and as an example, the Harvey lease is up for discussion again today. The Harvey
lease has 395 sq. ft. per employee and Member Bedore stated that he knew this is DCFS and they
deal with the public and have needs for conference rooms and things of that nature. But at the
last Board meeting DHS had a lease in Rockford and the Board saw all the space for conference
rooms and waiting rooms for all of their clients and they have 278 sq. ft. per employee. Member
Bedore then stated that CMS had nothing to do with this and that IDOT handled the whole
transaction in Harrisburg following CMS guidelines. IDOT came up with…228 sq. ft. per
employee in Harrisburg and in Harvey it is 395 and Rockford 278 sq. ft. per employee. Member
Bedore continued that if CMS was to reduce accordingly the $26.13 for the Harvey lease cost per
sq. ft., the State would be saving $500,000 a year over this 10 year lease - that is $5 million and
we could build our own building for that amount in Harvey. This lease is atrocious no matter
how you look at it. The cost, the square footage…it can’t be. The Board asked at the last meeting
CMS to go back and look at it six weeks ago and neither he nor the Board has seen anything that
has been renegotiated, looked at square footage, move someone else in or renegotiated the lease.
Chairman Healy asked Member Bedore if he would like to talk about the Harvey lease now. The
lease is on the agenda later on and CMS would like to make a presentation on the Harvey lease.
Member Bedore stated that it would be fine to hold off until later to discuss the lease, but it still
does not answer the question why no one from IDOT is here. Member Bedore stated he would
like to make a resolution to go to the General Assembly and at any place that says CMS we
should strike that and put IDOT. Anything regarding purchase of land or lease it should be
IDOT. CMS should be out of this business because IDOT negotiated this deal. IDOT got 228 sq.
ft. per employee. IDOT turned this around in 10 days. The purchase, the rehab and the drawings
to see what the cost is. They did everything in 10 days. CMS cannot do leases in five years.
There are leases that have been in holdover for 3, 4, 5 years. So Member Bedore made a motion
that the Board ask the General Assembly to change the State statute that any place that says CMS
regarding leasing or purchasing of property be stricken and the words IDOT put in. Member
Morales stated that he does not think it is a good idea. Member Bedore stated that he will retract
his motion.
Member Morales commented that he is not happy with the response from IDOT whether CMS
will manage the facility. Chairman Healy asked if anyone from CMS wanted to comment on this
issue. Member Bedore believes that the Board should be asking someone from IDOT. Chairman
Healy stated he would, but no one from IDOT is here to reply. Member Bedore asked isn’t this
utter contempt of this committee? Chairman Healy replied yes it is. Member Bedore stated that
the Board sent a letter asking them to be here and he believes that is utter contempt and does not
know how else you can interpret that. Chairman Healy stated that the Board thought that IDOT
should be here and thought that it was wrong for them to not show up for the request and send a
memo instead. Chairman Healy asked if Member Bedore was going to be in the COGFA meeting
the following week. Member Bedore replied that it was going to be a circus, but stated that per
COGFA’s request Director Matt Brown is going to testify for the Board. Member Bedore stated
that he was not invited to formally attend the COGFA. Chairman Healy stated that they asked for
the Procurement Policy Board to attend and wanted to know if he would want to attend as one of
the Board’s representatives. Member Bedore replied that he will say everything he has to say
today and get it on the record. Chairman Healy asked if there were any other comments on this
letter. Member Bedore stated that the Board should send a strong letter back. This letter did not
even come from the Secretary of IDOT. Chairman Healy stated that the Board will respond to
IDOT. No further comments were made.
m:080723

2

 Next on the agenda was CMS – In attendance was Chief Operations Officer Marcia Armstrong.
Chairman Healy wanted to know if CMS wanted to respond to the question if CMS was going to
manage the IDOT facility. Ms. Armstrong stated that CMS has not been specifically asked to
manage the facility, but in most cases CMS manages office buildings. Primarily CMS manages
office buildings and the facilities they do not manage are those that are associated with the
mission of the agency such as prisons, mental health units and veterans hospitals. Ms.
Armstrong stated that IDOT has not asked them to manage the facility. Chairman Healy wanted
to know who makes those decisions to manage these facilities CMS or IDOT. Ms. Armstrong
stated that for the most part CMS made the decisions before. Sometimes the Governors Office
will ask CMS to manage a facility due to budgetary issues. Although CMS would have to make
sure they have the money in their revolving fund and might have to work through some logistics,
but could definitely manage the building and believes it would be appropriate. CMS would have
to look at their resources down there whether CMS would need a new headcount, out-source
business vendors, those types of issues. Member Bedore wanted to know how the discussion
with the owners of this building went. Ms. Armstrong replied that CMS has not been involved at
all and that this is all being done under IDOT authority. Member Bedore stated that under the
State’s statutes it is very clear that all leases and purchase of property should be done under
CMS. So in other word you just said IDOT violated the State statutes and that is what he
suspected all along that CMS had nothing to do with this purchase. It was Milt Sees and the
Governor’s Office. It was a pay off to take care of downstate Senators, that is all this is and CMS
had nothing to do with this.
Ms. Armstrong proceeded by formally introducing their new Assistant Director Matt Beaudet
who wanted to say a few words about the IDOT purchase. Mr. Beaudet just wanted to clarify
that it is not CMS’s position that IDOT violated the statute. They are proceeding, we were told
under their own statutory authority to purchase land. In general, CMS does not purchase land
authorized under their statutes, which allows departments such as IDOT and Department of
Natural Resources to purchase and lease land on their own. Member Bedore stated that this is not
land it is a building. Mr. Beaudet replied that it is for land, building and properties. Mr. Beaudet
just wanted to clarify the record on that. Member Bedore stated that he did not clarify it very
well because we are talking about an office building and the IDOT and DNR can purchase land.
He thought it clearly stated that CMS has that authority for purchasing office buildings,
equipment and things of that nature. Mr. Beaudet replied that CMS does delegate out authority to
State agencies to purchase under their own initiative. Chairman Healy asked if it allows them to
purchase building on the record-you are saying that it allows them to purchase buildings. Mr.
Beaudet replied it is land, property and other necessary items for highway purposes. Chairman
Healy asked if he was saying that this facility falls under that. Mr. Beaudet replied that is it their
understanding from IDOT, that IDOT has the authority to purchase outside CMS. Member
Morales asked if CMS knows this and believes in it. Member Morales stated that he is still
confused on the whole thing. They can go out and buy property, broad-term “real estate”, they
are moving people, moving a facility for a set purpose and they do not know who is going to
manage it, but yet not assigning anyone to manage. Chairman Healy asked if CMS had been
asked to do anything with this purchase/transaction to this point. Ms. Armstrong stated that CMS
is willing to look at the report and assist IDOT with any data that they can, but have not been
asked to do anything for the transaction. Member Morales asked if they have inquired into it and
did they want to know anything about it and how it will affect CMS. Ms. Armstrong stated that it
has already affected CMS. They are definitely concerned, but not about the management aspect.
They have no problem managing it, but CMS definitely wants to know about anything that
integrates with their space planning. Member Bedore wanted to know where the funding is
coming from. Ms. Armstrong stated that the appropriation is from the road fund. Member Bedore
m:080723

3

 asked if this is being built with road money. Ms. Armstrong replied that she believes they are
purchasing it with road money and then working through the Capitol Development Board for the
improvements side of it. Member Bedore stated that there is now $2 million coming out of the
road fund that could be used for building roads and is going to be put into this building so we can
pay off the State Reps and State Senators in downstate Illinois, because they didn’t vote to
impeach the Governor. Member Bedore restated that CMS has not been involved, IDOT handled
it all, Milt Sees is from that area and they took care of it all. Member Bedore stated he believes
they violated the State’s statutes.
Chairman Healy asked if CMS have established space standards. Ms. Armstrong replied they do.
Their State guidelines are in Rule, but they have not been updated and one of the things going to
be presented today was CMS revised space request template that has been developed. Their goal
is to update their Rules and any associated standards for the next session. Ms. Armstrong stated
she had handouts of the new version and old version of space requirements for the Board to
review. Chairman Healy asked if Ms. Armstrong would provide a brief presentation and that it
be put on the agenda for the next meeting. Ms. Armstrong stated that there are two things she
wants to talk about first being the annual plan template and second being the revised space
requests. The plan template is information from all agencies due at the end of July. CMS is
looking at their strategies for publication and consolidation in light of budget developments. The
plan is to re-evaluate DNR vacant space, the EPA vacant space, and targeting some of their
buildings with vacant space, but also taking into consideration consolidation issues that the
agencies have due to operating budget issues. Member Morales asked if the agencies are easy to
work with. Ms. Armstrong replied that they have had some that were not cooperative in the past,
but are now. Also CMS did not ask detailed questions and did not follow up at the time when
they did not report fully to CMS and they now realize they need to drill down and get more
comprehensive data and follow up.
Ms. Armstrong stated that with this template they took out any automatic calculations of space.
That was getting them into too much trouble. CMS was letting the agencies pick the size of their
conference room and the size of their office. Then all of a sudden there were eight agency
executive level people because they knew their office would be a reduced 200-250 sq. ft. CMS
has taken that out of their space request and is now just asking for the details like itemized
headcount lists. CMS is looking at their title from pay codes and asking how many meetings they
have, how many times they train a year and will take all that data and put together a
recommendation for that space on all the detailed data received from that agency. Chairman
Healy asked when this would this go into effect. Ms. Armstrong replied that CMS would like to
get the Board’s feedback before they finalize it and once finalized they would like to do some
training soon. Member Bedore asked if CMS has set any standards as far as number of square
feet per employee. Ms. Armstrong replied that she knows that their space standards are too high,
but they want to set space standards to the type of building it is. They are also looking into other
States’ space standards. CMS did not set this in Administrative Code and since the Code has
been in existence for a long time she believes the ranges they had in the past of 200-250, were
applied on a split the difference so instead of a range of 200-250 it was 225. So they have not set
an overall standard they have been loosely using as a rule of thumb 300, but are working to push
that number down. When they do formalize it in Code it will not be 300; it will be less.
Chairman Healy stated that there is a lease coming up for review today that is over 300, why
would this one be well over 300 that is open for review right now. Ms. Armstrong stated that the
Harvey lease has special circumstances they she would like to talk about today. When the
building was originally built, Cook County was supposed to be in there as a partner and CMS
just found out recently that they never moved into the building. So there is 19,000 sq. ft. of space
m:080723

4

 vacated by Cook County and CMS is looking at consolidation opportunities there. Chairman
Healy asked if there is 19,000 sq. ft. that no one is using. Ms. Armstrong replied that DCFS has
spread out into the space. Member Bedore stated that he just does not understand this
circumstance. If this Board did not bring this up and fight it; the lease would have gone through
three months ago. This Board can take credit for the savings that will come out of this because
CMS does not even know what is going on. This is ridiculous. 395 sq. ft. per employee that is
almost 400 and yet IDOT just showed us the way. This Board has to bring it up, a savings of $5
million over the life of this lease. You realize that you can build your own building in Harvey for
$5 million. The only reason there are standards is because the Board has been beating you up for
the last couple of years. Ms. Armstrong replied that they did know the space was there, but when
the agencies give data at the end of every July is to identify vacant space and have now identified
it as an opportunity for co-location. They are now asking for headcount information, which was
not requested before and will have the data to show where they are over on standards. Chairman
Healy wanted to know when the County was supposed to move in. Ms. Armstrong stated that it
was built back in 2000 and was not sure if they were ever there or at what point they moved out.
CMS is still gathering details on that.
Chairman Healy would like to know if the County was ever in the building and if the County was
supposed to cover a part of the build-out. Ms. Armstrong replied she would see what she could
find out. Member Morales wanted to know what the original amortization was on this lease. Ms.
Armstrong replied that there are two years left on their amortization. There is still $640,000 left,
Member Morales inquired. Ms. Armstrong replied that starting out at $2,447,000, the original
principle, and also there was improvement cost added into the bundle when the Agency updated
their APR, but the rule now is that this no longer happens and improvements don’t get bundled
into a rate, they are amortized. Chairman Healy stated that he realizes that she was not here at the
time, but these rules just came into play now and we have $600,000 that we don’t know whether
CMS is on the line for; or whether the County is on the line for that. Ms. Armstrong replied that
it was in error that CMS did not take into account that the amortization had been bundled into the
rate and has taken that into account for the negotiations and CMS has improved their review
process that in the future this will not happen again. It was a mistake that was not caught the first
time they went through the lease. Chairman Healy stated that is was a large mistake. Chairman
Healy wanted to know how long the current Harvey lease is. Ms. Armstrong replied it is a five
year lease with a five year renewal option. Chairman Healy wanted to know if they were off the
hook for the $600 thousand in two years. Ms. Armstrong replied affirmative. The amortized rate
would be done at $7.36 and will be done in May 31, 2010 and then the rate would drop down to
$12.19. Member Bedore wanted to know why, if the Board members look at the old lease on this
that in the year 2010 it is $19.48 a sq. ft., this is before janitorial and everything else, and then in
2011 it is $19.48 and the 2013 it is $19.87 where is this reduction of $7. After your 10 years is up
in 2010 the rate should go down, you just said it would go down. Then why it’s in our lease still
up there? Ms. Armstrong replied that she has a new rent schedule that needs to be negotiated
with the landlord and CMS has not done this yet. It will be re-posted and re-published and back
on the agenda after it is re-negotiated. Member Bedore stated that if this Board did not bring this
up this lease would have gone through at the higher rate, the illegal rate, because it should have
come down $7 so someone really messed up at CMS allowing the higher rate to continue on
even after we paid off the building and then on top of it we didn’t know that Cook County was
not in there. 19,000 sq. ft at $26.13 a sq. ft. that is $520,000 a year and over 10 years it is $5
million, which could have built another new building. Member Bedore states he does not
understand this; that this is a fraud. Is it because of who the owner is and the owner contributed
to certain campaigns, is this pay to play? Also CMS is now going to do site investigations. He
wanted to know why this wasn’t apart of your normal procedures to go out and look at these
m:080723

5

 buildings. This should not be something new. Member Bedore stated that he goes out and looks
at buildings. This should not be anything new, it should have been ongoing and if they would
have gone out to this building at Harvey they would have seen the abuse of the space and yet
CMS came here two months ago and wanted the Board’s approval of the lease and if we didn’t
stop it the State would be paying $5.2 million more that it should have. And you could have built
a new building or gone out in these hard times, as the Governor says, cutting the budget. How
many employees could DCFS have for that $5.2 million? Ms. Armstrong wanted to state for the
record that CMS has always done site evaluations. They do site evaluations quarterly where they
are now proactively identifying space as they go out and have always done site evaluations as
part of a renewal of a lease. Chairman Healy wanted to clarify that every facility has had a site
evaluation done. Ms. Armstrong replied affirmatively. Chairman Healy wanted to know who did
the site evaluation on the Harvey lease. Ms. Armstrong said she would find out. In many cases
these offices are set up and field people use them and sometimes it is difficult to go into a
building and say yes that is a vacant office and DCFS has had more of a headcount in this facility
at one time and had to take a reduction. Chairman Healy ask how much of a reduction. Ms.
Armstrong replied that she did not have all the details and would provide that to the Board.
Chairman Healy wanted to know does the agency have to get approval or does CMS have to
approve when another agency or government body is going to take up part of the facility. Who
makes that decision? DCFS signed the lease based on the another government organization or
entity saying that they are going to be in there, so CMS was the one who approved it. Ms.
Armstrong replied that if it was a part of their build-out requirement there were special
considerations they would have known about. In a case like this DCFS could do an intergovernmental agreement with the County as another entity and it does not even need to be filed
through the Comptrollers Office. And CMS would not necessarily know about something like
this.
Chairman Healy asked if Ms. Armstrong would continue with her presentation and then follow
with the leases. Ms. Armstrong stated that in a nutshell CMS is gathering much more specific
data and reporting more fully on their moves with BCCS and making sure that they have controls
that are being notified by the moves and some agencies are still doing things internally that they
are not fully aware of. So, between the new data, everything becoming automated, the new
database and also collecting headcount by location in the long term the goal is to tie that into the
time keeping system. No further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was lease #3551 2875 N. Dirksen Pkwy in Springfield – This lease is
primarily a warehouse/print shop operation but there is 1,065 of office space. They have four
actual headcount. The rate is $3.58 with a 2% increase every other year. This operation works
well for them because the print shop is located right next to the warehouse so they can get the
paper when needed from the warehouse. DPH has been at this location since 1980 and have not
been able to identify any other vacant space that is operation should move into. The range that is
in their market analysis in Springfield range from $4.50 - $6.00 a sq. ft. Member Triche-Colvin
made a motion to approve this lease and was seconded by Member Bass. Member Bedore
wanted to be noted as abstaining. The lease was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was lease #5636 2317 E. Lincolnway in Sterling – This is a DNR lease with
15,800 sq. ft. of which 8,000 is office space, 7,000 is storage and 800 is secure storage for
conservation police items. The rate for office space is $8.72, for storage is $2.91 and for secure
storage it is $1.91. This lease has had no rental increases since April of 2000, but was able to
negotiate a reduction of about 3.25% for the first year and then bounce back the 3.25% year two
and the years 3-5 with increases of about ¾%. This lease is in a good location and the total cost
m:080723

6

 of ownership is very low. A motion to accept this lease was made by Member Bedore and was
seconded by Member Bass. The motion was unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was the continued discussion on the Harvey lease. Chairman Healy asked
Ms. Armstrong if CMS will be ready at the next meeting to come back with further details on the
Harvey lease. Ms. Armstrong replied yes. Member Bedore still had some comments about
Harvey. He believes it still should be on record that the State is over-paying on this lease and
should not wait on this issue. When the lease was presented two months ago and if the Board
approved the lease it would be costing the State $2 million going out the window and believes
this lease needs to stop as soon as possible. Whether CMS moves someone in there or whether
you move the employees back to where they belong and let 19,000 sq. ft. go vacant. He does not
even care, but this lease has to stop. This has been going on for the past two months and now
they want to wait another month for CMS to gather more information. We are overpaying, we
have to stop this as soon as possible. This has to be brought up at the next meeting and CMS has
got to do something here. If this Board would have followed their recommendation we would
have cost the State $5.2 million, CMS would have cost the State $5.2 million. Member Bedore
stated he is all for terminating this lease as quickly as possible. Chairman Healy replied that he
would not agree with terminating the lease, but does think that this is outrageous that this was
initially done with the assumption that the County was going to be in there. He also believes that
the state is on the hook right now for $600,000 that we have to be careful as to what we do with
that $600,000 and don’t believe that the State should be giving the owner of this facility
$600,000 for improvements. Member Bedore stated that the State would be giving the owners
$520,000 every year. Every year the owner is getting $520,000 that he should not be receiving.
Let’s answer that one. Chairman Healy stated that it is not for the Board to answer that one, but
for CMS and the County to answer who made the agreement initially for the $2.4 million.
Member Bedore wanted it on the record that this committee saved the State $5.2 million over the
life of this lease if it was approved the way CMS recommended. It is wrong, no matter how you
explain it, it is wrong, it is a fraud. How could anyone present this lease to us in the way it was
presented. Member Bedore wanted to recommend that this lease appear in the August meeting
agenda. If this administration can turn around and purchase property, do the design, figure out
the costs and everything in 10 days in Harrisburg for IDOT then this administration should be
able to straighten out this Harvey lease in 10 or 30 days. This administration can do it if it wants
to. Member Morales wanted to know where CMS was with the current negotiation process. Ms.
Armstrong replied that CMS has not re-negotiated anything yet. They wanted to put together all
their options and figure out some of the historical information and make the best
recommendation and not identified a partner to move into the vacant space. Chairman Healy
asked how long it will take to get this done. Ms. Armstrong replied that they could have a good
recommendation in about a week. Member Morales wanted CMS to give the Board the
information in advance before the next meeting and not on the day of the meeting. Member
Bedore stated that whether you move another partner or not CMS will have to move those
employees back to their original space. That could be done in a matter of days. He doesn’t
understand why CMS is worrying about filling that space for the owner. This owner has been on
the gravy train for eight years. Let’s get those employees back out of the 19,000 sq. ft. space and
back where they belong and if we can get someone in there fine, if not terminate that 19,000 sq.
ft off that lease. No further comments were made.
Next on the agenda was Northeastern Illinois University – Debt Collection Services. Director
Brown gave an update to the Board. This transaction for NEIU was put under review
approximately 20 days ago and Board staff began discussions with NEIU about some decisions
they made during the solicitation to request a scholarship to their business school be included in
m:080723

7

 part of the bid, which was for debt collection services. In discussion with Board staff NEIU
determined that it was inappropriate to make such a request and has since decided to cancel that
solicitation and go back in and re-bid. In light of that solution the PPB alerted the University that
their attendance would not be required today. No further questions were asked.
Next on the agenda was the legislative update. Director Brown said the only update the Board
had continued interest in were the Bills for single prime contracting for Capital Development
Board and clarification of contract terms that exists in the Code. Both are still on the Governor’s
desk awaiting his signature. Member Bedore wanted to make a motion to the General Assembly
that the PPB re-introduces a statute regarding limitations on holdovers. We have heard it from
several bureau chiefs and nothing seems to bring those numbers down. There are several due
every month and we only have two leases on the agenda and he doesn’t believe that holdover
numbers will be off-set by the few the Board gets every month. Member Bedore recommends
that they pass a resolution to the General Assembly to reconsider changing the State statutes. A
few years back CMS begged us not to put this in and stated that they will turn this around.
Member Bedore would like the piece of legislation to read: Holdovers, no lease may continue on
a month to month basis or other holdover basis for a total of more than six months. We had this
once before CMS begged us to work with them four years ago and are still roughly at 150-160
leases. Member Bedore stated he was tired of talking and listening to promises and wants to
strongly urge the General Assembly to approve this paragraph and put that in the form of a
motion. Chairman Healy would like to leave this until next month and would like to go back over
the motion on the Agenda. The Board agreed.
Member Bedore wanted to discuss a letter from Senator Schoenberg regarding the lease at 59th
and Ashland on whether it was terminated or not and wanted to know if there was any response.
Acting Director Maureen O’Donnell replied that no it has not been terminated as of yet. Ms.
O’Donnell stated that she does owe Senator Schoenberg a response and hopes to have that
shortly. There are a number of different issues involved in this. As soon as she has a response to
Senator Schoenberg she would be happy to answer any questions the Board might have.
Bureau of Strategic Sourcing was passed over on the Agenda and was recognized and Acting
Deputy Director of Procurement Rick Hughes made a brief presentation. Since some of the
handouts didn’t make it to Springfield Chairman Healy wanted to have Mr. Hughes give a brief
update and have this on the agenda again next meeting. Mr. Hughes stated that there have been
some staff changes and vacancies filled and people in new roles. The good part of that is that
new ideas came forward on some of those things that they have been working on the past six
months. They have incorporated the use of multiple vendors to expand coverage and improve
efficiency on some of the Statewide service contracts. Within CMS they focused a person on
small procurements. They have discovered within their own agency many people are confused
about small procurement/small purchases and now have one person to focus on that. They are
developing standards and procedures and processing of documentation that will become
universal to the agency and start looking forward to distributing that to other agencies. They also
have been promoting certifications and professional training and development of procurement
staff. They also plan to match new SPOs to SPOs who are veterans of that position as well as
portfolio managers and sourcing managers from CMS. They will have a dual mentor program
with the SPOs. In addition the legal procurement staff has done a great job developing training
development materials. Some of the other training courses scheduled for this year include: Tools
and Technologies, SPO Foundations, Ethics in Procurement and Real Estate Resale and
Remodeling. No further questions were asked.
m:080723

8

 Member Bass wanted to know where the CPO’s where on the small threshold. Mr. Hughes
replied that as of July 1 the CPI adjustment took effect. Member Bass wanted to know where
they were on the Rule making. Ms. Lynn Carter, Legal counsel for CMS, replied that they have a
full draft ready to file but are waiting for IDOT to finalize them Rules are trying to coordinate
the filing with them so they don’t go to JCAR sequentially. Member Bass asked if they were
working with Higher Ed on that as well. Ms. Carter replied that the believes they have a separate
Rule and will have to take a look at that.
Marcia Rotunda, legal counsel for Higher Education stated that the CPO for Higher Education
rule was published in the Illinois Register on June 24 so they are in the first 45 day notice period.
Due to attendance issues the next meeting will be schedule at a later date.
As no other items of business were to be considered, a motion was made to adjourn at 1:00 p.m.
by Member Triche-Colvin and was seconded by Member Morales. The motion was unanimously
approved.

m:080723

9

 