PPB

STATE OF ILLINOIS

PROCUREMENT POLICY BOARD
Terrence Healy, Chairman
Members: Michael Bass, Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Carmen Triche-Colvin

Minutes – January 15, 2008 Meeting
Room 115 at State Capitol Building in Springfield
Connected via video to
Room 14-612 at James R. Thompson Center in Chicago
Present in Springfield:

Terry Healy
Ed Bedore
Rick Morales
Carmen Triche-Colvin

Absent:

Mike Bass

The Board started the meeting by confirming attendance at 12:05 p.m.
Member Morales had a correction for the minutes regarding clarification on PPB legal counsel’s
statement during the meeting. Approval of the minutes of the November 28, 2007 meeting were
moved for approval as amended by Member Triche-Colvin and seconded by Member Bedore.
The minutes were unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was CMS lease #5311 – In attendance was David Vaught, Deputy Director
of Property Management and Chief Operations Officer Marcia Armstrong. Acting Director
Maureen O’Donnell made some introductions due to staffing changes. David Vaught will be
taking over as Deputy Director of Property Management, Rick Hughes is Acting Deputy Director
of Procurement and Gwyn Gurgens is acting as SPO. The group gave brief comments and was
welcomed by the Board.
Ms. Marcia Armstrong stated that lease #5311 at Hill Meadows in Springfield is an ISP lease for
laboratory space. This lease was negotiated at a ten year term with a 36 month termination
clause. CMS considered negotiations to re-negotiate a five and five term and has decided to leave
it as is for a few reasons. This is specialized space and they felt comfortable because the
termination option is a 90 day notice after the third year, which gives them the flexibility after
three years to get out of the lease. The rate would have a two percent increase per year over the
ten year term as opposed to other locations with a higher rate. Ms. Armstrong stated that CMS is
still working on this function with ISP considering lease space versus State owned space. There
are 37 employees at this facility. It is a dual function lab used for technologies for DNA analysis
and toxicology lab work. Ms. Armstrong asked if she could answer any questions.
Member Bedore commented that the crime lab in Chicago made an effort to locate it in the
medical district. He also commented that the same thing could be available in Springfield.
Member Bedore also wanted to know when the Board would get more information on the AIG
Building and how the space will be utilized after AIG moves out and how that relates to lab
space. Mr. Vaught replied that there are many opportunities at the AIG Building and there have
m:080115
511 WEST CAPITOL, SUITE 102, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY (888) 642-3450

 been regular meetings with ISP and others making sure that the space is being utilized to its
fullest. The space plans are being worked on now to ensure that the building is fully utilized.
There are a number of ISP leases that will be moving to maximize that as much as possible.
Member Morales wanted to know if the operations of these labs were 9 to 5. Ms. Armstrong
replied that this facility is not consolidated to CMS because it is specialized space. The labs are
still under the control of the ISP while CMS facilitates the lease and she is unaware of
scheduling. Member Morales stated that he wanted to know if all the employees were there at
once or different times. Ms. Armstrong replied that she could find that information and let the
Board know. Chairman Healy asked if there was a motion for approval. Member Morales made a
motion to accept the lease as presented. Chairman Healy stated there was no second at this point
and wanted to put lease #5311 on hold. Chairman Healy told Ms. O’Donnell that they would
consider a motion to table this lease until the next meeting when someone from ISP can attend. A
motion was made by Member Morales and was seconded by Member Bedore. The motion was
unanimously approved.
Next on the agenda was lease #REPS07202006 U of I – 1901 S. First, Champaign, IL and lease
#28977 1100 Warrenville Road, Naperville, IL – In attendance was Bob Baker, Chief Executive
Officer, IPHEC, Dennis McConaha from U of I Real Estate Planning, Wes Curtis U of I Legal
Counsel and Marcia Rotunda Legal Counsel for Higher Education. Mr. Baker stated that both
were posted after the contracts were executed, which is in violation of the requirement of the
Code recognized that they should be posted prior to contract execution. The Naperville lease is a
ten year term with two five year renewals, which raised the issue of being a 20 year lease as
opposed to a ten year lease. Mr. Baker stated that the posting of these two transactions was an
effort to catch-up and clear away transactions that preceded the changes made a year ago, which
hopefully reduced the number of late posting problems for Higher Education. There is no excuse
for these two transactions being posted so late other than the fact that they were executed at a
time when procedures were not as effective as they are now. Changes have been instituted to
help correct it for the future. Mr. Baker also stated that people make mistakes and a lot of
attention has been given to this situation and the university knows it is important because a
transaction posted late is not a legal transaction and does not meet the requirements of the law.
Mr. Baker asked the Board if they had any questions. Chairman Healy wanted to clarify that
reference to a reduction in the late posting problem means that it is still going on. Mr. Baker
replied that is correct. Chairman Healy stated that the reduction needs to be down to zero as far
as the Board is concerned. Mr. Baker replied that it was their goal. Chairman Healy wanted to
know since the procedures put into place last January have not eliminated late postings, what
further actions are being taken to bring it down to zero.
Mr. Baker replied that he hosts meetings three times a year with the Directors of Purchases from
the 13 campuses and he will again make sure that it is an agenda item on the next meeting in
March. Mr. Morales stated that he understands that “things happen” and Higher Ed put actions in
place to prevent these types of things from happening. This does not mean you can cover
yourself by saying “things happen”. Member Morales stated that when “things happen” he would
like to know the consequences and who is being held accountable for it, which has not be
brought up. Ms. Rotunda wanted to make a point that posting transactions are performed
manually and there is always a chance for mistakes. There are systems in place now to help
prevent these things from happening. Member Triche-Colvin wanted to confirm that they
referenced the training process and wanted to know if they address the issue of old leases, old
items that need to be posted at this point. Ms. Rotunda replied yes and that the directors from
each campus were there. Member Bedore wanted to know when Mr. Baker has his meeting if
Chicago State is included. Mr. Baker replied that Chicago State is included in their meetings.
m:080115

2

 The Director of Purchases at Chicago State has a vision problem and does not attend a lot of their
meetings. Member Bedore asked if he should be coming because of this issue. Mr. Baker replied
yes he should. Member Bedore wanted to know what is being done since they have not been
attending the meetings and have other procurement problems. Ms. Rotunda stated that a
University of Chicago transaction had someone breaking the law from outside the process that
occurred with malicious intent. Mr. Baker stated that the Director of Chicago State gets a copy of
the minutes from each meeting. Member Triche-Colvin stated that if they were not interested in
attending the meeting what are the chances they are going to read the minutes. Chairman Healy
stated that if they are having meetings like this one, it needs to be better enforced the importance
on being there or having someone attend in their place. Mr. Baker stated that he will tell the
Director of Chicago State that he or a representative will have to attend the meetings. Chairman
Healy asked what if he does not come, what is the next step. Mr. Baker replied that he could
elevate it to that person’s supervisor and talk to him about it. No further questions were asked.
Next was lease #28977 U of I – 1100 Warrenville Road, Naperville, IL – Mr. Curtis stated that
the Naperville lease is written as a ten year lease with a five year termination as required by the
statute and has two five year renewals options. The Board was considering if this is a ten year
lease or a twenty year lease. Mr. Curtis stated that he has interpreted this by referring to the Code
and its requirements as being a ten year lease and believes it is in the best interest of the State.
Chairman Healy stated that he believes that the proposed renewal authorization of the Code is a
separate paragraph and it is not available under the ten year maximum lease. Chairman Healy
also stated that it was his understanding that when the General Assembly enacted this that the
interpretation was not to exceed a ten year term which also included any renewals. When the
landlords see this type of lease they see it as a twenty year lease. Mr. Curtis replied that if you
get different lawyers and read this there would be different interpretations and the way he
interpreted this lease was a ten year lease and not a twenty year lease. The law is ambiguous.
Chairman Healy replied that he understands, but speaking for the Board and the General
Assembly, they see this as a twenty year lease. Member Bedore stated that he agreed with
Chairman Healy and the intent of the legislation is ten years. Chairman Healy asked if Mr.
Turner, PPB counsel, could give his legal opinion on this. Mr. Turner stated that legal counsel’s
opinion is interpretation that ten years is the maximum and includes renewals. He stated that one
of the important things that had not already been stated is the Procurement Code’s promotion of
competitive selection. When you have proposed renewal terms, it cuts out the competitive
selection process which is important to the Procurement Code. Director Brown stated that staff
could not identify a separation from the out years since the mandatory termination option after
five years was intended to apply to all years past the initial five. That connection registered the
additional years as continuous in establishing the length of the term beyond ten years. Member
Triche-Colvin stated that the law was written in response to past abuses in establishing duration.
She recognized the law may be clarified by the General Assembly. Member Morales stated that
in response to arguments that banks don’t like five and five terms, it is his experience that banks
do take those terms and will loan the money to the lessors. Chairman Healy re-stated that they
are following what the General Assembly intended by interpreting a ten year maximum for the
lease. Anything in that lease that states you can go past the ten years, as far as the Board’s
interpretation of that law, is invalid. Member Bedore wanted to make a motion to invalidate lease
#28977 due to its late posting and because of the option to have two additional five year
renewals beyond the intent of the legislation. Member Triche-Colvin seconded the motion. The
motion was unanimously approved. No further questions were asked.

m:080115

3

 Next on the agenda were the Board’s proposed Open Meetings Rules – Director Brown had a
brief summary on the Open Meetings Rules. As authorized by the Procurement Policy Board at
the last meeting the Rules were submitted to JCAR, have gone through draft analysis and have
been submitted to the Secretary of State for adoption. Because of the type of rules, they are
qualified for an expedited process. Regarding one change that the Board made at the last
meeting; a discretionary move as to the assignment of regularly scheduled meetings beginning at
the fiscal year or calendar year had been elected. JCAR told us to narrow that down to one and it
was proposed to be narrowed down to calendar year. A motion to change the regularly scheduled
meeting establishment to calendar year was made by Member Triche-Colvin and seconded by
Member Bedore. The motion was unanimously approved.
As no other items of business were to be considered, a motion was made to go to executive
session by Member Morales to discuss matter of personnel related to specific employees and
seconded by Member Triche-Colvin. The motion was unanimously approved. The executive
session for personnel began at 1:30 p.m.
Executive Session concluded at 1:55 p.m.
No other business was heard and the Board adjourned at 2:00 p.m. The motion was made by
Member Morales and seconded by Member Triche-Colvin. The motion was unanimously
passed.

m:080115

4

 