Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black
Minutes – August 18, 2016
Present in Springfield:

Frank Vala
Ed Bedore
Bill Black

Via Telephone:

Rick Morals
Larry Ivory

The Procurement Policy Board meeting was called to order. All Members’ were present. Member Bedore
made a motion to allow Member Morales and Member Ivory to participate via the telephone. Member
Black seconded the motion. All members voted in favor by saying “aye” and the motion carried.
The first agenda item was the approval of the July 13, 2016 minutes. Member Morales made a motion to
accept the minutes as presented. Member Bedore seconded the motion. All members voted in favor by
saying “aye” and the motion carried.
The next agenda item is a discussion about the CDB single prime use. Director von Behren states that
new legislation mandates that every fifth use of single prime delivery method comes in front of the Board
for approval. The Board will have a 7 day turn around in which to approved or not approve that use of
single prime. The question to the Board is it acceptable for the Executive Director to review the
information, approve or not approve the single prime use and provide information to the Board at the
following meeting. Chairman Vala states that because of the time, he took the liberty to give Director von
Behren the letter go ahead and sign that particular one for CDB. Chairman Vala said he wanted to present
this to the Board and get their opinion on the policy. Member Bedore stated giving the short time frame
for response he would agree with giving the Director that authority but that before the Director signs off,
information should be sent out to the all Board Members laying everything out. Member Bedore stated
that this is an armory but there is a zero in front the veteran’s participation and he would have to question
that. Director von Behren stated that he has reached out to CDB about that and they did look for
veteran’s participation but there were not veterans who were registered in the area. Member Bedore stated
that he knows there are veteran trucking firms and that these were the types of questions he hoped we
would get answers to. Member Morales states he agrees with Member Bedore regarding his questions
about veterans and he would like to reserve the right to see information during those seven days to
question or object to something. Director von Behren stated that he would get the information out to
Board Members as soon it’s received. Director von Behren said that CDB would be willing to come and
answer any questions that the Board has. Chairman Vala echoed his concern over the lack of veteran
participation on this contract. Member Bedore made a motion to permit the Executive Director to sign off
on every fifth use of single prime by CDB after he has released everything to Board Members in seeking
any kind of inquiry or comments. Member Black seconded the motion. All in favor voted by saying “aye”
and the motion carried.

1

 Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black
Next on the agenda was lease review. Susan Florence was present from CMS. She stated that lease 6271
is a multi-agency one stop in Ottawa, IL, and this is the first rental increase since April 2011and its quite
low at $11.50 gross other than utilities. Member Bedore stated he assumed CMS tried to negotiate
something less than the $38.08% increase and Ms. Florence stated they had tried. Member Bedore stated
that we had invested a lot of money into this property, $1.5 million to be exact, and questioned why there
was not a renewal after the initial five year lease. Ms. Florence stated they had sent notice to the landlord
of their intent to exercise the option but he refused to expect those terms without rental increase, due to
the ongoing budget impasse he hadn’t received the rent the cost of operating had gone up. Member
Bedore understood the need of a possible rent increase but the almost 39% increase was a healthy
increase. Chairman Vala asked to confirm that there were four agencies located in this building and they
service hundreds and thousands of people in a year. Ms. Florence confirmed that this was a one stop for
the four agencies and they see thousands of people a year. Member Morales stated he understood the
rationalization for the increase given the situation. Member Bedore made a motion to issue a letter of no
objection. Member Morales seconded the motion and all Members voted in favor by saying “aye”. The
motion carried.
Member Bedore had a question regarding lease 6379. He asked about the location being labeled as a
“field operation” and wanted to know how often the individuals working there are out in the field. Ms.
Florence stated that DHS identifies these as field offices but the employees aren’t out in the field the
employees are in the office. Chairman Vala stated that this location is for rehab services where the State
of Illinois hires individual workers and they go out to seniors’ homes, this is where they come in to get
their hours, assignment and all that.
Member Bedore asked if at a future meeting, CMS could give the Board an update of what they are going
to do once the Thompson Center is demolished, where are you going to put those employee’s and do you
have a plan? Ms. Florence stated absolutely yes we are working through that we will be happy to come
back with information.
The next agenda item was a Rockford lease for NIU. Kent Clapsaddle was on the phone representing
NIU. Director von Behren confirmed that after some discrepancy at the previous months meeting, that all
Board Members now have all the complete and accurate information regarding this lease. Member Bedore
asked why the lease was only going to last for three years. Mr. Clapsaddle stated that this was the second
renewal for the original lease so with this renewal the lease will be nine years long. Mr. Clapsaddle stated
after the three years he hoped to house this program within our own facilities so that they were not longer
leasing property. Chairman Vala expressed his concern that even though university envisions
incorporating this lease, we all know how fast the Government runs and right now if you have to find
space or add space at the University and had to accepts bids, he was not sure you can get it done three
years. Mr. Clapsaddle stated that was a very good concern that both facilities management on campus as
well as the College of Law is aware of this issue and they have indicated that they are taking appropriate
steps to make sure in three years time they do have an appropriate home for the clinic.
Director von Behren stated that he had provided the Board with an update on IHDA regarding their build
out plans and square footage and the number of offices that was requested from the last meeting. Member
Bedore stated that he seemed like the only one that thinks this is out of line to have 37 private offices and
11 conference rooms. He stated that he thought the Boards over site on this has been lacking. He doesn’t
understand how we can do this. He stated that on March 10th the vote was 4 to 1, and he was voted down.

2

 Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black
This is the product that you wind up with without the proper oversight, 11 conference rooms, and 37
private offices and all new furniture there back on Michigan Ave. Member Morales stated that he could
certainly understand Member Bedore’s point and that he is entitled to his option. Member Morales stated
the he would prefer IHDA be present to respond to what those 11 conference rooms would be used for, or
how they would be used. Member Morales state that the Board could not assume that it’s a waste of
money; perhaps these conference rooms are used for other uses such as break out sections to educate
people on housing loans or mortgages. He stated that if we want a clearer picture, we can have somebody
representing IHDA at the next meeting can come forth and answer the questions points Member Bedore is
making.
Chairman Vala stated that the next meeting was September 19,, 2016. Director von Behren stated that all
meetings for 2017 have been booed for the third Thursday of every month. Member Black made a motion
to adjourn and Chairman Vala seconded the motion and all in favor voted by saying “aye” and the motion
carried. The meeting was adjourned.

3

 