 

Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Bill Black, Larry Ivory, Ricardo Morales

Minutes of the Regular Meeting of the Procurement Policy Board
October 8, 2015
Chairman Vala called the regular meeting of the Procurement Policy Board, held in room 349C of the
Stratton Office Building at 401 South Spring Street in Springfield and connected via video to room 14612 at the James R. Thompson Center at 100 West Randolph Street in Chicago on October 8, 2015 to
order at 10:00 a.m. The Pledge of Allegiance was taken. Roll call was taken by Director Blount and
Chairman Vala and Members Bedore, Ivory, and Black were all present in Springfield. Member Morales
was present in Chicago. Member Bedore made a motion to approve the minutes of the previous meeting
held September 2, 2015, which was seconded by Member Morales. A roll call vote was taken and the
meeting minutes were unanimously approved.
The resolution regarding timely execution of leases was taken up. Member Bedore made a motion to
approve the Board’s resolution regarding timely execution of leases, which was seconded by Member
Ivory. A roll call vote was taken and the resolution was unanimously approved.
The Board requested that staff again ask that representatives of the Departments of Central Management
Services and Veterans Affairs attend the next regular meeting of the Board in regards to the Veterans
Business Program.
The Board held a general discussion with Ms. Susan Florence of the Department of Central Management
Services (CMS) and Mr. Aaron Carter of the University of Illinois (U of I) on the merits of an energy
policy for leased facilities and what could be included in a resolution. The Board requested that CMS and
the U of I provide a draft of acceptable energy savings measures for the resolution by the next regular
meeting of the Board.
The Board received testimony from Mr. Nerino Petro, the incumbent lessor and complainant, concerning
the proposed award for lease 6508 for DHS at 175 Executive Parkway in Rockford, who gave an
overview of his complaint to the Board regarding the procurement processes and award of the proposed
lease and who also read into the record a letter from the Mayor of the City of Rockford. Mr. Marvin
Keys, representative for 175 Executive LLC, the proposed lessor, also presented testimony on the merits
of the award. Ms. Susan Florence of the Department of Central Management Services also commented
that it the using agency has been asking for several years to relocate and that CMS has conducted the RFI
process for this lease on more than one occasion with the same resulting award. She also stated that it is
in the best interest of the State to transition to the new facility.
Relevant to proposed non-agenda leases, Member Bedore discussed the high square footage at 314 square
feet per person of lease 5202 for DHS at 1602 North Main Street in Benton with Ms. Florence of CMS.
Ms. Florence indicated that the lease is currently part of a larger consolidation effort which would
alleviate the issue. Member Bedore asked the Chief Procurement Officer for Higher Education, Mr. Ben
Bagby and Mr. Aaron Carter with the U of I, questions regarding the rate, taxes, insurance, security and
maintenance on lease 060812DC for the University of Illinois at Chicago at 8751 South Greenwood
Avenue in Chicago. The Board requested that the U of I provide representation from the U of I Leasing

222 SOUTH COLLEGE STREET, SUITE 231, SPRINGFIELD, IL 62704
Telephone: (217) 785-3988 Fax: (217) 557-9927 TTY: (888) 642-3450
1 

  
Department attend the next regular meeting of the Board to answer questions regarding this lease.
Member Bedore made a motion that the Board object to lease 060812DC under Section 40-20(e) of the
Procurement Code and the motion was seconded by Member Ivory. The motion to object was
unanimously approved by a roll call vote.
In the matter of the Board’s lease review and action on certificates of no objection, after minimal
discussion of lease 6277 for 13,000 square feet for DHS at 1107 West DeYoung Street in Marion,
Member Bedore made a motion that the Board issue a certificate of no objection for the lease and the
motion was seconded by Member Ivory. The motion was unanimously approved by a roll call vote.
After discussion regarding the process for reviewing and resolving issues at State-leased facilities,
Member Morales made a motion, seconded by Member Ivory, that the Board issue a certificate of no
objection for lease 6269 for 32,000 square feet for DHS at 2650 West Fulton Street in Chicago,
resubmitted from the September regular meeting. The motion was approved by a roll call vote with
Members Morales, Ivory and Chairman Vala voting in favor and Members Black and Bedore against.
The rules for the Chief Procurement Officer for Higher Education Procurement Rules was held over until
the next regular meeting of the Board.
Ms. Mary Petro provided public comments regarding the changes occurring on the west side of Rockford
as it relates to the award of lease 6508 in Rockford.
On the motion of Member Ivory, seconded by Member Bedore, the Board adjourned at 11:05 a.m.

2 
 

 