 

Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Bill Black, Larry Ivory, Ricardo Morales

Minutes – January 17, 2018
Present in Springfield:

Frank Vala
Larry Ivory
Bill Black

Chairman Vala called the January meeting of the Procurement Policy Board to order.
Member Black made a motion to accept the November meeting minutes as presented. Member
Ivory seconded the motion, all Members voting “aye”, and the motion carried.
Next on the agenda was lease review. Susan Florence was present from Central Management
Services. She stated that lease 5463 is a DCFS field office in Joliet. They have been in this office
since 1998. There is a 2% rate and this is the first-rate increase since 2007. Member Black asked
about snow and ice removal at these locations. Ms. Florence Replies if the lessor doesn’t do it
then CMS is responsible. Member Ivory asked about BEP participation in snow removal
contract. Executive Director von Behren says those contracts are small business set aside.
Member Black made a motion to issue a letter of no objection, Member Ivory seconded the
motion. With all Members voting “aye”, and the motion carried.
Next on the agenda is Lease 6300 DES office in Rock Island it serves 3 counties, and it also
serves a state-wide call center. They have been here since 2011 base rate is $14.50 plus
janitorial. There are some improvements that needs to be done to accommodate the partner, and
that work is being amortized over 5 years at zero percent interest. Member Black made a motion
to issue a letter of no objection, Member Ivory seconded the motion. With all Members voting
“aye”, and the motion carried.
Next on the agenda is lease amendment 5608 for HFS. We are exercising available option
expansion space to relocate HFS into this office. The HFS office is a Regional Child Support
Office that serves 10 Counties in Northern Illinois. The rate will be $13.00 full gross, the build
out is amortized about 8 years the remaining initial term. Member Black says Susan the Sq. Ft.
for employee is a little high are they short some staff? Ms. Florence says are target is 275 and
this is 272. Member Black says there is a large building in Danville that houses the work source
center. There is a company that does all the landscaping, mowing, and Snow removeable. Does
that company have to bid for that work? Ms. Florence says those aren’t our office but I would
assume so, and if the State is paying for it I would say yes. Ms. Florence says all contacts for
something like that would go through CMS they would need to be registered on the procurement

 bulletin as a user, and signed up to receive those notices when those solicitations go out, or
through the small business program. Member Ivory asked if there is pre-qualified process? I
know there is always some requirements that you must meet. Ms. Florence says that would go
through CMS BOSS. I don’t off top of my head but I can give you information on that. Member
Black made a motion to issue a letter of no objection, Member Ivory seconded the motion. With
all Members voting “aye”, and the motion carried.
Next on the agenda is Lease 6619 which is a RFI consolidation with two existing HFS Leases
one in Belleville, and one in Granite City. They will be moving in the new space in Collinsville.
it’s a field office it serves Madison and St. Clair Counties. The base rate is $13.29 plus utilities
and janitorial. Chairman Vala asks does the agency pay for the Armed Guard? Ms. Florence
replies yes. Member Black asks who owns this building. Ms. Florence replies if you don’t own 7
and ½ percent on the financial disclosures then you don’t have a disclosure ownership. Chairman
Vala says so if someone set up like 6 LLC’s that are under 7% they would have 42% of the
building but wouldn’t have to disclose anything because they different LLC’s. Ms. Florence says
you know who the LLC’s are but to get down to the individual people who are beneficial interest
within a LLC’s any induvial who owns 7 ½ % of given entity does not have to disclose. This is
all Part of SB51. Springfield Prairie is still the owner, and they don’t get the money the receiver
gets the money and sends it to the bank. The receiver has the court authority and is not based in
Springfield they. They have the court order to appoint a local Property Manager. Chairman Vala
says so in this case is the receiver obligated just like the owner if there is some repair done they
would tell the management company. Ms. Florence replies yes. Member Black made a motion to
issue a letter of no objection, Member Ivory seconded the motion. With all Members voting
“aye”, and the motion carried.
Next on the agenda is Legislation. Director von Behren says there is nothing new to report.
Chairman Vala makes motion to adjourn with all member voting “Aye” motion carries. The
meeting is adjourned.

2 
 

 