 

Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black
Minutes – December 14, 2016

Present in Springfield:

Frank Vala
Ed Bedore
Bill Black

Via Telephone:

Larry Ivory

Chairman Vala called the regular meeting of the Procurement Policy Board on December 14, 2016 to
order. Roll call was taken by Director von Behren. Chairman Vala, Member Bedore and Member Black
were present in Springfield. Member Ivory was participating via telephone. Member Bedore made a
motion to allow Member Ivory to participate on the telephone. The motion was seconded by Member
Black. All Members voted in favor by saying, “aye” and the motion carried. Member Bedore made a
motion to approve the minutes of the October 20, 2016 meeting as printed. Member Black seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor saying “aye” and the motion carried.
Susan Florence from Central Management Services was present to answer questions regarding lease 4743
for The Department of Veterans Affairs in Springfield. Ms. Florence stated that this lease is the statewide
administrative headquarters for DVA and she indicated they were able to negotiate an 11.23% rate
decrease. Member Bedore stated that the 11% reduction was good, the only problem he had was with the
personal space per person. Ms. Florence replied that DVA was down in staff and that it was difficult to
cut space out of the building without remolding. Member Bedore stated they could hire some people, and
get the Veterans Program working. Chairman Vala made a motion that to enter a letter of no objection,
and Member Bedore seconded the motion. All members voting in favor by saying “aye” and the motion
carried.
Next on the agenda was a lease in Champaign for The Department of Healthcare and Family Services.
Ms. Florence stated that they have been in that building since 1985 and there has been no rent increase
since 2005 and there was a 20% decrease in February 2012. Member Bedore questioned since they have
been there since1985 have there been any upgrades or remolding. Ms. Florence replied that this building
has been really well maintained and the landlord is really responsive to anything that comes up.
The next discussion was on a lease in Springfield for The State Board of Elections. Ms. Florence stated
that they were down in staffing from 77 staff 4 years ago to 56 now. Member Bedore stated that again the
personal space was little high. Ms. Florence replied that they do have a lot of open space but they also
have space where other groups come out and work periodically. Member Bedore stated that this was a
great location and it helped the whole MacArthur Blvd. area to develop.
Next on the agenda was a legislation update. Director von Behren stated that The General Assembly is out
until January and there has not been any new legislation that would affect this Board but that the staff will
continue to monitor the legislation as it can change quickly. Member Ivory stated that the PPB has been
doing some great work under Chairman Vala’s leadership and under the past leadership, and asked

1 
 

 Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black

 
whether the Board could see a report on our impact in the terms of saving to the State at a critical time, I
think it adds value. Director von Behren replied that the staff can put together some information and
provide it to the Board. Member Bedore asked Ms. Florence if she could give the Board a simple update
on where we were with the move from Chicago to Springfield with many office sections coming out of
the Thompson Center. Ms. Florence stated that she doesn’t have anything prepared. Member Bedore
stated he would be interested to know where we are with the process.
Chairman Vala stated that the Board received another fifth use of the single prime process used by the
Capital Development Board. The Chairman commented that there was not one veteran’s job. Director von
Behren stated that CBD has offered to come in and discuss with the Board about that process.. Member
Bedore stated that beside CDB coming in, he would really like to see Veteran’s Affairs come and discuss
what role they play in the negotiation process. Member Ivory stated that single prime contracting was a
very important issue especially to myself and to other members on the Board and one of the big concerns
we had raised on contracting was that it would not have an advertise impact. Member Ivory was surprised
to see a single prime contracting that had no Veteran Goal on it at all. Member Bedore stated he thinks the
Board should bring in both of them. Member Ivory recommended that we have CDB come before us, and
walk us through this process so we have a understanding as to what circumstances a Veteran goal is added
and the same thing for minorities. The Board recommended that Veteran Affairs and CDB be here next
month. Director von Behren stated that he will make it happen. Chairman Vala made a motion to go into
executive session to discuss personnel issues and Member Bedore seconded the motion. All Members
voted in favor by saying “aye” and the motion carried.
A motion was made by Chairman Vala to return to regular session. It was seconded by Member Bedore
and all Members voted in favor by saying “aye” and the motion carried. Member Bedore made a motion
to approve those items discussed during executive session regarding the executive staff performance
reviews. The motion was seconded by Member Black and all Members voted “aye” and the motion
carried.
Member Bedore made a motion to adjourn that was seconded by Member Black. The motion was
unanimously approved by saying “aye” and the meeting was adjourned.

2 
 

 