Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Real Estate Committee
Tuesday, November 19, 2019

9:40 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0477
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/22/2019

Page 1 of 4

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 19, 2019

19-0400
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”),
as Licensor to grant a License to the Village of Morton Grove (the “Village”), Grantee, to locate, operate
and maintain an existing 42-inch concrete storm sewer and headwall. A license for the existing storm
sewer and headwall was granted to a private developer in 1963 for a twenty-five (25) year term. The
new license will transfer the authority and responsibility to maintain and operate the facilities to the
Village. The Forest Preserves will also recover $1,282.20 spent on erosion control at the outfall. There
are no new structures to be constructed on the Forest Preserves property.
Term: Ten (10) Years
License Fee:

$6,317.72

License Application Fee: $500.00
License Review Fee: $5,000.00
YELAR Fee: $6,450.00

Total one-time upfront fee of $18,267.72 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is: 0.07 Acre
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Interim Chief Attorney have approved this item. Final license agreement
subject to legal review and approval.

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff have reviewed this license application and plans and have found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve of Cook County Board of
Commissioners approve the issuance of this license.

District(s): 13

Page 2 of 4

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 19, 2019

Legislative History: 10/22/2019 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Real Estate Committee

19-0396
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Department of Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Village of Niles, Illinois
Request:

Authority for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) to enter into an

Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) with the Village of Niles, Illinois (“Niles”).
Niles is requesting an IGA to provide a paved trail connection from Caldwell

Goods or Services:

Avenue to the North Branch Trail through the Bunker Hill Forest Preserve. The trail will be constructed
and maintained by Niles at no cost to the Forest Preserves.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Perpetual, subject to termination after twenty (20) years
Fiscal Impact: None

$48,419.42 (waived)

License Fee:

License Application Fee:

$3,500.00 (waived)

$6,450.00 (waived)

YELAR Fee:
Tree Mitigation Fee:

TBD (none anticipated at this time)

Accounts: N/A
District(s): 13
Summary:

The Forest Preserves operates and maintains the North Branch Bicycle Trail in Northern

Page 3 of 4

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 19, 2019

Cook County. Niles proposes to construct a paved trail to connect residents and businesses to the trail as
part of a larger bike and pedestrian improvement program. Niles will be responsible for design,
construction and future maintenance costs associated with the project. The trail follows the alignment of
an existing storm sewer license area and mowed areas. Tree removal is expected to be minimal or none
and will comply with the Forest Preserves’ Tree Mitigation Plan. The license fee, license application fee,
and the YELAR fee will be waived, per the usual practice for trail connection project requests from
municipalities. There is no cost to the Forest Preserves. Niles has funding for the design and construction
of the trail segments. The IGA constitutes a license for Niles to construct and maintain the trail in
perpetuity, subject to termination by the Forest Preserves after twenty (20) years. The Board approved a
similar

Intergovernmental

Agreement

on

April 23,

2019 as

Agenda

Item

19-0184 for

another

trail

connection to the North Branch Trail in the same general area on the south side of Touhy Avenue and
Harts Road. Final agreement is subject to legal review and approval.
Legislative History: 10/22/2019 FPD Board of Commissioners refer to the Real Estate Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Moore
Vice-Chairman: K. Morrison
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 4 of 4

 