Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, October 23, 2019

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:
Also, Present:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Gainer, Johnson, and K. Morrison (6)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.
1. Tom Benedetto - Chicagoland Apartment Association
2. Camesha Jones - Growing Home, Inc.
3. Bob Parris - North Shore Board of Realtors
4. Sara Ware - Illinois Realtors
5. Ahmadou Drame - Safer Foundation
6. Christopher Ohara - EDSSC Advisory
7. Sylvester Miller - Breakthrough Ministries
8. Angelo Avery - Breakthrough Ministries
9. Zeke Morris - Illinois Realtors
10.

Terry Clements - National Consumer Reporting Association

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

11. Chris Pezza - Chicago Association of Realtors
12. Tony Bass - Concerned Citizen
13. Michelle Tecson - National Rental Home Council
14. Cathleen O'Brien - Access Living
15. Samantha Dewberry - Housing Choice
16. Karen Droz - UIC John Marshall Law
17. Trey O'Quin - Thornton Township
18. Kate Waltz - Shriver Center
19. Andrea Juracek - Housing Choice Partners
20. Maria Claire Tran-Leung - Shriver Center
21. Maria Moon - Chicago Area Fair Housing Alliance
22. Gianna Baker - Chicago Area Fair Housing Alliance
23. Richard Lovett - Heartland Alliance
24. Marion Chamberlain - Heartland Alliance
25. Henry Shah - Shriver Center
26. April Ikengah - Concerned Citizen
27. Aaron Elorige Sr. - SHPA
28. Lutisha Gibson - Concerned Citizen
Page 2 of 9

October 23, 2019

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

October 23, 2019

19-6254
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 09/25/2019
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen,
approve 19-6254. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

seconded

by

Commissioner

Silvestri,

to

Silvestri,

to

Silvestri,

to

Silvestri,

to

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
19-6198

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of
Proceedings held on 9/5/2019.
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by
recommend for approval 19-6198. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Commissioner

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
19-6199

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of
Proceedings of the regular Consent Calendar meeting held on 9/25/2019 .
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by
recommend for approval 19-6199. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Commissioner

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
19-6200

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of
Proceedings of the regular meeting held on 9/26/2019 .
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by
recommend for approval 19-6200. The motion carried by the following vote:
Page 3 of 9

Commissioner

 Rules and Administration Committee
Ayes:

Committee Minutes

October 23, 2019

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)

19-4770
Presented by: N. KEITH CHAMBERS, Executive Director, Department of Human Rights and Ethics
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 19-4770
(Rules Committee 9/25/2019)

SUGGESTED MODIFICATIONS TO PUBLIC FACING RULES AND REGULATIONS
Department: Cook County Department of Human Rights and Ethics

Summary:

PART 700

Section 700.100

JUST HOUSING AMENDMENT INTERPRETIVE RULES
Prohibition of Discrimination

Article II of the Cook County Human Rights Ordinance (“Ordinance”) prohibits unlawful discrimination,
as defined in §42-31, against a person because of any of the following: race, color, sex, age, religion,
disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge,
source of income, gender identity or housing status.
Additionally, any written or unwritten housing policy or practice that discriminates against applicants based
on their criminal history, as defined in § 42-38(a) of the Ordinance, is a violation of the Ordinance. Any
written or unwritten housing policy or practice which discriminates against applicants based on their
convictions, as defined in § 42-38(a) of the Ordinance, prior to the completion of an individualized
assessment violates the Ordinance.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting a housing provider from denying housing to an
applicant based on their criminal conviction history when required by federal or state law.

SUBPART 710

AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY

Section 710.100

Authority

These rules are adopted in accordance with the authority vested in the Cook County Commission on
Human Rights, pursuant to § 42-34(e)(5) and §42-38(c)(5)(c) of the Ordinance, to adopt rules and
regulations necessary to implement the Commission’s powers.

Page 4 of 9

 Rules and Administration Committee
Section 710.110

Committee Minutes

October 23, 2019

Applicability

These rules shall go into effect on the effective date of the Just Housing Amendment (No. 19-2394) to the
Ordinance and shall only apply to claims that arise out of actions that occur on or after the effective date
of the amendments.

SUBPART 720

DEFINITIONS

Section 720.100

Business Day

“Business Day” means any day except any Saturday, Sunday, or any day which is a federal or State of
Illinois legal holiday.

Section 720.110

Criminal Background Check

“Criminal background check,” as referenced in § 42-38(e)(2)(a), includes any report containing
information about an individual’s criminal background, including but not limited to those produced by
federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies, federal and state courts or consumer reporting
agencies.
Section 720.120

Demonstrable Risk

“Demonstrable risk,” as referenced in § 42-38(c)(5)(c), refers to the likelihood of harm to other residents’
personal safety and/or likelihood of serious damage to property.
Criminal convictions that are five (5) years old or older do not represent a demonstrable risk to personal
safety or property, except in the following circumstances:
(A)

A current sex offender registration requirement pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act
(or similar law in another jurisdiction).

(B) A current child sex offender residency restriction.
(C) A conviction or conviction history that, when analyzed by the housing provider in an
Individualized Assessment, warrants denial of occupancy or continued occupancy.

Section 720.130

Individualized Assessment

“Individualized Assessment,” as referenced in § 42-38(a) means a process by which a person considers
all factors relevant to an individual’s conviction history and whether that history negatively impacts the
individual’s ability to fulfill the responsibility of tenancy. Factors that may be considered in performing the

Page 5 of 9

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

October 23, 2019

Individualized Assessment include, but are not limited to:
(1) The nature and severity of the criminal offense and how recently it occurred;
(2) The nature of the sentencing;
(3) The number of the applicant’s criminal convictions;
(4) The length of time that has passed since the applicant’s most recent conviction;
(5) The age of the individual at the time the criminal offense occurred;
(6) Evidence of rehabilitation;
(7) The individual history as a tenant before and/or after the conviction.

Section 720.140

Relevance

“Relevance,” as referenced in § 42-38(e)(2), refers to the degree to which an individual’s conviction
history makes it likely that the applicant poses a demonstrable risk to the personal safety and/or property
of others.

Section 720.150

Tenant Selection Criteria

“Tenant selection criteria,” as referenced in § 42-38(e)(2)(a), means the criteria, standards and/or policies
used to evaluate whether an applicant qualifies for admission to occupancy or continued residency. The
criteria, standards and/or policies concerning the applicant’s conviction history shall apply only after a
housing applicant has been pre-qualified. The criteria must explain how applicants’ criminal conviction
history will be evaluated to determine whether their conviction history poses a demonstrable risk to
personal safety or property.

SUBPART 730

TENANT SCREENING PROCESS

Section 730.100

Notice of Tenant Selection Criteria and Screening Process

Before accepting an application fee, a housing provider must disclose to the applicant the following
information:
(A)

The tenant selection criteria, which describes how an applicant will be evaluated to
determine whether to rent or lease to the applicant;

(B)

The applicant’s right to provide evidence demonstrating inaccuracies within the
applicant’s conviction history, or evidence of rehabilitation and other mitigating factors as
described in §740.100(B) below; and

(C)

A copy of the Cook County Commission on Human Rights (“Commission”)
interpretative rules, or a link to the Commission’s website, with the address and phone

Page 6 of 9

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

October 23, 2019

number of the Commission.
Section 730.110

Pre-Qualification

The housing provider must first determine that the applicant is qualified for admission to housing or
continued occupancy.
Section 730.120

Notice of Pre-Qualification

Once a housing provider determines an applicant has satisfied the pre-qualification standards for housing,
the housing provider shall notify the applicant that the first step of the screening procedure has been
satisfied and notify the applicant that a criminal background check will be performed or solicited.
Section 730.130

Criminal Background Check

After a housing provider sends the notice of prequalification required by Section 730.120, a housing
provider may consider information from a criminal background check on the pre-qualified applicant.
SUBPART 740

CONVICTION DISPUTE PROCEDURES

Section 740.100

General

When denying admission or continued occupancy based on criminal conviction history, a housing provider
must provide the housing applicant or resident with:
(A) A copy of any criminal background check and other screening material relied upon; and
(B) A statement of the Individualized Assessment performed by the housing provider to
determine that denial of admission or continued occupancy is necessary to protect against a
demonstrable risk to the personal safety and/or property of others.

(C)

Notice of the applicant’s right to dispute the accuracy or relevance of any conviction(s) in
accordance with Section 740.110 of these rules; and

(D)

A copy of these rules, or a link to the Human Right’s Commission website, with the
address and phone number of the Commission.

Section 740.110
(A)

Opportunity to Dispute the Accuracy and Relevance of Convictions

Once the housing provider has advised the applicant they are being denied occupancy and
has delivered a copy of the denial and a copy of the criminal background check,
individualized assessment and other information required by Sec. 740.100, the applicant shall

Page 7 of 9

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

October 23, 2019

have two (2) business days from the postal or electronic mail date stamp to notify the
housing provider in writing of the applicant’s intent to dispute the accuracy or the relevance
of the information.
(B)

The applicant shall have an additional five (5) business days to produce evidence that
disputes the accuracy or relevance of information contained within the criminal background
check and/or individualized assessment.

Section 740.120

Dispute Procedures and Other Applicants

If a pre-qualified applicant provides notice of intent to dispute the accuracy or relevance of criminal
conviction history in accordance with §740.110, the housing provider must complete the dispute process of
§740.110 before extending housing to another applicant.
If a housing applicant does not provide notice of intent to dispute the accuracy or relevance of the criminal
conviction history within two (2) business days, and the housing provider determines that the applicant
poses a demonstrable risk, the housing provider can extend housing to another pre-qualified applicant.

SUBPART 760
Section 760.100

NOTICE OF FINAL DECISION
Decision Deadline

A housing provider must either approve or deny an individual’s housing application within two (2) business
days of receipt of information from the applicant rebutting the information contained in the criminal
background check and/or individualized assessment.
Section 760.110
Written Notice of Denial
(A)
Any denial of admission or continued occupancy based on a conviction must be in writing and
must provide the applicant an explanation of why denial based on criminal conviction is
necessary to protect against a demonstrable risk of harm to personal safety and/or property.
(B)

The written denial must also contain a statement informing the housing applicant of their right to
file a complaint with the Human Rights Commission of Cook County.

Section 760.120

Confidentiality

The housing provider must limit the use and distribution of information obtained in performing the
applicant’s criminal background check.
The housing provider must keep any information gathered
confidential and in keeping with the requirements of the Ordinance.
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Miller, for the
Commission on Human Rights to reconsider it's latest version of the Just Housing Ordinance
rules, to file a response with the Rules and Administration Committee, by October 30, 2019, as
Page 8 of 9

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

October 23, 2019

to why the Commission did not follow the specific recommendations for modifications to the
Just Housing Rules made by the Rules and Administration Committeeon, on September 26,
2019, pursuant to Section 1-9 of the County Code, the Commission on Human Rights shall
send a revised draft of rules to the Committee by November 6, 2019 and the Committee will
hold the current draft of rules, 19-4770, until it receives a response from the Commission. The
motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 9 of 9

 