ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JB Pritzker • Governor Charles Schmadeke • Chairman Marcus Fruchter • Administrator

160 North LaSalle ♠ Suite 300 ♣ Chicago, Illinois 60601 ♥ tel 312/814-4700 ♦ fax 312/814-4602

Regular Meeting, Open Session Minutes
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
September 16, 2019
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Meeting on Monday, September 16, 2019
at approximately 1:04 P.M. in the Conference Room of the Gaming Board office on the 5th Floor of the
Michael Bilandic Building Center, Chicago, IL pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120/1 et seq.
A roll call was taken. The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Charles
Schmadeke, Member Steve Dolins, Member Ruben Ramirez, Member Dionne Hayden and Member
Anthony Garcia. Five members of the Board being physically present, a quorum was satisfied.
At approximately 1:05 P.M., Member Dolins moved that the Board go into closed session pursuant to Section 2(c),
paragraphs (1), (11), (14), and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act to
discuss items on the closed session agenda relating to specific personnel. Member Ramirez seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote. Thereafter, the Board moved from the Conference
Room on the 5th Floor of the Michael Bilandic Building to the Conference Room on the 3rd Floor of the building
for a closed session meeting; the minutes of which are separately recorded.

At approximately 2:12 P.M., the Board returned to the Conference Room on the 5th Floor of the Michael
Bilandic Building Center, in Chicago, Illinois to reconvene its Regular Meeting of Monday, September
16, 2019 pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board members were physically present: Chairman Charles Schmadeke, Member Steve
Dolins, Member Ruben Ramirez, Member Dionne Hayden and Member Anthony Garcia. Five members
of the Board being physically present, a quorum was satisfied.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES
Member Ramirez moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting of
Thursday, August 8, 2019. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via
voice vote.
CHAIRMAN COMMENTS
Chairman Schmadeke opened the meeting by welcoming new IGB member Tony Garcia to his role. The
Chairman also stated that he has been impressed with the staff’s commitment and devotion to their jobs in
this busy time for the IGB.
BOARD MEMBER COMMENTS
The Board’s newest member, Anthony Garcia, thanked everyone for the warm welcome and stated that he
looks forward to working with all.

 ADMINISTRATOR REPORT
Administrator Fruchter began by noting that, in addition to the IGB’s typical work in licensing and
generally administering gaming in Illinois, it also has been involved in procuring and reviewing the
feasibility study relating to the proposed Chicago casino, drafting emergency and proposed rulemaking,
soliciting comments for sports wagering, establishing a system for reporting of conversations between
host municipalities and potential casino applicants, and a variety of other items. Administrator Fruchter
also indicated that the IGB was approximately 90% complete with its G2S conversion project and that the
project should be totally completed by the end of the fall.
The Administrator also announced changes to the Board’s future meeting schedule. Specifically, he noted
that the scheduled meeting for October 24 has been cancelled, but the IGB added a meeting on November
7th. Further, the IGB cancelled its previously scheduled meeting for November 21, but confirmed that it
will meet on December 19 (which has been on the IGB’s announced schedule). The Administrator also
noted that the IGB plans to announce its 2020 meeting dates before its next meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY
The Board entertained comments from the following speakers:
Attorney Matthew DiCianni on behalf of location establishment applicant, Angie’s Gaming, Inc.
Anita Bedell, Executive Director Illinois Church Action on Alcohol and Addiction Problems on the topic
of terminal operators and undue economic concentration.
CASINO
RULEMAKING
Member Hayden moved that the Board approve for submission to the Index Department of the Secretary
of State on First Notice proposed new rules 3000.100, 3000.190, 3000.201 as well as amendments to
Rules 3000.100, 3000.200, 3000.606, and 3000.930. Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously via voice vote.
Chairman Schmadeke moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
WHEREFORE:
The Illinois Gambling Act, Public Act 101-0031, became law on June 28, 2019;
1. As required by the Illinois Gambling Act, the Board retained a nationally
recognized casino feasibility consultant (Union Gaming Analytics) with consent
from the City of Chicago following a competitive bidding process compliant with
the Illinois Procurement Code;

 September 16, 2019 Regular Board Meeting
2. On August 11, 2019, Union Gaming Analytics delivered to the Board a Study
addressing the feasibility of and ability to finance a casino in the City of Chicago;
and
3. As required by the Illinois Gambling Act, the Board delivered copies of the Study
to Governor Pritzker, Mayor Lori Lightfoot, Senate President John Cullerton, and
House Speaker Michael Madigan on August 12, 2019;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that based on the results of the Study as required by
the Illinois Gambling Act, the Board recommends that the General Assembly consider
making modifications to the terms of the Chicago casino license authorized under the
Illinois Gambling Act.
Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
WHEREFORE:
1. Section 5 of the Illinois Gambling Act allows the Board to delegate the execution
of any of its powers for the purpose of administering and enforcing this act and its
rules;
2. The Administrator shall perform any and all duties that the Board shall assign
him;
3. Board Rule 3000.230(d) obligates an Applicant or Owners licensee to disclose
and obtain formal approval whenever a change is proposed in the areas specified
under the above-referenced rule;
4. Board Rule 3000.230(d) authorizes the Board to delegate to the Administrator by
resolution the authority to approve changes under Rule 3000.230(d);
5. On September 19, 1995, the Board adopted a resolution that, in part, authorized
the Administrator to approve long term capital improvements not exceeding $5
million;
6. The Board now finds cause to authorize the Administrator to approve capital
improvements of greater value.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Administrator shall be authorized to approve
the proposed changes to long term capital improvements not exceeding $10 million,
including project-related financing for such improvements.
Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
2

 September 16, 2019 Regular Board Meeting
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Consideration:


Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino-Des Plaines – Rule 230(d)1
Request

Member Ramirez moved that the Board approve Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a
Rivers Casino - Des Plaines’ construction request to expand its existing garage and modify an
appurtenant exit roadway in an amount not to exceed 22 million dollars; subject to revocation of this
approval if the Administrator determines that the terms and condition are not materially consistent with
the terms disclosed to the Board. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.


Casino Queen, Inc. d/b/a Casino Queen – Request for Initial Consideration and Waiver of the
Two Meeting Rule regarding financing transaction.

Member Dolins moved that the Board waive the two meeting rule and delegate authority to the
Administrator for final review and approval of Casino Queen, Inc.’s request for CQ Holding Company,
Inc. to enter into a short-term Term Loan, in an amount not to exceed $5 million, with Standard General,
LP; subject to the final documentation being provided to the Illinois Gaming Board upon execution, and
subject to revocation of this approval if the Administrator determines that the terms and conditions are
not materially consistent with the terms provided to the Board. Member Ramirez seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Final Consideration:


Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel – Final
Consideration of Owners License Renewal

Member Hayden moved that the Board approve the request by Des Plaines Development Limited
Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel to renew its Owners License for a period of four
years, expiring in September 2023; and find the following entities and persons suitable as Key Persons
of the licensee:
 Caesars Entertainment Corporation
 CEOC, LLC
 Harrah’s Illinois, LLC
 Des Plaines Development Holdings, LLC
 Susan H. Carletta
 Jonathan Eilian
 Thomas J. Flynn
 Ernest W. Glidden
 Eric L. Golebiewski
 Eric A. Hession
 Thomas M. Jenkin
 Paul K. Kennedy
3

 September 16, 2019 Regular Board Meeting





Daniel T. Real
Karl O. Stingily III
Cydnel D. Trias; and
James E. Venuti

Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Member Ramirez moved that the Board find Derik Jon Mooberry suitable as a Key Person of Bally
Gaming, Inc. in his role as President. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Level 1 Licenses – Approvals and Denials:


Jon Ibarguen – Level 1 – HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora and HC Joliet, LLC
d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – VP of Finance

Member Garcia moved that the Board approve Jon Ibarguen as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee in his
position as Vice President of Finance for HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora and HC
Joliet, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.


Justin Donsbach – Level 1 – HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora and HC Joliet,
LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Internal Auditor

Member Garcia moved that the Board approve Justin Donsbach as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee in
his role as an Internal Auditor for HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora and HC Joliet, LLC
d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
via voice vote.


Kelly Renee Mendoza – Level 1 – HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora – Senior
Internal Auditor

Member Garcia moved that the Board approve Kelly Renee Mendoza as a Level 1 Occupational
Licensee in her role as Senior Internal Auditor for HC Aurora, LLC d/b/a Hollywood Casino Aurora.
Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.


Mitchell Boyd – Level 1 – Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s
Metropolis Casino – Staff Internal Auditor

Member Ramirez moved that the Board approve Mitchell Boyd as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee in
his position as Staff Internal Auditor for Southern Illinois Riverboat/Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s

4

 September 16, 2019 Regular Board Meeting
Metropolis Casino. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice
vote.


Steven Peate – Level 1 – Alton Casino, LLC d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton – Vice President &
General Manager

Member Ramirez moved that the Board approve Steven Peate as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee in his
position as Vice President & General Manager for Alton Casino, LLC d/b/a Argosy Casino Alton.
Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Initial Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses – Approvals and Denials:
Member Hayden moved that the Board approve 85 Level 2 and 194 Level 3 occupational
licenses and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to:




Ronald William Bertschi
Destiney Jevonne Meane; and
Angela M. Norwood

Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals:
Member Dolins moved that the Board renew the Level 1, 2, and 3 licenses of individuals who were
licensed or renewed in September 2018 and who have properly updated their applications, timely paid
their annual fees, and in compliance with the requirements of the Illinois Gambling Act and the Board's
Rules. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
DISCIPLINARY COMPLAINTS
Member Hayden moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint revoking the Level 2
occupational license of Rodney Tyreese Heckard, with said action taking effect 21 days after the
Notice of Disciplinary Complaint is served, unless an answer is properly filed within that timeframe
in accordance with Rule 1125. Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Level 2
occupational license of David Stuart Montrez, with said action taking effect 21 days after the
Notice of Disciplinary Complaint is served, unless an answer is properly filed within that timeframe
in accordance with Rule 1125. Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote. Scrivener’s note: Licensee’s name is Montrez David Stuart and should
be reflected as such.

5

 September 16, 2019 Regular Board Meeting
Member Garcia moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Level 2 occupational
license of Arielle Isabel Herrera Hunter, with said action taking effect 21 days after the Notice of
Disciplinary Complaint is served, unless an answer is properly filed within that timeframe in accordance
with Rule 1125. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Garcia moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Level 2
occupational license of Albert Daniel Sikirdji, with that action taking effect 21 days after the
Notice of Disciplinary Complaint is served, unless an answer is properly filed within that timeframe
in accordance with Rule 1125. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Level 3
occupational license of Thatalia Renee Garcia, with said action taking effect 21 days after the
Notice of Disciplinary Complaint is served, unless an answer is properly filed within that timeframe
in accordance with Rule 1125. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously via voice vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint revoking the Level 3
occupational license of Garrick Allen Crow, with said action taking effect 21 days after the Notice of
Disciplinary Complaint is served, unless an answer is properly filed within that timeframe in accordance
with Rule 1125. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board rescind disciplinary complaint DC-R-19-028 and issue a notice
of denial to applicant Alec Emerson Bieschke. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously via voice vote.
VIDEO GAMING
VIDEO GAMING MANUFACTURER, DISTRIBUTOR & SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Member Dolins moved that the Board grant a Video Gaming Manufacturer License to Inspired Gaming
(UK) Ltd. for a period of one year, expiring in September 2020. Member Ramirez seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve a Video Gaming Distributor License to Inspired Gaming
(USA), Inc. for a period of one year, expiring in September 2020. Member Ramirez seconded the motion.
The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEE ITEMS
Initial Licenses


United Gaming Operator LLC

Member Dolins moved that the Board table consideration of licensure of United Gaming Operator
LLC’s terminal operator application until such time as the applicant provides the information requested
6

 September 16, 2019 Regular Board Meeting
by staff relative to the residency of its substantial owners. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The
motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
License Renewals
Member Hayden moved move that the Board renew the following Terminal Operator licenses for a
period of one year, expiring September 2020.
1. Aces Up Gaming LLC; and
2. Bell Gaming LLC
Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
TECHNICIANS & TERMINAL HANDLERS
Initial Licenses – Approval and Denials
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve 4 Technician licenses and 69 Terminal Handler
licenses, and authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to the following individuals:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Ryan Patrick Cullen
Daniel Patrick Morici
Tonicka Lashun Harris
Clinton John Calhoun

Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve James Lindel Eldridge for a Terminal Handler license.
Member Hayden seconded the motion. Member Ramirez recused himself. The motion passed 4/0 via
voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Garcia moved that the Board renew the Technician and Terminal Handler licenses that were
licensed or renewed in September 2018 and who have properly updated their applications, timely paid
their annual fees, and are in compliance with the requirements of the Video Gaming Act and the Board's
Rules. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT APPLICATIONS
Initial Licenses - Approvals & Denials
Member Ramirez moved that the Board approve 115i Video Gaming Establishment Licenses, for a
period of one year, expiring in September 2020, subject to licensee’s payment of the applicable licensing
fee on or before October 31, 2019; and further authorize the Administrator to issue Notices of Denial to
the following applicants:
7

 September 16, 2019 Regular Board Meeting
1. Alejandro’s Mexican Restaurant, LLC d/b/a Alejandro’s Mexican Restaurant
(180703009)
2. Winnie's Cafe, Inc. d/b/a Winnie's Cafe, Inc. (180702684)
3. Arlind Aliu d/b/a Bethalto Family Eagle Nest Restaurant (190700203)
4. Angelo's Pizza of Harvard, Inc. d/b/a Angelo's Pizza of Harvard (190700817)
5. Ferguson Entertainment LLC d/b/a Gaming Spa (180701770)
6. Giovanni’s Catering Inc. d/b/a Giovanni’s Catering (190701104)
7. Pollos Al Carbon El Corral Inc. d/b/a Chapala (170704160)
8. Canal Port II, Inc. d/b/a Canal Port (190700023)
9. Sally's 4th St. Bistro Inc. d/b/a Sally's 4th St. Bistro (190701375)
10. TnTs Roundhouse LLC d/b/a TnTs Roundhouse (190701005)

Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Garcia moved that Board issue a video gaming establishment license to Judy’s Place, Inc.
d/b/a Judy’s Place for a period of one year, expiring in September 2020, subject to licensee’s payment
of the applicable licensing fee on or before October 31, 2019. Member Ramirez seconded the motion.
Member Dolins recused himself. The motion passed 4/0 via voice vote.
Member Ramirez moved that the Board table the applications of Trudy's Cafe LLC d/b/a Trudy’s
Café (180704167) Sauk Village; and Trudy's Cafe LLC d/b/a Trudy’s Café (180703393) to afford
the applicant time to seek leave from the Board to withdraw these applications if it so chooses. Member
Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
License Renewals and Non-Renewals
Member Ramirez moved that the Board renew the licenses of Retail Establishments, Truck Stop
Establishments, Veterans Establishments and Fraternal Establishments that were licensed or renewed in
September 2018 and that have properly updated their applications, timely paid their annual fee, and are
otherwise in compliance with the requirements of the Video Gaming Act and the Board's Rules; and that
the Board authorize the Administrator issue Notices of Non-renewal to the following:



Charles H & Sandra N Sine d/b/a The Pub Club Broadway
Carpentersville V.F.W. Post No. 5915 Inc. d/b/a Carpentersville VFW Post No. 5915

Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that the Board rescind its prior non-renewal and renew Tumbles, Inc. d/b/a
Wunder Y Tap’s license retroactive to August 2018, subject to said location’s payment of its 2018 and
2019 renewal fees. Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice
vote.

8

 September 16, 2019 Regular Board Meeting
REQUESTS FOR HEARING, REQUESTS TO REAPPLY
Requests for Hearing
Member Hayden moved that the Board deny the hearing request submitted by Lyndale Tawon Parker.
Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that that the Board grant the hearing request submitted by Sauced Pub, Inc.
d/b/a Sauced Pub. Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice
vote.
Member Hayden moved that that the Board grant the hearing request submitted by Priya Tobacco Inc.
d/b/a The Tobacco Shop. Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via
voice vote.
Member Hayden moved that that the Board rescind its prior denial and grant licensure to Shivansh Inc.
d/b/a Livingston IGA. Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice
vote.
Member Garcia moved that that the Board grant the hearing request submitted by Napoli Cucina LLC
d/b/a Canta Napoli. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice
vote.
Member Hayden moved that that the Board grant the hearing request submitted by Tacos san Jose, Inc.
d/b/a Tacos San Jose. Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice
vote.
Member Garcia moved that that the Board grant a hearing to Sisco's Sports Bar LLC d/b/a Sisco's
Sports Bar LLC. Member Garcia seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via voice vote.
LITIGATION/SETTLEMENTS
Member Dolins moved that the Board adopt Administrative Law Judge’s recommendations in both DC17-27 In re: Timothy Adams 18 GB 039 and DC-17-28 In re: Michael Fan 18 GB 040 and issue final
Board orders revoking their respective licenses. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously via voice vote.
Member Dolins moved that the Board adopt Administrative Law Judge’s recommendations in DC-V18-076 In re: Michael J. Whitaker Sr. d/b/a Charlie’s Lounge 18 GB 055 and issue a final Board
order revoking his license. Member Ramirez seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously via
voice vote.
ADJOURN
Member Dolins moved to adjourn the meeting. Member Hayden seconded the motion. The motion
passed unanimously via voice vote.
i

Amended by Board motion November 7, 2019.

9

 