CHICAGO TRANSIT BOARD
Regular Meeting
Wednesday, November 20, 2019
2:30 P.M.
________
1.

ROLL CALL

2.

PUBLIC COMMENTS

3.

MINUTES: Regular Board meeting held October 10, 2019

4.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

5.

A.

To approve an ordinance authorizing final payment for the acquisition of a
construction easement on property located at 5343 North Broadway
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois for the Red and Purple Modernization Program

B.

To approve an ordinance authorizing the sale of and retention of an
easement on former Logan Square right-of-way property located at the
rear of 1327-1329 North Moorman Street, Chicago, Illinois

C.

To approve an ordinance authorizing execution of a Collective Bargaining
Agreement containing the terms of a Tentative Agreement with the Bridge,
Structural and Reinforcing Iron Workers Local Union No. 1

D.

To approve an ordinance authorizing execution of a Collective Bargaining
Agreement containing the terms of a Tentative Agreement with the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 134 (Controllers)

BOARD MATTERS
A.

6.

To approve a resolution setting the time of the December 2019 Chicago
Transit Board Regular Meeting

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT AND BUDGET
REPORT
A.

To approve an ordinance amending Ordinance 018-100 approving the
Fiscal Years 2019-2023 Capital Improvement Program

B.

To approve an ordinance adopting a Budget for Calendar Year 2020 and
Financial Plan for Calendar Years 2021-2022

C.

To approve an ordinance approving the Fiscal Years 2020-2024 Capital
Improvement Program and authorizing the filing and execution of grant
and cooperative agreements and amendments and related materials

D.

To approve an ordinance authorizing free rides for Chicago Public School
students during the teachers’ strike

 Regular Board Agenda
November 20, 2019
Page Two
E.

To approve an ordinance authorizing a license agreement with Bottling
Group, LLC/Pepsi Beverage Company to install, operate and maintain
beverage vending machines at designated Authority facilities

F.

To approve an ordinance authorizing the assignment of a lease of retail
concession space and a license of the back lot located at 319 East
Garfield Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois (Green Line)

G.

To approve an ordinance authorizing an amendment to a sublease
between Sterling Racine, LLC and Shipbob, Inc. for property located at
120 North Racine Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

H.

To approve an ordinance authorizing payment of up to $20 million for
utility engineering and relocation costs for the Red and Purple
Modernization Program

I.

To approve an ordinance authorizing a license agreement with the Village
of Lincolnwood for property located at Hamlin Avenue and the Yellow Line
right-of-way, Skokie, Illinois (Yellow Line)

J.

To approve an ordinance authorizing an intergovernmental agreement
with Pace for local match funds for the South Halsted Bus Corridor
Enhancement Project

K.

To approve 10 purchase and/or sales award recommendations

7.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT

8.

NEW BUSINESS

9.

MOTION TO ADJOURN

 