 

Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black

Minutes – February 24, 2017
Present in Springfield:

Frank Vala

Present in Chicago:

Rick Morales
Larry Ivory

Via Telephone:

Bill Black

Chairman Vala called the February meeting of the Procurement Policy Board to order. Four Members
were present, with Member Bedore being absent. Member Morales makes the motion to allow Member
Black to participate by Via Telephone phone. All members voting in favor by saying “aye” and the
motion carried.
The first agenda item was the approval of the January 19, 2017 minutes. Member Morales makes a
motion to accept the minutes a printed, Member Ivory seconded the motion. Chairman Vala stated that he
have two points of clarification that he received from CMS. First, “temporary” versus “permanent”
improvements are defined by the Illinois Administrative Code (Section 5000.380). All permanent
improvements are the responsibility of the Lessor. Only improvements defined as temporary are
amortized through the lease (or occasionally paid via lump sum). Further, once the full scope of work has
been defined and itemized, CMS conducts a “fair and reasonable” cost analysis to ensure that any cost to
the State is in line with current construction standards. Restrooms are a permanent improvement and not
amortized in the lease. Further, all compliance with ADA requirements is the responsibility of the Lessor,
as is any work relating to building and health code compliance. There is a very substantial amount of
build-out with this lease, some permanent and some temporary. Any White Paper reference to expansion
of the restrooms and/or ADA work was simply informational and mentioned only as examples within the
larger scope of work. It was not meant to infer that there would be any cost to the State for those items.
Member Morales mentioned the 6% interest rate for the amortized improvements which he felt is too
high. I can verify that 6% has generally been the going rate for all recent amortizations. This may be due
in part the ongoing budget/fiscal crisis and banks’ hesitance to loan money to owners of properties which
are leased to the State, due to uncertainty over timely payment of rents. Lease #6628, There seemed also
to be some confusion regarding the current locations of these employees and the fate of those spaces once
the new lease takes effect. All of the staff that will be moving into L6628 are currently housed in
“Building 30” at the Fairgrounds, as is much of the equipment that will be moved into the warehouse
portion of the new lease. We intend to backfill the Building 30 space but at this time, no decision has
been made regarding when or with which agency. The remainder of the DoIT equipment is currently
stored in a portion of the Armory and that space will not be backfilled. The remainder is currently in the
State Surplus Warehouse and that space will easily be taken over with other equipment and furniture from
other agencies. The “Computer Center” at 120 W. Jefferson is not affected by this new lease. No
employees will be relocated from that facility. Finally, unrelated to the proposed DoIT lease, there were
questions regarding the cost of janitorial at DHS #6431 in Sycamore ($1.20) versus ISP #6422 in
Macomb ($3.51).The janitorial provider for Macomb is a State Use vendor. State Use contracts are no-

1 
 

 Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black

 
bid and tend to be higher. The cost of janitorial for the Sycamore office works out to about $200 per
week, and in Macomb it’s about $250 a week. The reason the per-square-foot cost is so much higher at
Macomb is because it’s such a small office (less square footage over which to spread the cost). If the
Macomb office was the same size as Sycamore, the rates would be $1.20 vs $1.54. Chairman Vala asked
to add the clarification to the minutes. Member Morales said so moved and was seconded by Member
Black. All members voting in favor by saying “aye” and the motion carried.
Next on the agenda was lease review for DoIT lease #6628. Director Von Behren said that since the
Board objected to the lease at the last meeting the Board would need to issue a Certificate of No
Objection to this lease today in order for the lease to take effect. Chairman Vala said that with the
clarification that he added to the minutes does anybody have any other questions or input on this lease.
Member Black made a motion to issue a letter of no objection and was seconded by Member Morales. All
members voting in favor by saying “aye” and the motion carried.
Next on the agenda was lease review for DOC lease #4355. Chairman Vala said that this is the whole
training center here in Springfield and has been here since 1979. Hopefully with the new Washington DC
people we will be more money for law enforcement and other needs. I certainly see that we need this
training center. Do we have questions on the actual lease? Member Black said that he knows that the State
of Illinois, and knows that this is not unusual, at the current time is behind on our current lease payments
by $1.5 million, what interest rate do we pay on those mortgages? Ms. Florence said that she doesn’t
know that answer, but can get that information for the Board. She is not sure what the Prompt Payment
Act requires. Member Black said that a lot of people probably don’t want to loan any money to us at this
point because of our budgetary issues. Ms. Florence said that would be true. Chairman Vala said that he
believes that they fall into the same criteria as the Prompt Payment, which is 1% per month on the unpaid
balance after the 90th day that it is owed. So beginning the 90th day it is computed. So the first 90 days the
landlord or the vendor received absolutely no interest, but is still carrying the State of Illinois as a
stepchild. Member Black said that he would assume that they will all get paid at some point and suppose
that they could though us out if they wanted to thank goodness they are willing to continue their
relationship with the State of Illinois. Chairman Vala said that he agrees with Member Black. Chairman
asked Member Morales how much of a burden is the 90 days to each of the vendors. As a lender how do
you look at that? Member Morales said that it is quite an impact in many cases. It is a case-by-case
situation with each vender if you will contractor whatever the case might be. Depending on how historic
their relationship has been managed and considerations given by banks otherwise we go into a different
tier and are considered high risk and look at that each month to see what the status is. It is burdensome
and becomes a high risk and can affect the rates which they are following. So it can be impactful.
Chairman asked if Member Morales had any questions. Member Morales said that there are a lot of
moving parts. Will the Board get updates, for example, when they have to adjust square footage? Ms.
Florence said yes, that will be done through an amendment and be posted to the Bulletin just like any
amendment so the Board will have the information. Chairman Vala said he would enter a motion for no
objection. Member Black made a motion and was seconded by Member Morales. All members voting in
favor by saying “aye” and the motion carried.
Next on the agenda was Non-Agenda Items. Chairman Vala asked if everyone had the opportunity to
review the non-agenda items. Are there any questions or discussion on these? No questions were raised.

2 
 

 Chairman: Frank J. Vala
Members: Ed Bedore, Ricardo Morales, Larry Ivory, Bill Black

 
Next on the agenda was legislation. Director Von Behren said that there are no new bills that have been
filed and are continuing to monitor SB8. There will be a Senate hearing on SB8 in Chicago next week and
a subject matter hearing March 7th in Springfield as well, other than that no new legislation at this time.
With nothing further to discuss a motion to adjourn was made by Member Morales and was seconded by
Member Ivory. All members voting in favor by saying “aye” and the motion carried. The meeting was
adjourned.

3 
 

 