Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, November 20, 2019

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-6780
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/23/2019
19-6727
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of
Proceedings of the special meeting held on 10/10/2019.

Page 1 of 6

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 20, 2019

19-6728
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the regular Consent Calendar meeting held on 10/23/2019.
19-6729
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of
the regular meeting held on 10/24/2019.
19-4770
Presented by: N. KEITH CHAMBERS, Executive Director, Department of Human Rights and Ethics

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 19-4770 (Rules Committee 10/23/2019)
REPLACES ALL PRIOR VERSIONS OF THIS FILE ID
SUGGESTED MODIFICATIONS TO PUBLIC FACING RULES AND REGULATIONS
PART 700 JUST HOUSING AMENDMENT INTERPRETIVE RULES
Section 700.100
Prohibition of Discrimination
Article II of the Cook County Human Rights Ordinance (“Ordinance”) prohibits unlawful discrimination,
as defined in §42-31, against a person because of any of the following: race, color, sex, age, religion,
disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge,
source of income, gender identity or housing status.
Additionally, any written or unwritten housing policy or practice that discriminates against applicants based
on their criminal history, as defined in § 42-38(a) of the Ordinance, is a violation of the Ordinance. Any
written or unwritten housing policy or practice which discriminates against applicants based on their
convictions, as defined in § 42-38(a) of the Ordinance, prior to the completion of an individualized
assessment violates the Ordinance.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting a housing provider from denying housing to an
applicant based on their criminal conviction history when required by federal or state law.

SUBPART 710

AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY

Page 2 of 6

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 20, 2019

Section 710.100
Authority
These rules are adopted in accordance with the authority vested in the Cook County Commission on
Human Rights (“Commission”), pursuant to § 42-34(e)(5) and §42-38(c)(5)(c) of the Ordinance, to adopt
rules and regulations necessary to implement the Commission’s powers.
Section 710.110
Applicability
These rules shall go into effect on the effective date of the Just Housing Amendment (No. 19-2394) to
the Ordinance and shall only apply to claims that arise out of actions that occur on or after the effective
date of the amendments.
SUBPART 720

DEFINITIONS

Section 720.100
Business Day
“Business Day” means any day except any Saturday, Sunday, or any day which is a federal or State of
Illinois legal holiday.
Section 720.110
Criminal Background Check
“Criminal background check,” as referenced in § 42-38(e)(2)(a), includes any report containing
information about an individual’s criminal background, including but not limited to those produced by
federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies, federal and state courts or consumer reporting
agencies.
Section 720.120
Demonstrable Risk
“Demonstrable risk,” as referenced in § 42-38(c)(5)(c), refers to the likelihood of harm to other residents’
personal safety and/or likelihood of serious damage to property.
Criminal convictions that are three (3) years old or older do not represent a demonstrable risk to personal
safety or property, except in the following circumstances:
(A) A current sex offender registration requirement pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act
(or similar law in another jurisdiction); or
(B) A current child sex offender residency restriction.
Section 720.130
Individualized Assessment
“Individualized Assessment,” as referenced in § 42-38(a) means a process by which a person considers
all factors relevant to an individual’s conviction history from the previous three (3) years. Factors that
may be considered in performing the Individualized Assessment include, but are not limited to:
(1) The nature and severity of the criminal offense and how recently it occurred;
(2) The nature of the sentencing;
(3) The number of the applicant’s criminal convictions;
(4) The length of time that has passed since the applicant’s most recent conviction;
(5) The age of the individual at the time the criminal offense occurred;
(6) Evidence of rehabilitation;
(7) The individual history as a tenant before and/or after the conviction.
Section 720.140
Relevance
“Relevance,” as referenced in § 42-38(e)(2), refers to the degree to which an individual’s conviction
history makes it likely that the applicant poses a demonstrable risk to the personal safety and/or property

Page 3 of 6

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 20, 2019

of others.
Section 720.150
Tenant Selection Criteria
“Tenant selection criteria,” as referenced in § 42-38(e)(2)(a), means the criteria, standards and/or policies
used to evaluate whether an applicant qualifies for admission to occupancy or continued residency. The
criteria, standards and/or policies concerning the applicant’s conviction history from the previous three (3)
years shall apply only after a housing applicant has been pre-qualified. The criteria must explain how
applicants’ criminal conviction history from the previous three (3) years will be evaluated to determine
whether their conviction history poses a demonstrable risk to personal safety or property.
SUBPART 730

TWO STEP TENANT SCREENING PROCESS

Section 730.100
Notice of Tenant Selection Criteria and Screening Process
Before accepting an application fee, a housing provider must disclose to the applicant the following
information:
(A) The tenant selection criteria, which describes how an applicant will be evaluated to determine
whether to rent or lease to the applicant;
(B) The applicant’s right to provide evidence demonstrating inaccuracies within the applicant’s
conviction history, or evidence of rehabilitation and other mitigating factors as described in
§740.100(B) below; and
(C) A copy of Part 700 of the Commission’s procedural rules or a link to the Commission’s website,
with the address and phone number of the Commission.
Section 730.110
Step One: Pre-Qualification
No person shall inquire about, consider or require disclosure of criminal conviction history before the
prequalification process is complete, and the housing provider has determined the applicant has satisfied
all other application criteria for housing or continued occupancy.
Section 730.120
Notice of Pre-Qualification
Once a housing provider determines an applicant has satisfied the pre-qualification standards for housing,
the housing provider shall notify the applicant that the first step of the screening procedure has been
satisfied and notify the applicant that a criminal background check will be performed or solicited.
Section 730.130
Step Two: Criminal Background Check
After a housing provider sends the notice of pre-qualification required by Section 730.120, a housing
provider may conduct a criminal background check on the prequalified applicant. However, the housing
provider may not consider any information related to the criminal convictions that are more than three (3)
years old or any covered criminal history as defined in Section 42-38(a) of the Ordinance.
SUBPART 740

CONVICTION DISPUTE PROCEDURES

Section 740.100
General
Before denying admission or continued occupancy based on criminal conviction history, a housing provider
must provide the housing applicant or resident with:
(A) A copy of the tenant selection criteria, any criminal background check or other screening material
relied upon by the housing provider, and the individualized assessment performed by the housing
provider.
(B) Notice of the applicant’s right to dispute the accuracy or relevance of any conviction(s) in

Page 4 of 6

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 20, 2019

accordance with Section 740.110 of these rules; and
(C) A copy of Part 700 of the Commission’s procedural rules, or a link to the Commission’s website,
with the address and phone number of the Commission.
Section 740.110
Opportunity to Dispute the Accuracy and Relevance of Convictions
Once a housing provider complies with the requirements of Section 740.100, the applicant shall have:
(A) five (5) business days from the postal or electronic mail date stamp to notify the housing provider
in writing of the applicant’s intent to dispute the accuracy or relevance of any criminal convictions
from the last three (3) years; and
(B) an additional five (5) business days to produce evidence that disputes the accuracy or relevance
of information related to any criminal convictions from the last three (3) years.
Section 740.120
Dispute Procedures and Other Applicants
If a pre-qualified applicant provides notice of intent to dispute the accuracy or relevance of the applicant’s
criminal conviction history in accordance with §740.110, the housing provider must complete the dispute
process in §740.110 before extending housing to another applicant.
If such applicant, after providing notice of the applicant’s intent to dispute, fails to dispute the accuracy or
relevance of the applicant’s criminal conviction history and the housing provider determines that the
applicant’s criminal convictions from the last three (3) years pose a demonstrable risk, the housing
provider may extend housing to another pre-qualified applicant.
However, if such applicant disputes the accuracy or relevance of the applicant’s criminal conviction
history, the housing provider must perform an individualized assessment to determine whether the
applicant’s criminal convictions from the last three (3) years pose a demonstrable risk. If the applicant’s
criminal convictions pose a demonstrable risk, the housing provider may extend housing to another
pre-qualified applicant.
SUBPART 760

NOTICE OF FINAL DECISION

Section 760.100
Decision Deadline
A housing provider must either approve or deny an individual’s housing application within three (3) days of
a final decision to deny admission or continued occupancy based on criminal conviction history.
Section 760.110
Written Notice of Denial
(A) Any denial of admission or continued occupancy based on a conviction must be in writing and
must provide the applicant an explanation of why denial based on criminal conviction is necessary
to protect against a demonstrable risk of harm to personal safety and/or property.
(B) The written denial must also contain a statement informing the housing applicant of their right to
file a complaint with the Commission.
Section 760.120
Confidentiality
The housing provider must limit the use and distribution of information obtained in performing the
applicant’s criminal background check.
The housing provider must keep any information gathered
confidential and in keeping with the requirements of the Ordinance.

Page 5 of 6

 Rules and Administration
Committee

November 20, 2019

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Legislative History :

7/25/19 -

Legislative History :

9/4/19 - Rules and Administration Committee - recommend for deferral

Legislative History :

9/25/19 -

Rules and Administration Committee

-

recommend for approval as subs

Legislative History :

9/25/19 -

Rules and Administration Committee

-

refer to the Cook County Commi

Legislative History :

10/23/19 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Rules and Administration Commi

Rules and Administration Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Degnen
Members:
Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims

Page 6 of 6

-

reconsider rules, file response to

 