Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Human Relations Committee
Wednesday, November 20, 2019

11:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-6778
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/23/2019
19-5762
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

LARRY

SUFFREDIN

and

BRIDGET

DEGNEN,

Cook

County

Board

of

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

ORDINANCE

REQUIRING

QUARTERLY

REPORTS

ON HUMAN RIGHTS

Page 1 of 2

BY

THE

COOK

COUNTY

COMMISSION

 Human Relations Committee
BE

IT

ORDAINED,

by

NOTICE AND AGENDA

the

Cook

County

Board

of

RELATIONS, ARTICLE II. - HUMAN RIGHTS, Sec. 42-34. -

Commissioners,

November 20, 2019

that

Chapter 42 - HUMAN

Commission on Human Rights, Subsection 42-34

(e) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

42-34 (e) Additional powers and duties.
(4) Rendering an annual report of the activities of the Commission and making recommendations to
the President and Cook County Board of Commissioners. The report shall be published. - Reserved.
(9) The Commission shall file quarterly written reports with the Cook County Board of Commissioners
during the third week of January, April, July, and October and shall include the following information for
complaints filed or resolved during the preceding quarter:
(A) A list, including the file number and nature, of each complaint filed with the Cook County
Commission on Human Rights under ยง42-34 of the Ordinance.
(B) A list, including the file number and outcome, of each complaint resolved by the Commission,
indicating whether each complaint was resolved in favor of the complainant or respondent.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

9/26/19 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Human Relations Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Deer
Vice-Chairman: K. Morrison
Members:
Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin

Page 2 of 2

 