Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, October 18, 2019 at the hour of 10:30 A.M. at
1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Directors Mike Koetting (Substitute Member) and
Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (3)

Present
Telephonically:
Absent:

Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Patricia Merryweather (NonDirector Member)
Director Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH (1)
Director Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH (1)

Director Koetting, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
allow Director Prendergast to telephonically participate in the meeting as a
voting member. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Operations
Trevor Lewis, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Krzysztof Pierko, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive
Officer
Elizabeth Vaclavic – Associate Nurse Executive,
Ambulatory Services
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Medical Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, provided an update on a series of Ambulatory regulatory
activities that occurred over the last year. In August 2018, the organization received a Certificate of
Distinction from The Joint Commission on its Primary Care Medical Home Program. In February 2019,
Title X Family Planning was recertified by the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH); in May
2019, IDPH recertified the School Health Program. Also, in July 2019, the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency recertified the ACR Mammography Program.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, October 18, 2019
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (continued)
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Wyatt provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
During the discussion of the metrics on Hospital Acquired Infections, Board Chair Hammock inquired
regarding the goal of zero infections; he asked if information can be provided on what other hospitals set
as their goals for those measures. Dr. Wyatt responded that he can provide data, but he believes that most
hospitals would also set their goals at zero. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, noted that the
Committee receives an annual report from the Department of Infectious Diseases that goes into more
detail on the subject; the most recent report presented in November 2018 can be re-circulated to the
Committee for their information.

IV.

Action Items
A. Proposed Amendment to the Bylaws of the John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County Medical
Staff (Attachment #2)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, presented the
item for the Committee’s consideration.
Director Prendergast, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the proposed Amendment to the Bylaws of the John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County Medical Staff. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s)
There were none presented for consideration.
C. Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes (Attachment #3)
Dr. Lewis presented his report. He stated that, at the recent EMS meeting, reports from Correctional
Health and Nursing were received.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, was unable to
attend the meeting.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, October 18, 2019
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
C.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County (continued)
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for
Provident Hospital of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, September 20, 2019
Director Koetting, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to accept
the Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of
September 20, 2019. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
E. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Claims, Litigation and Quality and Patient Safety Matters
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
Director Koetting, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the
following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation,
discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal
counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11),
regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the
particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be
recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of
claims as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, October 18, 2019
Page 4

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or
potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims,
loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or
communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or
any intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance pool
of which the public body is a member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17),
regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review
of physicians or other health care professionals, or for the discussion of
matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality
Improvement Act of 2005, and the regulations promulgated thereunder,
including 42 C.F.R. Part 3 (73 FR 70732), or the federal Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, including 45 C.F.R. Parts 160, 162, and 164, by a
hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the
public body.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting,
a roll call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chair Gugenheim and Directors Koetting, Prendergast and Suleiman
Gonzalez (4)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Driscoll (1)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee convened
into a closed meeting.
Chair Gugenheim declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, October 18, 2019
Page 5

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Requests/follow-up:
Request:

A request was made for information on what other hospitals set as their goal for hospital
acquired infections. Page 2

Follow-up:

The most recent Report from the Department of Infectious Diseases presented to the Committee
(in November 2018) will be re-circulated to the Committee for their information. Page 2

 