TESTIMONIAL
RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,



Cl

PR 5"

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
I {3 Q7

sttmoma -ofutzon

Danielle D. Hughes

Author, Entrepreneur, Mentor

Danielle D. Hughes is a native Detroiter determined to make her mark on the world, one young person at a time.
Upon graduating with a BA. in Journalism from Georgia State University, Danielle pledged to be the person she
needed when she was younger. Daily, she makes it her mission to make an impact in the lives of Detroit?s youth
through her work as Dream Director with the Future Project. In this capacity, Danielle provides Detroit Public
School students with mentorship, coaching, leadership and personal development skills to achieve their dreams by
exposing them to life-enhancing opportunities. As Danielle realizes her dreams, she inspires young people by
creatively directing and hosting her own vision board series in cities across the country; and

Due to her outstanding work in education, Danielle was named to the Forbes 30 Under 30 2018 list. She also has
been honored as one of the most powerful women in Detroit by Walkers Legacy and named a ?Leader of
Tomorrow? by Native Detroiter Magazine. She also is a member of the 2019 Michigan Chronicle 40 Under 40
and was recognized as one of the most in?uential African Americans by The Root. Coupling her youth advocacy
with contributions to women?s empowerment campaigns, Danielle believes fearlessness, grace, tenacity and
excellence are what makes women powerful; and

In June of 2019, Danielle released her debut book: Always Make Your Bed: 7Principles to Dream It, Do It 
Get What You Want Out of Life. In October 2019, the Forbes 30 Under 30 Summit was held in Detroit. They
partnered with The Future Project, Detroit Public Schools Community District and the Boys Girls Club of
Southeastern Michigan to present the inaugural Dreamers in Action Day of Service. Under Danielle?s direction,
150 students experienced an immersive and interactive day of personal and professional growth while
interacting with Forbes mentors. The day consisted of workshOps surrounding ?nancial literacy, leveraging social
media wisely, entrepreneurship and dressing for success. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones recognize and commend Danielle D.

Hughes for her efforts to make it possible for young people everywhere, eSpecially in Detroit, to discover their
passion, purpose, and ability to change the world.

 

 

Drum earn

 

 

 

 

 

DATE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

. 

TLC HHUHIIUL Rig 
Church of the Living God C.W.F.F., Temple #69
100?? Anniversary Celebration 1919 2019
?We?ve Come This Far by Faith 

For one hundred years, the Church of the Living God C.W.F.F., Temple #69, has been sewing communities on the east side of
Detroit preaching and teaching Christian stewardship, while nurturing the physical body, spirit and mind. In 1919, Bishop M. L.
Gibson established Church of the Living God, C.W.F.F. Temple #69, in the 4?h Episcopal Diocese in Detroit, Michigan. He organized
the ?rst service at the home of Mr. and Mrs. John Green at 1965 Chestnut Street. Henry Gibbs and Olivia Hickman were the ?rst
persons to unite in this new mission. In this small but adequate Christian home, the Word of God provided light to guide their path and
the love to inspire fellowship. As the church continued to grow, under the leadership of Bishop M.L. Gibson, it moved to 1944 Monroe
Street. Because of the need for additional space, Bishop ML. Gibson purchased 1830 Macomb Street. In 1946, the City of Detroit
purchased the building at 1830 Macomb Street and the church was able to purchase a new edi?ce and parsonage at 3152 and 3156
Ardt Street; and

Church of the Living God C.W.F.F., Temple #69, experienced several changes in leadership. The Macomb Street pastors included
Elder Daniel Buckner, Elder A.J. Moore, Elder Lee Anderson, Elder Henry Robertson, Elder J.J. Jackson, Elder CR. Brown, and Elder
J. McMillan, Elder Milton, and Overseer .R. Gipson. Arndt Street pastors included Overseer .R. Gipson, Elder A.D. West, Elder J.
Tyler, and Bishop L.J. Collins. In 1961, Bishop Collins moved the church to its present edi?ce, 7053 Longyear. On December 3, 1961,
Church of the Living God C.W.F.F., Temple #69, was dedicated. Valued at $70,000, the mortgage burning took place in July 28,
1974. Elder Gary Ray was appointed pastor in 1979, and remained for four years. In 1983, Elder Davis L. Harrison was appointed
pastor for 10 years until 1985. Elder Horace M. Robbins was appointed pastor in 1985 and served ten years. In September of 1995,
Elder Jimmie Ward was appointed as pastor. During his tenure, he had an amazing relationship with the parishioners and the
community. Elder Ward?s favorite saying was IS A DA WITH GREA Under Elder Ward, the Grace
Outreach Community Program; Unity in the Community Fun Day; the Feed, and Clothe the Community Program; as well as the Horace
M. Robbins Scholarship Fund were established. Elder Jimmie Ward, Jr., resigned in 1998. Elder Jacquelyn F. Robbins picked up the
torch to continue the mission. In April 1999, Bishop .I.C. Hawkins appointed Elder Jacquelyn F. Robbins. Elder Robbins became the
?rst woman to be appointed Pastor since the establishment of the church. Pastor Robbins appointed Elder Darrell Davis to the position
of Assistant Pastor. All of them contributed much to the growth and life of the church; and

Pastor Robbins has allowed the Holy Spirit to guide and direct her in continuing the mission of Bishop M.L. Gibson. Church of the
Living God C.W.F.F., Temple #69, has come this far by faith. Under Pastor Robbins? leadership membership has increased and new
ministries such as Leadership Class, Youth Bible Study, and Daughters Promising to Reign have been added. As the Church of the
Living God C.W.F.F., Temple #69, celebrates its Anniversary, it has proven to be a ?ne religious institution that ful?lls the
vital task of ministering and helping to meet the needs of the community. The church continues to carry on the ministry of spreading
The Good News. ?The circle of life is still evolving today. What a joy it has been for these one hundred years of service to God and
humanity.? NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones congratulate the Church of the Living God C.W.F.F., Temple
#69, on the celebration of its milestone 100'h Church Anniversary. May God continue to bless the church, pastor, and members in
abundance!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ciumhr. MEMBER

 

October 22. 2019

DATE

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Resolved,

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL .

HIV ?3
7: 65T- HLCUHUC 7X6 ?11110}!

WEST SIDE UNITY CHURCH

55 YEARS OF TEACHING THE TRUTH

West Side Unity Church is celebrating 55 years of service and ministry to the needs of God?s
People. They have been serving the Detroit west side community by preaching and teaching
Christian stewardship, while nurturing the physical body, spirit and the mind. In 1964, West
Side Unity was established with the founder, Reverend Ruth Mosley, along with ?ve members
of the Northend Study Group. Their ?rst service was held at the Masonic Hal at 5040 Joy Road
at Grand River. In 1971, Christ Unity Fellowship joined the West Side Unity Church family.
family. Due to needing additional space, Rev. Ruth (as she was affectionately called) led the
efforts for an expansion, moving to 4727 Joy Road at Broad Street. This site became the
groundbrealdng location of a three quarter of a million dollar new church facility constructed
right next door to the original site; and

West Side Unity Church was the ?rst Unity Church established in the state of Michigan to train
and develop Black licensed teachers for spiritual development. During the 70?s, Rev. Ruth trained
local ministerial students, which laid the foundation for the Unity Urban Ministerial School
(formally founded in 1980). The continued growth of West Side Unity Church was far reaching.
The Moment of Truth Outreach was implemented in 1977 and the church?s ?rst television
broadcast was featured in 1978. The church has many ways to keep members and community
involved: Lessons in Truth, 12 Powers of Man, Keep a True Lent, prosperity workshops, treasure-
mapping, healing, a 24 hour prayer line, weekly Bible Study, and Vacation Bible School; and

Although West Side Unity Church continued to ?ght dismal racism within the Unity Worldwide
Ministries, the church continued to thrive over the last 55 years. Many Unity ministers have been
trained to serve the urban community. The church membership continues to be ?Christ Controlled
and God Directed? in spreading the mission of the Truth of God?s goodness. West Side Unity
has come this far by faith. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones congratulate West Side
Unity Baptist Church on the celebration of its 55th Church Anniversary. May God continue to
bless everyone in abundance.

 

 

 

 

 

 

November
DATE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL


RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

 

Congresman Jalm Cougars, Jr.
?The Dean of the House of Representatives 

WHEREAS. We. the members of the Detroit City Council. o?'or sincere condolences to the family of Congressman John
Canyon. Jr. his loving. and dtwated will: Monica: their eidest son. John 111'. end their youngest son. Carl.
Congressman Cnnyers, who represented Michigan in Congress for over 5 decades. made his heavenly
transition on October 21'. 2019. after :i lit}: well-lived. Detroit. the 13'? District. the State of Michigan
and the country have lost a political legend; and

WHEREAS, John Canyon; was born in Detroit. Michigan. in I929 and attended Detroit Public Schools. He earned his BA.
degree In 1957. and his JD. degree in 1953. both from Wayne 5mm University. He proudly sencd in the
Michigan National Guard and then the United States Anny from 195010 1954. end has awarded combat and
merit citations. in 1951i. John Cnnyers began his political career in the of?ce of Congressman John 
when} he worked until 1961. He then served as counsel to inhor unions before running For of?ce himself:
and

WHEREAS. Congr?smen Conyertt made hlS'lL?ll'} when he was ?rst elected to the 11.5. House of Representatives in 1964.
He ran on a platform oi'johs.justice and peace. During the course oi" his 53-year political career. socieljusticc
and economic opporutnitsr remained the focal point of Congressman Conyers' platform. Congressman
Conyers' list of' legislative accomplish ments is ion 3 end Impressive. Some say his most notable accomplishment
was the creation of a federal holiday in honor of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King. Jr. Four days after Rev. King
was assassinated in 1963. Congressman Canyon-s introduced a hill to establish the holiday. It would take
another 15 years oftryittg until the legislation v. :15 eventually signed into iaw by President Ronald Reagan. Other
bills authored or sponsored by Congressman Confers include the Alcohol Wming Lebel Act, the National
Voter Regish'ation Act and the Hate Crime Statistics Act: and

WHEREAS, A co-foundcr of the Congressional Black Caucus end a ?erce champion for civil rights. Congressman Cunyers
was the longest-sewing African American: lam-taker in congressional history. And. as the ?rst African
American Democratic leader on the Hooso udlciar} Committee. Congressmen attached crucial civil
rights measures to the 199:- Dinnibus Crime Bill. including the Racial Justice Act and the Police Accountability
Act. hc generated the Justice Deperuncnt?s national stud} on police brutality and conducted
hearings in several cities on police racially motitcd sentencing. white-collar crime and other
criminal justice matters: and

WHEREAS, During his time in of?ce. Congressmen Cnnyers was extremely successful and popular in his district. He
regularly won reseicction with 80% 01" the vote or more. Throughout his 53 years in the House. ?The Dean"
worked to ensure the people of his district received fedcrul resources to improve their quality of ltfc. However.
his best achievement mus to work to safeguard civil. judicial and human rights for all. We all must
work to achieve the legacy begun by Congressman Conyers. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and the of?ce of Council President Brenda Jonesjoin with family and friends
in honoring the life and legacy of Congressman John Conyers, Jr. The Dean of the House 01
Representatives.

@m

coo NEIL (painter

  
 

 

 

 

can!

 

 

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 

 
  

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

   



   

1.1..

   

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
Zebedee Bishop

We. the members of the Detroit City Council solemnly pause today to recognize and bestow homage upon the
late, Zebedee Bishop; and

Zebedee Bishop was born on November 16. 1930. to the late Jessie Bishop and the late Jannie Bishop. He
accepted Christ in baptism at an early age. Zebedee Bishop attended the Highland Park and Detroit Public
School systems. graduating from Central High School in 1948. He held various employment during his early
adulthood. However. after earning his Bachelor of Arts in 1969 and Master of Arts in 1970 from the University
of Detroit. he began his career as a clinical He was the head of the substance abuse program at

the former Metropolitan Hospital in Detroit until his retirement from his secular working career in the mid-
1980's; and

The shining jewel in Zebedee Bishop?s crown was his labor and ministry with the Churches of Christ. both in
the Metro-Detroit area and across the United States. His work in the ministry began after earning his certi?cate
in Advanced Bible Study from the American Bible School in 1956. His ?rst assignment as a minister was at the
Westside Church of Christ in Detroit. He later served as minister at the Adams Street Church of Christ in
Jackson, Michigan. He then served as minister at Ford Avenue Church of Christ in Detroit. Michigan. until it
was decided to plant a congregation in the Eight Mile area of Detroit. That congregation was the Wyoming
Avenue Church of Christ and Zebedee Bishop served as the ?rst minister from 1966 until 1972. when he
returned to the Ford Avenue Church of Christ; and

Zebedee Bishop had a vision to build a new. larger facility for the Ford Avenue congregation and spearheaded
a drive among the members to raise funds for a new building. The vision came to reality in 1975. when the
church broke ground on the corner of Linwood and Fleet Street. One year later in 1976. the members marched
from the old location on Ford Avenue to the new building that is now known as Linwood Church of Christ. He
labored at Linwood Church of Christ until his retirement from the ministry in 1997; and

Zebedee Bishop was a renowned orator and speaker across the Brotherhood. He was known for being
spiritually profound and proli?c in the scriptures. For more than sixty years. he shared his life with the late
Madora Bishop. To their union three children were born: twin sons Eric Zebedee Bishop Sr. and Errol James
Bishop. both of whom preceded him in death, and daughter Ponya Madora Bishop. Zebedee Bishop will
forever be missed. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones recognize the remarkable life
and legacy of Zebedee Bishop. a life that was well lived. May we continue to always remember and honor
him.

 

 

 

co 
ER

COUNCI 

 

 

 

 

 

 

November 9, 2019
DATE

 

 

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
?w?mm
Why Me [age am array

are do: ?90":h Birthday. 

Johnnie Beatrice Pitts was born in Birmingham, Alabama, on November 23", 1929, to Wilbum and Roosevelt Pitts. She was the
youngest of three children and had two brothers?Roosevelt and Robert. After the death of her Dad and brother Robert, her oldest

brother Roosevelt known affectionately as Uncle Tommyjoined the Service. Johnnie and her Mom moved to Pittsburgh 
where her brother relocated after serving in the US. Navy; AND

Even as a youngster, Johnnie?s empathy for others was obvious. Her warm personality and outgoing nature drew people towards her,
and she never disappointed in being a good friend to so many. Johnnie attended Schennely High School, located in Pittsburgh?s Hill
District, where she excelled in sewing and tailoring, a passion she had since she was a child. As a young adult, Johnnie gravitated to
an and was a regular at the famous Pittsburgh jazz lounge called ?Crawford Grill.?; AND

included In her group of ?'iends who she hung out with as a young adult was a young ballpiayer who played for the Pittsburgh Pirates
at the time, and his name was Roberto Clemente. They were just friends, but it? Roberta had his way, it could have been different.
Johnnie was a beautiful young lady with style and grace and a body that most would admire; AND

In 1949, Johnnie married Odell Bailey, and they had 3 children Malikka (Debbie), Garner, and Odell. However, shortly after her
marriage, her mother was stricken by a major stroke that had her bedridden and paralyzed on the left side. The doctors told Johnnie to
put her Mother in a nursing facility as she would never be able to be self-suf?cient. Johnnie ignored the doctors? recommendation and
personally nursed her Mother back to health. This began her life-long role as a caregiver, and she was very good at it taking care of
her Mom until the end of her life in 1994; AND

Her husband was In the music business, and Johnie ran the household while he was off nearly every weekend pursuing his
life?s passion as a record label owner. publisher, producer, writer, meager, and a record store owner. Together they were a
dynamic couple and respected in the community for their drive and achievements. Johnnie's sewing abilities were second to none,
and she sought out to make wedding gowns and prom dresses and was the family tailor for any and all alterations; AND

Known for her excellent cooking skills, Johnnie?s rolls were beyond compare. She had a knack for trying new dishes and would
plan her family?s dinners a week in advance. Her children would be the ?rst to attest to her prowess in the kitchen. Dinners were
never bland or predictable. Even the desserts were special and varied from pineapple coconut, and strawberry icebox cakes, straw-
berry, sweet potato, and lemon moraine pies were also a family favorite; :L'llD

As a member of the Pittsburgh Sewing Club Society, Johnnie excelled when it was her turn to host the annual dinner party for the
sewing club. She decorated the home so beautifully and prepared dishes that tasted great and were presented like a ?ve-star
restaurant. it was a festive time tier all, but no one was happier than her three kids who get to eat the leftovers and try all the dishes
made, especially for this event Johnnie also found time to collect for the March of Dimes annually and ultimately became the
neighborhood caretaker as she would help young mothers and others in need. There was no end to her compassion; AND

After moving to Northwest Detroit in the early 19705, Johnnie stayed active and was totally committed to her family and continued to
do whatever was required to make sure her husband and children received the greatest of care. love, and attention. She supported her
husband throughout his entire career and even co-wrote a song with him that was recorded and released as ?Traveling on God?s
Highway?; AND

Johnnie and her Husband joined Henderson Memorial Methodist Church in the late lg?tls, where she met her close friend and running
buddy Willowdean Harris. Together they prepared and served most of the church meals for Henderson, and when the church closed,
they moved on to Calvery United Methodist Church in Detroit under the leadership of Pastor Wii. where they Continued to be good
servants for the lord. Johnnie recently lost Willowdean, making life a little more challenging. The two were inseparable, dressed to

the macs, and making their way around the City. She will truly miss her good friend and cherishes the memories of their travels and
time together; AND

In 1999, she celebrated 50 years of marriage with her beloved husband, surrounded by family and loved ones. Although her husband
past in 1004, Johnnie continued her role as the Family Matriareh and the glue that holds the family together. She loves her family
more than anything and has shown that love for years by preparing Holiday meals and hosting family gatherings. She never forgets to
send a birthday or Sympathy card for family, En'ends. and associates. l-[er thoughtfulness is unmatched. Even at the young age of 90,
Johnnie will Iry a new dish and is still the best cook in the family; AND

Johnnie is blessed with 3 children. 9 grandchildren. 24 great-grandchildren, and 2 Great Great grandchildren and beloved nephew and
niece. She is loved and admired by so many relatives, friends, and neighbors. God Bless her for being a beloved daughter, wife,
sister, mother, grandmother. aunt, ?-iend, and advisor. Please join me in acknowledging our beloved Johnnie Mae Bailey on being a
person we can all admire and reaching this signi?cant life milestone of 90 years old; now. runner-oar. LET rr as

That Council Member Roy McCalister Jr., and the entire Detroit City Council, join with Family and Friends in Celebrating the 90??
Birthday of Johnnie Mae Bailey.

 

 
 

COUNCIL PR EMT

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUNCIL EMBER

 

 

