Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council Meeting
September 16, 2019
MEETING MINUTES
IDHS/SUPR Director Danielle Kirby welcomed the group and introduced Kathleen Monahan, the
new State Opioid Response (SOR) Director. Ms. Monahan will oversee all of the SOR-funded
service projects.
IDHS/SUPR Updates
Director Kirby gave the following updates:
• SUPR is working on the State of Illinois Opioid Action Plan (SOAP) Implementation Report
update. The report is not ready to be released but highlights will be shared at this meeting.
• September is National Recovery Month. Governor Pritzker issued a proclamation earlier in
the month to help promote our message that recovery belongs in our state and in our
communities,
• SUPR has released a Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for Oxford Houses. Oxford
Houses are independent, democratically-run, self-supporting sober living homes. SUPR will
provide funding to two community-based organizations as a two-year start-up loan to set up
Oxford Houses for people on MAT. The organizations will provide housing and recovery
support services. Residents are required to pay rent. For more information and to view the
NOFO go to: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=118693. Applications are due by
October 31, 2019.
Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) Updates
Jenny Epstein, Director of Strategic Opioid Initiatives, shared the following updates:
• IDPH was awarded a Center for Disease Prevention and Control (CDC) Opioid to Action
grant. These funds will support local capacity to collect surveillance data, PMP efforts
targeting prescribers with high opioid prescribing rates (“high prescribers”), and six harm
reduction organizations statewide. Ms. Epstein will give an update on these projects at the
October Council meeting.
• In August 2019, Governor Pritzker signed Senate Bill 1828, Needle and Hypodermic Syringe
Access Program Act, into law which legalizes syringe exchange programs statewide. IDPH
will operate registration for all syringe service programs (SSP) statewide. The registration
website will be active in October. If your organization is interested in offering SSP, contact
Ms. Epstein at Jennifer.Epstein@illinois.gov.
IDHS/Prescription Monitoring Program (PMP) Updates
Dr. Sarah Pointer, Clinical Director of the Prescription Monitoring Program, gave the following
updates:
• The PMP is connected with 5,500 locations statewide.
• The PMP website is in beta testing and will be going live soon. The website is more userfriendly and includes new value-added indicators with more indicators.
• As shared in the IDPH updates, the PMP will be working with IDPH via the CDC Opioid to
Action grant on prevention strategies related to high prescribers.

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 9/16/2019 Meeting Minutes

1

 Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) Update
Dr. Maria Bruni, Senior Policy Advisory, gave the following updates:
• HFS is working with stakeholders on two State Plan Amendments: a children’s integrated
health home model and an adult integrated health home model. The adult model will include
individuals with substance use disorders who are hard to engage in treatment. HFS is
working with Medicaid Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) to ensure that health home
services are reimbursed through the MCOs.
• HFS submitted a grant application in August to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS)
for a demonstration project that would expand substance use treatment capacity by paying
for services that currently are not reimbursable by Medicaid. HFS will learn at the end of
September whether the application has been funded.
SOAP Implementation Report Update
Dr. Sue Pickett, Deputy Director of Research & Evaluation at Advocates for Human Potential
(AHP), Ms. Epstein and Director Kirby gave the following presentation on the SOAP
Implementation Report Update (see attached handouts).
• The SOAP Implementation Report describes activities undertaken to implement SOAP
strategies. The initial Implementation Report was released in May 2018. The updated
Implementation Report documents the progress made carrying out activities recommended
by the Council to address the opioid crisis. We anticipate that the report will be ready for
release in October.
• Highlights of progress to date include:
o As of July 2019, 119 healthcare systems and 2,978 practice settings are connected with
PMPnow, and 59,876 prescribers are registered with the PMP.
o The Illinois Department of Insurance’s Access to Care and Treatment (ACT) program
gave presentations and distributed materials at educational events in 2018 on opioid
misuse and behavioral health parity in all 102 Illinois counties, reaching 4,500
individuals.
o The Helpline has received 14,912 calls and 34,511 website hits as of July 2019.
o HFS covers outpatient methadone treatment in opioid treatment programs through
Medicaid fee for services and MCOs for Medicaid eligible patients. Medicaid now covers
all three forms of medication assisted treatment (MAT): methadone, buprenorphine and
injectable naltrexone.
o In March 2018, 1.33 million Illinoisans lived in 58 counties that were MAT deserts:
counties that have no access to methadone, buprenorphine or injectable naltrexone. As
of June 2019, there are 43 MAT desert counties, reducing the population of the state
without access to MAT anywhere in their county to 847,523 Illinoisans.
o IDHS/SUPR’s Drug Overdose Prevention Program (DOPP) provides a variety of
resources to enable almost any organization to be able to distribute naloxone. As of
June 2019: 115 programs have enrolled in DOPP; 47,666 individuals have been trained
to administer naloxone; 46,055 naloxone kits have been distributed and 3,061 overdose
reversals have been reported to DOPP
• In regard to overdoses, IDPH 2018 data show a 1.6% decrease from 2017 to 2018 in opioid
deaths statewide, the first decrease in deaths in five years.
o Non-fatal overdoses, however, have not decreased. Emergency department (ED) visits
related to opioid overdose have continued to increase each year from early 2013
through 2018.
o There was a 67% increase in ED visits due to opioid overdose from 2015 to 2016, 28%
increase from 2016 to 2017, and 4% increase from 2017 to 2018 which represents a
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 9/16/2019 Meeting Minutes

2

 •

smaller increase than experienced in previous years. More information can be found in
IDPH’s Opioid Semiannual Report: http://www.dph.illinois.gov/opioids/idphdata
We face new challenges that require new initiatives to address the changing nature of the
crisis. The updated Implementation Report includes proposed new recommendations that
build on our progress, address new challenges and incorporate input from the Council and
Committees. Proposed recommendations address the growing racial and social disparities
of the opioid crisis, examine how harm reduction strategies can reduce overdose risks and
stigma, encourage increased collaboration with law enforcement agencies to identify
strategies to curtail illegal drug trafficking activities, promote Helpline use by adding userfriendly features and targeted outreach efforts, and call for the creation of a comprehensive
single state website,

Committee Reports
Dr. Pickett gave a brief update on the Committees:
• Each committee will reconvene throughout the fall. Please contact Dr. Pickett at
spickett@ahpnet.com if you are interested in joining a committee.
• The MAT Committee has completed a rough draft of the toolkit to promote and support
providers to implement MAT. The toolkit will be reviewed by the committee and released
later this fall.
• As discussed at the June Council meeting, the Council will create an Opioid Social Equity
Committee to address the social and racial disparities of the opioid crisis. Please contact Dr.
Pickett if you are interested in joining this committee
New Business
• SAMHSA has proposed changes to the federal substance use disorder confidentiality rules,
known as 42 CFR Part 2. The rules were originally established to encourage people in need
of substance use disorder treatment to seek care by minimizing discrimination against and
negative consequences to people seeking and completing drug and/or alcohol treatment.
The rules prevent treatment providers from disclosing information about a patient’s
substance use treatment without patient consent in most circumstances. While the proposed
new rule maintains patient consent in initial disclosure, it does not uphold consent in redisclosure, effectively leaving patients vulnerable to harm through unauthorized redisclosure after initial consent to a single provider. Council members discussed concerns
that one of the provisions in the rule change is to permit opioid treatment programs to report
to the PMP. This information has not been previously reported and there are concerns from
physicians and patient advocates about breaches of confidentiality. The Legal Action Center
of New York has published an article (see attached handout) on these concerns. Council
members are encouraged to review the issues related to the proposed rule changes.
Comments on the rule changes are due by mid-October.
• Chicago HIDTA shared updates on its ongoing efforts. It reports opioid overdoses to the
Overdose Detection Mapping Application Program (ODMAP) and 175 law enforcement
agencies are reporting data to ODMAP to track and help prevent overdoses.
October Council Meeting
The next Illinois Crisis Response Advisory Council meeting will be held on Monday, October 21,
2019 from 1:00-3:00 PM. Information on Chicago and Springfield locations will be sent closer to
the meeting date.
Council meeting minutes and materials (including handouts from this meeting) can be found on
the Council’s website: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=97186
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 9/16/2019 Meeting Minutes

3

 