 a .
:1 firsPLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG UN CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, sum: l026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

or DETROIT PHONE: 313 - 628-2158
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIA 0F IC AX: 3 I3 224 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

September 29, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2019 Underrepresented
Community (URC) Grant

The National Park Service (NPS) has awarded the City of Detroit Historic Designation
Advisory Board with the FY 2019 Underrepresented Community (URC) Grant for a total
of $40,000.00. The Federal share is $40,000.00 of the approved amount. and there is a
required match of $8,100.00. The total project cost is $48,100.00. The grant period is
September 1. 2019 through September 30. 2021.

The objective of the grant is to conduct an intensive-level architectural/historical survey
of the Eight Mile and Wyoming area in Detroit. The funding allotted to the department
will be utilized to hire a certi?ed historical architect to survey, evaluate and identify
eligibility of individual properties and districts for the National Register of Historic Places
nomination. This is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding, the appropriation number
is 20682. with the match amount coming from appropriation number 00269.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,



Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Office of Development and Grants

CC:

Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director, Grants

Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department

This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget

?7

Office of Development and Grants cm'nrmruuwr

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Historic Designation Advisory Board is requesting authorization to accept a grant
of reimbursement from the National Park Service (NPS), in the amount of $40,000.00, to conduct
an intensive-level architecturallhistorical survey of the Eight Mile and Wyoming area in Detroit;
and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and
WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20682, in the amount of $48,100.00, which includes a cash match coming from
Appropriation 00269, for the FY 2019 Underrepresented Community (URC) grant.

Page1 oi1

Grant Agreement 79
Modi?cation Number 01
Page 1 of 2

Modi?cation Number 01 to Grant Agreement Number P19AP00179
Between
United States Department of the Interior
National Park Service

City ofDetroit, MI
DUNS No: 006530661

 

 

CFDA: 15.904, FY2018 Underrepresented Community Grants

Proiect Title: The Great Migration and the Development of African American Neighborhoods in
Detroit

Previous Federal Funding: $40,000.00

Federal Funds Obligated by this Action: $0.00

Total Amount of Agreement (Includes all e03! share): $48,100.00

Period of Performance: September 1, 2019 to September 30, 2021

GENERAL

The purpose of this modi?cation is to modify ARTICLE INSURANCE AND
LIABILITY.

MODIFICATION

1. ARTICLE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY Section C. Indemni?cation. The
following is modi?ed from:

   

 

To:

Grant Agreement P19AP001 79
Modi?cation Number 01
Page 2 of 2

The recipient hereby agrees to accept responsibility for property damage, injury, or death caused
by the acts or omissions of its employees or representatives to the fullest extent permitted by law.

2. All other terms and conditions remain unchanged.

SIGNATURES

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this modi?cation on the date(s) set
forth below.

FOR CITY OF DETROIT, MI

 

 

Name Date
Title

FOR THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE

 

 

Megan Brown Date
NPS Financial Assistance Awarding Of?cer

Grant Agreement

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 1 of 41

GRANT AGREEMENT NUMBER 

Between

THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR

NATIONAL PARK. SERVICE

AND
CITY OF DETROIT
DUNS No: 00653066]

CFDA: 15.904

Grant Program: Underrepresented Community Grants (URC)

Project Title: The Great Migration and the Development of African American Neighborhoods in

Detroit

Amount ofFederal Funds Obligated: $40,000
Amount of Non-Federal Funding: $8,100
Total Amount of Federal Award: $48,100

Period ofPerformanee: September 1, 2019 through September 30, 2021

 

This Grant Agreement is entered into by the US. Department of the Interior, National Park

Service (N PS), and the City of Detroit (Recipient).

 

Table of Contents

ARTICLE I LEGAL AUTHORITIES

ARTICLE II a PROJECT GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
ARTICE PUBLIC PURPOSE

ARTICLE IV STATEMENT OF WORK

ARTICLE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES
ARTICLE VI COST-SHARE REQUIREMENT
ARTICLE VII PRE-AWARD INCURRENCE OF COSTS
ARTICLE APPROVED INDIRECT RATE
ARTICLE IX TERM OF AGREEMENT

ARTICLE KEY OFFICIALS

ARTICLE XI AWARD AND PAYMENT

ARTICLE XII PRIOR APPROVAL

ARTICLE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY



Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019

Page 2 of 41
ARTICLE XIV REPORTS 9
ARTICLE XV PROPERTY UTILIZATION 10
ARTICLE XVI MODIFICATION, REMEDIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE, TERMINATION
1 0
ARTICLE XVII GENERAL AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS 11
ARTICLE ATTACHMENTS 24
ARTICLE XIX SIGNATURES 25
Attachment A 26
Attachment 37
Attachment 38
Attachment 39

ARTICLE I LEGAL AUTHORITIES
The NPS enters into this Agreement pursuant to:

National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA), 54 U.S.C 300.101 et. sq.

Historic Preservation Fund Grants Manual, 2007 and subsequent memos and guidance.
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019, PL. 115-141

54 U.S.C. ?302902(a) Grants to States

ARTICLE II PROJECT GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

The National Park Service?s (NPS) Underrepresented Community Grant Program (URC) will
diversity the nominations submitted to the National Register of Historic Places. grants are
funded by the Historic Preservation Fund (HPF), and are administered by the NPS. Projects
include surveys and inventories of historic properties associated with communities
underrepresented in the National Register, as well as the development of nominations to the
National Register for speci?c sites.

ARTICE PUBLIC PURPOSE

The Underrepresented Community Grant Program (URC) is part of the Federal Preservation
Partnership program by enabling SHPOs, THPOs, and CLGs to work towards diversifying the
nominations submitted to the National Register of Historic Places

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 3 of 41

ARTICLE IV STATEMENT OF WORK

A. The Statement of work to be performed in accordance with the Secretary of the Interior ?s
Standards and Guidelines for Historic Preservation and Archeology to include survey
and inventory activities for the City of Detroit Certi?ed Local Government The Great
Migration and the Development of'zl?'icon American Neighborhoods in Detroit project:

1.

Research and complete the proposed intensive-level survey ot'historic properties
across the Eight Mile Wyoming district in Detroit as per the National Register
Bulletins 15 &24;

Develop a historic context and identify, research, and evaluate associated historic
properties;

Compile a report of the multiple layers of ongoing historical, cultural, and
geographical signi?cance of the historic neighborhood and evaluate its eligibility for
listing on the National Register of Historic Places and

Prepare and submit at least one (1) nomination to the National Register of Historic
Places, or letter of inquiry and nomination to the National Historic Landmark
program. Draft documentation must he submitted to NPS ATR as described in the
deliverables below. Final National Register nominations must be submitted to the
appropriate State Historic Preservation Of? ce. Final National Historic Landmark
nominations must be submitted to the appropriate NPS regional of?ce by the NPS
ATR.

Obtain owner permission for any property slated for nomination. Please submit
written documentation of owner?s permission to the NPS prior to beginning any
work on a nomination.

ARTICLE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES

A.

The Recipient agrees to:

1. Perform work in accordance with the Secretary of the Interior ?3 Standards and
Guidelines for Historic Preservation and Archeology in the assigned mandatory program
areas as de?ned by the National Historic Preservation Act.

No substantial involvement on the part of the NPS is anticipated for the successful
completion of the statement of work detailed in this award. It is anticipated that
involvement will be limited to actions related to monitoring project 
technical assistance at the request of the recipient.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 4 of 41
ARTICLE VI COST-SHARE REQUIREMENT
No non-Federal cost-share is required for costs incurred under this Agreement. If pre-award costs

are authorized, reimbursement of these costs is limited to Federal cost share percentage identi?ed
in this agreement.

ARTICLE VII PRE-AWARD INCURRENCE OF COSTS

The Recipient is not authorized to incur costs prior to the Start date of this Agreement.

ARTICLE APPROVED INDIRECT RATE

The federally-negotiated indirect rate plus administrative costs to be applied against this
agreement, by statute 54 U.S.C. 302902, of the National Historic Preservation Act

(N HPA), shall not exceed 25% of the total budget (federal plus matching share).

The Recipient has chosen to not use a federally approved negotiated indirect cost rate.

ARTICLE IX TERM OF AGREEMENT

The Agreement will become effective upon the recipient?s ?rst withdrawal of grant funds
(Effective Date) and will expire on September 30, 2021 (Expiration Date), unless terminated
earlier per Article XI. Allowable costs incurred during the period of performance may be
charged to the grant. Funds will no longer be accessible via ASAP 90 days after the end date.

ARTICLE KEY OFFICIALS

A. Key of?cials are essential to ensure maximum coordination and communications between
the parties and the work being performed. They are:

1. For the NPS:
Awarding Of?cer (A0):
Megan J. Brown, Chief
State, Tribal, Local, Plans and Grants

Agreement Technical Representative (ATR):
Grants Management Specialist

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 5 of 41

State, Tribal, Local, Plans and Grants

Contact Info for A0 and ATR:
National Park Service
1849 Street NW, Stop 7360
Washington, DC 20240
202-354-2020
ST LPGrEimgs?
(note mail sent USPS is irradiated, please send via private mail carrier)

2. For the Recipient:

City of Detroit

Historic Designation Advisory Board
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 218
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226-3437
313-224-9711

reinhardtj @detroitmi. gov

Communications. Recipient shall address any communication regarding this Agreement
to the ATR with a copy to the A0. Communications that relate solely to technical matters
may be sent only to the ATR. The grantee agrees to maintain close liaison with the NPS
throughout the grant period. NPS reserves the right to request meetings, upon reasonable
notice, with grantee project staff at intervals during the course of project work. The
grantee agrees to notify the NPS should any of the following conditions become
known to it:

a. Problems, delays, or adverse conditions that will materially affect the ability of
the grantee (or its subcontractors, if any) to attain project objectives, prevent the
project from meeting planned timetables, or preclude the completion of approved
work;

b. The need for adjustment (revision) to the project budget; and

c. The lack of non?federal matching share to meet requirements of this Grant
Agreement (if applicable).

(1. The inability of the grantee to expend the awarded funds within the grant period
or the ability of the grantee to properly manage the grant funds.

Changes in Key Of?cials. Neither the NPS nor Recipient may make any permanent
change in a key of?cial without written notice to the other party reasonably in advance of
the proposed change. The notice will include a justi?cation with suf?cient detail to
permit evaluation of the impact of such a change on the scope of work speci?ed within
this Agreement. Any permanent change in key of?cials will be made only by
modi?cation to this Agreement.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 6 of 41

ARTICLE XI AWARD AND PAYMENT

A.

The NPS will provide funding to the Recipient in an amount not to exceed $40,000 for
the Statement of Work described in Article IV and in accordance with the NPS approved
budget. The approved budget detail is incorporated herein, Attachment E. Any award
beyond the current ?scal year is subject to availability of ?mds. Acceptance of a Federal
?nancial assistance award from the Department of the Interior carries with it the
responsibility to be aware of, and comply with the terms and conditions within this award
document. Acceptance is de?ned as the start of work, drawing down funds, or accepting
the award via electronic means.

Recipient shall request payment in accordance with the following:

1.

Method of Payment. Payment will be made by advance and/or reimbursement
through the Department of Treasury?s Automated Standard Application for Payments
(ASAP) system.

Requesting Advances. Requests for advances must be submitted via the ASAP
system. Requests may be submitted as frequently as required to meet the needs of the
Financial Assistance (FA) Recipient to disburse funds for the Federal share of project
costs. If feasible, each request should be timed so that payment is received on the
same day that the funds are dispersed for direct project costs and/or the proportionate
share of any allowable indirect costs. If same?day transfers are not feasible, advance
payments must be as close to actual disbursements as administratively feasible.

Requesting Reimbursement. Requests for reimbursements must be submitted via
the ASAP system. Requests for reimbursement should coincide with normal billing
patterns. Each request must be limited to the amount of disbursements made for the
Federal share of direct project costs and the proportionate share of allowable indirect
costs incurred during that billing period.

Adjusting Payment Requests for Available Cash. Funds that are available from
repayments to, and interest earned on, a revolving fund, program income, rebates,
refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, credits, discounts, and interest earned
on any of those funds must be disbursed before requesting additional cash payments.

Bank Accounts. All payments are made through electronic funds transfer to the bank
account identi?ed in the ASAP system by the FA Recipient.

Supporting Documents and Agency Approval of Payments. Additional supporting
documentation and prior NPS approval of payments may be required when/if a FA
Recipient is determined to be ?high risk? or has performance issues. If prior Agency
payment approval is in effect for an award, the ASAP system will notify the FA
Recipient when they submit a request for payment. The Recipient must then notify

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 7 of 41

the NPS A0 that a payment request has been submitted. The NPS A0 may request
additional information from the Recipient to support the payment request prior to
approving the release of funds, as deemed necessary. The FA Recipient is required to
comply with these requests. Supporting documents may include invoices, copies of
contracts, vendor quotes, and other expenditure explanations that justify the
reimbursement requests.

In order to receive a ?nancial assistance award and to ensure proper payment, it is
required that the Recipient maintain their registration with the System for Award
Management (SAM), accessed at gov. Failure to maintain registration
can impact obligations and payments under this Agreement and/or any other ?nancial
assistance or procurement documents the Recipient may have with the Federal
government.

Any award beyond the current ?scal year is subject to availability of funds; funds may be
provided in subsequent ?scal years if project work is satisfactory and funding is
available.

Allowable and Eligible Costs. Expenses charged against awards under the Agreement
may not be incurred prior to the beginning of the Start Date of the Agreement, and may
be incurred only as necessary to carry out the approved objectives, scope of work and
budget with prior approval from the NPS A0. The Recipient shall not incur costs or
obligate funds for any purpose pertaining to the operation of the project, program, or
activities beyond the expiration date stipulated in the award.

Travel Costs. For travel costs charged against awards under the Agreement, costs
incurred must be considered reasonable and otherwise allowable only to the extent such
costs do not exceed charges normally allowed by the Recipient in its regular operations as
a result of the Recipient?s written travel policy. If the Recipient does not have written
travel policies established, the Recipient and its contractors shall follow the travel
policies in the Federal Travel Regulation, and may not be reimbursed for travel costs that
exceed the standard rates. All charges for travel must conform to the applicable cost
principles.

Indirect Costs. Indirect costs will not be allowable charges against the award unless
speci?cally included as a line item in the approved budget incorporated into the award.

Recipient Cost Share or Match. Any non?Federal share, whether in cash or in?kind, is
expected to be paid out at the same general rate as the Federal share. Exceptions to this
requirement may be granted by the A0 based on suf?cient documentation demonstrating
previously determined plans for or later commitment of cash or in?kind contributions. In
any case, the Recipient must meet their cost share commitment over the life of the award.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 8 of 41

ARTICLE XII PRIOR APPROVAL

The Recipient shall obtain prior approval for budget and program revisions, in accordance with 2
CFR 200.308.

ARTICLE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY

A. Insurance. The recipient shall be required to (1) obtain liability insurance or (2)
demonstrate present ?nancial resources in an amount determined suf?cient by the
Government to cover claims brought by third parties for death, bodily injury, property
damage, or other loss resulting ?om one or more identi?ed activities carried out in
connection with this ?nancial assistance agreement.

B. Insured. The Federal Government shall be named as an additional insured under the
recipient's insurance policy.

C. Indemni?cation. The recipient hereby agrees to indemnify the Federal government, and
the NPS from any act or omission of the Recipient, its of?cers, employees, or (members,
participants, agents, representatives, agents as appropriate), (1) against third party claims
for damages arising from one or more identi?ed activities carried out in connection with
this ?nancial assistance agreement and (2) for damage or loss to government property
resulting from such an activity. This obligation shall survive the termination of this
Agreement.

To purchase public and employee liability insurance at its own expense from a
responsible company or companies with a minimum limitation of one million dollars
(TELUGU, 000! per person for anyone claim, and an aggregate limitation of three million
dollars (33, (J00, 01$) for any number of claims arising from any one incident. The
policies shall name the United States as an additional insured, shall specify that the
insured shall have no right of subrogation against the United States for payments of any
premiums or deductibles due thereunder, and shall specify that the insurance shall be
assumed by, be for the account of, and be at the insured's sole risk. Prior to beginning the
work authorized herein, the Recipient shall provide the NPS with con?rmation of such
insurance coverage.

 

 

To pay the United States the full value for all damage to the lands or other property of the
United States caused by the Recipient, its of?cers, employees, or representatives.

To provide workers' compensation protection to the Recipient, its of?cers, employees,
and representatives.

To cooperate with the NPS in the investigation and defense of any claims that may be
?led with the NPS arising out of the activities of the Recipient, its agents, and employees.

Grant Agreement 1 9AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 9 of 41

In the event of damage to or destruction of the buildings and facilities assigned for the
use of the Recipient in whole or in part by any cause whatsoever, nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to require the NPS to replace or repair the buildings or
facilities. If the NPS determines in writing, after consultation with the Recipient that
damage to the buildings or portions thereof renders such buildings unsuitable for
continued use by the Recipient, the NPS shall assume sole control over such buildings or
portions thereof If the buildings or facilities rendered unsuitable for use are essential for
conducting operations authorized under this Agreement, then failure to substitute and
assign other facilities acceptable to the Recipient will constitute termination of this
Agreement by the NPS.

D. Flow?down: For the purposes of this clause, "recipien includes such sub?recipients,
contractors, or subcontractors as, in the judgment of the recipient and subject to the
Government's determination of suf?ciency, have suf?cient resources and/or maintain
adequate and appropriate insurance to achieve the purposes of this clause.

ARTICLE XIV REPORTS 

A. Recipients will report on the funded project, tasks or activities under this agreement by
submitting a completed Federal Financial Report (FFR), documentation of payment
activity in ASAP, and a Performance Report on a semi-annual basis.

B. The following reporting period end dates shall be used for interim reports. For ?nal reports
the SF-425 and Performance Report, the reporting period end date shall be the end date of the
agreement. Interim reports shall be submitted no later than 30 davs after the end of each
reporting period. Final reports shall be submitted no later than 90 days after the end period
date. All reports shall be submitted via email to the NPS ATR.

1. An interim report package shall be submitted semi-annually by the following
dates until the completion of the grant, and shall include:
i. SF-425, Federal Financial Report.
ii. Documentation of ASAP payment activity and current account balance.
Interim Progress Worksheet.

 

Period Begin Date Period End Date Report Due Date
September 1, 2019 March 31, 2020 April 30, 2020*

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

April 1, 2020 September 30, 2020 October 31, 2020
October 1, 2020 March 31, 2021 April 30, 2021*
April 1, 2021 September 30, 2021 December 31. 2021?

 

*Annual Tangible Personal Property Report due.
Final report due to NPS

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 10 of 41

2. Draft documents to be reviewed as related to the Statement of Work:
i. Draft documents including text, layout, etc., for any public information

releases concerning this award which refer to the Department of the Interior or
any bureau or employee (by name or title) as per Article XII, B(1)a.

ii. Draft press release posted upon receipt of the grant funding as per Article XII,
B(1)c.

Draft National Register nomination or letter of inquiry (for National Historic
Landmarks).

3. A Final Report package must be submitted no later than 90 days after the end
period date. The Final Report must include:

i. Final SF-425, Federal Financial Report for entire grant period.

ii. Documentation of ASAP payment activity and current account balance.
Complete and attach the SF-428B Tangible Personal Property Report
Final Report or SF-428C, Tangible Personal Property Disposition

Request/Report, if applicable.
iv. Before and after images of all projects, if applicable.
v. Publications or products (workshops, handouts, pamphlets, videotapes,
etc.) produced using this grant (one digital copy), if applicable.
vi. Final National Register nomination, if applicable.
vii. Final Progress Report.

C. The Secretary of the Interior and the Comptroller General of the United States, or their duly
authorized representatives, will have access, for the purpose of ?nancial or programmatic
review and examination, to any books, documents, papers, and records that are pertinent to
the Agreement at all reasonable times during the period of retention in accordance with 2
CFR 200.333.

ARTICLE XV PROPERTY UTILIZATION

All tools, equipment, and facilities fumished by the NPS will be on a loan basis. Tools,
equipment and facilities will be returned in the same condition received except for normal wear
and tear in project use. Property management standards set forth in 2 CFR 200.310 through
200.316 applies to this Agreement.

ARTICLE XVI - MODIFICATION, REMEDIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE,
TERMINATION

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 11 of 41

This Agreement may be modi?ed at any time, prior to the expiration date, only by a
written instrument executed by both parties. Modi?cations will be in writing and
approved by the NPS Awarding Of?cer and the authorized representative of Recipient.

Additional conditions may be imposed by the NPS if it is determined that the Recipient is
non?compliant to the terms and conditions of this agreement. Remedies for
Noncompliance can be found in 2 CFR 200.338.

This Agreement may be terminated consistent with applicable termination provisions for
Agreements found in2 CFR 200.339 through 200.342.

ARTICLE XVII GENERAL AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS

A.

General Provisions

. OMB Circulars and Other Regulations. The following Federal regulations are

incorporated by reference into this Agreement (full text can be found at
gov:

a)

b)

d)

Administrative Requirements:

2 CFR, Part 200 Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, in its entirety;

Determination of Allowable Costs:

2 CFR, Part 200 Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, Subpart and

Audit Requirements:

2 CFR, Part 200 Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, Subpart F.

Code of Federal Regulations/Regulatory Requirements:

2 CFR Part 182 I 401, ?Government?wide Requirements for a Drug?Free
Workplace?;

2 CFR 180 1400, ?Non?Procurement Debarment and Suspension?, previously
located at 43 CFR Part 42, ?Govemmentwide Debarment and Suspension
(N onProcurement)?;

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 12 of 41

43 CFR 18, ?New Restrictions on Lobbying?;
2 CFR Part 1 75, ?Traf?cking Victims Protection Act of 2000?;

FAR Clause 52203?12, Paragraphs and Limitation on Payments to
In?uence Certain Federal Transactions;

2 CFR Part 25, System for Award Management gov) and Data
Universal Numbering System and

2 CFR Part I 70, ?Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation?.

. Non?Discrimination. All activities pursuant to this Agreement shall be in compliance
with the requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended; Title VI of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, as amended, (78 Stat. 252; 42 U.S.C. ??2000d 91 Title V, Section 504
of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, (87 Stat. 394; 29 U.S.C. ?794); the Age
Discrimination Act of 1975 (89 Stat. 728; 42 U.S.C. ??6101 e_t and with all other
Federal laws and regulations prohibiting discrimination on grounds of race, color, sexual
orientation, national origin, disabilities, religion, age, or sex.

. Lobbying Prohibition. 18 U.S.C. ?1913, Lobbying with Appropriated Moneys, as
amended by Public Law 107?273, Nov. 2, 2002 Violations of this section shall constitute
violations of section 1352(a) of title 31. In addition, the related restrictions on the use of
appropriated funds found in Div. F, 402 of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2008
(PL. 110?161) also apply.

. Anti?De?ciency Act. Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. ?1341 nothing contained in this Agreement
shall be construed as binding the NPS to expend in any one ?scal year any sum in excess
of appropriations made by Congress, for the purposes of this Agreement for that ?scal
year, or other obligation for the further expenditure of money in excess of such
appropriations.

. Minority Business Enterprise Development. Pursuant to Executive Order 12432 it is
national policy to award a fair share of contracts to small and minority ?rms. The NPS is
strongly committed to the objectives of this policy and encourages all recipients of its
Cooperative Agreements to take af?rmative steps to ensure such fairness by ensuring
procurement procedures are carried out in accordance with the Executive Order.

. Assignment. No part of this Agreement shall be assigned to any other party without prior
written approval of the NPS and the Assignee.

. Member of Congress. Pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 22, no Member of Congress shall be
admitted to any share or part of any contract or agreement made, entered into, or adopted
by or on behalf of the United States, or to any bene?t to arise thereupon.

10.

ll.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 13 of 41

Agency. The Recipient is not an agent or representative of the United States, the
Department of the Interior, the NPS, or the Park, nor will the Recipient represent itself as
such to third parties. NPS employees are not agents of the Recipient and will not act on
behalf of the Recipient.

Non?Exclusive Agreement. This Agreement in no way restricts the Recipient or the
NPS from entering into similar agreements, or participating in similar activities or
arrangements with other public or private agencies, organizations, or individuals.

Survival. Any and all provisions which, by themselves or their nature, are reasonably
expected to be performed after the expiration or termination of this Agreement shall
survive and be enforceable after the expiration or termination of this Agreement. Any and
all liabilities, actual or contingent, which have arisen during the term of and in connection
with this Agreement shall survive expiration or termination of this Agreement.

Partial Invalidity. If any provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any
party or circumstance shall, to any extent, be held invalid or unenforceable, the remainder
of this Agreement or the application of such provision to the parties or circumstances
other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby
and each provision of this Agreement shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent
permitted by law.

Captions and Headings. The captions, headings, article numbers and paragraph numbers
appearing in this Agreement are inserted only as a matter of convenience and in no way
shall be construed as de?ning or limiting the scope or intent of the provision of this
Agreement nor in any way affecting this Agreement.

No Employment Relationship. This Agreement is not intended to and shall not be
construed to create an employment relationship between the NPS and Recipient or its
representatives. No representative of Recipient shall perform any function or make any
decision properly reserved by law or policy to the Federal government.

No Third?Party Rights. This Agreement creates enforceable obligations between only
the NPS and Recipient. Except as expressly provided herein, it is not intended nor shall it
be construed to create any right of enforcement by or any duties or obligation in favor of
persons or entities not a party to this Agreement.

Foreign Travel. The Recipient shall comply with the provisions of the Fly America Act
(49 U.S.C. 40118). The implementing regulations of the Fly America Act are found at 41
CFR 301?10.131 through 301?10.143.

Program Income. If the Recipient earns program income, as de?ned in 2 CFR ?200.80,
during the period of performance of this agreement, to the extent available the Recipient

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 14 of 41

must disburse funds available from program income, and interest earned on such funds,
before requesting additional cash payments (2 As allowed under 2
CFR ?200.307, program income may be added to the Federal award by the Federal
agency and the non-Federal entity. The program income must be used for the purposes,
and under the conditions of, the Federal award. Disposition of program income remaining
after the end of the period of performance shall be negotiated as part of the agreement
closeout process.

Special Provisions 

1. Public Information and Endorsements

a) Recipient shall not publicize or otherwise circulate promotional material (such as
advertisements, sales brochures, press releases, speeches, still and motion
pictures, articles, manuscripts or other publications) which states or implies
governmental, Departmental, bureau, or government employee endorsement of a
business, product, service, or position which the Recipient represents. No release
of information relating to this award may state or imply that the Government
approves of the Recipient?s work products, or considers the Recipient?s work
product to be superior to other products or services.

b) All information submitted for publication or other public releases of information
regarding this project shall carry the following disclaimer.

?The views and conclusions contained in this document are those of the
authors and should not be interpreted as representing the opinions or
policies of the U.S. Government. Mention of trade names or commercial
products does not constitute their endorsement by the U.S. Government.?

0) Recipient must obtain prior Government approval for any public information
releases concerning this award which refer to the Department of the Interior or
any bureau or employee (by name or title). The specific text, layout photographs,
etc. of the proposed release must be submitted with the request for approval.

(1) Recipient ?irther agrees to include this provision in a subaward to a subrecipient,
except for a subaward to a state government, a local government, or to a federally
recognized tribal government.

2. Publications of Results of Studies. No party will unilaterally publish a joint publication
without consulting the other party. This restriction does not apply to popular publications
of previously published technical matter. Publications pursuant to this Agreement may be
produced independently or in collaboration with others; however, in all cases proper
credit will be given to the efforts of those parties contribution to the publication. In the
event no agreement is reached concerning the manner of publication or interpretation of
results, either party may publish data after due notice and submission of the proposed

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 15 of 41

manuscripts to the other. In such instances, the party publishing the data will give due
credit to the cooperation but assume full responsibility for any statements on which there
is a difference of opinion.

3. Rights in Data. The Recipient must grant the United States of America a royalty?free,
non?exclusive and irrevocable license to publish, reproduce and use, and dispose of in
any manner and for any purpose without limitation, and to authorize or ratify publication,
reproduction or use by others, of all copyrightable material ?rst produced or composed
under this Agreement by the Recipient, its employees or any individual or concern
speci?cally employed or assigned to originate and prepare such material.

4. Retention and Access Requirements for Records. All Recipient ?nancial and
programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical records, and other grants?related
records shall be maintained and available for access in accordance with 2 CFR Part
200.333?200.337.

5. Audit Requirements
a) Non?Federal entities that expend $750,000 or more during a year in Federal
awards shall have a single or program?speci?c audit conducted for that year in
accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501?
7507) and 2 CFR Part 200, Subpart which is available at

her-333111] 3et?105652505 ?div?

b) Non?Federal entities that expend less than $750,000 for a ?scal year in Federal
awards are exempt ?'om Federal audit requirements for that year, but records must
be available for review or audit by appropriate of?cials of the Federal agency,
pass?through entity, and General Accounting Of?ce (GAO).

c) Audits shall be made by an independent auditor in accordance with generally
accepted govemment auditing standards covering ?nancial audits. Additional
audit requirements applicable to this agreement are found at 2 CFR Part 200,
Subpart F, as applicable. Additional information on single audits is available from
the Federal Audit Clearinghouse at .

6. Procurement Procedures. A full description of procurement standards can be found in 2
CFR 

7. Prohibition on Text Messaging and Using Electronic Equipment Supplied by the
Government while Driving. Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership On Reducing
Text Messaging While Driving, was signed by President Barack Obama on October 1.
This Executive Order introduces a Federal Government?wide prohibition on the use of
text messaging while driving on of?cial business or while using Govemment?supplied
equipment. Additional guidance enforcing the ban will be issued at a later date. In the

10.

ll.

12.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 16 of 41

meantime, please adopt and enforce policies that immediately ban text messaging while
driving company?owned or ?rented vehicles, government?owned or leased vehicles, or
while driving privately owned vehicles when on of?cial government business or when
performing any work for or on behalf of the government.

Seat Belt Provision. The Recipient is encouraged to adopt and enforce on?the?job seat
belt use policies and programs for their employees when operating company?owned,
rented, or personally owned vehicles. These measures include, but are not limited to,
conducting education, awareness, and other appropriate programs for their employees
about the importance of wearing seat belts and the consequences of not wearing them.

Traf?cking in Persons. This term of award is pursuant to paragraph of Section 106
of the Traf?cking Victims Protections Act of 2000, as amended (2 CFR ?175.15).

Recipient Employee Whistleblower Rights and Requirement to Inform Employees
of Whistleblower Rights

a) This award and employees working on this ?nancial assistance agreement will be
subject to the Whistleblower rights and remedies in the pilot program on Award
Recipient employee Whistleblower protections established at 41 U.S.C. 4712 by
section 828 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Pub.
L. 112?239).

b) The Award Recipient shall inform its employees in writing, in the predominant
language of the workforce, of employee Whistleblower rights and protections
under 41 U.S.C. 4712.

c) The Award Recipient shall insert the substance of this clause, including this
paragraph in all subawards or subcontracts over the simpli?ed acquisition
threshold, 42 CFR 52.203?17 (as referenced in 42 CFR 

Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation.

Recipients must report all subaward and executive compensation data pursuant to the
Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA) of 2006 and associate
amendments (P.L. 109-282, as amended by section 6202(a) of PL. 110?252 (see 31
U.S.C. 6101 note)). Refer to for more information.

Con?ict of Interest
Applicability.

(1) This section intends to ensure that non-Federal entities and their employees
take appropriate steps to avoid con?icts of interest in their responsibilities
under or with respect to Federal ?nancial assistance agreements.

Grant Agreement 1 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 17 of 41

(2) In the procurement of supplies, equipment, construction, and services by
recipients and by subrecipients, the con?ict of interest provisions in 2 CFR
200.318 apply.

Requirements.

(1) Non-Federal entities must avoid prohibited con?icts of interest, including any
signi?cant ?nancial interests that could cause a reasonable person to question
the recipient's ability to provide impartial, technically sound, and objective
performance under or with respect to a Federal ?nancial assistance agreement.

(2) In addition to any other prohibitions that may apply with respect to con?icts of
interest, no key of?cial of an actual or proposed recipient or subrecipient, who
is substantially involved in the proposal or project, may have been a former
Federal employee who, within the last one (1) year, participated personally and
substantially in the evaluation, award, or administration of an award with
respect to that recipient or subrecipient or in development of the requirement
leading to the funding announcement.

(3) No actual or prospective recipient or subrecipient may solicit, obtain, or use
non-public information regarding the evaluation, award, or administration of
an award to that recipient or subrecipient or the development of a Federal
?nancial assistance opportunity that may be of competitive interest to that
recipient or subrecipient.

Noti?cation.

Non-Federal entities, including applicants for ?nancial assistance awards, must
disclose in writing any con?ict of interest to the DOI awarding agency or pass-
through entity in accordance with 2 CFR 200.112, Con?icts of interest.

Recipients must establish internal controls that include, at a minimum, procedures
to identify, disclose, and mitigate or eliminate identi?ed con?icts of interest. The
recipient is responsible for notifying the Financial Assistance Of?cer in writing of
any con?icts of interest that may arise during the life of the award, including those
that have been reported by subrecipients. Restrictions on Lobbying. Non-Federal
entities are strictly prohibited from using funds under this grant or cooperative
agreement for lobbying activities and must provide the required certi?cations and
disclosures pursuant to 43 CFR Part 18 and 31 USC 1352.

(6) Review Procedures. The Financial Assistance Of?cer will examine each con?ict
of interest disclosure on the basis of its particular facts and the nature of the
proposed grant or cooperative agreement, and will determine whether a signi?cant

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 18 of 41

potential con?ict exists and, if it does, develop an appropriate means for resolving
it.

Enforcement. Failure to resolve con?icts of interest in a manner that satis?es the
Government may be cause for termination of the award. Failure to make required
disclosures may result in any of the remedies described in 2 CFR 200.338,
Remedies for Noncompliance, including suspension or debarment (see also 2 CFR
Part 180).

13. Minimum Wages Under Executive Order 13658 (January 2015)
a) De?nitions. As used in this clause?

?United States? means the 50 states and the District of Columbia.

?Worker??

(1) Means any person engaged in performing work on, or in connection with,
an agreement covered by )i'liLTl'nl 3 (Q 51, and

Whose wages under such agreements are governed by the Fair Labor
Standards Act (29 U.S.C. chapter 8), the Service Contract Labor Standards
statute (41 U.S.C. chapter 67), or the Wage Rate Requirements
(Construction) statute (40 U.S.C. chapter 31, subchapter IV),

(ii) Other than individuals employed in a bona ?de executive,
administrative, or professional capacity, as those terms are de?ned in 2.9
.514 l,

Regardless of the contractual relationship alleged to exist between the
individual and the employer.

(2) Includes workers performing on, or in connection with, the agreement
whose wages are calculated pursuant to special certi?cates issued under 

U.S.C. 

(3) Also includes any person working on, or in connection with, the agreement
and individually registered in a bona ?de apprenticeship or training program
registered with the Department of Labor's Employment and Training
Administration, Of?ce of Apprenticeship, or with a State Apprenticeship
Agency recognized by the Of?ce of Apprenticeship.

b) Executive Order Minimum Wage rate.

Grant Agreement P19AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 19 of 41

(1) The non-Federal entity shall pay to workers, while performing in the
United States, and performing on, or in connection with, this agreement, a
minimum hourly wage rate determined by the Secretary of the Department of
Labor on an annual basis (currently $10.20 per hour as of January 1, 2017).

(2) The non-Federal entity shall adjust the minimum wage paid, if necessary,
annually thereafter, to meet the Secretary of Labor's annual E.O. minimum
wage. The Administrator of the Department of Labor's Wage and Hour
Division (the Administrator) will publish annual determinations in the Federal
Register no later than 90 days before the effective date of the new E.0.
minimum wage rate. The Administrator will also publish the applicable E.O.
minimum wage on \L?Hk??iulgtl? (or any successor Web site) and on all
wage determinations issued under the Service Contract Labor Standards
statute or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute. The applicable
published E.O. minimum wage is incorporated by reference into this
agreement.

(3) The non-Federal entity may request a price adjustment only after the
effective date of the new annual E.O. minimum wage determination.
Prices will be adjusted only if labor costs increase as a result of an
increase in the annual E.O. minimum wage, and for associated labor costs
and relevant subaward costs. Associated labor costs shall include
increases or decreases that result from changes in social security and
unemployment taxes and workers' compensation insurance, but will not
otherwise include any amount for general and administrative costs,
overhead, or profit.

(ii) Subrecipients may be entitled to adjustments due to the new minimum
wage, pursuant to paragraph Non-Federal entities shall consider
any Subrecipient requests for such price adjustment.

The Financial Assistance Awarding Of?cer will not adjust the
agreement price under this clause for any costs other than those identi?ed
in paragraph of this clause, and will not provide duplicate price
adjustments with any price adjustment under clauses implementing the
Service Contract Labor Standards statute or the Wage Rate Requirements
(Construction) statute.

(4) The non-Federal entity warrants that the prices in this agreement do not
include allowance for any contingency to cover increased costs for which
adjustment is provided under this clause.

(5) The non-Federal entity shall pay, unconditionally to each worker, all
wages due free and clear without subsequent rebate or kickback. The non-

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 20 of 41

Federal entity may make deductions that reduce a worker's wages below the
ED. minimum wage rate only if done in accordance with t. 19,3},
Deductions.

(6) The non-Federal entity shall not discharge any part of its minimum wage
obligation under this clause by furnishing fringe bene?ts or, with respect to
workers whose wages are governed by the Service Contract Labor Standards
statute, the cash equivalent thereof.

(7) Nothing in this clause shall excuse the non-Federal entity from compliance
with any applicable Federal or State prevailing wage law or any applicable
law or municipal ordinance establishing a minimum wage higher than the
ED. minimum wage. However, wage increases under such other laws or
municipal ordinances are not subject to price adjustment under this subpart.

(8) The non-Federal entity shall pay the ED. minimum wage rate whenever it
is higher than any applicable collective bargaining agreement(s) wage rate.

(9) The non-Federal entity shall follow the policies and procedures in 2.2
pg 331?11. 3(b) and 10.28 for treatment of workers engaged in an
occupation in which they customarily and regularly receive more than $30 a
month in tips.

(1) This clause applies to workers as de?ned in paragraph As provided in
that de?nition?

Workers are covered regardless of the contractual relationship alleged
to exist between the non-Federal entity or subrecipient and the worker;

(ii) Workers with disabilities whose wages are calculated pursuant to
special certi?cates issued under fl are covered; and

Workers who are registered in a bona ?de apprenticeship program or
training program registered with the Department of Labor's Employment
and Training Administration, Of?ce of Apprenticeship, or with a State
Apprenticeship Agency recognized by the Of?ce of Apprenticeship, are
covered.

(2) This clause does not apply to?
Fair Labor Standards Act (F LSA) covered individuals performing in

connection with contracts covered by the E.O., lie. those individuals who
perform duties necessary to the performance of the agreement, but who are

d)

Grant Agreement 1 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 21 of 41

not directly engaged in performing the speci?c work called for by the
agreement, and who spend less than 20 percent of their hours worked in a
particular workweek performing in connection with such agreements;

(ii) Individuals exempted from the minimum wage requirements of the
FLS A under and 214(a) and unless otherwise
covered by the Service Contract Labor Standards statute, or the Wage Rate
Requirements (Construction) statute. These individuals include but are
not limited to?

(A) Learners, apprentices, or messengers whose wages are calculated
pursuant to special certi?cates issued under Lt 1.5 .Y i 

(B) Students whose wages are calculated pursuant to special
certi?cates issued under 

(C) Those employed in a bona ?de executive, administrative, or
caPaCity and .252. l. 

Notice. The non-Federal entity shall notify all workers performing work on, or in
connection with, this agreement of the applicable E.O. minimum wage rate under
this clause. With respect to workers covered by the Service Contract Labor
Standards statute or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute, the
Contractor may meet this requirement by posting, in a prominent and accessible
place at the worksite, the applicable wage determination under those statutes.
With respect to workers whose wages are governed by the FLSA, the non-Federal
entity shall post notice, utilizing the poster provided by the Administrator, which
can be obtained at HE 1511? in a prominent and accessible
place at the worksite. Non-Federal entities that customarily post notices to
workers electronically may post the notice electronically provided the electronic
posting is displayed prominently on any Web site that is maintained by the non-
Federal entity, whether external or internal, and customarily used for notices to

workers about terms and conditions of employment.

 

e) Payroll Records.

(1) The non?Federal entity shall make and maintain records, for three years
after completion of the work, containing the following information for each
worker:

Name, address, and social security number;
(ii) The worker's occupation(s) or 

The rate or rates of wages paid;

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 22 of 41

(iv) The number of daily and weekly hours worked by each worker;
Any deductions made; and
(vi) Total wages paid.

(2) The non-Federal entity shall make records pursuant to paragraph (1) of
this clause available for inspection and transcription by authorized
representatives of the Administrator. The non?Federal entity shall also make
such records available upon request of the Contracting Of?cer.

(3) The non-Federal entity shall make a copy of the agreement available, as
applicable, for inspection or transcription by authorized representatives of the
Administrator.

(4) Failure to comply with this paragraph shall be a violation of 11541;,
10.26 and this agreement. Upon direction of the Administrator or upon the
Financial Assistance Awarding Of?cer?s own action, payment shall be
withheld until such time as the noncompliance is corrected.

(5) Nothing in this clause limits or otherwise modi?es the non-Federal entity?s
payroll and recordkeeping obligations, if any, under the Service Contract
Labor Standards statute, the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute,
the Fair Labor Standards Act, or any other applicable law.

f) Access. The non-Federal entity shall permit authorized representatives of the
Administrator to conduct investigations, including interviewing workers at the
worksite during normal working hours.

g) Withholding. The Financial Assistance Awarding Of?cer, upon his or her own
action or upon written request of the Administrator, will withhold funds or cause
funds to be withheld, from the non-Federal entity under this or any other Federal
agreement with the same non-Federal entity, suf?cient to pay workers the full
amount of wages required by this clause.

h) Disputes. Department of Labor has set forth in .22, l. i Disputes
concerning non?Federal entity compliance, the procedures for resolving disputes
concerning a non-Federal entity?s compliance with Department of Labor
regulations at 3?1 til-11% Such disputes shall be resolved in accordance with
those. This includes disputes between the non-Federal entity (or any of its
Subrecipients) and the contracting agency, the Department of Labor, or the
workers or their representatives.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 23 of 41

i) Antiretaliatz'on. The non-Federal entity shall not discharge or in any other manner
discriminate against any worker because such worker has ?led any complaint or
instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related to compliance
with the E0. or this clause, or has testi?ed or is about to testify in any such
proceeding.

j) Subcontractor compliance. The non-Federal entity is responsible for Subrecipient
compliance with the requirements of this clause and may be held liable for unpaid
wages due Subrecipient workers.

k) Subawards. The non-Federal entity shall include the substance of this clause,
including this paragraph in all subawards, regardless of dollar value, that are
subject to the Service Contract Labor Standards statute or the Wage Rate
Requirements (Construction) statute, and are to be performed in whole or in part
in the United States.

14. Prohibition on Issuing Financial Assistance Awards to Entities that Require
Certain Internal Con?dentiality Agreements: Section 743 of Division B, Title VII of
the Consolidated and Further Continuing Resolution Appropriations Act of 201 5 (Pub.
L. 113-235) prohibits the use of funds appropriated or otherwise made available under
that or any other Act for grants or cooperative agreements to an entity that requires
employees or contractors of such entity seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign
internal con?dentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting
such employees or contractors from lawfully reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a
designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or
agency authorized to receive such information.

Recipients must not require their employees or contractors seeking to report fraud,
waste, or abuse to sign internal con?dentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or
otherwise restricting such employees or contractors from lawfully reporting such waste,
fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a
Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information.

Recipients must notify their employees or contractors that existing internal
con?dentiality agreements covered by this condition are no longer in effect.

15. Data Availability:

Applicability. The Department of the Interior is committed to basing its decisions
on the best available science and providing the American people with enough
information to thoughtfully and substantively evaluate the data, methodology, and
analysis used by the Department to inform its decisions.

Use of Data. The regulations at 2 CFR 200.315 apply to data produced under a
Federal award, including the provision that the Federal Government has the right to

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 24 of 41

obtain, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the data produced under a Federal award
as well as authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use such data
for Federal purposes.

(0) Availability of Data. The recipient shall make the data produced under this award
and any subaward(s) available to the Government for public release, consistent with
applicable law, to allow meaningful third party evaluation and reproduction of the
following:

The scienti?c data relied upon;
(ii) The analysis relied upon; and
The methodology, including models, used to gather and analyze data.
ARTICLE ATTACHMENTS
The following documents are attached to and made a part of this Agreement:
Attachment A. Historic Preservation Fund Special Conditions
Attachment B. Environmental Certi?cation

Attachment C. Administrative Costs Memo

Attachment D. Digital Product Submission Guidelines

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 25 of 41
ARTICLE XIX SIGNATURES

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the date(s) set
forth below.

RECIPIENT

 

 

 

anese Chapman Date
Deputy Director, City of Detroit Historic Designation Advisory Board

FOR THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE

Signature on PRISM cover sheet

 

Megan J. Brown Date
Awarding Of?cer and
Chief, State, Tribal, Local, Plans Grants

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 26 of 41

Attachment A
Historic Preservation Fund Special Conditions

1. ELIGIBLE COSTS
Eligible costs under this award are as described in this Notice, 2 CFR 200, and the Historic

Preservation Fund Grants Manual (HPF Manual).

For this program they also include:

a.

9.0



Projects under the eligible program areas as de?ned by the National Historic
Preservation Act (NI-IPA)

Administrative costs necessary to complete and administer the grant requirements
Survey and Inventory of historic resources to determine eligibility;

Cost for producing a nomination to the National Register of Historic Places (if
applicable);

Cost for any required audits or ?nancial requests;

Cost for the production of a project sign:

Costs for public notice of grant opportunity;

Costs associated with required training or reporting; and

Any other costs as determined eligible by the NPS in accordance with the OMB
circulars, NPS policies, and the Historic Preservation Fund Grants Manual.

2. NPS OVERSIGHT
The NPS will provide oversight of this grant project through the following NPS reviews:

a.

b.

Review and approval of annual and ?nal reporting to include compliance with 2
CFR 200;

Review and approval for compliance with the Secretary of the Interior ?s
Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation;

Review and approval for compliance with Sections 106 (54 U.S.C. 306108) and
110f (54 U.S.C. 306107) of the National Historic Preservation Act in
coordination with the appropriate State Historic Preservation Of?ce;

Review and approval for compliance with the National Environmental Protection
Act (N 

Review and approval of project signage to notify the public of federal
involvement;

Any other reviews as determined by the NPS based on program needs or
?nancial/programmatic risk factors draft National Register nomination if
required, etc.).

3. COST SHARINGIMATCHING REQUIREMENT
Non-Federal cost-share/match is not required for this grant program. However, the recipient
agrees to contribute $8,100 in eligible non-Federal matching contributions that are allowable,
properly documented, and must be used during the grant period to share the costs for this

Grant Agreement 1 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 27 of 41

statement of work. Failure to use the promised non-Federal matching share will result in the
disallowance of costs reimbursed, and/or the deobligation of remaining unexpended funds.

APPROVED PROJECT BUDGET
The approved Work/Cost Budget is summarized as follows:

Recipent

Federal Federal Recipent Share
Budget Item Admin Program Share Admin Program Total
Personnel 8,100.00 5 8,100.00
Fringe Benefits 
Travel 5 
Supplies 5
Equipment 5 
Contractual 40,000.00 40,000.00
Construction 5
Other 
Indirect Costs 
Total 5 40,000.00 - 8,100.00 48,100.00

. ADMINISTRATIVE AND INDIRECT COSTS

The federally-negotiated indirect rate plus administrative costs to be applied against this
agreement, by statute 54 U.S.C. 302902, shall not exceed 25% of the total budget.
Administrative costs are de?nes as: Allowable, reasonable, and allocable costs related to the
overall management of activities directly related to ?nance (accounting, auditing, budgeting,
contracting), general administrative salaries and wages (grant administration, personnel,
property management, equal opportunity) and other ?overhead? functions (general legal
services, general liability insurance, depreciation on buildings and equipment, etc.) not
directly attributable to speci?c program areas identi?ed in the grant agreement. All
administrative costs reported must be absolutely necessary for project and/or program
implementation, such as the cost items identi?ed in the ?nal grant agreement or items
otherwise approved in writing by the NPS Awarding Of?cer (A0).

DETERMINATION OF RISK

In accordance with 2 C.F.R. 200.205, the application for this award was subjected to a pre-
award risk assessment which included a review of information contained within the
application, past audits, Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System
(FAPIIS), and/or past performance on previous Federal ?nancial assistance awards and other

factors.

This award has been determined to be a low risk with the following requirements:

10.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 28 of 41

Low: Requests for payment may be made directly from the ASAP grant account without
prior NPS approval after expenses have been incurred, invoiced, and paid. All
documentation of expenses must be kept on ?le for audit purposes and may be requested by
the NPS at any time. If payments are drawn down prior to invoice and payment or in amounts
larger than costs incurred, the Recipient may be determined ?medium or high risk? and be
subject to additional grant terms and conditions.

NAGPRA COSTS ARE UNALLOWABLE

Cost related to Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA)
activities are unallowable under this agreement. Funds for NAGPRA activities are available
through the NPS National NAGPRA Program.

EQUIPMENT PURCHASES

Each item of equipment purchased under this award must be approved speci?cally and in
writing by the NPS prior to purchase to con?rm the allowability of the costs. Approval of
the application is not approval of equipment included within the application. Equipment is
de?ned as tangible personal property (including information technology systems) having a
useful life of more than one year and a per-unit acquisition cost which equals or exceeds the
lesser of the capitalization level established by the non-federal entity for ?nancial statement
purposes, or $5,000.

PATENTS AND INVENTIONS

Recipients of agreements which support experimental, developmental, or research work shall
be subject to applicable regulations governing patents and inventions, including the
govemment-wide regulations issued by the Department of Commerce at 37 CFR 401, Rights
to Inventions Made by Non-pro?t Organizations and Small Business Firms Under
Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements. These regulations do not apply
to any agreement made primarin for educational purposes.

 

PUBLICITY AND PRESS RELEASES

Press releases about this project must acknowledge the grant assistance provided by the
Historic Preservation Fund and the National Park Service, and copies of the press releases
must be provided to the NPS. The Recipient must transmit notice of any public ceremonies
planned to publicize funded or related projects in a timely enough manner so that the NPS,
Department of the Interior, Congressional or other Federal of?cials can attend if desired. All
publicity and press releases related to activities funded with this award should include a
statement that funding for the activity was provided (in part or in whole) by the Historic
Preservation Fund (HPF) administered by the National Park Service.

As stipulated in 36 CFR Part 800, public Views and comments regarding all Federally-funded
undertakings on historic properties must be sought and considered by the authorizing Federal
agency. Therefore, the grantee is required to post a press release regarding the undertaking
under this grant in one or more of the major newspapers or news sources that cover the area

11.

12.

Grant Agreement 1 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 29 of 41

affected by the project within 30 days of receiving the signed grant agreement. A copy of the
posted release must be submitted to NPS within 30 days of the posting.

The grantee must transmit notice of any public ceremonies planned to publicize the project or
its results in a timely enough manner so that NPS, Department of the Interior, Congressional
or other Federal of?cials can attend if desired.

REQUIREMENT FOR PROJECT SIGNINOTIFICATION

HPF funded projects must create public noti?cation of the project in the form of a project
sign, website posting, and proper credit for announcements and publications as appropriate.
Signage/noti?cation must be submitted for approval by the ATR in advance. Also the
sign/noti?cation must be of reasonable and adequate design and construction to withstand
weather exposure (if appropriate); be of a size that can be easily read from the public right-
of?way; and be accessible to the public throughout the proj ect term as stipulated in this Grant
Agreement. At a minimum, all noti?cations must contain the following statement:

?[Project Name] is being supported in part by an Underrepresented Community grant
from the Historic Preservation Fund administered by the National Park Service,
Department of the Interior. 

Additional information brie?y identifying the historical signi?cance of the property and
recognizing other contributors is encouraged and permissible. The NPS arrowhead logo may
only be used in conjunction with the HPF approved signage format that can be provided upon
request. Any other use of the logo is prohibited. Cost of fabricating and erecting noti?cation
is an eligible grant cost.

FUNDING IN DELIVERABL ES AN PUBLICATIONS
The grantee must include acknowledgment of grant support from the Historic Preservation
Fund of the National Park Service, Department of Interior, in all deliverables, press, and
publications concerning NPS grant-supported activities as referenced in the Statement of
Work.

a. One digital copy of any deliverable/publication must be furnished to the NPS A0
within 90 calendar days of the expiration of the grant agreement. All deliverables
must contain the following disclaimer and acknowledgement:

his material was produced with assistance from the Underrepresented
Community Grant Program from the Historic Preservation Fund,
administered by the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. Any
opinions, ?ndings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this
material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily re?ect the views of
the Department of the Interior. 

13.

14.

15.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 30 of 41

b. Deliverables/publications include, but are not limited to: grant project reports; books,
pamphlets, brochures or magazines; video or audio ?les; documentation of events,
including programs, invitations and photos, websites, mobile apps, exhibits, and
interpretive signs.

0. Refer to the attached guidance document, "Digital Copies of Grant Products
Worksheet" for instructions on creating, naming and submitting digital copies of
deliverables/publications.

d. All digital copies must follow this naming convention:



e. All consultants hired by the grantee must be informed of this requirement.

f. The NPS shall have a royalty-free right to republish any materials produced under
this grant. All photos included as part of the interim and ?nal reporting, and
deliverables/publication will be considered released to the NPS for future of?cial use.
Photographer, date and caption should be identi?ed on each photo, so NPS may
provide proper credit for use.

g. A digital (preferred) or physical copy of all deliverables must be available for public
access.

CONSULTANTS AND CONTRACTORS.

Consultant/contractor(s) must have the requisite experience and training in historic
preservation or relevant ?eld to oversee the project work. All consultants and contractors
must be competitively selected and documentation of this selection must be maintained by
the grantee and be made readily available for examination by the NPS. Federal contracting
and procurement guidance can be found in 2 CFR 200.318. Maximum rates charged to this
grant may not exceed 120% of a Federal Civil Service step 10 salary per project
location. Current regional salary tables can be found on the Of?ce of Personnel and
Management website: 

 

REQUIREMENT FOR NEPA COMPLIANCE

All HPF ?lnded grants are subject to the requirements of the National Environmental Policy
Act (N EPA) of 1969, as amended. This Act requires Federal agencies to consider the
reasonably foreseeable environmental consequences of all grant-supported activities. As part
of the NPS implementation of NEPA, grantees are required to notify the NPS of any
reasonably foreseeable impacts to the environment from grant ?supported activities, or to
certify that no such impacts will arise upon receipt of a grant award. In addition, the NPS has
determined that most HPF grant funds are not expected to individually or cumulatively have
a signi?cant impact on the environment, unless the activity involves development
(construction) or archeology.

COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 106

Pursuant to Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (54 U.S.C. 306108), the
NPS and the grantee must complete the consultation process stipulated in the regulations
issued by the Advisory Council for Historic Preservation in 36 CFR 800 prior to the
commencement of all grant-assisted construction or ground disturbance on the property.

16.

17.

18.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 31 of 41

COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 110

Section 1 10 of The National Historic Preservation Act identi?es the responsibility of the
federal agency in their treatment of historic properties. Section 110(f) (54 U.S.C. 306107)
clari?es the responsibility of the agency to protect National Historic Landmarks WHL) from
harm. See this agreement for submission requirements regarding NHL properties. In
addition, Section 110(k) (54 U.S.C. 306113) prohibits the NPS from funding any grantee or
subgrantee that attempts to avoid the requirements of Section 106. Grantees must make
every effort to fund preservation projects that do no harm or adverse effects to NHL
properties. Should it be discovered a grantee has deliberately damaged a property pre-
emptive demolition) to avoid requirements, the NPS must be noti?ed to determine, in
consultation with the ACHP, if the project can proceed.

NPS REVIEW OF DOCUMENTS FOR NATIONAL
HISTORIC LANDMARKS
The grantee must submit the following through HPFOnline:
1. a site plan that has the north direction clearly marked;
2. a city/county map with the site of the property clearly labeled;
3. set of plans and speci?cations for the project;
4. photographs (or digital images) of all exterior elevations of the building or site, with
views identi?ed and oriented and keyed to the site plan;
5. interior photographs of all major rooms and those involved in the project, labeled and
keyed to a ?oor plan;
6. for NHL Districts include overall views of the district from the project area;
7. any additional information that will better enable a technical review of the project to be
completed.

The grantee must submit documents for the entire undertaking to the NPS for its review and
approval to ensure conformance with the Secretary of the Interior ?s Standards and
Guidelines for Historic Preservation and Archeology, Historic Preservation Fund Grant
Manual, and with the conditions listed in this Grant Agreement, prior to the beginning of
grant-assisted work. Work that does not comply with these Standards in the judgment of the
NPS will not be reimbursed, and may cause the grant to be terminated and funds deobligated.

GIS SPATIAL DATA TRANSFER

One (1) digital copy of all GIS data produced or collected as part of the grant funds will be
submitted to the NPS via email to or data transfer. All GIS data ?les shall be
in a shape?le or GeoDatabase format, preferably a GeoDatabase format. Federal
Geographic Data Committee compliant data set level metadata shall be submitted for each
shape?le or feature class included. All cultural resources delineated with GIS data (points,
lines or polygons) should further be established in compliance with the NPS Cultural
Resource Spatial Data Transfer Standards with complete feature level metadata. Template
GeoDatabases and guidelines for creating and submitting GIS data in the NPS cultural
resource spatial data transfer standards can be found at the NPS Cultural Resource GIS

19.

20.

21.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 32 of 41

Facility webpage: Technical assistance to
meet the NPS Cultural Resource Spatial Data Transfer Standard speci?cations will be made
available if requested.

CFDA INCLUSION IN SINGLE AUDIT

Non-Federal entities receiving ?nancial assistance through the Historic Preservation Fund
must include the appropriate CF DA number in the Schedule of Expenditures of Federal
Award in their Single-Audit. The CF DA number applicable to this award will be either
15.904, 15.929, or 15.957, as identi?ed on the ?rst page of this agreement document.

NOTICE OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW

As part of govemment?wide efforts to improve coordination of ?nancial management and
increase ?nancial accountability and transparency in the receipt and use of federal funding,
the grantee is hereby noti?ed that this award may be subject to higher scrutiny. This may
include a requirement to submit additional reporting documentation.

SUBGRANT AWARDS

The awarding of subgrants must follow the general criteria described below in addition to the
eligibility factors outlined in the Notice of Funding Opportunity, OMB regulations in 2 CFR
200, and the Historic Preservation Fund Grant Manual.

The Grantee must publically announce the availability of HPF funds and include the

following information:

A summary statement of the priorities for funding;

Description of eligible activities for which funding is to be provided;

The total amount available, or expected to be available for sub grants;

An explanation of the required selection process used, including evaluation criteria,

that will provide an opportunity for all eligible entities to submit applications and have

them considered on an equal basis;

The deadline for submitting the completed application;

Directions to the applicant to include a detailed and speci?c list of the ?nal products to

be accomplished with the subgrant, and to provide a detailed line-item budget that

includes all major work elements;

g. Identi?cation of the donor, source, kind, and amount of nonfederal matching share to
be contributed, if applicable;

h. An explanation that all elements funded must meet the Secretary of the Interior ?5
Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation;

i. An explanation that all subgrants must follow OMB regulations in 2 CFR 200, and the
Historic Preservation Fund Grant Manual;

j. Notice of the requirement for easements or covenants for grant assisted preservation
work.

999?!?



To qualify a sub grantee as responsible, the grantee must ensure that a subgrantee will:

22.

23.

24.

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 33 of 41

a. Have adequate ?nancial resources for performance, the necessary experience,
organization, technical quali?cations, and facilities; or a ?rm commitment,
arrangement, or ability to obtain such;

b. Be able to comply with the proposed or required completion schedule for the project;

c. Have a satisfactory record of integrity, sound judgment, and satisfactory performance,
especially with prior performance upon grants and contracts;

(1. Have an adequate accounting system and auditing procedures to provide effective
accountability and control of property, funds, and assets suf?cient to meet audit
requirements.

NPS oversight of sub grants will include:

a. Review of selected subgrants;

b. Review of any physical preservation work for compliance with the Secretary of the
Interior ?s Standards and Guidelines for Archeology and Historic Preservation;

0. Review of any physical preservation work or archeological surveys for compliance
with National Environmental Protection Act (N 

(1. Review, in concert with National Park Service regional physical
preservation work as per Section 110(f) (54 U.S.C. 306107) which clari?es the
responsibility of the agency to protect National Historic Landmarks (NHL) from
harm;

6. Veri?cation of submission to FSRS of any subgrants over $25,000 federal share;

Review of ?nal executed preservation easement/covenant;
g. Additional requirements as determined for the grantee based on risk or program
requirements.



UNANTICIPATED DISCOVERY PROTOCOLS

At a minimum, unanticipated discovery protocols for subgrants or contracts shall require the
sub-grantee or contractor to immediately stop construction in the vicinity of the affected
historic resource and take reasonable measures to avoid and minimize harm to the resource
until the SHPO or THPO, sub-grantee or contractor, and Indian Tribes, as appropriate, have
determined a suitable course of action within 15 calendar days. With the express permission
of the SHPO and/or THPO, the sub-grantee or contractor may perform additional measures to
secure the jobsite if the sub-grantee or contractor determines that un?nished work in the
vicinity of the affected historic property would cause safety or security concerns

REQUIREMENT FOR TRAINING

At the direction of the National Park Service, personnel associated with management of the
grant program may be required to attend trainings and/or meetings. The grantee will be
provided adequate notice to plan for any required activities; expenses incurred as part of this
requirement are eligible to charge towards the grant.

FUNDING FOR USE OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS (UAS) (aka drones)
HPF funding for UAS usage is eligible only in the contracting of an experienced, licensed
contractor of UAS who possesses the appropriate license, certi?cations, and training to

25.

26.

27.

Grant Agreement 1 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 34 of 41

operate UAS. The contractor is required to provide proof of liability insurance in the
operation of UAS for commercial use.

If HPF funding is provided to a state, tribal, local, or territorial government, or other non-
pro?t organizationpart of their scope of work, the recipient must have
in place policies and procedures to safeguard individuals' privacy. civil rights, and civil
liberties prior to expending such funds.

DEMONSTRATION 0F EFFORT PERFORMANCE GOA LS

In order to ensure the timely and successful completion of all HPF grant awards, the NPS
requires acceptable demonstration of effort by the grantee on project work supported by all
HPF funded grants. Demonstration of effort means acceptable performance by undertaking
meaningful progress on grant-supported activities and complying with award terms and
conditions.

STRENGTHENING BUY-AMERICAN PREFERENCES FOR INFRASTRUTURE
PROJECTS PER E.O. 113858

Per Executive Order 113858, entitled "Strengthening Buy?American Preferences for
Infrastructure Projects" the Recipient shall maximize, consistent with law, the use of iron and
steel goods, products, and materials produced in the United States, for infrastructure projects
as de?ned by the Executive Order when the statement of work includes alteration,
construction, conversion, demolition, extension, improvement, maintenance, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or repair.

REPORTING OF MATTERS RELATED TO RECIPIENT INTEGRITY AND

PE FORM AN 

1) General Reporting Requirement

If the total value of your currently active grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement
contracts from all Federal awarding agencies exceeds $10,000,000 for any period of time
during the period of performance of this Federal award, then you, as the recipient, during that
period of time must maintain the currency of information reported to the System for Award
Management (SAM) that is made available in the designated integrity and performance
system (currently the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System

(F about civil, criminal, or administrative proceedings described in paragraph 2 of
this award term and condition. This is a statutory requirement under section 872 of Public
Law 110-417, as amended (41 U.S.C. 2313). As required by section 3010 of Public Law
111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance system on or
after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for Federal procurement
contracts, will be publicly available.

2) Proceedings You Must Report

Submit the information required about each proceeding that:

a) Is in connection with the award or performance of a grant, cooperative agreement, or
procurement contract from the Federal Government;

Grant Agreement 1 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 35 of 41

b) Reached its ?nal disposition during the most recent ?ve year period; and
c) Is one of the following:
i) A criminal proceeding that resulted in a conviction, as de?ned in paragraph 5 of this
award term and condition;
ii) A civil proceeding that resulted in a ?nding of fault and liability and payment of a
monetary ?ne, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more;
An administrative proceeding, as de?ned in paragraph 5 of this award term and
condition, that resulted in a ?nding of fault and liability and payment of either a
monetary ?ne or penalty of $5,000 or more; or reimbursement, restitution, or
damages in excess of $100,000; or
iv) Any other criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding if:
(1) It could have led to an outcome described in paragraph (2), or (3) of this
award term and condition;
(2) It had a different disposition arrived at by consent or compromise with an
acknowledgment of fault on your part; and
(3) The requirement in this award term and condition to disclose information about
the proceeding does not con?ict with applicable laws and regulations.

3) Reporting Procedures

Enter in the SAM Entity Management area the information that SAM requires about each
proceeding described in paragraph 2 of this award term and condition. You do not need to
submit the information a second time under assistance awards that you received if you
already provided the information through SAM because you were required to do so under
Federal procurement contracts that you were awarded.

4) Reporting Frequency

During any period of time when you are subject to the requirement in paragraph 1 of this
award term and condition, you must report proceedings information through SAM for the
most recent ?ve year period, either to report new information about any proceeding(s) that
you have not reported previously or af?rrn that there is no new information to report.
Recipients that have Federal contracts, grants, and cooperative agreement awards with a
cumulative total value greater than $10,000,000 must disclose semiannually any information
about the criminal, civil, and administrative proceedings.

5) De?nitions
For purposes of this award term and condition:

a) Administrative proceeding means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature
in order to make a determination of fault or liability Securities and Exchange
Commission Administrative proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals
proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals proceedings). This
includes proceedings at the Federal and State level but only in connection with
performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include audits, site visits,
corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables.

Grant Agreement 1 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 36 of 41

b) Conviction means a judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of

0)

competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or a plea, and includes a

conviction entered upon a plea of nolo contendere.

Total value of currently active grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement

contracts includes??

i) Only the Federal share of the funding under any Federal award with a recipient
cost share or match; and

ii) The value of all expected funding increments under a Federal award and options,
even if not yet exercised.

Grant Agreement 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 37 of 41

Attachment 

ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION

Based upon a review of the application, proposed work, and the supporting documentation
contacting in the applications, it has been determined that the proposed HPF funded work meets
the criteria for categorical exclusion under the current Interim Director?s Order 12 Categorical
Exclusions (replacing DO-12 Handbook, Chapter 3, Sections 3.3, 3.4, and 3.5).

Applicable categorical exclusion(s) below apply to all proposed projects except development
and archeological survey which must be reviewed independently:

F.1 F.6 Actions Related to Grant Programs

?lm-f5?:

Megan J. Brown Date
Chief State, Tribal, Local, Plans Grants
National Park Service

 

Grant Agreement 1 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 38 of 41

Attachment 

Administrative Costs De?nitions

United States Department of the Interior

NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
1349 Street, w.
Washington, DC 20240

 

Memorandum

Date: April 27, 2013

To: Historic Preservation Fund Grants Manual

From: Megan J. Brown, Chief; State, Tribal, Local, Plans and Grants 
Subject: Administrative Costs de?nition update to Manual

 

In 2017', the Office ofInspector General (GIG) completed an audit ofcosts claimed by the State
of Connecticut's Department and CommunityDevelnpment (DECD) on RPS
Grant No 13 for awarded under ?te Disaster Relief Appropnations Act
of 2013 (Hurricane Sandy,r Relief, Public Law 113-2} During the audit, DIG auditors found that
staff encountered diEficulriec in defining, and as a result moniron ng, administrative
costs. As aresult, we developed a clear definition of administrative costs. The "revised"
de?nition belowis effechVe immediately and superSedes all "pre'rlous" de?nttlons published in
the EFF Grants Manual and in HPF Grants Training materials. The nextupdate of the Grants
Manual will re?ect these changes as detailed below. but until dusts complete. State and Tribal
Historic Reservation Cfficers should ensure that all guidance under their command related to
admmistranve costs re?ects the rewised definiti on

HPF IMIANUAL CHANGE
Chapter 7 Exhibit 7-3 "Additional Instructions for the SF Section 

Previous Language:

A. Definition 1 Administrative costs. Costs incurred when accomplishing activity directly
pertinent to budget formulation and executi on. personnel management. ?nance, property
management, equal opportunity and other "overhead' functions not directly attn bumble to
specr?c program areas 

Revised definition:

A. De?nition. 1 Administrative costs. Allowable, reasonable, and allocable costs related to the
overall manager]: ent of atti'l-FIhBS directly related to finance (accounting. auditing, budgeting.
contracting). general administrative salaries and wages (grant administration, personnel, property
management, equal opportunity) and other ?overhead" functions (general legal services. general
liability insurance, depreciation on buildings and equipment. etc.) not directly atuibutable to
specrfic program areas Identified In the grant agreement. All costs reported must
be absolutely necessary? for project andfor program tmplernentat: on, such as the cost item 5
identified in the final grant agreement or items otherwise approved in writing by the NPS
Awarding Offi cer (A0).

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 39 of 41

Attachment 

Digital Product Submission Guidelines
The National Park Service?s (NPS) State, Tribal, Local, Plans Grants Division developed
these guidelines to outline the digital product submission process for grant recipients. These guidelines
specify the types of products that should be submitted, supply guidance on the ?le names and formats
grant recipients should use, and de?ne how submissions should be made.

Products submitted digitally may be uploaded and shared with the general public through the 91 egg? g'gj
Ii {?5ij the digital repository system. To see grant products
that have already been uploaded, go to 11% L), choose Historic Preservation Fund (HPF) under ?Select a
Park, Of?ce, Program or Region? and select a category of featured content.

What to submit:

I Provide one digital copy of each deliverable or publication under your grant agreement.
0 Deliverables and publications include, but are not limited to, the following materials:

 

SUBMIT

DO NOT SUBMIT

 

Reports, plans and guidelines (including
historic structure reports, design guidelines,
economic impact studies, treatment reports,
historic context statements, preservation plans)

Substantive event materials (including
programs, proceedings, handouts, photographs)

Professionally produced content (including
books, documentaries, oral histories,
presentations and PSAs)

Interpretive products (including books,
brochures, posters, interpretive tours, coloring
books or other youth-focused products, lesson
plans)

Online content (including websites, story maps,
and other web-based projects)

 

 

Digital copies saved on or ?ash
drives (unless arrangements have been made with
your grant administrator)

Con?dential/restricted reports that cannot be
viewed by the general public (including
archeological reports, architectural reports on
federal buildings or restricted sites)

Other documentation not intended for the
general public (including survey forms, ?nancial
records, correspondence)

Ephemeral products unlikely to be of future
value to the general public (including ?yers,
postcards, invitations, meeting minutes)

 

0 Final grant products may be made available to the general public and should, by default,
feature the NPS disclaimer. Printed products must feature a printed disclaimer when feasible.
Audio products must include a spoken version of the disclaimer. Video products must include the
disclaimer as an on?screen graphic. A disclaimer is not required when it would be unreasonable to
do so, such as on size-restrictive publications like postcards or ?yers.

For additional questions about the required disclaimer, consult with your NPS grant manager.

 

Grant Agreement P19AP00179
August 19, 2019
Page 40 of 41

Naming ?les for submission:

Name each ?le you will be submitting using the following naming convention:

[Grant if or 
File Description]

Do not use spaces or special characters in the ?le name.

For ?Short File Description,? write a brief (less than 50 characters), unique description that would
help someone easily and quickly identify the ?le.

If ?les are part of a series, append the number 001, 002, etc. to the end of the description.

Ex: Audio files submitted under a FY2018 grant by the DC State Historic Preservation O?ice
7AF00001_JohnDoeInterview001 . mp3

terview002. mp3

Use the appropriate abbreviation for your grant program in the ?le name:

Required file formats and resolution standards:

Reports and publications: PDF ?les saved at 300 ppi (pixels per inch) and 100% of the original
document size. When possible, convert original documents to PDFs (for example, saving as PDFs
from Word or InDesign ?les). Otherwise, save high resolution scans of printed materials as PDFs.
Photos: JPEG or TIFF ?les saved at a minimum resolution of 3000 2000 pixels (or 6

megapixels).
0 When submitting photographs, include captions, photo credit, and a signed release
form (if needed). lLlL'j?ilLl?ti 

0 Development (construction) grants must submit at least one before and one after
photograph of work completed under the grant. Refer to the 
Istrl'it? 1111 for more information on photographing a variety of
historic environments and buildings.
Videos: MP4 ?les saved at a resolution of 1280 by 720 pixels. All videos produced with HPF
funding should include closed captioning. When reasonable, provide transcripts of videos as
Word documents.
Audio: Uncompressed WAV ?les. When reasonable, provide transcripts of audio ?les as Word
documents.
For more information about formatting deliverables, consult the National Archivcs' "fables of
File Formats.

Creating an index file for your submission:

Include this information in the index ?le for each product that is being submitted:

Grant Number

Subgrant Number (if applicable)

Title of Product

Filename

Product Creator(s) (give names and their roles; include up to 5 names or

organizations)

Date Completed

Extent (number of pages, photographs, or length of audio/video ?les; use when

applicable)

Description (up to 200 words)
Save the index ?le as a Microsoft Word document using the following naming convention:
[Grant if or 


Ex: 8_DC_GranteeHistoricDistric_P1 7AF00001Jndex. docx

Grant Agreement 1 9AP001 79
August 19, 2019
Page 41 of 41

Submitting your ?les:

Ask your NPS grant manager to send you an invitation to submit your documents through the
Department of the Interior?s Secure File Transfer website.
You will receive an email invitation from 111?- ?le 
You will have two weeks to upload and submit your ?les after receiving the email invitation. If
you do not upload ?les within two weeks, you will need to contact your grant manager to ask for
a new email invitation.
Create a zipped folder containing all of the ?les you are uploading. Be sure to include your index
?le in the zipped folder with all of the products and deliverables you are submitting. Name the
zipped folder:
[Grant if or 


Ex: SHPOJ 7AF00001_Pr0ducts.zip
Open the invitation email. Click the ?Upload Files? link at the bottom of the message.
If you are a new user, you will be prompted to create a password for the DOI Secure File Transfer
website.
Once you have created a password and signed in to your DOI Secure File Transfer account, you
will be directed to the ?le upload page.
Drag and drop ?les or click the ?Select? link on the right side of the ?le upload page.
Select the zipped folder from where it is saved on your computer and click the ?Upload? button.
After the ?les have been successfully uploaded, they will appear on the right side of the page
above the ?Upload? button. Your grant administrator will be noti?ed that the upload is complete.

Reviewing submitted ?les:

When the NPS receives the ?les, we will review your submitted products for compliance with the
HPF grants manual, the Secretary of the Interior '3 Standards for Archeology and Historic
Preservation, and any other relevant requirements.

If there are issues with the submitted ?les or grant products, your grant manager will contact you
and may ask for corrections and resubmission if necessary.

NPS will also determine whether the submitted products are suitable for sharing with the general
public through Integrated l?xlunngu'nmn l, the digital
repository system. If so, we will upload the ?les to IRMA and make them publicly available.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

   

 

r? CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
.2523 PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
November 8, 2019
Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Transfer of Jurisdiction Surplus and Sale of Real Property
4498 16th St., Detroit, MI 48208

Honorable City Council:

The Detroit Parks and Recreation Department has indicated to the Planning and
Development Department that the above captioned property, 4498 16th St.
(the ?Property?) is no longer appropriate to their needs. PRD has requested that the
Finance Department transfer jurisdictional control over the Property to to
administer as surplus real property.

The Planning and Development Department is in receipt of an offer from Prince Realty
LLC, a Michigan Limited Liability Company, to purchase the Property for the amount of
Seven Thousand One Hundred and 00/100 Dollars 

The PrOperty consists of vacant land measuring approximately 7000 square feet and
zoned R2 (Two-Family Residential District). Prince Realty Wishes to develop the
Property as a greenspace/pocket park. This would serve to enhance the neighborhood
and support Prince Realty 5 adjacent planned eight (8) unit multi- family housing
development. Prince Realty? 3 use of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable
uses for which it is zoned.

Therefore, pursuant to Sec. 2-7-3 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, it is hereby requested by
the Chief Financial Of?cer that Detroit City Council approve the designation of
jurisdictional control of 4498 16th St. to Also, pursuant to Sec. Sec. 2-7-4 of the
2019 Detroit City Code, it is hereby requested by that 4498 16th St. be deemed
surplus and available for sale.

 

Honorable City Council
November 8, 2019
Page 2

Additionally, we request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to
authorize the Director of or his or her authorized designee, to execute a deed and
such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of 4498 16th
St. by the City to Prince Realty LLC, a Michigan Limited Liability Company.

Respectfully Submitted,

OFF FICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL


    
   

 

Joh Nagl! kg ,l
Chi {Deputy- Finance Director



cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

PLANNING DEVELOPMENT

katharine G.?Trudeau
Deputy Director

 

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, the Detroit Parks and Recreation Department has jurisdiction over
certain City of Detroit real property, 4498 16th St. (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit and

WHEREAS, PRD has requested that the Chief Financial Of?cer transfer jurisdiction of
4498th 16th St. to the Flaming and Development Department for management
and disposition, and in accordance with Article 7, Chapter 2 of the Detroit City Code,
the Chief Financial Of?cer has designated responsible for its management; and

WHEREAS, The Flaming and Development Department is in receipt of an offer from
Prince Realty LLC, a Michigan Limited Liability Company, to purchase the Property for
the amount of Seven Thousand One Hundred and 00/100 Dollars and

WHEREAS, Prince Realty LLC wishes to develop the Property as a greenspace/pocket
park. Prince Realty?s use of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for

which it is zoned,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that in accordance with Sec 2-7-3 of the
2019 Detroit City Code, Detroit City Council hereby approves the transfer of jurisdiction
of 4498 16th St. from the City of Detroit Recreation Department to the Planning 

Development Department; and be it further

RESOLVED, that in accordance with Sec 2-7- 4 of the Detroit City Code, Detroit City
Council hereby designates 4498 16th St. as surplus real property that may be offered for
sale/lease by the Planning Development Department; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department 
or his or her authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other
such documents necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of 4498 16th St. to Prince
Realty LLC, a Michigan Limited Liability Company consistent with this resolution; and

be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale
proceeds pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit
Building Authority 1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 Dollars
shall be paid to the DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Three Hundred Fifty Five
and 00/ 100 Dollars ($355.00) shall be paid to the real estate brokerage ?rm from
the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars
($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to
execute any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or
changes to the quit claim deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations
of legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event
that changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen
circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Property,
provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer
and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by
the Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel
as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LAND IN THE CITY OF DETROIT, COUNTY OF WAYNE AND STATE OF MICHIGAN BEING:

16TH LOTS 565 AND 566 SUB OF 44 L68 P2-3 DEEDS 10/31 66 106.85

DESCRIPTION CORRECT

BY
ENGINEER OF SURVEYS

 

4498 16TH ST
WARD 10 ITEM 006091?2

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

(313) 224-1310



CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

November 4, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Correction of Legal Description
10070 Barron and 9828 Dearborn

Honorable City Council:

On February 18, 2014, your Honorable Body authorized the sale of property located at 10070
Barnes and 9828 Dearborn to Hogg Brothers Properties, LLC. The property consisted of vacant
land measuring approximately 6,778 square feet and zoned M4 (Intensive Industrial District).
Hogg Brothers used the property to construct a paved surface parking lot for their nearby
business located at 9607 Dearborn.

It has come to our attention that the legal description was stated incorrectly and issued in error.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution authorizing an
amendment to the sale resolution to re?ect the correct legal description for the sale.

Respectfully Submitted,

Katharine G. Trudeau
Deputy Director

cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

By Council Member -

 

RESOLVED, That in accordance with the Foregoing communication, the authority to transfer
the property described in the attached Exhibit A-l, to Hog Brothers Properties, LLC, a Michigan
Limited Liability Company

(See Attached Exhibit A-I)

be amended to re?ect the correct legal description;

(See Attached Exhibit A-II)

AND BE IT RESOLVED, That the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or
his or her authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to execute a Quit Claim Deed for the
described property to Hog Brothers Properties LLC, a Michigan Limited Liability Company, as
well as any other such documents necessary to re?ect the correction of the legal description; and

be it

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his or her authorized designec, is authorized to execute
any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit
claim deed (including but not limited to corrections to or confirmations of legal descriptions, or
timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct
minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may
arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the deed and such other documents necessary to re?ect the correction of the
legal description, will be considered con?rmed when signed and executed by the Flaming and
Development Department Director, or his or her authorized designec, and approved by
Corporation Counsel as to form.

Exhibit A-I

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne and State of Michigan being all of Lots 7, 8; Barron '3 Subdivision of
pan of Lot 2 ,of Plat of part of RC. 340, City of Dciroit. Waync CaunLy, Michigan. Rec?d L. 37, P. 72 Plats,

W.C.R.

DESCRIPTION CORRECT
ENGINEER OF SURVEYS


By 
(If-?3 Vin?

x.

afk/a 9828 Dcarborn 10070 Barron

Ward 20 Itcm(s) 001474 005693.00l

EXHIBIT A-II

LAND IN THE CITY OF DETROIT, COUNTY OF WAYNE AND STATE OF MICHIGAN BEING:
BARRON LOT 7 BARRONS SUB L37 P72 PLATS, 20/367 108.06 IRREG

DEARBORN LOT 8 SUB OF PART OF EST OF 105 RIOPELLE L325 P78 DEEDS, 
20/121 30.44 133.15A

DESCRIPTION CORRECT

BY we 
ENGINEER OF SURVEYS

10070 BARRON and 9828 DEARBORN

 

WARD 20 ITEMS 001474 and 005693.001

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

  
    

 

November 8, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
4739 18th St. and 4690 Humboldt, Detroit, MI 48208

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Flaming and Development Department has received an offer from
Prince Realty LLC, a Michigan Limited Liability Company {the ?Purchaser?), to purchase certain
City-owned real property at 4739 18th St. and 4690 Humboldt (the ?Property?j for the purchase
price of One Hundred Ten Thousand Nine Hundred and 00(100 Dollars 

The Property consists of vacant land measuring approximately 112,000 square feet or 2.57 acres
and zoned M4 (Intensive Industrial District). Prince Realty wishes to construct a commercial
development. Prince Realty?s use of the property shall be consistent with the allowable use for

which the Property is zoned.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the
Director of or his authorized designee, to execute a deed and such other documents as may
be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Prince Realty LLC, a

Michigan Limited Liability Company.

Sincerely,

  

Katy Trudeau
Deputy Director

cc'; Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

 

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 4739 18?? St. and 4690 Humboldt (the as more
particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Prince Realty LLC. a
Michigan Limited Liability Company (the for the purchase price of One Hundred
Ten Thousand Nine Hundred and 00! 00 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department or his
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary
or convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and

be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Six Thousand Six Hundred Fifty Five and 00(100 Dollars shall he paid
to the DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Five Thousand Five Hundred Forty Five and 00:?100 Dollars
shall be paid to the DBA's real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3 
customary closing costs up to Two Hundred and 00! 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the

sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee? is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or confirmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property. provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

902800 PUB SOSLOO SWELLI OI GHVM
05917 PUB '15 HLSI 65-117 

SAHAHDS HEIEINIDNEI
A8

 

1338803 

J.:l US 178699 3 SiV'ld
06d EIHS SHOHLS ?8 AEITIV OVA _L:l OI GNV id 58 DXEI 17I id
06 3X3 E13 013 101 .L:l 517'OHHJ. 9 iCl'IOElanH El

_L:l US C) 821 805 ?8 AEITIV OVA id 013 St
883W ?8 CINV 9A1 .15 H1813 DVA _L:l OE 

NVBIHDIW :iO CINV EINAVM 'llOHiElG AJJD EIHJ. NI 

ll?lHXEl

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

November 12, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
20 Alfred, 24 Alfred, 28 Alfred, 32 Alfred and 36 Alfred

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
Shamrock Acquisitions, LLC (the ?Purchaser), to purchase certain City-owned real property at 20
Alfred, 24 Alfred, 28 Alfred, 32 Alfred and 36 Alfred (the ?Property?) for the purchase price of
Two Hundred Twenty Two Thousand One Hundred Ninety 00/100 Dollars 

Currently, the property is within a PD zoning district (Planned Development District). Shamrock
Acquisitions, LLC proposes to construct new condominiums on the Property in accordance with
the plans as outlined in the current PD designation. Shamrock Acquisitions LLC proposed use of
the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
or his or her authorized designee to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents

as may be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Shamrock
Acquisitions, LLC.

Respectfully submitted,

A 2.22.

Katharine G. Trudeau
Deputy Director

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 20 Alfred, 24 Alfred, 28 Alfred, 32 Alfred and 36 Alfred, Detroit,
M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein,
to Shamrock Acquisitions, LLC (the ?Purchaser?) for the purchase price Two Hundred Twenty
Two Thousand One Hundred Ninety 00/100 Dollars 

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his or her
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary
or convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his or her authorized designee, is authorized to execute
any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit
claim deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or
timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct
minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may
arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his or her authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

Parcel 1

ALFRED UNIT 35 WAYNE COUNTY CONDOMINIUM SUB PLAN NO. 642
PLACE AT BRUSH PARK RECORDED L35040 P376-487 DEEDS,
WCR AMENDMENT RECORDED L3 7323 P2061 DEEDS, SECOND
AMENDMENT RECORDED L38706 P102415 DEEDS, THIRD AMENDMENT
RECORDED L42824 Pl-20 DEEDS, WCR FOURTH RECORDED [443786
Pl23-135 DEEDS, FIFTH AMENDMENT RECORDED L44832 Pl 12-126 DEEDS,
WCR 1/230 2.5

a/k/a 20 Alfred
Tax Parcel ID 01000617035

Parcel 2

ALFRED UNIT 36 WAYNE COUNTY CONDOMINIUM SUB PLAN NO. 642
PLACE AT BRUSH PARK RECORDED L35040 P3 76-487 DEEDS,
WCR AMENDMENT RECORDED L37323 DEEDS. WCR: SECOND
AMENDMENT RECORDED L38706 P102-115 THIRD AMENDMENT
RECORDED L42824 Pl-20 DEEDS, WCR FOURTH AMENDMENT RECORDED L43786
DEEDS, FIFTH AMENDMENT RECORDED L44832 Pl 12-126 DEEDS,
WCR 1/230 2.5%

a/k/a 24 Alfred
Tax Parcel ID 01000617036

Parcel 3

ALFRED UNIT 37 WAYNE COUNTY CONDOMINIUM SUB PLAN NO. 642
PLACE AT BRUSH PARK RECORDED L3 5040 487 DEEDS,
WCR AMENDMENT RECORDED L37323 P20- 31 DEEDS, SECOND
AMENDMENT RECORDED L38706 P102- 115 DEEDS, THIRD AMENDMENT
RECORDED L42824 P1 -20 DEEDS, WCR FOURTH AMENDMENT RECORDED L43786
P123-135 DEEDS, FIFTH AMENDMENT RECORDED L44832 P112-126 DEEDS,
2.5%

a/k/a 28 Alfred
Tax Parcel ID 01000617.037

Parcel 4

ALFRED UNIT 38 WAYNE COUNTY CONDOMINIUM SUB PLAN NO. 642
PLACE AT BRUSH PARK RECORDED L35040 P3 76- 487 DEEDS,
WCR AMENDMENT RECORDED L37323 P20- 31 DEEDS, SECOND
AMENDMENT RECORDED L3 8706 P102-115 DEEDS, THIRD AMENDMENT
RECORDED L42824 P1-20 DEEDS, WCR FOURTH AMENDMENT RECORDED L43786
P123-135 DEEDS, FIFTH AMENDMENT RECORDED L44832 P112-126 DEEDS,
2.5%

a/k/a 32 Alfred
Tax Parcel ID 01000617.038

Parcel 5

ALFRED UNIT 39 WAYNE COUNTY CONDOMINIUM SUB PLAN NO. 642
PLACE AT BRUSH PARK RECORDED L35040 P376- 487 DEEDS,
WCR AMENDMENT RECORDED L37323 P20- 31 DEEDS, SECOND
AMENDMENT RECORDED L38706 P102-115 DEEDS, THIRD AMENDMENT
RECORDED L42824 P1-20 DEEDS, WCR FOURTH AMENDMENT RECORDED L43 786
P123-135 DEEDS, FIFTH AMENDMENT RECORDED L44832 P112-126 DEEDS,
2.5%

a/k/a 36 Alfred
Tax Parcel ID 01000617.039

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 

   

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

November 06, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale by Development Agreement
2420 Bagley, 1725 and 1729 16th, Detroit, MI

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Flaming and Development Department has received an offer from
Bagley 16th LLC (?Purchaser?), a Michigan limited liability company, to purchase certain City-
owned real property at 2420 Bagley, 1725 and 1729 16th, Detroit, M1 (the ?Properties?) for the
purchase price of Two Hundred Sixty Four Thousand and 00/100 Dollars 

The Purchaser proposes to construct a mixed-use development with approximately 60 rental units
and 4,000 sq. ft. of retail/commercial space on the Properties. Currently, the Properties are within
an SD2 zoning district (Special Development District, Mixed-Use). The Purchaser?s proposed use
of the Properties is consistent with the allowable uses for which the Properties are zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the 
Director, or his authorized designee, to execute a development agreement, deed and such other
documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of the Properties by the City to

Purchaser.

Respectfully submitted,

Katharine G. Trudeau
Deputy Director

Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER: 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the sale
by development agreement of certain real property at 2420 Bagley, 1725 and 1729 16th, Detroit,
M1 (the ?Properties?), as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein,
to Bagley 16th LLC (?Purchaser?), a Michigan limited liability company, for the purchase price
of Two Hundred Sixty Four Thousand and 00/100 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department or his
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a development agreement and issue a quit claim deed
for the sale of the Properties, as well as execute such other documents as may be necessary or
convenient to effect the transfer of the Properties to Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the development agreement shall obligate Purchaser to cause a mixed-use
development to be constructed on the Properties; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Fifteen Thousand Eight Hundred Forty and 00/ 100 Dollars shall be
paid to the DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Thirteen Thousand Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars
shall be paid to the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3)
customary closing costs up to Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) may be paid from the
sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Properties, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the development agreement and quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed
when executed by the Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the
Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

Parcel 1

16TH LOTS 25 THRU 28 BLK 20 FRONT SUB OF LAFONTAINE FARM L59 
DEEDS, 10/9 18,245 SQ FT

a/k/a 1725 16th
Tax Parcel ID 10006498.

Parcel 2

16TH LOT 24 BLK 20 FRONT SUB OF LAFONTAINE FARM L59 DEEDS, 
10/9 40 106.85

a/k/a 1729 16th
Tax Parcel ID 10006499.

Parcel 3

16TH LOTS 22 AND 23 BLK 20 FRONT SUB OF LAFONTAINE FARM L59 P154-5
DEEDS, 10/9 64.58 106.85

a/k/a 2420 Bagley
Tax Parcel ID 10006500.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - TTY2711

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   
 

November 8, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
Development: 3769 E. Canfield; generally bound by Gar?eld St., Mt. Elliott St.,

Canfield St. and Ellery St.

Honorable City Council:

We are in receipt Of an Offer from Pope Francis Center, a Michigan Nonpro?t Corporation to
purchase the above-captioned property for the amount of $180,000.00 and to develop such
property. This property consists of vacant land measuring approximately 257,000 square feet

(5.9 acres).

Pope Francis Center currently operates a facility to serve the homeless at 438 St. Antoine,
located at the southeast corner of St. Antoine and Lamed. These services include meals, laundry,
medical care and other services. No overnight shelter services, however, are provided.

The facility that Pope Francis is proposing to build at 3769 E. Can?eld will provide transition
housing to Detroit?s homeless community. The proposed development will be comprised of
approximately 40 studio apartments, a cafeteria, classrooms, library, health services, secure
outdoor courtyard areas, other amenities and two (2) paved surface parking lots for employees,
residents and the public. In addition, certain areas Of the building such as the clinic and
gymnasium will be available for community use. The purpose of the transitional housing is to
give people a place to live for 90-120 days geared towards the transition to permanent housing.

Any portion of the facility not paved or otherwise deveIOped will be appropriately lighted and
landscaped. As part of the storrnwater management system, a retention area shall be constructed.
The total cost of the development is estimated to be $19 million.

The project area is currently zoned R3 (Low Density Residential) and B6 (General Services).
The changing of the zoning classi?cation to PD (Planned Development) and the adoption of the
project site plan in accordance with zoning designation guidelines has been submitted to your

Honorable Body for approval.

 

Honorable City Council
November 8, 2019
Page 2

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body approve the sale and authorize the Director of
the Planning and Development Department, or his or her authorized designec, to execute an
agreement to purchase and develop 3769 Can?cld, as more particularly described in the
attached Exhibit A, with Pope Francis Center, a Michigan Nonpro?t Corporation, together with a
deed to the property and such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate the sale, For the

amount of $1 80,000.

Respectfully Submitted,

Katharine G. 

Deputy Director .
Flaming Development Department

KT/ajm

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
Donald Rencher, HRD

RESOLUTION

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, has received an offer from Pope Francis Center, a Michigan
Nonprofit Corporation (?Offeror?) requesting the conveyance by the City of Detroit of real
property (the '?Property?), more particularly described in the attached Exhibit and

WHEREAS, The [acility that the Offeror is proposing to build at 3769 E. Cantield will
provide transition housing to Detroit?s homeless community. The proposed development will be
comprised of approximately 40 studio apartments, a cafeteria, classrooms, library, health
services, secure outdoor courtyard areas, other amenities and two (2) paved surface parking lots
for employees, residents and the public; and

WHEREAS, The project area is currently zoned R3 (Low Density Residential) and B6
(General Services). The changing of the zoning classi?cation to PD (Planned Development) and
the adoption of the project site plan in accordance with zoning designation guidelines has been
submitted to Detroit City Council for approval.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that in accordance with the Offer to
Purchase and the foregoing communication, the Director of the Planning and Development
Department or his or her authorized designee. be and is hereby authorized to execute an
agreement to purchase and develop 3769 H. Canfield, as more particularly described in the
attached Exhibit A, with Pope Francis Center, a Michigan Nonpro?t Corporation, together with a
deed to the property and such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate the sale, for the
amount of $180,000; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale
proceeds pursuant to the City's Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building
Authority 1) Ten Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars shall be
paid to the DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Nine Thousand and 00f 100 Dollars shall
be paid to the real estate brokerage firm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing
costs up to 'l'wo Hundred and 001?100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the approval of the sale shall be subject to the adoption of the project
plan for the development and the changing of the zoning classi?cation to PD (Planned

Development); and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his or her authorized designee, is authorized to
execute any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to
the quit claim deed {including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal
descriptions. or timing ot? tender ofpossession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are
required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or
technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the
changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale: and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the deed and such other documents necessary to effectuate the sale,
will be considered confirmed when signed and executed by the Planning and Development
Department Director, or his or her authorized designer-3, and approved by Corporation Counsel as
to form.

A WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED.

EXHIBITA

LAND IN THE CITY OF DETROIT, COUNTY OF WAYNE AND STATE OF MICHIGAN BEING:

CANFIELD LOTS 1 THRU 8 FISCHER BERNARTS SUB L8 P48 PLATS, 13/94

LOTS 12 THRU 23 SCHMIDTS SUB L19 P43 PLATS, 13/188

LOTS 1 THRU 9 LAMBERTS SUB L19 P65 PLATS, 13/107

181.9 FT OF 236THEREOF LEIB FARM L45 P664 DEEDS,
13/1

LOTS 1 THRU 9 SCHWARTZS SUB L16 P64 PLATS, 13/106

LOTS 1 THRU 8 GUTOWS SUB L19 P64 PLATS, 13/108

AND ALL VACATED ALLEYS BOUNDED BY ELLERY, MT ELLIOTT, CANFIELD GARFIELD

13 531.04 IR-REG

DESCRIPTION CORRECT

BY
ENGINEER OF SURVEYS

 

3769 E. CANFIELD
WARD 13 ITEM 002363-82

 

inty of Detroit

COUNCILMAN SCOTT R. BENSON 5

MEMORANDUM 3.:
TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corp Counsel 
FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 4%
CC: Hon. James Tate, Chair, Planning Economic Development

Hon. Gabe Leland, Member, Planning Economic Development
Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

Marcel] Todd, Director, CPC

Tonja Long, Law Department

Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 12 Nov 2019
RE: SIGN ORDINANCE OPINION

Detroit?s existing and draft sign ordinances include prohibitions against certain products
being advertised in ?advertising sensitive areas.? Please provide an opinion on the ability
of Detroit to add marihuana and vaping products to the list of prohibited items being
advertised within ?advertising sensitive areas.? If there is an issue with adding these
products to the list of prohibited products please suggest a path that allows Detroit to add
these products to this list.

1. Modify Section 4-3-4 to include marihuana and associated products to the
prohibition of advertising within 1,000 feet of ?advertising sensitive property.?
2. Modify Section 4-3-4 to include vaping products and associated goods to the

prohibition of advertising within 1,000 feet of ?advertising sensitive property.?

If you have any questions do not hesitate to contact my of?ce at, 313-224-1198

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

