BUD GET, 
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE 

 

City of Detroit

OFFICE OF THE AUDITOR GENERAL

 

Audit of Demolition Activities
Interim Report

On

Contract Administration for
City-funded Residential Demolitions

November 2019

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 216

Office of the Auditor General Detm?t- MiChiga" 43226

   

  

CITYDF '1 Phone: (313) 224-3101
313 224-4091
DETROIT ?lial-army
Mark W. Lockridge, Auditor General
MEMORANDUM

DATE: November 8, 2019

T0: Honorable City Council

FROM: Mark w. Lockridge, CPAW

Auditor General
RE: Audit of Demolition Activities

Interim Report on Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

CC: Mayor Mike Duggan
David Bell, Director,
Buildings, Safety Engineering, and Environmental Department
Tyrone Clifton, Director, Detroit Building Authority
Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Officer, Office of the
Chief Financial Officer, Office of Contracting and Procurement
Arthur Jemison, Group Executive and Chief of Services and Infrastructure
David Massaron, Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Chief Financial Officer
John Naglick, Chief Deputy CFO/Finance Director, Office of the
Chief Financial Officer
Donald Rencher, Director, Housing, and Revitalization Department
Saskia Thompson, Executive Director, Detroit Land Bank Authority

Attached for your review is our interim report on Contract Administration for City?funded
Demolitions in conjunction with our ongoing audit of Demolition Activities. This report
contains our audit purpose, scope, objectives, approach and methodology, and
conclusions; background; our audit findings and recommendations; and the responses
from the Detroit Building Authority, the City of Detroit?s Building, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department, the Housing and Revitalization Department, and the Office
of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of Contracting and Procurement.

We would like to thank the employees of the above named organizations for their
continued cooperation and assistance extended to us during this phase of the audit.

Copies of all of the Office of the Auditor General reports can be found on the City?s
Website: 

AUDIT OF DEMOLITION ACTIVITIES

INTERIM REPORT ON
CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION FOR CITY-FUNDED RESIDENTIAL DEMOLITIONS
NOVEMBER 2019

TABLE OF CONTENTS

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES, APPROACH AND
METHODOLOGY, AND CONCLUSIONS

BACKGROUND

STATUS OF PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS

AUDIT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

Agencnyepartment Legend:
Buildings, Safety Engineering, and Environmental Department (BSEED)
Detroit Building Authority (DBA)





Housing, and Revitalization Department HRD
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of Contracting and Procurement
(OCP)

Page

15

 



FINDING

AUDIT FINDING

RELEVANT


 

BSEED

DBA

HRD

OCP

PAGE

 

1.

Did Not Meet Contract
Performance and
Timeline Requirements





17

 

Did Not Comply With
City Policies and
Procedures, State,
Local, and Other
Requirements Related
to City-funded
Residential Demolitions
and Their Contracts

23

 

 

Lack of Documentation
to Support Authorization
of Payment

 

 

 

 

 

29

 

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

AUDIT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS CONTINUED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RELEVANT
FINDING 
AUDIT FINDING BSEED DBA HRD OCP PAGE
4. Contract Files Are Not 32
Centralized and Data
Related to
Demolitions is
Inconsistent and
Unreliable
5. Demolition Costs 38
Were Not Recovered
From Property
Owners
6. DBA Did Not Fulfill Its 44
Duties As The
Program Manager
Over City-funded
Demolitions
APPENDICES: Supplemental Information
APPENDIX A: Contract Administration for City-funded 48
Demolitions Performance Summary
APPENDIX B: Generally Accepted Governmental Auditing 64
Standards for Performance Audits
APPENDIX Glossary 67

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

ATTACHMENTS: Agency/Department Responses

ATTACHMENT A: Consolidated Agencies/Departments
Response

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

The Office of the Auditor General (OAG) was requested by City Council (October 2015)
to conduct an audit into Demolition Activities. Our audit encompasses demolition and
demolition related activities from the period of January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2018.

We discovered early on that the audit of demolition activity in the City would require a
considerable amount of time and resources, since the activities are performed by
several different entities. The processes are convoluted, complex, and change often.
We limited the scope of the audit to focus on activities and transactions deemed as high
risk in terms of internal controls, public safety, safeguarding assets, and those areas
where there is a high probability of misappropriation and/or fraud.

The diagram below shows the Interim Audit Reports, Special Reports, and
Memorandum(s) that we have issued to date in the execution of this audit:

Audit of Demolition Activities
Overview of Published Reports and Memos

Memorandum: I Interim Audit Report:

HHF Smut-muons. 1 Cornictofhtorest
?ermtatement April 2016
Orlober 2016

Program Managers

Spotml Report:

D?m?litIOH
March 2017 IHIWMH
W:
- Administration
Housing 8: Revitalization ?2019

Building Safety Engineering 81 Environmental
Office of Contracting and Procurement

This lnterim Audit Report focuses on the administration and performance of City-funded
demolitions contracted primarily through the City?s Housing and Revitalization
Department, with oversight and program management provided by the Detroit Building

Authority.

Our audit began by reviewing City policies and procedures, Requests for Proposals
for demolition contracts, Memorandums of Understanding Demolition
Management Agreements and other relevant federal, state, and local, laws,
regulations, as deemed necessary to compile criteria for the audit. This review resulted

in a ?checklist? of information and documents that should be included in each demolition
contract file. The final checklist required over 600 hours of research and investigation
and resulted in one hundred and five (105) different criterion which we used to audit (or
test) a representative sample of City-funded demolitions. We grouped the criterion into
six relevant ?Areas of Impact? according to the impact and/or benefit to the public. The
following table is a graphic presentation of the results of this portion of the
Administration testing:

Numhm nitnlorlun

105

100

Resident Safety and
Protection

Notes: (A)

(3)

Overview of Contract Administration for Citv Funded
Demolitionsiw Area of Impact

Overview of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

more
100 0%
90.0%
80.0%
70.0%
50w?
50.0%
40.0%
30.0%
20 0%

10 0%

Clearances and
Payments

0.0%
Post-demolition Site Program Management Total Criterion

Restoration and Monitoring

Proper Disposal of
Hazardous Material,
Debris, etc;

Pro-demolition Site
Preparation

Number of Criterion >75% Non-Compliance Total Criterion ?0verall of Non-Compliance

See ?Appendix A: Performance Summary of Contract Administration for
City-funded Demolitions? on page 48 of this report, for more detailed results.
The udit Checklist? contains one-hundred and five (105) different criterion.
Each property in the sample was tested for contract administration against
each criterion. The Percentage of Noncompliance? represents the
number/percentage of demolitions that did not comply with the speci?c
requirement. Properties can ?fail? the requirement if the required
documentation or information was not found within the City?s ?les.

The graph above presents an overview of the six ?Areas of Impact" and their
respective ?Percentages of Noncompliance? where at least 35 of the 47 (or
properties audited did not comply with the specific requirement.

2

Audit Impediment Relating to Timely Receipt of Audit Documentation

During the course of this audit, there were significant delays in receiving documentation.
We began focusing on contract administration for City-funded demolitions in February
2017. We requested contract information on thirty-four properties that had been
selected during previous audit work on the City?s bid processes relating to demolitions.

The City Charter, Section 7.5-105, states that the ?Powers and Duties? of the Auditor
General:

0 Shall have access to all financial records, human resource records, and other
records of city agencies necessary to perform his/her functions;

- Shall investigate the administration and operation of any city agency and report
findings and recommendations to the City Council and the Mayor;

- May request and shall be given necessary assistance and information by each
agency;

0 May subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, require the
production of evidence relevant to a matter under investigation, enter and inspect
premises within the control of any agency during regular business hours. To
enforce a subpoena or order for production of evidence or to impose any penalty
prescribed for failure to obey a subpoena or order, the Auditor General shall
apply to the appropriate court.

Four months later, we issued a subpoena to DBA for the information. Then in August
2017, due to the lack of responsiveness to the first subpoena, we issued a second
subpoena to DBA. One item on the request related to the amount of dollars the City
has spent supplementing demolitions funded by Hardest Hit Funds (HHF) and
performed by the Land Bank. To date, we have not received a response from the
Program Manager (DBA) who was directly responsible for coordinating these payments.

It should be noted that we presented our initial findings to all impacted departments in
June 2018, and released a preliminary interim draft report to the Auditees in February
2019. The coordinated response pointed out that our sample of selected properties was
old and stale, and did not include new processes that had been put in place to correct
documented and reported issues. We then agreed to ?roll-fonNard? our audit work
through to December 31, 2018. Still, there were delays in receiving information relative
to our new sample of sixty-two properties as detailed in the table on the following page:

Timeline of ?Roll-Forward? Audit Work for City-funded Demolitions

 

 

 

Approximate Approximate
Weeks/Months Weeks/Months
Elapsed Elapsed
From the From the
Date First Notice to First Receipt of
Description 2019 Publish Information
?Notice to Publish? an interim audit
report on the contract compliance for City- -
funded demolitions 2/08
DBA submitted a consolidated response to
the draft report 2/20 2 weeks

 

OAG agreed to a new audit sample and
requested data for all demolitions through
December 2018 2/25 2 1/2 weeks

 

initial request for documentation for
the new ?roll fonNard? audit sample of 62

 

properties 3/29 2 months
Receipt of information for 15 (out of the
62) properties in the ?roll-forward? sample 4/30 3 months 

 

Meeting with Auditees? to review issues
with the data received and the status of
the documentation for the remaining 47

roperties in the audit sample 5/09 3 months 1 week

 

request for information on the
remaining 47 properties in the audit
sample 5/09 3 months 1 week

 

final request for information on the
remaining 47 properties in the audit

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sample 6/13 4 months 1 month
notice to proceed audit testing on

information 6/28 5 months 2 months
Receipt of additional data for some

properties from OCP 7/24 6 months 3 months
Receipt of additional data for some

properties from other sources 10/25 9 months 6 months

Closing

Also included in this Report, are the results of other audit testing related to the:
- Timeliness of meeting demolition deadlines;
- Transparency of reported demolition costs;

- Completeness of contract files and payment request packages; and the

4

0 Overall adequacy of program management activities.

In closing, the responsibility for the installation and maintenance of a system of internal
control that minimizes errors and provides reasonable safeguards rests entirely with the
management of those agencies/departments directly responsible for the activity.

Responsibility for monitoring the implementation of recommendations is set forth in
Section 7.5405(4) of the City Charter which states in part that:

Recommendations that are not put into effect by the department shall be
reviewed by the Finance Director (or his Designee) who shall advise the Auditor
General and the City Council of the action being taken with respect to the
recommendations.

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES,
APPROACH AND METHODOLOGY, AND CONCLUSIONS

Audit Purpose
The Audit of Demolition Activity is being performed in accordance with the Office of the

Auditor General?s charter mandate to make audits of the financial transactions,
performance and operations of City agencies based on an annual risk-based audit plan
prepared by the Auditor General, or as othenivise directed by the City Council, and
report findings and recommendations to the City Council and the Mayor.

Audit Scope
This is a limited scape performance audit conducted in accordance with Generally

Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) as compiled by the United States
Government Accountability Office except for a Peer Review (See ?Appendix B:
Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards? for more information on


This performance audit focuses on the citywide demolition activity and demolition
related activities for the period January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2018, performed
by the following entities:

1. Detroit Land Bank Authority (Land Bank);
Detroit Buildings Authority 
Building Safety, Engineering and Environmental Department 
Housing Revitalization Department 
Planning and Development Department 
General Services Division 
Offices in the Office of Chief Financial Officer;
3. Office of Contracting and Procurement 
b. Office of Financial Planning and Analysis 
0. Office of the Assessor.

51.05.019.03.?

Audit Objectives
The objectives of the audit of Demolition Activities related to City-funded demolitions
are:

 

- To determine if the DBA is in compliance with the Memorandum of
Understanding between the DBA and the City;

- To determine if there is proper oversight of demolition contracts;
- To analyze and report on the cost of City-funded demolition activities;

0 To determine if the City is complying with its dangerous buildings and demolition
processes, and other relevant laws and regulations.

6

The OAG will issue reports that include findings and recommendations resulting from
our audits, and responses from the relevant agencies and departments related to our
findings.

Audit Approach and Methodology
To accomplish our objectives, our audit approach and methodology included:

Reading relative prior audit reports;

Reviewing prior audit workpapers, the City Charter, Executive Orders, financial
reports, budget reports, the City?s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,
organization charts, Finance Directives, Chief Financial Officer Directives, and
any other reports or directives pertinent to Citywide demolition;

Gathering policies and procedures of core operations and other similar data;

Conducting audit?planning meetings to determine the scope and audit
objectives, and to determine the financial transactions and/or areas to audit;

Developing questions regarding transactions, processes and procedures,
controls, functions, records, and personnel;

Interviewing relevant personal of entities directly involved in demolition and other
relevant City personnel;

Observing, documenting and testing of relevant processes, procedures, contracts
and agreements;

Examining a sample of demolished pr0perties during the audit period to conclude
on the appropriateness of demolition cost and proper contract administration;

Conducting any necessary additional testing, and completing any other audit
steps necessary to draw conclusions to the relevant objectives;

Developing recommendations for all findings.

Note: See ?Appendix B: Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards?
for more information on Fieldwork, Developing Findings, Reporting

Conclusions and Recommendations in a Performance Audit.

Conclusions
Based upon the results of our audit, we have concluded that:

DBA did not comply with the Demolition Management Agreement (DMA)
between DBA and the City, and they did not perform their duties as the Program
Manager relating to the proper management and oversight of the City?s
demolition program;

DBA along with one or more City agencies, did not provide proper administration
of demolition contracts and did not monitor or ensure that demolition contractors
met all contract requirements. This resulted in contractors who:

7

4.

. Did not adhere to the performance timeline criteria as set forth in the

demolition contracts, including starting work prior to receiving proper
no?ces;

Did not comply with some City policies and procedures, some state, local,
and other requirements related to City-funded demolitions and contracts;

Did not provide proper documentation for landfill and backfill receipts, and
statuses of work in progress;

Did not provide all required documentation for payment.

- DBA along with one or more City agencies, did not fully comply with the City?s
dangerous buildings and demolition processes and they did not fully comply
other relevant laws and regulations;

- The reporting for City-funded demolitions (including costs), lacks transparency,
accuracy, and completeness.

We also found that there are unresolved prior audit findings relating to inadequate
records management for the demolition process, the failure to recover the cost of
demolition from property owners, and the lack of centralized contract files.

BACKGROUND

In August 2015, a two-year Demolition Management Agreement (DMA) was executed
between the City (through its Housing and Revitalization Department (HRD) and its
Building Safety, Engineering and Environmental Department and the Detroit
Building Authority (DBA). The agreement is similar to the Demolition Management
Agreement, executed February 2015, between DBA and the Detroit Land Bank
Authority (herein referred to as the ?Land Bank?). Both agreements engaged DBA to act
as the ?Program Manager? and ?coordinate and implement? the Demolition Program on
behalf of the City. A new demolition agreement with DBA was approved by City Council
on July 16, 2019. The term of the DMA is for three years, through August 18, 2022.

Effective dates of the agreements differ The DMA between the DBA and the
City is in effect for two years from the date of the original agreement and is
automatically extended without further action for an additional two year term, if neither
party provides a Notice of Termination to the other party. On the other hand, the DMA
between DBA and the Land Bank states that the term shall extend for two years from
the date of approval with options to extend the contract for an additional one year
penod.

The DMA between the DBA and the City requires the parties to work together to
develop an Annual Demolition Plan. The Scope of Services in the Agreement includes
very specific, revised protocol for demolition and abatement of commercial structures.
Other specific duties outlined in the DMA are as follows:

City Duties

- Engage all contractors and require contractors to comply with the City of
Detroit Demolition Policies and Procedures. This includes making sure all
appropriate language is in the contracts, and the Contractors have the
required insurances.

- Pay all contractors through BSEED and HRD.
HRD Duties

- Ensure Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds are properly
used and all reporting is done to comply with federal rules and regulations;

0 Prepare and perform all environment requirements including scheduling
and performing all necessary environmental testing and abatement;

0 Pay DBA an ?activity delivery fee? of $250 for each residential structure
and $2,500 for each commercial structure that is demolished under the
Demolition Program;

- Work with the BSEED to use fire escrow funds;
- Pay BSEED for the cost of its services.
BSEED Duties

- Identify properties for demolition, conduct inspections, verify property
conditions and ownership, coordinate dangerous building designations
and demolition orders, and maintain required documentation;

0 Issue demolition permits and conduct inspections related to demolitions;
0 Verify clearance and conditions after demolition and issue final approvals;
- Release any available fire escrow funding available for demolition.

DBA Duties

0 Manage performance of the contractors engaged by the City under the
Demolition Program;

- Develop a demolition strategy, including the identification of sources of
funds available for demolition;

- Coordinate demolitions; conduct progress and final inspections, maintain
documentation and provide reports;

- Maintain records in auditable form and make them available for audit;
0 Record all liens related to the Demolition Program;

- Enter into and perform demolition and real prOperty stabilization contracts
requested in writing and accepted by the City.

Sources of Monies for City-wide Blight Investments and Demolitions
City-funded demolitions are paid for by various types and sources of funds. Listed
below is a brief overview of these funds:

City of Detroit Plan of Adiustment Restructuring Revenues

The City?s approved ?Eighth Amended Plan of Adjustment? included significant
investments in infrastructure by investing approximately $1.5 billion over ten
years to improve basic and essential City services to citizens. The Plan of
Adjustment allows the City to use surplus General Fund amounts (commonly
referred to as Quality of Life (QOL) dollars) and to allocate over $500 million for
demolitions of blighted structures;

Community Development Block Grants (CDBG)

CDBG grants are a U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
grant program for blight elimination for non-entitled local units of government.
regulations states that grantees must disburse program income, rebates,
refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and interest earned on such
funds before requesting additional cash payments;

Fire Insurance Escrow (FIE) Account

FIE was established by the State of Michigan?s Public Act 218 of 1956. The Act

establishes the amount of each fire insurance settlement to be escrowed. For

residential prOperty, the maximum amount that may be escrowed is 25% ofthe

settlement or a maximum of $7,873. The maximum for commercial and industrial

properties is 25% of the settlement. The City is required to record the amount of
10

fire insurance escrow funds received and deposit the money in a trust or escrow
account. Once the City receives reasonable proof that the building has been
repaired or removed in conformance with local code requirements, or the insured
party has entered into a contract with a contractor to repair, replace, or remove
the structure for the insured party, the funds are to be released to the insured
party. If reasonable proof is not received within 120 days, the City may use the
retained proceeds to secure, repair, or demolish the damaged structure so that
the structure is in compliance with local code requirements and applicable
ordinances;

0 Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP)
NSP grants are a HUD grant program for blight elimination. The program was
authorized under Section 2301 of Title of the Housing and Economic Recovery
Act of 2008 (as amended.) The Act states that these funds are treated the same
as CDBG funds;

- Private and Other Funding
Smaller numbers of demolitions are funded by private donations and/or private
owners;

0 US Treasury Hardest Hit Funds (HHF)
Another funding source for demolitions in the City is Hardest Hit Funds (HHF)
which are awarded by the US. Department of Treasury, under the United States
Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). In 2013, Michigan was granted
authorization to use HHF funds for blight elimination. These funds are given to
the Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA) to administer to its
blight partners throughout the State of Michigan. The Detroit Land Bank
Authority is its blight partner for the City, and the funds granted to can only be
used for demolitions in designated HHF areas. The City provides supplemental
funding to the Land Bank to fill ?gaps? in the cost of demolitions, particularly when
the cost exceeds the federal/state threshold of $25,000 per structure.

From 2014 to September 2019, over $532 million has been invested in the fight against
blight in the City of Detroit.

The following chart and table provide an overview of blight investments by the major
funding sources:

11

Overview of (my-Wide Bliqht  nvest_ment by Major Fundinq Source

City-Wide Blight Investments
Millions

i 519.4
- Fire Insurance Escruw
it'll

          


-

520.5 
Other Federal Funds 
4%

524 3?9
- City Blight Investment


 

 

 

 

 

3213;; 
Hardest Hit Funds
 
Total of $532.2 million Invested in City-Wide Blight
I City Blight Investment - Hardest Hit Funds I Other Federal Funds Fire Insurance Escrow
Total City-Wide Blight
Investment
By Funding Source I Millions Percentagi
City Blight Investment 248.9 46.8%
Hardest Hit Funds 243.3 45.7%
Other Federal Funds 20.6 3.9%
Fire Insurance Escrow 19.4 3.6%
Total City-wide Blig? Investment 532.2 100.0%

 

 

 

 

12

The following chart and table details the total City-wide investment in blight remediation
broken down between the cost to abate and demolish structures, versus the cost to

administer the programs:
Overview of Citv?Wide Blight Investment by Cost Categorv

Overview of Blight Investment per Cost Category

Total City-wide Blight Investment

City Investment

Hardest Hit Funds

Other Federal Funds

 

Fire Insurance Escrow

$100.0 $200.0 $300.0 $400.0 $500.0


50.0

I Total I Costs to Abate and Knock-down Structure Administrative and Other Costs

 

Millions

 

Total Cost
per structure of
Abatement and Administrative

By Funding Source Knock-down and Other Costs Total
Hardest Hit Funds 225,603,326 17, 743,750 243,347,076
City Investment 64,209,422 134,702,243 248,911,665
Other Federal Funds 20,548,856 - 20,548,856
Fire Insurance Escrow 19,402,176 - 19,402,176
Total City-wide Blight Investment 329,763,780 202,445,993 532,209,773

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As shown, approximately $330 million of this amount, can be attributed to the ?hard?
costs of demolition which includes the cost to (1) remove hazardous materials, (2)
demolish the structure, and (3) complete the restoration of the property. These
amounts (only) are included and reported in Salesforce by individual properties. During
the audit period, and according to Salesforce, there were 19,175 residential and

13

 

commercial structures ?knocked down? during this period:

Number of Structures Demolished by Type

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Total Cost Average Cost
Number of per structure of per structure of
Structures Abatement and Abatement and
Funding Source Demolished Knock-down Knock-down
Residential HHF . 14,195 $225,603,326 $15,893
Residential 4,291 3 $64,152,235 $14,950
Commercial 689 $40,008,218 $58,067
Totals 19,175 3 $329,763,780. $17,198

 

 

Another $202 million of funds have been invested in administrative and other ?soft?

costs which include:

Pre-demolition activities such as surveys of the property to identify hazardous

materials;

0 Personnel and other administrative cost to operate the demolition program.

Included in these amounts are the;

City's subsidies to the Land Bank and DBA for staff and personnel.
However, these amounts do not include administrative cost of staff in City
agencies/departments HRD, BSEED, GSD, and 
dedicated to blight remediation from fiscal years 2015-2019. Beginning
with fiscal year 2020, the City now identifies and budgets blight
investments by agency/department;

0 Additional payments from HHF funds to the Land Bank for lot
maintenance and administrative costs calculated at $1,250 per structure

demolished.

The overall average cost of demolitions and other blight related costs is estimated at
$27,756 dollars per structure. This includes all funding sources and both residential and
commercial demolitions during the audit period:

Average Cost of Demolitions Full Investment Cost

 

Cost Per Structure

Average Cost

Abatement and
Knock-down

Average Cost
per structure of per structure of
Administrative
and Other Costs per Structure

Total Cost of
Blight
Investment

 

Total City-wide Blight Investment

Average per structue costs, based on 19,175
structures demolished

(per Salesforce)

 

 

329,763,780

 

17,198 

202,445,993

532,209,773

 

 

10,558 27,756

 

14

STATUS OF PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS

Listed below are relative prior audit findings and the status of each finding that are
related to demolition and demolition activities. The date listed is reflective of the last
audit report in which the finding was published.

PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS ON BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT

Note: Under the Demolition Management Agreement, ownership of this activity was
transferred from Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department
(BSEED), to the Detroit Building Authority and the Housing Revitalization
Department?s.

1. Inadequate Records Management for the Demolition Process (2010)
Some parts of this finding have not been resolved and they are discussed in the
findings and page numbers as follows:

 

RELEVANT CONDITIONS OTHER PAGES
FINDING

 

 

 

The demolition process generates a substantial amount of data and record
keeping. does not have an appropriate record maintenance and
retrieval system. The following conditions were discovered:

 

 

 

 

 

- Staff was unable to locate some of the records 3 29
requested by the auditors. 6 44
0 Some files for building demolitions had incomplete 2 23
permit information or missing inspection reports. 3 29

 

2. Failure to Recover the Cost from Property Owners for Demolishinq or

?ecurinq Structures (2010)
A part of this ?nding has not been resolved and it is discussed in the findings and

page numbers as follows:

 

 

OTHER
RELEVANT CONDITION FINDING PAGE
does not currently have a system in place to bill 5 38

property owners for demolishing or securing properties.

The property owners are not billed, nor are the accounts
turned over to the City Treasurer or the Law Department for
collection as required.

 

 

 

 

15

 

 

PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS ON THE OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, OFFICE
OF CONTRACTING AND PROCUREMENT (Formerly known as the ?Purchasing Division?)

3. The Purchasinq Division Does Not Effectivelv Monitor Contracts or

Contract File, (2011)

This ?nding is no longer applicable as the Purchasing Division is not responsible
for monitoring insurance coverage during the life of the contract. They are only
responsible for insuring appropriate coverage during the contract approval

process.

4. Purchasing Division Lacks Good Internal Control (2011)

Some parts of this finding have not been resolved and they are discussed in the

findings and page numbers as follows:

 

RELEVANT CONDITIONS

 

OTHER
FINDING

 

PAGES

 

The Purchasing Division does not have effective internal controls. Policies and
procedures are not upheld. Published purchasing directives, policies, and
procedures are not current and some directives conflict with City Ordinances.

 

 

files for the City's procurement activities and
centralized record retention is non-existent.

 

 

 

- Contract files and sealed bids are not properly 4 32
safeguarded.
The Purchasing Division does not maintain complete 4 32

 

16

 

AUDIT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

1. Did Not Meet Contract Performance and Timeline Requirements

The City (HRD) and DBA did not meet requirements related to contract performance
and the timelines required to perform certain actions, for City-funded residential
demolitions.

There are two different types of demolitions Standard (or Non-Emergency) and
Emergency:

0 Standard (or Non-Emergency) demolitions are not the worst blighted structures
and do not pose a threat to resident safety;

0 Emergency demolitions may be carried out on an emergency basis and consist
of demolishing structures that have the potential for creating harmful conditions
for residents and neighboring structures.

Each type of demolition has specific criteria relating to performance and timeline
requirements as detailed in this finding. Criteria is based on requirements set forth in
the DMA, departmental policies and procedures, the City?s Charter and Building Code,
state requirements set forth by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
(MDEQ), and requirements set forth by the grantor of federal funds.

We audited forty-seven (47) residential demolitions broken down as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City-Funded Demolitions Types of Properties Audited
Number of
Properties Percentage_
Emergency Demolitions 18 38%
Non-Emergency Demolitions 29 62%
Total Properties Audited 47 100%

 

 

 

Conditions

We found the following conditions of non-compliance with respect to the
performance/timeline requirements required to complete certain actions related to
demolition:

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONDITIONS RELATING TO PERFORMANCE AND TIMELINE 
Non-
CRITERIAICONDITION YES NO Compliant Comments
A. Did work start after receiving the Notice to 0
Proceed 34 13 0 28 
B. Did work start within the required timeframe
after receiving the Notice to Proceed?
a. For Standard demolitions, did work 9 19 1 68% (1)
start within 10 days from the Notice to NTP not
included in
file

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17

 

CONDITIONS RELATING TO PERFORMANCE AND TIMELINE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Non?
CRITERIAICONDITION YES NO Compliant Comments

b. For Emergency demolitions, did work 3 15 0 83%
start within 24 hours of receiving the
Notice to Proceed?

C. Was there evidence to show that the
contractor started work ten (10) days after
filing the Notice of lntentlB) for demolitions, or
after 24 hours for Emergency demolitions?

a. For Standard demolitions, did work 13 0 1 0% MA (1) NTP
start after 10 days from the filing of the not included
Notice of Intent? in file

b. For Emergency demolitions, did work 3 15 0 83%
start after 24 hours from the filing of
the Notice of Intent?

D. Was the request for the Open Hole 14 15 18 52% NIA (18)
Inspection completed within 24?48 hours Emergency
after knockdown of the structure and debris Ordered
removed? Demolitions,

stated criteria
does not
apply

E. Were demolition activities (including clean-
up) completed by the required date - by
the project completion date on the Notice to
Proceed document?)

a. Were Standard demolitions completed 5 24 0 83%
by the date indicated on the Notice to
Proceed?

b. Was emergency demolitions 0 18 0 100%
completed within 7 calendar days?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notes: (A) The ?Notice to Proceed? (NTP) is a document created and approved by an
HRD representative, which is then given to the demolition contractor which
signals and allows the contractor to begin execution of the demolition. For
City-funded demolitions, the NTP usually coincides with release of the
purchase order. The period of when work should start varies over the scope(s)
of service for the 47 properties in our audit sample. The language is not clear
with respect to the ?start of work, Therefore, we based compliance on the start
of the initial process which is applying for the wrecking permit or filing a ?Notice
of Intent to Renovate/Demolish. 

(B) The ?Notice of Intent to Renovate/Demolish" (NIT) is a document required by
the State of Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ), and must
be filed by the contractor at least ten (10) days prior to beginning any work.
Separate NI T?s are required to be ?led for abatement and demolition. More
information is available at the Michigan Department of Environment, Great
Lakes, and Energy website. The following is a link to the article 
?Understanding the Asbestos (National Emission Standards for
Hazardous Air Pollutants? at gov/doc: iliieliiS/deq/CIEQ?
arrd?fieidvtpu-asbastos NESHAP fact sheet 449332 def.

18

 

Average Times to Start and Complete Certain Demolition Activities

Based on our sample of forty-seven (47) properties, we found that the average time to
start demolition work based on the ?Notice to Proceed? date exceeded the expected
timeframes:

- For demolitions from January 2014 to September 2015 (34 properties) there
was an average of seventy-five (75) days from the date of the Notice to
Proceed, to the date that the structure was demolished. Based on the criteria,
work for Standard demolitions should have started within 10 days after receiving
the notice, and within 24 hours for Emergency demolitions;

For demolitions from September 2015 through December 2018 (13 properties),
there was an average of eight (8) days between the Notice to Proceed and the
knockdown date. All, except one, of the demolitions included in this average
were emergency demolitions. Per the criteria, these demolitions should begin
within 24 hours of receipt of the Notice to Proceed:

0 Two of the twelve (or 16%) have knockdown dates within 24 hours;
0 Two of the twelve (or 16%) have knockdown dates within 24-48 hours;

0 The remaining eight emergency demolitions during this period (or 
have knockdown dates greater than 48 hours.

We were unable to determine if the ?backfill? of the open hole was completed within
forty-eight (48) hours after the Open Hole Inspection by the City.

However, based on the City?s timeline for required inspections of demolition sites, as
evidenced by the period from the ?Open Hole Inspection Approval? to ?Final Grade
Approval?, we determined that:

- Demolitions from January 2014 to September 2015 (34 properties in our
sample) averaged 101 days to complete;

- Demolitions from September 2015 through December 2018 (13 properties in
our sample) averaged 96 days to complete.

Criteria

The Demolition Management Agreement clearly states that the City is reSponsible for
engaging all contractors and requiring them to comply with the demolition policies and
procedures, including making sure all apprOpriate language is in the contracts. As the
Program Manager for Demolitions, DBA is responsible for managing performance of
the contractors engaged by the City under its demolition program.

Contracts for City-funded demolitions state that contractors are responsible for
maintaining all qualified personnel, equipment, materials, and other resources
necessary to perform the activities and adhering to the contract requirements, in a
timely manner, as stated in the table below:

19

 

TYPE OF DEMOLITION

CONTRACT PERFORMANCE AND
TIMELINE REQUIREMENTS

 

Non-Emergency or
Standard Demolition

a. Begin work within 10 days after receiving a notice to proceed from
the City's Demolition Division. it is the contractor's responsibility to
notify the Demolition Division within 24 hours if the site is not
accessible. At least 10 days prior to the start of any activities, the
Contractor must file a notification of Intent to Renovate/Demolish with
the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality with copies to
Occupational Health Division, Asbestos Program, and the City's
Demolition Division

 

0. Complete load-out within 48 hours after knockdown (for demolitions
with bid deadlines prior to September 15, 2017)

d.Comp ete load-out within seven (7) calendar days after knockdown (for
demolitions with bid deadlines on or after September 15, 2017)

 

e.Backfi l open holes within 48 hours after Open Hole Approval (for
demolitions with bid deadlines prior to September 15, 2017)

f. Backfill open holes within fourteen calendar days after Open Hole
Approval (for demolitions with bid deadlines on or after September 15,
2017)

 

d. Complete all demolition activities including clean-up by the date
indicated on the Notice to Proceed

 

 

Emergency

a. Must begin work within 24 hours of receipt of Notice to Proceed

 

b. Complete load out within 48 hours of knockdown

 

0. Complete backfill within 48 hours after Open Hole Approval (for
demolitions with bid deadlines prior to September 15, 2017)

d. Complete backfill within five (5) calendar days after Open Hole
Approval (for demolitions with bid deadlines on or after September 15,
2017)

 

 

d. Complete all demolition activities including clean-up within 7 calendar
days

 

20

 

The following types of notifications are required according to the Michigan Department
of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) Asbestos National Emission Standards for
Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) Regulations and Requirements:

A. Notifications for planned renovations:

(1) Operation or a number of operations in which regulated asbestos-
containing materials (RACM) will be removed within a given period of
time and can be predicted;

(2) 10 working-day notification required when amount of RACM to be
removed equals or exceeds threshold;

(3) Emergency renovation - must meet two main criteria:
i. Sudden and unexpected event

ii. If not immediately attended to would be health/safety hazard,
damage equipment, and/or be an unreasonable financial burden.

B. Notifications for scheduled demolitions:

(1) Demolition of structurally sound facility a 10 working?day notification
required (even if there is no asbestos);

(2) Ordered demolitions when:

i. Determined by city/county/state building inspector to be structurally
unsound and in danger of imminent collapse;

ii. Notification required, must be postmarked or hand delivered as
soon as possible but no later than the following work day. Order to
demolish must be submitted with notification;

Only situation where demolition can occur with less than 10 day
no?ce.

Effect
Failing to adhere to state regulations, fiduciary requirements from grantors, terms of
executed agreements and contracts, and City policies and procedures:

0 Jeopardizes the safety and well-being of the citizens of Detroit;
0 Puts the City at risk for potential fines, penalties, lawsuits, and other legal action;

- Allows lack of controls to exist which increases the potential for financial loss,
including but not limited to, fraud, waste, and abuse.

Causes

According to representatives of HRD and DBA, completion dates listed on the NTP
were ?just estimated? based upon the total number of properties included in an
demolition award package. It was stated that there were ?no specific guidelines? to use
when estimating the final completion date on the NTP. However, according to one
HRD representative, new procedures have been implemented for estimating the

21

completion date and these are now stated in the scopes of services. The
timeframe to complete demolitions are either 60, 90 or 120 days based upon the
number of properties in the package. The representative also stated that monitoring
demolitions to see if they were completed as scheduled was not a part of their current
responsibilities.

Recommendations
We recommend that the City and DBA:

A. Review each of the contract?s performance and timeline requirements to
determine if the criteria is feasible, reasonable, attainable, and if it complies with
all state and local regulations;

B. When necessary, document and update policy and procedural changes.
Communicate updated policies and procedures to all parties/stakeholders
involved with the demolition and demolition related activities;

C. Determine current monitoring capabilities and responsible parties;

D. Ensure that responsible employees and other relevant parties are adequately
trained in the policies, procedures, and processes. The training should include
documenting the risks of noncompliance and provide an understanding of the
risks that existing controls mitigate.

22

2. Did Not Comply With City Policies mg Procedures, State, Local, and Other
Requirements Related to City-funded Residential Demolitions and Their Contracts
The City (HRD) and DBA did not comply with City policies and procedures, state, local,
and other requirements related to City-funded residential demolitions and their
contracts.

Conditions and Criterion

We audited forty-seven (47) residential demolitions against a ?checklist? of contract
requirements which were compiled from a detailed and extensive review of City policies
and procedures, and state, local, and other requirements related to City-funded
residential demolitions. Criterion was also taken directly from the and the
specific demolition contracts.

Our review resulted in one-hundred and five (105) specific contract Administration
requirements for residential demolitions. For purposes of presentation (in this part of
the report), we grouped the conditions/criterion into six "Areas of Impact? based on the
operations and/or the effect on the public:

Criterion Included in each "Area of Impact"

1. Resident Safety and Protection (5 Criterion) requires Administration with
posting detours around construction zones, installation, maintenance, and
regular inspection of safety barriers, posting of ?no trespassing" signs, and
the taking of before and after pictures;

2. Pre-demolition Site Preparation (13 Criterion)? includes requirements for
preparing the site for demolition such as notifications of intent to
renovate/demolish to the MDEQ, surveying and removal of hazardous
materials, shutting off water, gas, and electrical utilities, and documenting
existing damage to the sidewalk;

3. Proper Disposal of Hazardous Material, Debris, etc. (10 Criterion) 
stipulates that contractors comply with ?wet-wet? requirements to minimize
airborne toxins, and that asbestos, other hazardous materials, and debris are
disposed of in a specific type of landfill within 48 hours after knockdown;

4. Post-demolition Site Restoration (27 Criterion) deals with proper
restoration of the site after demolition of the structure and includes
requirements to insure that the:

0 Proper type and quantity of backfill material was used to fill the hole;
0 Ground was leveled and graded to be smooth with other surfaces;
0 Correct type(s) of top-soil was used to finish the surface ground;

0 Sidewalks and streets were swept clean and washed down after
demolition;

0 Contractors were held accountable for replacement or repair of the
sidewalk if damaged;

23

 Timely requests to BSEED for required inspections of the demolition
process knockdown, load-out, backfill, and final grade.)

5. Program Management and Monitoring (24 Criterion) covers the
necessary monitoring by the City, DBA, and the MDEQ during all phases of
demolition. Monitoring and administration of demolitions include:

Mobilizing the crew and confirming through on-site visuals that the
correct property is being demolished;

0 Making sure that contractors provide evidence of adhering to agreed
schedules;

0 Tracking of backfill material;
0 Making sure that contractors obtain appropriate bond coverage;

0 Assuring that contractors are not reimbursed for any cost incurred
during a work stoppage;

0 Ensuring that contract files are properly maintained.

6. Clearances and Payments (26 Criterion) includes reviewing contractors
invoices and requests for payment packages to verify they contain all required
documentation, and evidence (when required) that the contract was approved by
City Council. A recent criterion added to this area limits contractors from
charging more than a ten?percent mark?up above the amount invoiced by
any subcontractor.

The table below is an overview of the results of our testing summarized by the ?Area of
Impact.?

 

SUMMARY OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
NUMBER 
OF
AREA OF IMPACT CRITERION ?up.
1. Resident Safety and 5
. - . 5 -
Protection
2. Pre-demolition Site 13 2 2 4
Preparation
Proper Disposal of
3. Hazardous Material, 10 2 8
Debris. etc.:
4- Post-demolition Site 27 1 2 17 6
Restoration
5 Program Management
and Monitoring 24 5 1 10 7
Clearances and
6. Payments 26 8 1 14 2
Total 105 16 8 58 15

 

Notes: (A) The Percentage of Noncompli?ance represents the percentage of demolitions

24

audited that did not meet the speci?c requirement. Properties can ?fail? the
requirement if the required documentation or information was not found Within
the City?s files.

For example, our audit revealed that for each of the five criterion in the
?Resident Safety and Protection? area of impact, the rate of noncompliance

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING
RESIDENT SAFETY AND PROTECTION AREA OF IMPACT (ONLY)
A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD it Non-
IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Resident Safety 1. Is there evidence that the 0 47 0 100%
and Protection Contractor adhered to the MI
Manual for Uniform Control
Devices for all vehicular and
pedestrian detours around
their construction zone?
Resident Safety 2. Is there any evidence that 0 47 0 100%
and Protection safety barriers of specific
specification were installed
during demolition?
Resident Safety 3 Is there any evidence that 0 47 0 100%
and Protection Contractor posted signs during
all phases of demolition to
prevent trespaSSing?
Resident Safety 4. Is there any evidence that 0 8 39 100% (39)
and Protection Contractor is regularly New process
inspecting and maintaining the does not apply
safety barrier??
Resident Safety 5. Before and After pictures 11 36 0 77%
and Protection (labeled)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(B) Details of each ?Condition/Criterion? and the number and percentage of
compliant and non-compliant demolitions can be found in Appendix A:
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded
Demolitions? on page 48 of this report.

Sources of Criterion
The criterions listed above are based on detailed and extensive reviews of the
following sources:

Demolition Management Agreement by and between the City of Detroit (?City)
and the Detroit Building Authority (August 2015);

BSEED Dangerous Building Division, Standard Operating Procedure, Demolition
Permit Inspection Procedure;

DBA Demolition ?Scopes of Services? and processes from September 2015
through December 2018;

DBA Demolition Process Flowchart for City Residential Related Properties;

Emergency Manager Order No. 15: Order Suspending Certain City Wrecking
Requirements to Address Blight (August 2013);

Emergency Manager Order No. 33: Order Suspending Certain City Demolition
Requirements to Address Blight (August 2014);

25

 HRD City of Detroit Demolition Policies and procedures (October 2014);
- HRD Demolition Procedures (January 2016) and Demolition File Checklist;

- Michigan Department of Environmental Quality Standards, Air Quality Division,
Asbestos National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP)
Regulations and Requirements;

- Neighborhood Stabilization Program Under Housing and Economic Recovery
Act of 2008;

- OCP Scope of Services: Demolition of Residential Properties (January 2014
through December 2018);

- OCP Contract Administration Manual;

- Internal Control interviews with key operational staff in DBA and City agencies
and departments.

Effect
Failing to adhere to City policies and procedures, state regulations, fiduciary
requirements from grantors, terms of executed agreements and contracts:

- Diminishes the effectiveness and efficiency of operations;
- Jeopardizes the safety and well-being of the citizens of Detroit;
- Puts the City at risk for potential fines, penalties, lawsuits, and other legal action;

0 Allows for override of controls, and/or the lack of controls which increases the
potential for financial loss, including but not limited to, fraud, waste, and abuse.

Causes

When the control system is so complex or impractical, employees may be unable to
adhere to it. Some of the criterion are too complex to be effectively monitored at the
individual contract level. For example, the administration of landfill and backfill
requirements may require separate monitoring, additional testing of soil samples, and
subsequent follow-up, to ensure that the dirt being used in demolition activities actually
meets the City?s specifications.

As it relates to the areas of noncompliance, some of the various causes that were
communicate to us include:

0 Resident Safety and Protection
DBA management indicated that ?it is not commercially reasonable to review
and approve this documentation for every demolition.? They stated that for
[only] one of the criterion in this Area of Impact contractors were instructed to
familiarize themselves with requirements of traffic control manual.?

0 Pre?dernolition Site Preparation
DBA management indicated that ?it is not commercially reasonable to review
and approve this documentation for every demolition.? They stated that for

26

[only] one of the criterion in this Area of Impact ?contractors are responsible for
the health and safety of the workers on site."

Proper Disposal of Hazardous Material. Debris. etc.

Relating to one of the criterion in this Area of Impact, DBA commented that there
is ?no record? of a request for authorization to use a type of lawn-seed different
than ?No-Mow?. This response suggests that ?No-Mow was used in demolitions.
However, we only found evidence in one of the demolitions we audited that
documented that the contractor used the proper lawn?seed.

Post?demolition Site Restoration

DBA stated that a third?party contractor monitors backfill dirt sources. They also
stated that passage of the open hole and final grade inspections indicate that
appropriate site restoration has occurred.

Program Management and Monitoring

A HRD representative stated that monitoring of the demolition contractors and
the work-in-progress was previously handled via a Excel Spreadsheet?
report. The WIP reports were sent to many people (including a field operations
manager who was terminated) and made management of demolitions in the field
extremely inefficient and difficult. In at least one case, a staff person who
assumed that aspect of monitoring did not have access to that information prior
to the departure of the terminated employee and they could not locate the
requested documentation. DBA could not provide supporting documentation for
the process or speak to execution of the WIP reports. There was some
confusion as to who (DBA or HRD) was responsible for the WIP reports and this
aspect of monitoring. A manager in HRD admitted that more collaboration
between all involved agencies [is] needed, and a determination made as to who
is responsible for monitoring the contract files. There should be designated
tasks for each department and custodian of the file. Most persons attributed the
issues to the manual processes in place prior to the rollout of Salesforce for
City-funded demolitions in 2016.

Pavments and Clearances

The HRD team stated that they had never seen, and were not familiar with the
payment criteria included in the scope of services for City-funded demolitions as
provided by OCP. They felt that there was a lack of adequate communication
between GOP and HRD, and even within HRD, regarding the requirements for
payment. The HRD team stated that since they did not have a checklist for the
payment packets, they created their own requirements based on instructions
from the OCFO Accounts Payable Division. They admitted that the
requirements for payment in the RFP packet criteria, do not ?rollover? to the
actual documents required in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO) for
payment. The HRD representatives further revealed that they would accept a
payment package without some information to meet billing deadlines.

Note: See ?Finding 4: Lack of Documentation to Support Authorization of
Payment" on page 32 of this report for more details on the results of
audit work related to this Area of Impact.

27

Recommendations

A. We recommend that the City and DBA conduct a thorough review of the contract
requirements for City-funded residential demolitions;

B. Management should develop and ensure that plans, policies, procedures, rules,
and standards result in uniform actions among interdependent organizations:

Plans are decisions to take certain steps and are goal oriented. Tactical
plans relating to day-to-day operations must include employment levels,
technology, and customer needs. For plans to be successful, they must
be devised rationally, where failure is not ?pre?ordained?, and must
provide for feedback and control;

Policies are general guides for action and permit managers to delegate
authority while maintaining control. They should pre-decide issues and
help avoid repeated analysis;

Procedures detail the exact manner in which a certain activity must be
accomplished, and are often listed as a chronological sequence of
events. For procedures to be effective, they must:

0 Clearly indicate who is responsible for what accountability);
0 Be supported by adequate resources (people and equipment);
0 Provide for surveillance and progress reporting.

Rules are the simplest plans that do not allow for any discretion and must
be followed as stated;

Standards, are norms against which activities are measured and help to
determine whether actions comply with plans. Standards assume the
attributes of control when they are used to determine whether actions
meet the norms. Well-developed standards translate goals into specific
measurable outputs or outcomes and let people know what is considered
to be acceptable performance. Some examples of standards that are
linked to plans include the quantity of output, accuracy of quality, costs,
and timeliness.

28

3. Lack of Documentation to Support Authorization of Payment

HRD and DBA did not ensure that contractors complied with documentation
requirements related to invoice and payment packets for City-funded residential
demolitions. Demolition invoices and payment packets are first reviewed and approved
by HRD prior to submitting to the OCFO Accounts Payable Division.

Conditions

Based on our review of the payment packets for the forty-seven (47) City?funded
residential demolitions in our sample, we found that all payment packages were
missing at least some of the required criteria. The overall average rate of
noncompliance for the fourteen requirements is 66% as detailed below:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number of Percentage of
Demolitions in Demolitions in
Noncompliance Noncompliance
Did the Request for Payment Packet contain the following? Applied to all 47 demolitions
except where noted*

1. A cover letter 6 13%

2. Schedule of Values and Sworn Statement for 47 100%
each property address.

3. Sworn statement of waivers of lien from 47 100%
contractors and subcontractors

4. Building permit 1 2%

5. Notification of Intent to Renovate/ Demolish 23 49%

6. Final grade (or Winter grade when applicable) 47 100%
inspection receipt

7. Documentation of abatement activities and 4 11%
waste disposal *Applies to 

MA (12)

8. Documentation of origin of backfill and topsoil 45 95%
sources

9. Documentation of analytical data or certification 35 74%
verifying material is not contaminated

10. Documentation that Subcontractors are in 47 100%
Administration with the MI Workers? Disability
Compensation Act requirement

11 . Documentation that Subcontractors are licensed 47 100%

12. Seeding and Watering Report 47 100%

13. Seed tags identifying correct seed used per 47 100%
specification

14. Before and after pictures of the site (labeled) 47 100%

 

 

 

 

 

29

Note: This ?Condition/Criterion? is presented again in Appendix A: Performance
Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions?,
Question #59, on page 60 of this report.

Criteria

The criteria for payment packages was taken directly from the ?Scope of Service for
Demolition of Residential Properties? provided by OCP. Representatives from OCP
indicated that the contents for the Scope of Services for contracts come directly from
the originating department. Procurement work with the departments to insure
that the contracts are legally sound and meet their needs.

The following controls are recommended in the ?Accounting Procedures Manual for
Local Units of Government in the State of Michigan:

- Someone with adequate knowledge and responsibility must approve each
invoice or request for payment (if the governing body has knowledge of
individual transactions, this will suffice; if not, such as in larger organizations,
employees should be designated to perform this approval, including review of
each invoice or other supporting documentation);

- Appropriate documentation (supporting invoices) must be attached to check
copies for all disbursements. Vouchers must describe the payment to be made,
indicate account number to be charged, and be signed by the person approving
the disbursement.

Effect
Failing to adhere to contract requirements and best practice recommendations:

- increases the probability of over or underpayment of vendor invoices;

Allows for override of controls, and/or the lack of controls which increases the
potential for financial loss, including but not limited to, fraud, waste, and abuse;

0 Puts the City at risk for potential fines, penalties, lawsuits, and other legal action.

Causes

The HRD team stated that they had never seen, and were not familiar with the payment
criteria included in the scope of services for City-funded demolitions as provided by
OCP. They felt that there was a lack of communication between GOP and HRD
regarding the requirements for payment. The HRD team stated that since they did not
have a checklist for the payment packets, they created their own requirements based
on instructions from the OCFO Accounts Payable Division. They admitted that the
requirements for payment in the RFP packet criteria, do not ?rollover? to the actual
documents required in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCF) for payment. The
HRD representatives further revealed that they would accept a payment package
without some information to meet billing deadlines. HRD informed us that they are now
receiving more [payment] information from the contractors.

30

Recommendations
We discussed our findings and conclusions with management personnel, and
recommend that HRD and OCP meet with appropriate members of the OCFO to:

A. Align document requirements for payment processing that are stated in the
contract scope of services, with the actual requirements for payment processing
as directed by the Accounts Payable Division;

B. Utilize capabilities afforded by the City?s new Enterprise Resource Planning
(ERP) System to meet the needs of the OCFO for payments. According to
Plante Moran?s ?Best Practices for Michigan Local Government Business
Processes- Electronic Invoice Packages?:

Invoice packages contain the supporting documentation for two- or three-
way matching [purchase requisitions, purchase orders, packing slips (or
?receivers?), and invoices. Since some ERP systems now enable
supporting documentation to be electronically attached and retained
within the ERP system (including downloading supporting documentation
from vendors such as financial institutions), and it is easy to ?drill? through
transactions to see the supporting documentation, it is no longer
necessary to retain or review physical documentation to substantiate
purchase activities and decisions. Workflow approvals should serve as a
step to confirm that all necessary documentation is attached to
transactions in the system. At year end, external [and internal] auditors
can be given view-only access to the ERP system for any necessary audit
procedures.

C. Where applicable, revise the scope of services and contract language to clearly
differentiate between internal department needs and documents necessary for
payment.

 

1 ?Best Practices for Michigan Local Government Business Processes- Electronic Invoice Packages,"
Michigan Municipal Services Authority, 09/08/2014, Plante Moran.
31

4. Contract Files Are Not Centralized and Data Related to Demolitjms is
Inconsistent an?nreliable
The City (HRD and GOP) and DBA, did not comply with the City?s Executive Order or
the department?s Standard Operating Procedures (OCP) as it relates to centralization
of contract files, and the proper and adequate retention of contract documents. Data
relating to City?funded demolitions is inconsistent and unreliable.

Conditions Relating to the Lack of Centralization

Supporting documentation for the administration of contracts related to demolition were

scattered throughout various agencies, departments, and locations, and it was stored
on various media forms, and multiple electronic systems, as detailed in the following

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

table:
DEMOLITION CONTRACT FILE DOCUMENTATION
TYPES OF 
AGENCY STAFF AND DOCUMENTS DOCUMENTS
BSEED BSEED Coleman A. Young Hardcopy documents in
Municipal Center (CAYMC) departmental files
2 Woodward Avenue Hardcopy documents in
Suite 908 employees? personal files
Detroit. MI 48226 E-mai s
DBA DBA Headquarters Detroit Public Safety Erectronic documents on
Headquarters (DPSH) departmental shared
   Street Storage drive(s)
3rd Floor Electronic documents on
Detro't- Ml 48226 City-wide/City Owned
HRD A. DBA Headquarters A. DPSH, 6th Floor enterprise systems
B. HRD Department B. CAYMC, Suite 908 shared Storage drive(s)
  DiViSion  SUite  Electronic documents on
Non-City owned software
(Salesforce*)
Employee
personal/business flash
dnves
Note: Salesforcecom is an American cloud-based software company

headquartered in San Francisco, California. Though the bulk of its
revenue comes from its customer?relationship management (CRM)
service, Salesforce also sells a complementary suite of enterprise
applications focused on customer service, marketing automation,
analytics and application development. ?Salesforce? is a customer
relationship management solution that brings companies and customers

together. It is one integrated CRM platform that gives all departments 

including marketing, sales, commerce, and service a single, shared

view of every customer. Salesforce is a customizable CRM software that

enables businesses of any size to manage all aspects of customer
relations and its features include task management, email marketing,
lead management, marketing automation, and more.

Salesforce was originally obtained by the Land Bank as a transactional

32

 

database in an effort to provide transparency across divisions. When the
Land Bank started using Salesforoe it was realized that there was the
ability to add operational layers to the database and use it for all parts of
the Land Bank?s work:

All properties and parcels across the City (approximately
380,000) are listed in Salesforoe;

Trust. Salesforcecom - Salesforoe website that includes
security information and maintenance schedules.

The website is cloud-based and maintenance and updates are
pushed-out by Salesforoe. No maintenance is required by the
Land Bank staff.

Primary sources of electronic data include the City?s Assessors
Office (an update is received annually), the Wayne County
Treasurer, and Motor City Mapping;

Salesforoe has a chatter feature that allows for Salesforoe
users to communicate back and forth about a property.

Salesforoe was launched for use by the Land Bank in March of 2015.
DBA began using Salesforoe to house City-funded demolitions in May
2015, and manually entered e. ?backfilled?) demolition data starting
from January 1, 2014, and continuing through the audit period.

During the audit, there was extensive delays in receiving requested documentation
from the various parties involved with demolitions. There was almost a one year delay
in receiving information for our first audit sample (2017-2018), and additional delays in
receiving information for our second audit sample (2018-2019.) During these periods,
we found it necessary to twice subpoena one of the entities for the requested
documents. Still, they were unable to provide all of the information, data, documents,
reports, etc. that should be available for adequate administration of demolition and
demolition related activities. Some examples relating to the lack of documentation
include (but not limited to):

0 Reports that contractors are required to submit to document their work, and are
used to monitor the work and progress of demolitions WIP Excel
Spreadsheets), were not always available and were not provided to us;

0 Details of site visits and field monitoring by field liaisons were not always
documented in the electronic repository (Salesforoe);

0 Changes in contractors, costs, and funding sources, were not always
documented or correctly reflected in the electronic repositories. This resulted in
discrepancies and inconsistencies between data in the respective repositories.

33

Conditions Relating to Inconsistent and Unreliable Demolition Data

According to the Demolition Program Manager (DBA), ?Salesforce? is the electronic
system of record for all demolitions City-wide regardless of funding source HHF,
City-funded QOL, FIE, etc.). Demolition contractors are required to enter certain
information into the system throughout the demolition process. We requested and
received various reports from DBA for all demolitions during the audit period (January
1, 2014 through December 31, 2018.) We focused on all demolitions labeled as ?City-
funded? and extracted a sample of ninety-six properties spanning the audit period:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City-Funded Demolitions - Total Audit Sample
Number of Properties
Year of Demolition Per Year Requested

2014?201 5 43

2016 17

2017 15

2018 21

Total Properties in Audit Sample 96

 

 

 

The following table details information for the selected demolitions, and shows that
29% of the information was not accurate as it relates to the funding source and the type
of demolition:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City-Funded Demolitions Properties Audited from Sample
Number of
Properties Percentage
Total Properties in Audit Sample 96 100%
Less: Properties labeled as City-Funded but
the actual source of the funding was
either confirmed as Land Bank HHF
funded, confirmed as another source
of funding (private), or the source was
not confirmed nor identified. 26 27%
Less: Partial information received after
deadline, properties not audited 21 22%
Less: Properties labeled as Residential
but were actually commercial
demolitions 2 2%
Total Properties Audited 47 49%

 

 

 

 

Criteria
In the prior audit of GOP (formerly the ?Purchasing Division?), OAG benchmarked the
purchasing and procurement activities of various municipal governments, and we found
that the purchasing/procurement divisions are normally accountable for the retention of
all records relating to the procurement process. This includes (1) the request for
proposals, (2) all bids/responses received, and (3) the awarded contract. Further,
across most companies, standard business practice dictates that the purchasing or

34

procurement division maintain a central file of all procurement documentation for
efficient operations.

Effective August 2016, Executive Order 2015?4, City of Detroit Records Management
Policy, states that:

Proper management of the public records-securing, retention, retrieval, disposal-
is vital for effective and efficient government operations. it is necessary to have
proper records management protocols in place for the City's own use of its
records, as well as to comply with provisions of law. Accordingly, this Records
Management Policy (Policy) shall apply to all employees, appointees, agents,
independent contractors, and volunteers of the City of Detroit.

The Order specifically calls for the creation of and use of ?Retention and Disposal
Schedules.? Primarily, activities should use the State of Michigan?s general retention
and disposal schedules for use by local units of government(?General Schedules?) to
identify how long records must be kept, when destruction is appropriate, and when
certain records can be sent to the Detroit Public Library or Archives of Michigan for
permanent preservation. The policy asserts that the ?General Schedules may be
supplemented by approved specific schedules (Agency-Specific Schedules) for
circumstances or records not adequately covered by General Schedules.?

The Order further identifies who is responsible for adherence to the ?Records
Management Policy?, and the potential consequences of not adhering to the policy:

Each individual who creates, sends, or receives records in the performance of
his or her official functions is responsible for retaining those records in
accordance with this Policy. Failure to adhere to this Policy may result in
applicable discipline, up to and including discharge from employment,
termination of the contract, termination of the volunteer relationship, or
expulsion.

OCP cited the same Executive Order as its authority for its Standard Operating
Procedures (SOP) on e-Filing and Record Retention (Section 6.5.) The SOP
announced that the City now ?maintain all contract files electronically?, and that the
department and OCP must be ?diligent in filling forms and attaching relevant
documents? in the City?s enterprise resource systems. According to the policy,
?documents included in the file must include documentation of the entire procurement
life cycle. This must include, but is not limited to, the following?:

1. Bid documents and notice of award

Bonds and insurance

Conflict of interest forms

Post-award documents to and from the contractor
Notice to proceed

93.01995)

Approvals or waivers
35

7. Performance monitoring documents

8. Contract amendments

9. Delivery or contract price changes
10. Disputes, audits, and legal issues
11. Stop work orders
12. Contract closeout

Effect

The lack of a central file of all purchasing related documents reduces control and
accountability and results in important documents either not being retained or scattered
throughout various departments and agencies. Effective and efficient contract
Administration monitoring is not possible if copies of executed contracts are not
available.

In addition, failure to retain documentation can lead to fines and penalties for
Noncompliance with the Freedom of Information Act, which requires municipalities to
produce documentation upon request. Grantors can impose fines and penalties, and
ultimately withdraw funds if adequate and complete documentation is not provided to
support the allowed use of funds. Failure to provide documentation at the request of a
subpoena can also result in significant monetary losses to the City and subject the City
to legal actions.

Of all finance?related functions, the procurement function is the one that provides the
greatest opportunity for government employees to use government resources to
advance their personal interests. A perception that public officials are using the
procurement system to reward themselves, their friends, or supporters, poisons the
public?s confidence in government and shakes its faith in the bureaucratic process.

Causes

There are multiple types of media and electronic systems that house demolition related
data, information, and/or documents. There are multiple users that are responsible for
maintaining, updating, and storing demolition data and information. In addition, there
are multiple users that have access to the various electronic repositories. No single
entity is responsible for the collection, storage, integrity and accuracy of data and
records related to contract administration. This resulted in delays in obtaining
information, inconsistencies in data, and the incompleteness of contract administration
documents.

The following are other causes provided to us which contributed to the conditions listed
above:

- According to GOP, the City did not have an electronic filing system for bids and
purchase order information until late 2015. Demolition data for City-funded
demolitions were backfilled in the system starting from January 2014, and

36

information is still manually entered into Salesforce;

- According to DBA, site visits by the field liaisons should have been documented
in Salesforce, but were instead documented in a ?Smartsheet? accessible
through a mobile application. The ?Smartsheet? does not interface or
communicate with Salesforce. It should be noted that OAG was not informed
about the ?Smartsheet? during the course of our audit field work, and therefore,
we cannot conclude on the accuracy or viability this data;

- According to HRD, not all of the information available in one activity was made
available to other persons involved in contract file maintenance and payment
processing. A staff person stated that there needed to be a collaboration
between DBA and GOP, and noted that ?a majority of the documents are kept
within BSEED and OCP, [but] HRD is responsible for payment review." They felt
that ?there should be designated tasks for each department and custodian of the
file.?

Regarding the inconsistent and unreliable data (from Salesforce) initially,
representatives of both DBA and the Land Bank stated that they were not sure why the
sample of demolitions reported as City-funded were not included in the OCP contracting
process. Later, after meeting with DBA, it was stated that there was an error in
producing the report which resulted in a 2% error rate in misstating the source of
funding City-funded versus other.) Subsequently, the DBA produced a ?corrected?
report which we have reviewed and found that the new data did not alter, but further
substantiates our conclusions and findings.

Recommendations

We recommend that the City develop a strategic and comprehensive approach to
electronic file management for the administration of demolition contracts (in particular).
They should:

- Continue to enhance the electronic file management system (or a new system) so
that it is collects and retains applicable documents related to all contracts in a
centralized repository;

- Ensure that the internal controls for the system are sufficient to provide accurate
and reliable data. Policies and procedures should be well documented into one
cohesive and comprehensive document;

- Review current policies and procedures to ensure that they are appropriate and
can be implemented;

- Document changes and update policies and procedures as required;

- Communicate changes to all pertinent staff: Ensure that all users across the
various agencies and departments are adequately trained on the centralized filing
system and the record retention requirements.

37

5. Demolition Costs Were Not Recovered From Property Owners

The City (BSEED and HRD) and DBA did not attempt to recover the cost from either
the Land Bank, or the prior property owners for the demolition of a residential property.
Relating to the lack of cost recovery on [private] residential demolitions, this was a prior
audit finding against BSSED and it remains unresolved.

Background Related to the Condition

We found several anomalies related to demolition activities for property located at
18476 Parkside, Detroit, Michigan. In February 2014, a fire occurred at the property.
Since the property was privately owned, a portion of the fire insurance monies was
remitted to the City to be kept in Fire Insurance Escrow Account. BSEED held a
hearing on the property in October 2014, to begin the process of ordering a non-
emergency demolition. We found the following noteworthy events surrounding the
property:

A. Inconsistences related to who owned the property at the time it entered the
demolition pipeline arose. Recorded in the Land Bank?s ?Sales Force? property
inventory database is ?chatter? from a DBA staff person who confirmed that the
property was still privately owned as of March 30, 2015. However, a neighbor
(who was instrumental in getting the property demolished, and who
subsequently acquired the vacant lot from the Land Bank) incorrectly told other
DBA representatives that it was owned by the Land Bank and was acquired
through their Nuisance Abatement Program 

The ?chatter? in the Sales Force database called the Nuisance Abatement
of this residential property a ?Mayor?s One- timer.? A representative from
the Land Bank stated that NAP properties get identi?ed in several
different ways, including complaints from neighbors to the Land Bank, a
City Councilperson, the Mayor, etc. They further explained that
boundaries identified for the NAP program are ?guidelines?, and that
properties that are outside the listed boundaries (like 18476 Parkside) can
be selected for the program.

B. Anomalies and conflicting information related to the timeline as to how and
when the property changed ownership, when it moved through from the Land
Bank?s Nuisance Abatement Program to the demolition pipeline, versus when
the Land Bank obtained ?Quiet Title? to the property. In this case, the City
issued a RFP for an asbestos survey on the property, a few weeks prior to the
court granting ownership to the Land Bank.

C. On June 8, 2016, the City issued a RFP on a City-funded contract for demolition
even though the property was still owned by the Land Bank.

D. Conflicting information on documents as to the type of demolition - whether it
was an ?ordered? standard) versus ?an emergency? demolition. The
award letter from OCP stated that it was an emergency demolition even though
it did not meet the specific standards for an emergency demolition. It was very
difficult for us to confirm the type of demolition with the parties involved with
demolition. Only after we made several requests for clarification to GOP, HRD,

38

DBA, and BSEED, were we informed that it was not an emergency demolition
but an ?ordered? or standard demolition.

E. A change order reducing the cost of the demolition in the amount of $6,900 and
concurrently, an invoice billing the Land Bank for the same amount and same
property. This was unusual because in the Demo?tracker the property was
listed as a City-funded demolition for this amount;

F. Inconsistencies related to the name of the demolition contractor, the cost of the
demolition versus the actual contractor and the actual cost of demolition
reported in the City?s Open Data Portal Demo Tracker. The cost reported was
$6,900 versus the total actual cost of $32,775. Approximately two years after
the actual demolition, the cost was updated to reflect the total amount paid to
the contractor. It should be noted that the update occurred only after we had
several meetings with representatives from the City (HRD) and 

Conditions

The City used $17,580 of General Fund Quality of Life Dollars to partially fund the
demolition of 18476 Parkside which was owned by the Land Bank, and neither the City
(BSEED) nor DBA attempted to recover (or recover) the cost from either the Land Bank
or the prior property owners.

Sources of Funds Used for Demolition
The invoicing and funding for the demolition of 18476 Parkside was unusual and came
from three different sources as shown below:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BREAKDOWN OF FUNDS USED TO DEMOLISH 18476
PARKSIDE

Source of Funds Amount
A. Fire Insurance Escrow amount 8,295
B. City of Detroit from Quality of Life Funds 17,580
Subtotal City Funds 25,875

Donation from Neighbor who intended to
C. buy the lot once the house was 6,900

demolished (paid by the Land Bank)

Total Cost of the Demolition 32,775

 

 

 

 

 

A. ?Fire Insurance Escrow (F is the state law (described earlier in this report),
that allows a municipality to require a percentage of insurance proceeds to be
held in an escrow account designed to assist with the repair or demolition of
properties that have suffered fire damage. The City (BSEED) had $8,295 in the
FIE Account for 18476 Parkside;

39

B. The invoicing and source of funding for the demolition of 18476 Parkside was
unusuaL

The initial contract amount was for $32,775, however, the contractor was
directed by DBA to process a change order and reduce the contract price
in an amount equal to the neighbor?s donation. The contractor complied
and:

a. Reduced the City?s contract price by $6,900;
b. Invoiced the Land Bank for the same amount; and

c. Subsequently received the monies the neighbor previously
donated to the Land Bank.

- The reduced new City contract price was $25,875 and was funded by:

City of Detroit from Quality of Life Funds* $17,580
Fire Insurance Escrow Funds 8,295
Total Cost of FIE and City Funds $25,875

Note: The amount paid to the contractor included a total of $1,404 charges
for administrative fees. We were not able to confirm if the
fees paid to the contractor were credited to BSEED as revenue for
services.

C. According to recorded events, early in the process, a neighbor to 18476
Parkside, contacted DBA and stated they had $7,000 to donate toward the
demolition of the property. The monies were split and of this amount $6,900
was paid to the demolition contractor, and $100 remained with the Land Bank for
the purchased of the vacant lot. The donation was handled through a
?Demolition Donation Agreement? between the Land Bank and the neighbor.

The purpose of the agreement is to allow private persons or entities to contract
with the Land Bank for demolition services. It specifically states that:

If the Land Bank determines that the costs of the services exceed the
Demolition Fee stated in the agreement then the Land Bank shall provide
a written notice to the Donor describing in reasonable detail the amount of
and reasons for the additional costs. The Donor shall pay to the Land
Bank the additional costs described in the fee notice within ten business
days from the date of the Fee Notice.

It should be noted that the neighbor?s donation was given to the Land Bank and
subsequently paid to the demolition contractor. According to the Demolition
Donation Agreement, the Land Bank who owned the property, could have held
the neighbor accountable for the full cost of the demolition.

40

Effect

State and local governments use charges, fees, and other cost recovery methods such
as placing liens to help fund services. By not attempting to collect the cost of
demolition from the property owner (or previous owners):

1. Leaves the City to pay for all demolitions, thereby reducing the amount of funds
available for other City services;

2. Eliminates a possible deterrent that would make home owners ?think twice?
before walking away from fire damaged, neglected, or foreclosed property. In
some cases, the property owner walks away from a mortgage, or collects the
insurance money, and leaves the City to pay for the full cost of demolition.

While all programs allow for the use of management discretion and judgment, not
following City Ordinances, management agreements, and policies and procedures, has
a strong negative impact on the organization and its employees. Violation of rules
often result in diminishing the culture and ethics of the organization.

The lack of a City policy for accepting donations toward demolitions and allowing for
?one-off? and special situations are ?red flag? signs of weak or no internal controls. This
leaves an open door to fraud, waste, and abuse.

Criteria
The Administration and Enforcement rules under the City?s Building Code of
Ordinances states that2:

City may undertake demolition, maintenance or securing of any vacant
building or structure that presents an imminent danger, is in an emergency
condition, or is not in Administration with a notice or blight violation under this
article. In addition to all other remedies available under this article or at law,
the costs of demolition, administration including the value of tasks performed by
the City under this article shall be recorded as liens against the real property
upon which the vacant building or structure is located. A lien that arises under
this subsection shall be reported to the Board of Assessor, which shall assess
the costs against the subject property. Any liens shall be enforced in the
manner prescribed in state law, the Detroit City Charter and this Code for the
enforcement of special assessment liens or tax liens.

responsibility to recover the cost of demolition is stated in the DMA
between the City and DBA. It states that is responsible for recording all liens
related to the Demolition Program.?

 

2 Detroit, Michigan - Code of Ordinances Chapter 9 - Buildings and Building Regulations
Article I. - Detroit Property Maintenance Code Division 2. - Administration And

Enforcement
of CHQBU
BURE ARTIDEPRMACO DIVZADEN 

41

 policies and procedures related to demolition that were in effect from October
2014 through January of 2016 (during which time the structure was demolished
on18476 Parkside) de?nes the Law Department?s role in helping to recover the costs of
demolition:

?The Legal Department shall provide a template to record a lien against the
demolished property in the amount of the demolition and related costs paid with
federal funds. HRD will prepare the lien documents and submit to the legal
department for recording.

Causes

Both the DBA and the City of Detroit Law Department stated that they do not have a
program that recovers or even attempts to recoup costs associated with residential
demolitions, even though they both have legal and contractual obligations that require
them to do so.

BSEED deferred the handling of ?recovery programs? to the City?s Law Department,
since they would perform any legal actions.

Management in the Law Department explained that ?no one is conducting recovery for
residential properties,? and they do not have any written policies or procedure for such
a program. In addition, they do not use any of the mechanisms available to collect
costs, such as levying liens on the property, filing lawsuits against property owners,
and/or attaching liens to other assets. We were informed that in January 2018, (and as
reported in the media), through the Mayor?s Office, the City launched a new program to
recover the costs of large and costly demolitions on commercial properties. However,
according to the representative, ?they are only chasing six figures specifically where
land has value.? The Law Department stated that an analysis is needed to determine if
it is worth the time and money to pursue recovering costs associated with demolishing
residential properties.

A representative of DBA did not confirm if it was ?standard practice? for the City to pay
a portion of the demolition of Land Bank owned properties who were part of the
nuisance abatement program. They did state that ?it depends? on the funds available
for the property, and in this case since it had funds, they decided to use additional
City funds to complete the demolition. The representative stated that this was a ?one-
off? situation and that this was the only demolition that occurred this way.

Regarding the incorrect contractor named and costs displayed in Demo Tracker, and
after we brought it to the attention of DBA management, a representative from DBA
stated that ?it was an error, it was not done to mislead, and that it would be corrected.?
Again, DBA defended the costs shown on the Demo Tracker to represent only the
amount invoiced (for Land Bank demolitions), or the bid price (for City-funded
demolitions), and no other associated demolition costs.

According to DBA management, even though the demolition was contracted and paid
42

through the City of Detroit, the donation was handled through the Land Bank authority,
because the City does not have a policy or a mechanism that allows it to accept a
donation of funds for a demolition.

Recommendations
We recommend that:

A. The City follow the administration and enforcement rules of the City?s Building
Code related to the recovery of demolition costs. The City should establish
guidelines and identify when it is feasible to attempt to recover residential
demolition costs similar to the program in place for commercial properties. This
might include targeting landlords who own multiple properties that have been
demolished;

B. The City investigate the feasibility of a change (increase) to the percentage of
insurance proceeds to be held in fire insurance escrow account to offset more of
the rising costs of residential demolitions;

C. DBA adhere to the DMA and fulfill their responsibilities set forth therein and
recover the cost of demolition;

D. The City establish a program for the oversight of private demolitions that will:

- Ensure that the rules and regulations designed to protect the public?s
health and safety are adhered to including (but not limited to) proper
licensing for demolition, adherence to state and local safety and health
standards, etc., in the case of private demolitions;

- Allow the City to provide contract services for demolitions upon request
from private owners;

Allow the City to receive donations from private donors (both individuals
and organizations) toward the demolition of properties.

43

6. DBA Did Not Fulfill lts?ties As The Program Manaqer Over City-funded
Demolitions

Overall, DBA did not fulfill its duties as the contracted program manager over City-
funded demolitions.

Conditions

In August 2015, the City (acting through HRD and BSEED) entered into a demolition
management agreement (DMA) with DBA, and contracted with them to serve as the
program manager for City-funded demolitions. Responsibilities for each
agency/organization involved in demolition were stated in the agreement. Based on our
audit of selected City-funded demolitions, we found that DBA did not fulfill the following
specific program manager duties as outlined in the DMA. We have also noted where
these conditions are included in other findings in this Report:

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
CONDITION 

A. Did not adequately manage the 1 17
performance of the contractors engaged by 5 38
the City under the demolition program

B. Did not coordinate demolitions; conduct 2 23
progress and final inspections, maintain 5 38
documentation and provide reports

C. Did not maintain records in auditable form 3 29
and make them available for audit when 4 32
requested 5 38

D. Did not record all liens related to the 5 38
demolition program

 

 

 

 

 

 

Criteria
Specific criteria for the conditions above is taken directly from the DMA between the

City and DBA.

The Project Management Institute defines programs and the program manager as
follows:

- A program is a group of projects managed in a coordinated way to obtain
benefits not available from managing them individually;

- A program manager is a ?super? project manager whose role is mainly
operational since this person is responsible for planning and governance and
for overseeing the successful delivery of the program?s output/product.
Although knowledge of the business is important, there is more stress on his
or her program management skills.

44

Program management is also defined as:

The process of managing several related projects, often with the intention of
improving an organization's performance. The program manager has oversight
of the purpose and status of the projects in a program and can use this oversight
to support project-level activity to ensure the program goals are met by providing
a decision-making capacity that cannot be achieved at [the] project level. The
program manager may be well placed to provide this insight by actively seeking
out such information from the project managers although in large and/or complex
projects, a specific role may be required.

Effect

One of the ?top and fatal consequences of poor planning in project management is
project failure.? Failure of the program manager to fulfill its duties, can result in the
organization not achieving its objectives and goals. Operations are more likely to be
inefficient and ineffective. Without proper oversight, activities are subject to fraud,
waste, and abuse. Specifically (but not limited to), poor or inadequate program/project
management can result in:

0 Poor time management resulting in projects not being completed in time;
- Low productivity and output;
0 Cost overruns and overspent budgets;
- Dissatisfied and unhappy customers;
- Long-lasting and irreversible reputational damage;
- Increased risk of harmful and costly legal actions.
Causes
DBA management stated that they were not aware of all of their responsibilities as listed
in the DMA.
In addition, DBA the following statements relating to program management:

0 With a goal of demolishing over 100 structures every week, it is simply not
realistic to expect any vendor or project manager to document or maintain
documentation of compliance with every aspect of an extreme! intricate and
complicated process;

1 Read literally, [fulfilling all of the criterion/contract requirements] would require a
contractor to maintain constant surveillance of the demolition site at all times;

Such demands are unreasonable; complex commercial contracts place multiple
requirements on vendors. The fact that those requirements exist does not mean
that the contracting party must provide documentary evidence that every one of
them is being fulfilled. Imagine a standard contract which requires a vendor's
employees from refraining from drug or alcohol use "during work hours." It cannot
be the case-and it is not the case?that the vendor must thus document that, at

45

every single moment during the work-day, employees are not using drugs or
alcohol.

management felt that they were ?closely monitoring contract 
in a manner that is efficient and cost-effective.?

Recommendation

We recommend that the administration consider bringing the program management of
demolition under the auspices of the City, and under a single organization versus the
current matrix organization structure.

According to the Project Management Institute3, ?a matrix organization is defined as one
in which there is dual or multiple managerial accountability and responsibility.? Listed
below are other characteristics of this type of organization:

0 Implicit in the definition of the matrix organization is the recognition that the
project is temporary whereas the functional departments are more permanent.
Although all organizations are temporary in that they are constantly changing, the
matrix is designed to be temporary and a particular organizational structure lasts
only for the finite life of the project;

0 The term ?matrix project organization? refers to a multidisciplinary team whose
members are drawn from various line or functional units of the hierarchical
organization. The organization so developed is temporary in nature, since it is
built around the project or specific task to be done rather than on organizational
functions.

In the pure single-project management environment, there are advantages to this type
structure which include (1) clear project objectives. (2) project integration of 
and work packages across functional departmental lines, (3) efficient use of resources,
(4) effective information flows, (5) retention of disciplinary teams as projects come and
go, (6) and other bene?ts related to morale, creation of specialized project managers,
and less personnel trauma related to the project shutdown.

However, there are disadvantages with the matrix organization ?outside? of a temporary
project which are evident in the City?s current program management structure:

A. Complexity - the matrix organization is inherently more complex than either a
functional or a pure project organization, since it is the superimposition of one on
the other. This complexity shows itself in the following problems:

0 Difficulties in monitoring and controlling;
0 Complex information flow;
0 Fast reaction may be difficult to coordinate. The project manager in the

 

3 ?The Matrix Organization", Stuckenbruck, L. C. (1979). The matrix organization. Project Management
Quarterly, 10(3), 21?33 wawpml 
evolution-1837

46

matrix usually does not have strong vested authority, therefore
considerable negotiation is necessary to effect the change;

0 Conflicting guidance as the more complex organization with two [or more]
lines of authority always increases the possibility of conflicting instructions
and guidance.

B. Priorities a matrix organization with a number of projects faces real problems
with project priorities and resource allocation;

C. Management goals There is a constant, although often unperceived, struggle in
balancing the goals and objectives of project and functional management;

Effective program management are based on sound principles of management. We
recommend the following best practices for effective program management?

A. Maintain control over processes and operations:

1. Follow-up on all incomplete work systematically and in a timely manner to
ensure removal of any interference with its completion;

2. Prepare periodic status reports of work progress for management review
to determine whether work is progressing according to plan and whether
established milestones are being reached;

3. Report all off?schedule and missed-scheduled jobs to affected
management for corrective action and/or establishment of measures to
prevent future occurrences.

B. Surveillance over the Operation:

1. Confirm that the lines of feedback communication are still open and
functioning as intended through periodic reviews;

2. Eliminate or reduce the causes of exceptions and deviations rather than
accepting such variances as ?normal? and covering them with specially
designed procedures;

3. Perform periodic reviews of factors affecting cost of administration and
operations, and see that timely and appropriate action is taken to keep
costs consistent with plans and objectives.

C. Administration:

1. Make ?clear-cut? assignments of responsibility for prompt expedition and
feedback of information to management of variances between established
budgets and schedules and actual accomplishments;

2. Perform periodic spot checks to ensure conformity with established
requirements, in addition to normal monitoring of work in process and
completed work.

 

4 ?Sawyers Internal Auditing, 5?h Edition, The Practice of Modern Internal Auditing?, The
Institute of Internal Audition, 2003.
47

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

Performance Summary of
Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

The following table identifies and summarizes criteria used for City of Detroit
residential demolitions funded by the United States Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), Fire
Insurance Escrow (FIE) funds, HUD Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP)
Grants, and the City?s Quality of Life (QOL) Blight Remediation Funds. The
demolitions included here were not funded by Hardest Hit funds (HHF) and were
not contracted through the Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA). The contracts
were the responsibility of and contracted through the City?s Office of the Chief
Financial Officer, Office of Contracting and Procurement and the Housing and
Revitalization Department. The Detroit Building Authority (DBA) serves as the
Program Manager for Citywide demolitions.

The criterion is based on the State of Michigan?s requirements, the City?s policies
and procedures, and actual contracts Scope of Services in force during the audit
period and relating to demolition. We sampled the demolition of ninety-six (96)
properties, covering various types of City-funded demolitions (emergency, fire
related, and non-emergency):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City-Funded Demolitions Total Audit Sample
Number of Properties
Year of Demolition Per Year Requested
2014-2015 43
2016 17
2017 15
2018 21
Total Properties in Audit Sample 96
City-Funded Demolitions Properties Audited from Sample
Number of
Properties Percentage_
Total Properties in Audit Sample 96 100%
Less: Properties labeled as City-Funded but the
actual source of the funding was either
confirmed as Land Bank HHF funded,
confirmed as another source of funding
(private), or the source was not confirmed
nor identified. 26 27%
Less: Partial information received after
deadline, properties not audited 21 22%
Less: Properties labeled as Residential
but were actually commercial
demolitions 2 2%
Total Properties Audited 47 49%

 

 

 

 

48

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

 

 

 

 

 

City-Funded Demolitions Types of Properties Audited
Number of
Properties Percentage
Emergency Demolitions 18 38%
Non-Emergency Demolitions 29 62%
Total Properties Audited 47 100%

 

 

 

Definitions of the Table Titles:

A. AREA OF IMPACT The Area of Impact groups the requirements into six
logical categories:

1) Resident Safety and Protection;

2) Pre?demolition Site Preparation;

3) Proper Disposal of Hazardous Material, Debris, etc.;
4) Post-demolition Site Restoration;

5) Program Management and Monitoring;

6) Clearances and Payments.

B. CRITERION Audit criterion condition) is contract requirements
which were compiled from a detailed and extensive review of City policies
and procedures, and state, local, and other requirements related to City-
funded residential demolitions. Criterion was also taken directly from the
and the specific demolition contracts.

C. CODE The Code is a graphical representation of the results of testing
and is the percentage of properties in Noncompliance for the given
requirement:

 

Color Percentage of Sample Non-
Cde Compliant

0% - 25%
>25% 50%
- >50% 45%

>75%
Not Applicable 

 

    

 

 

 

Results of the Audit Testing

D. YES if the property demolished met the requirement and/or if the required
information was found within the City?s files;

E. N0 if the property/demolition tested did not meet the requirement and/or
the information was not found within the City?s files;

49

APPENDIX A

Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions



NIA if the requirement is not applicable to the specific property/demolition.

PERCENTAGE NON COMPLIANT represents the percentage of
properties audited (excluding that did not meet the requirement.
Properties can ?fail? the requirement if the required documentation or
information was not found within the City?s files;

ADDITIONAL COMENTS addresses any additional details related to that
particular requirement.

The results of the audit of Contract Administration for City-funded demolitions is
shown in the Summary and Detail Table(s) below:

 

SUMMARY OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL Percenta of Non-Com - Iiance
NUMBER
OF 0% - >25% -
AREA OF IMPACT CRITERION 25% 50%
1. Resident Safety and 5 5
Protection
2' Pre?demolltlon Site 13 2 2 4
Preparation
Proper Disposal of
3. Hazardous Material, 10 2 8
Debris. etc.;
Post-demolition Site
4' Restoration 27 1 2 17 6
5 Program Management
and Monitoring 24 5 1 10 7
Clearances and
6. Payments 26 8 1 14 2
Total 105 16 8 58 15

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50

APPENDIX A

Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD 
IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Resident Safety 1. Is there evidence that the 0 47 
and Protection Contractor adhered to the MI
Manual for Uniform Control
Devices for all vehicular and
pedestrian detours around
their construction zone?
Resident Safety 2. Is there any evidence that 0 47 
and Protection safety barriers of specific
specification were installed
during demolition?
Resident Safety 3. Is there any evidence that 0 47 0
and Protection Contractor posted signs during
all phases of demolition to
prevent trespassing?
Resident Safety 4. Is there any evidence that 8 39 (39)
and Protection Contractor is regularly New process
inspecting and maintaining the does not apply
safety barrier??
Resident Safety 5. Before and After pictures 11 36 
and Protection (labeled)
Pre-Demolition 6. Is there any evidence that 2 27 18 MA (18)
Site Preparation the City (owner) provided the Emergency
Contractor ?Asbestos Survey" Ordered
at the time the contractor was Demolitions,
authorized to begin work on stated criteria
the site. does not
apply
Pre-Demolition 7. Does the ?Asbestos Survey" 2 27 18 (18)
Site Preparation stated above include the Emergency
followings: Ordered
a. List of the type of Demolitions,
each waste or stated criteria
material present; does not
b. Location within the apply

 

property of such
wastes;

0. Quantity of each
material/waste;

d. Recommendations
for specific disposal
protocol.

 

 

51

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-
REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Pre-Demolition 8. is there any evidence that 16 1 3O 6% (18)
Site Preparation prior to disposal of any waste, Emergency
the Contractor submitted Ordered
HASP (Health and Safety Demolitions,
Plan) at addresses requiring stated criteria
abatement. HASP should does not
include: apply;

a. Necessary precautions (12)
and safety procedures stated criteria
as indicated in the does not
Asbestos Survey, or in apply
the Owner approved
change order

b. Detailed information
regarding temporary
controls, such as lock-
out/tag-out
procedures, and
hazardous/regulated
material handling

Pre-Demolition 9. Is there any evidence that 9 13 25 59% NIA (18)
Site Preparation Contractor submitted to MDEQ Emergency
a completed form of Ordered
Notification of Intent to Demolitions,
Renovate/Demolish Form at stated criteria
least 10 working days in does not
advance of asbestos apply;
abatement activities or prior to (7)
any activities after receiving stated criteria
the Notice to Proceed? does not
apply
Pre-Demolition 10. Is there any evidence that 15 14 18 48% (18)
Site Preparation Contractor submitted to the Emergency
City sampling and analysis for Ordered
airborne concentration of Demolitions,
asbestos fibers? stated criteria
does not
apply
Pre-Demolition 11. is there any evidence that 13 16 18 55% (18)
Site Preparation Contractor submitted Post? Emergency
abatement air monitoring and it Ordered
was completed by an Demolitions,
independent third party stated criteria
contractor? does not
apply
Pre?Demolition 12. Is there any evidence that 8 39 100% (39)

Site Preparation

 

pre-existing damage on the
side walk had been marked

 

 

 

 

 

 

stated criteria
does not apply

 

52

 

APPENDIX A

Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-
IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Proper Disposal 13. Is there any evidence that 47 100%
of Hazardous asbestos waste was disposed
Material, Debris, in Type II Landfill?
etc.
Proper Disposal 14. Is there evidence that the 0 47 0 100%
of Hazardous Contractor complied with the
Material, Debris, wet-wet Requirements
etc.
Proper Disposal 15. Is there evidence that the 0 8 39 100% (39)
of Hazardous Contractor did disconnect stated criteria
Material, Debris, water service in accordance does not apply
etc. with the procedures
Proper Disposal 16. Is there evidence that the 0 8 39 100% (39)
of Hazardous Contractor is following the stated criteria
Material, Debris, Wetting Dust control does not apply
etc. protocol?
Proper Disposal 17. Is there evidence that the 8 39 100% (39)
of Hazardous Contractor used the required stated criteria
Material, Debris, equipment for wetting? does not apply
etc.
Proper Disposal 18. Is there evidence of the 0 8 39 100% (39)
of Hazardous property being thoroughly stated criteria
Material, Debris, wetted during the demo and does not apply
etc. removal of debris?
Proper Disposal 19. Is there any evidence that 0 47 0 100%
of Hazardous all debris was disposed in
Material, Debris, licensed Type II sanitary
etc. landfill?
Proper Disposal 20. Is there any evidence that 47 0 100%
of Hazardous copies of landfill receipts for
Material, Debris, every load removed were
etc. maintained for each day and
were available for inspection?
Proper Disposal 21. Is there any evidence that 30 16 1 35% (1)
of Hazardous Load-out of demolition debris unknown
Material, Debris, was completed within 48 hours
etc. knockdown date (applies
to both Emergency and Non-
Emergency?)
Proper Disposal 22. IS there any evidence that 29 18 0 38%
of Hazardous manifests for the disposal of
Material, Debris, waste and materials were
etc. furnished to the City or its
authorized rep?
Post?demolition 23. Is there evidence that the 1 46 0 98%
Site Restoration Contractor complied with the
Backfill Requirements?

 

 

 

53

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-
IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Post-demolition 24. Is there any evidence that 0 0 47 NIA NIA (47)
Site Restoration stockpiling locations used by there is no
the Contractor were evidence in the
acceptable by the City? files that
Post-demolition 25. Is there any evidence that 0 0 47 NIA stockpiling was
Site Restoration Contractor submitted ?Dust used, therefore
Control and Monitoring Plan" unable to
prior to stockpiling to address conclude on the
sources of fugitive emissions criteria
from the site?
Post-demolition 26. Is there any evidence that 0 0 47 NIA
Site Restoration the Contractor obtained
approval from the City to
transport soil to the stockpile
site of a residential site?
Post-demolition 27. Is there an evidence that 0 0 47 This criterion
Site Restoration the Contractor removed the cannot be
following from all disturbed monitored
ground surfaces before the easily. It is
open hole inspection and assumed that
placement of fill: this did take
a. Vegetation Place Prior to
b_ Topsoil the site passing
c. Debris  gg?gnHole
d. Trash 
e. Wet and unsatisfactory
soil materials
f. Obstructions
g. Deleterious materials
Post?demolition 28. Is there an evidence that 47 0 100%
Site Restoration the Contractor placed backfill
and fill materials in layers of
18" in loose depth?
Post-demolition 29. Is there any documentation 0 47 0 100%

Site Restoration

 

that Contractor obtained
approval from the City before
discharging excavation water
to either of the followings:
a. Municipal storm system,
or to the

b. Surface waters

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

54

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-
IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS

Post-demolition 30. Is there any evidence that 47 0 0 0%

Site Restoration leveling of the grading
provided smooth transition
among all surfaces and that
leveling prevented:

a. Excessive runoff into
adjacent streets,

b. Pooling in the lot area
itself

Post?demolition 31. Is there any evidence that 0 47 0 100%

Site Restoration the top soil used on top of the
grading was 4" in depth?

Post-demolition 32. Is there any documentation 0 47 0 100%

Site Restoration that analytical data of the top
soil used was
uncontaminated? Or is there
any certification from the
borrow source that topsoil is
uncontaminated?

Post-demolition 33. Is there evidence that 0 8 39 100% MA (39)

Site Restoration Seed and Straw was not stated criteria
applied until Final Grade does not apply
Approval is received from


Post-demolition 34. Is there evidence that the 0 8 39 100% MA (39)

Site Restoration clean soil consists of at-least stated criteria
20% organic material? does not apply

Post-demolition 35. Is there any evidence that 1 46 0 100%

Site Restoration Mow" lawn seed was
used?

Post-demolition 36. Was authorization 0 46 1 100% (1)

Site Restoration obtained from the City when a property does
type other than ?No Mow? was not fit this
used? category

Post-demolition 37. Is there any evidence that 10 37 0 100%

Site Restoration straw mulch was used in the
planting area?

Post-demolition 38. Is there any evidence that 0 47 0 100%

Site Restoration the site was watered within 7
days of the seeding date?

Post-demolition 39. Is there any evidence that 0 47 100%

Site Restoration the sidewalks and streets are
swept clean and washed down
after load-out?

Post-demolition 40. Is there evidence that the 0 8 39 100% (39)

Site Restoration

 

contractor is held accountable
for the replacement of the
sidewalk if damaged?

 

 

 

 

 

stated criteria
does not apply

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-

IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Post-demolition 41. Is there evidence of 8 39 100% NIA (39)
Site Restoration contractors following protocol stated criteria

for the "if the sidewalks are does not apply
replaced if damaged" contract
terms?
Post-demolition 42. Is there is pre-existing 8 39 100% (39)
Site Restoration damage on sidewalk, curb or stated criteria
drive approach, is there any does not apply
evidence of this flag,
painted stake) identifiable in
pictures?
Post-demolition 43. Is there any evidence that
Site Restoration the following inspections were
requested by the contractor
from BSEED at least 24 hours
prior to the date of inspections
for every non- emergency
demolition?
a. Barricades/Knockdown 13 16 18 55% NIA (18)
b. b. Load-out 0 29 18 100% Ergerg'zncy
ere
c. Open Hole 15 14 18 48% Demolitions,
d. Backfill 0 29 '18 100%) stated criteria
e. Final Grade 15 14 18 48% does not apply
Program 44. Are there any evidences 47 0 100%
Management that the site was monitored by
and Monitoring the City or its rep. during all
phases of:
a. Demolition and
b. Backfilling
Program 45. Is there any evidence that 0 0 47 (47)
Management Contractor denied EPA There are no
and Monitoring personnel to: properties that
a. Enter demolition sites fit this
b. Review any records, category

 

0. Inspect any
demolition methods,
and/or

d. Sample or observe
any emissions?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

56

 

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-
IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Program 46. Is there any evidence that
Management the agreed upon schedules
and Monitoring could not be kept due to
unforeseen circumstances?
Program a. If yes, did the Contractor 0 2 45 100% MA (45)
Management request a modification to stated criteria
and Monitoring the schedules? does not apply
Program b. If yes, did the City or its 0 2 45 100%
Management rep. issue a written
and Monitoring approval to the
Contractor?
Program 47. Is there any evidence that 47 100%
Management Contractor submitted via
and Monitoring emails WIP status on Excel
Format on all open activities
every:
a. Monday,
b. Wednesday. and
c. Friday
Program 48. Is there any evidence that 34 13 0 28%
Management Contractor submitted copies of
and Monitoring the following to the City or its
rep:
a. Electronic notification
of Intent to
Renovate/Demolish
that was filed with the
MDEQ.
Program 49. Is there any evidence that 47' 0 0 0%
Management the City or its rep. conducted
and Monitoring final clearance inspection to
confirm that:
a. Hazardous Materials
were removed, and
b. All records are in
proper order?
Note: The inspection is done
per the discretion of the City
or its rep.
Program 50. Is there evidence that 7 1 39 13% (39)
Management equipment and crews have stated criteria

and Monitoring

 

 

mobilized to the correct side by
reviewing all existing
documentation and confirming
through on-site visual
observation?

 

 

 

 

 

 

does not apply

 

 

57

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-

IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Program 51. If the final clearance was 0 0 47 NIA This criterion
Management done, but not approved by the cannot be
and Monitoring City, did the contractor return monitored

to the site to achieve easily. It is
acceptable clearance assumed that
inspection and all hazardous this did take
and asbestos materials were place prior to
removed? the site
passing the
Final
Clearance.
Clearances and 52. Did the contractor submit 0 47 100%
Payments landfill receipts or waste
manifests with invoice, within_
10 days of the completion of
the project?
If No, payment will not be
processed.
Clearances and 53. Is there any evidence that 0 47 0 100% Some
Payments payment was processed documents
before manifests and invoices were missing
were submitted? from all
contracts
prior to
payment
Post-demolition 54. Is there any evidence that 0 0 47 MA
Site Restoration contractor used Category 3
backfill materials?
Post-demolition 55. If yes, did the contractor 0 0 47 MA
Site Restoration submit to the City a Request
for Approval to use Category 3
Backfill Material?
Program 56. Did Contractor submit 47 0 100%
Management weekly Backfill Material

and Monitoring

 

tracking logs for all backfill
categories (1, 2, to the
Owner?s Document Repository
and uploaded to a designated
electronic platform?
Note: The logs should show:

a. Source,

b. End use location,

c. Quantities, and

d. Dates

 

 

 

 

 

 

58

 

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-
IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Clearances and 57. Were all documentation 47 0 0 0%
Payments presented on organization?s
letterhead?
Clearances and 58. Was the Request for 0 47 0 100%

Payments

 

Payment for each property
broken down into the following
cost categories:

Abatement
Demolition

Seeding

Grading, and

Total for the specified
property

$951.0 .691

 

 

 

 

 

 

59

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

A













 

AREA OF
IMPACT

RFP AND HRD
REQUIREMENTS

CODE

 


YES

 


NO

 


NIA

 

Non-
Compliant

 

COMMENTS

 

 

Clearances and
Payments

59. Did the Request for
Payment Packet contain the
following:

 

 

a. A cover letter

 

b. Schedule of Values and
Sworn Statement for
each property address

 

c. Sworn statement of
waivers of lien from
contractors and
subcontractors

 

d. Building permit

 

e. Notification of Intent to
Renovate/ Demolish

 

f. Final grade
inspection receipt

 

9. Documentation of
abatement activities
and waste disposal

 

h. Documentation of
origin of backfill and
topsoil sources

 

i. Documentation of
analytical data or
certification verifying
material is not
contaminated

 

j. Documentation that
Subcontractors are
incompliance with the MI
Workers? Disability
Compensation Act
requirement

 

k. Documentation that
Subcontractors are
Hcensed

Seeding and
Watering Report

 

m. Seed tags identifying
correct seed used per
specification

 

 

n. Before and after pictures
of the site (labeled)

 

 

13%

 

CC)

100%

 

47

100100100%

 

47

100%

 

47

100%

 

47

100%

 

 

47

 

 

100%

 

 

60

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-

IMPACT REQUIREMENTS YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Clearances and 60. Is there an evidence that 0 0 47 (47)
Payments the structure was removed These two

from the bid or from the questions are
award? related and
there were no
properties that
Clearances and 61. If yes, was the reason for 0 0 47 
Payments removal due to either of the
following prior to actual
demolition date?
a. the structure is
destroyed by fire or
other calamity
beyond its present
condition, or due to
b. The presence of
environmental
hazards
If no, briefly state the reason of
removal and attach evidence
to this report
Program 62. Is there an evidence that 0 0 47 MA (47)
Management the original agreed upon These two
and Monitoring schedules were modified? questions are
Program 63. If yes, was the reason for 0 47 related and
Management schedules modification due to there were no
and Monitoring unforeseen circumstances that properties that
caused work to be performed fit this
outside of Contractors' usual category
workweek? If No, briefly state
the reasons of modification
and attach evidence to this
report.
Program 64. Is there any evidence that 5 42 89%
Man99?meNI arid the stated contract protocols
Monitoring were revised?
Clearances and 65. Does the actual permit and 26 8 13 24% (13)
Payments inspection dates match what is properties were
in Tidemark? not tested for the
stated criterion
Clearances and 66. Is there evidence of the 47 0 0 0%

Payments

 

Notice to Proceed
documentation being in the
file?

 

 

61

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX A
Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-
IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Clearances and 67. Is there evidence that the 45 2 0 4%
Payments contractor started work after
the Notice to Proceed
documentation was received?
Program 68. Is there evidence that the 37 10 0 21%
Management contractor started work 10
and Monitoring days (Or 24 hours if
emergency demolition) after
filing the Notice of Intent with

Program 69. Was there evidence that 0 29 18 100% MA (18)
Management the site was accessible for Emergency
and Monitoring demolition after the 10 days? If Ordered
not, is there evidence in the file Demolitions,
showing that the contractor stated criteria
notified the Demolition Division does not
within 24 hours of this apply
s?ua?on?
Program 70. After the Open Hole 2 45 0 98%
Management Inspection. is there evidence
and Monitoring that the Backfill was completed
within 48 hours?
Program 71. Is there any evidence that 3 26 18 90% NIA (18)
Management the complete demolition Emergency
and Monitoring activities including clean-up by Ordered
the dated indicated on the Demolitions,
Notice to Proceed? (for non- stated criteria
emergency) does not
apply
Program 72. For emergency: Were all 2 16 29 89% MA (29)
Management the demolition activities, Standard
and Monitoring including clean up completed (Non-
within 7 calendar days? Emergency)
Demolitions,
Emergency
criteria do not
apply
Pre-Demolition 73. Is there evidence of utility
Site Preparation shutoff requests for the
following?
a. Water 14 15 18 52% (18)
b. Gas 24 5 18 17% Emergency
0. Electric 19 1O 18 34% Ordered
Demolitions,
stated criteria
does not
apply

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

62

 

APPENDIX A

Performance Summary of Contract Administration for City-funded Demolitions

 

DETAILS OF CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION TESTING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 
AREA OF RFP AND HRD Non-
IMPACT REQUIREMENTS CODE YES NO NIA Compliant COMMENTS
Pre-Demolition 74. Is there evidence or
Site Preparation confirmation of utility
disconnects?
a. Water 19 18 56% MA (18)
b. Gas 8 18 28% Emergency
C. Electric 15 18 52% Ordered
Demolitions,
stated criteria
does not apply
Program 75. Is there evidence of the 0 47 MA (47) this
Management contractor obtaining, criteria is
and Monitoring furnishing. and maintaining appropriately
insurance during the term of its applied during
contract the Bid Process
Program 76. Is there evidence of the 1 0 2%
Management demolition permit or any other
and Monitoring required permit maintained in
the file for the contractor?
Program 77. Is there evidence that the 0 47 MA (47)
Management contractor has violated the there were no
and Monitoring work area and caused damage properties that
for the site's property fit this category
boundanes?
Program 78. Is there evidence of a stop 0 47 MA (47)
Management of work by the owner or there were no
and Monitoring authorized representative. and properties that
if yes, did the contractor get fit this category
reimbursed for any cost
incurred during the stoppae?
Program 79. Is there evidence of a 4 0 9%
Management Performance and Payment
and Monitoring Bond for the contract price
provided by the Contractor?
Program 80. ls there an award letter in 26 0 55%
Management the file?
and Monitoring
Clearances and 81. Is there a P0 or contract in 0 0 0%
Payments the file?
Clearances and 82. Was the contract approved 28 18 97% MA (18)
Payments by City Council? Emergency
Ordered
Demolitions,
stated criteria
does not apply
Clearances and 83. Is there evidence that the 8 39 100% MA (39)
Payments contractor did not charge more stated criteria
than 10% above the amount does not apply
invoiced by any subcontractor?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

63

 

APPENDIX 
Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards for Performance Audits

The following excerpt is related to Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards
as complied by the compiled by the United States Government Accountability Office
(GAO) for Performance Audits. According to the GAO and GAGASS:

?2.10: Performance audits are defined as audits that provide findings or conclusions
based on an evaluation of sufficient, appropriate evidence against criteria. Performance
audits provide objective analysis to assist management and those charged with
governance and oversight in using the information to improve program performance and
operations, reduce costs, facilitate decision making by parties with responsibility to
oversee or initiate corrective action, and contribute to public accountability. The term
?program? is used in GAGAS to include government entities, organizations, programs,
activities, and functions.

?2.11 Performance audit objectives vary widely and include assessments of program
effectiveness, economy, and efficiency; internal control; Administration; and prospective
analyses. These overall objectives are not mutually exclusive. Thus, a performance
audit may have more than one overall objective. For example, a performance audit with
an objective of determining or evaluating program effectiveness may also involve an
additional objective of evaluating internal controls to determine the reasons for a
program?s lack of effectiveness or how effectiveness can be improved.

a. Program effectiveness and results audit objectives are frequently
interrelated with economy and efficiency objectives. Audit objectives that
focus on program effectiveness and results typically measure the extent
to which a program is achieving its goals and objectives. Audit objectives
that focus on economy and efficiency address the costs and resources
used to achieve program results.

b. Internal control audit objectives relate to an assessment of one or more
components of an organization?s system of internal control that is
designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving effective and
efficient operations, reliable financial and performance reporting, or
Administration with applicable laws and regulations. Internal control
objectives also may be relevant when determining the cause of
unsatisfactory program performance. Internal control comprises the
plans, policies, methods, and procedures used to meet the organization?s
mission, goals, and objectives. Internal control includes the processes
and procedures for planning, organizing, directing, and controlling
program operations, and management's system for measuring, reporting,
and monitoring program performance.

0. Administration audit objectives relate to an assessment of Administration
with criteria established by provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, or
grant agreements, or other requirements that could affect the acquisition,
protection, use, and disposition of the entity?s resources and the quantity,
quality, timeliness, and cost of services the entity produces and delivers.
Administration requirements can be either financial or nonfinancial.

 

5 Government Auditing Standards (Yellow Book) 2011 Revision; \w ullnm hun_lt.

64

APPENDIX 
Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards for Performance Audits

There are four ?Elements of a Finding" in a Performance Audit. The following excerpt(s)
from GAGAS describe how auditors develop Findings

?6.73 Auditors should plan and perform procedures to develop the elements of a finding
necessary to address the audit objectives. In addition, if auditors are able to sufficiently
develop the elements of a finding, they should develop recommendations for corrective
action if they are significant within the context of the audit objectives. The elements
needed for a finding are related to the objectives of the audit. Thus, a finding or set of
findings is complete to the extent that the audit objectives are addressed and the report
clearly relates those objectives to the elements of a finding.

?6.75 Condition: Condition is a situation that exists. The condition is determined
and documented during the audit.

?6.37 Criteria: Auditors should identify criteria. Criteria represent the laws,
regulations, contracts, grant agreements, standards, specific requirements,
measures, expected performance, defined business practices, and benchmarks
against which performance is compared or evaluated. Criteria identify the
required or desired state or expectation with respect to the program or Operation.
Criteria provide a context for evaluating evidence and understanding the findings,
conclusions, and recommendations included in the report. Auditors should use
criteria that are relevant to the audit.

?6.76 Cause: The cause identifies the reason or explanation for the condition or
the factor or factors responsible for the difference between the situation that
exists (condition) and the required or desired state (criteria), which may also
serve as a basis for recommendations for corrective actions. Common factors
include poorly designed policies, procedures, or criteria; inconsistent, incomplete,
or incorrect implementation; or factors beyond the control of program
management. Auditors may assess whether the evidence provides a reasonable
and convincing argument for why the stated cause is the key factor or factors
contributing to the difference between the condition and the criteria.

?6.77 Effect or potential effect: The effect is a clear, logical link to establish the
impact or potential impact of the difference between the situation that exists
(condition) and the required or desired state (criteria). The effect or potential
effect identifies the outcomes or consequences of the condition. When the audit
objectives include identifying the actual or potential consequences of a condition
that varies (either positively or negatively) from the criteria identified in the audit,
"effect" is a measure of those consequences. Effect or potential effect may be
used to demonstrate the need for corrective action in response to identified
problems or relevant risks.

GAGAS, also provides the following ?Reporting Standards for Performance
Audits?:

?7.27 Conclusions: Auditors should report conclusions based on the audit
objectives and the audit ?ndings. Report conclusions are logical inferences
about the program based on the auditors' findings, not merely a summary of the
findings. The strength of the auditors? conclusions depends on the sufficiency
and appropriateness of the evidence supporting the findings and the soundness
of the logic used to formulate the conclusions. Conclusions are more compelling

65

APPENDIX 
Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards for Performance Audits

if they lead to the auditors? recommendations and convince the knowledgeable
user of the report that action is necessary.

?7.28 Recommendations: Auditors should recommend actions to correct
deficiencies and other findings identified during the audit and to improve
programs and operations when the potential for improvement in programs,
operations, and performance is substantiated by the reported findings and
conclusions. Auditors should make recommendations that flow logically from the
findings and conclusions, are directed at resolving the cause of identified
deficiencies and findings, and clearly state the actions recommended.

?7.29 Effective recommendations encourage improvements in the conduct of
government programs and Operations. Recommendations are effective when
they are addressed to parties that have the authority to act and when the
recommended actions are specific, practical, cost effective, and measurable.

66

APPENDIX 
Glossary

*Definition sourced from 

 

NAME

DESCRIPTION

 

BSEED

City of Detroit Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental
Department

The BSEED has traditionally housed the City?s demolition
efforts and continues to oversee the demolition of houses
through the Fire Insurance Escrow Fund and dangerous
buildings. Its mission is to provide for the safety, health, and
welfare of the general public as it pertains to buildings, and
their environs in an efficient, cost effective, user friendly and
professional manner. BSEED enforces construction, property
maintenance, environmental administration, and zoning codes,
which preserve and enhance property values and promote a
quality of life to make Detroit a preferred place to reside and
conduct business. BSEED is also the City?s Environmental
Affairs Department.

 

CDBG

 

 

Community Development Block Grant

The CDBG program is a Federal grant program operated by
the US. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
This program provides entitlement grants to local
governments for community deveIOpment activities. The
grant amount is determined by formula and varies from year
to year according to the amount appropriated nationally by
the US. Congress. The overall goal of Detroit?s CDBG
program is to develop a viable urban community by providing
funding for decent housing, economic opportunities, needed
services, and a suitable living environment, primarily for
persons of low and moderate income. CDBG funds may be
used for a wide variety of activities including home
rehabilitation, construction and rehabilitation of community
facilities, demolition of blighted buildings, acquisition,
relocation, and preparation of property for new development,
economic development, public services, planning, and
administration of the program.

 

67

 

APPENDIX 
Glossary

 

NAME

DESCRIPTION

 

DBA

Detroit Building Authority

DBA is a quasi?governmental body that is governed by a
Board in which the City appoints the voting majority of DBA's
Board Members and is able to impose its will. Although legally
separate, DBA is included in the operations and activities of
the City because it was entirely incorporated for the purpose of
acquiring, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging,
operating, or maintaining buildings, automobile parking lots or
structures, and recreational facilities for the use of any
legitimate public purpose of the City. Financing is provided by
the issuance of bonds secured by lease agreements with the
City and from grants received by the City.

 

DLBA

Detroit Land Bank Authority (also referred to as ?Land Bank? in
the audit report)

The Land Bank was created by the City and the Michigan
Land Bank in order to assemble or dispose of public property,
including tax reverted property, in a coordinated manner to
foster the development of that pr0perty and to promote
economic growth in the City. The City and the DLBA have
entered into an enforceable contract for the Land Bank to
carry out programs designed to stabilize neighborhoods
through nuisance proceedings, blight abatement, acquisitions
and dispositions, and demolitions. Through the Memorandum
of Understanding between the City and the Land Bank the
City is to provide Quality of Life and bankruptcy exit financing
toward this goal.

 

 

DMA

 

Demolition Management Agreement

An agreement executed between the City (through its
Housing and Revitalization Department) and its Building
Safety, Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED)
and the Detroit Building Authority on August 11, 2015. The
DMA engages DBA to act as Program Manager and
?coordinate and implement? the Demolition Program on behalf
of the City.

 

 

68

APPENDIX 
Glossary

 

NAME

DESCRIPTION

 

FIE

Fire Insurance Escrow

The City has participated in the State of Michigan?s Fire
Insurance Withholding program since July 1982. The State?s
program provides participating municipalities with some
financial protection against the cost of repairing, replacing, or
demolishing a damaged structure following a loss from fire,
explosion, vandalism, malicious mischief, wind, hail, riot, or
civil commotion. A municipality may receive a portion of a
policyholder?s final insurance settlement, which is to be held
in a specified escrow account until the structure is repaired,
replaced, or demolished. If the structure is not repaired,
replaced, or demolished, the municipality must use the funds
to repair, replace, or demolish the structure.

 

GFAO

Government Finance Officers Association

Founded in 1906, represents public finance officials
throughout the United States and Canada. The association's
more than 19,400 members are federal, state/provincial, and
local finance officials deeply involved in planning, financing,
and implementing thousands of governmental operations in
each of theirjurisdictions. GFOA's mission is to advance
excellence in state and local government financial
management. GFOA has accepted the leadership challenge
of public finance. To meet the many needs of its members,
the organization provides best practice guidance, consulting,
networking opportunities, publications including books, e?
books, and periodicals, recognition programs, research, and
training opportunities for those in the profession.

 

.GSD

City of Detroit General Services Department

The mission of GSD is to support City Operations through
space planning, urban forestry, and managing municipal
facilities, grounds, fleet, and inventory.

 

 

HHF

 

Hardest Hit Fund

First announced in February 2010, the Hardest Hit Fund
provides $7.6 billion to the 18 hardest hit states, plus the

 

69

 

APPENDIX 
Glossary

 

District of Columbia, to develop locally-tailored programs to
assist struggling homeowners in their communities. On
February 19, 2016, an additional $2 billion was allocated to
HHF as a part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016.
The total HHF allocation is now $9.6 billion. HHF programs
are designed and administered by each state?s Housing
Finance Agency (HFA). Most of these programs are aimed at
helping unemployed homeowners remain in their homes
while they search for new employment and those who owe
more on their mortgage than their home is worth. State HFAs
have until the end of 2020 to utilize funds allocated under
HHF.

 

HRD

City of Detroit Housing and Revitalization Department
The mission of HRD is to invest City resources into
multifamily housing, neighborhood commercial districts, and
public improvements to create places that retain current and
attract new Detroiters. It exists to fully realize its potential as
the City?s community development investment arm.

 

HUD

US Department of Housing and Urban Development
The United States Department of Housing and Urban
DeveIOpment (HUD) is a Cabinet department in the Executive
branch of the United States federal government. Although its
beginnings were in the House and Home Financing Agency, it
was founded as a Cabinet department in 1965, as part of the
"Great Society" program of President Lyndon Johnson, to
develop and execute policies on housing and metropolises.

 

IGA

Intergovernmental Governmental Agreement
A contractual agreement between one or more governmental
agencies, including, but not limited to, an interlocal
agreement to jointly exercise any power, privilege, or
authority that the agencies share in common and that each
might exercise separately under the Urban Cooperation Act
of 1967.

 

 

LARA

 

Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs
Oversees the licensing and regulation of more than 1.2
million individuals and entities in Michigan on an annual
basis. LARA supports business growth and job creation while
safeguarding Michigan?s citizens through a simple, fair,
efficient, and transparent regulatory structure.

 

70

 

APPENDIX 
Glossary

 

NAME

DESCRIPTION

 

LPD

City of Detroit Legislative Policy Division
A consolidation of three (3) former, separate divisions:

- Research Analysis: Responsible for researching,
monitoring, evaluating, and advising on matters,
particularly legal. Additional duties include service as
chief legal advisor and general counsel to the
Honorable Detroit City Council (Council), staffing of
designated task forces and committees, and
representing Council at various meetings with the
administration and community entities;

- Fiscal Analysis: Responsible for compiling, studying
and reviewing all financial information necessary to
advise the Council on budgetary and financial
matters and help promote and protect the economic
welfare of Detroit?s citizens;

- City Planning Commission: Responsible for advising
on matters pertaining to the social, physical, and
economic development of the City and act as the
Zoning Commission. The Commission serves both
the legislative branch and the citizens of Detroit by
acting as a representative of the community, serving
as a conduit for opinions from the community and
proactively initiating matters for consideration by the
Council.

 

MDEQ

 

 

Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
promotes wise management of Michigan's air, land, and
water resources to support a sustainable environment,
healthy communities, and vibrant economy. It?s ?Guiding
Principles? include being:

- Leaders in environmental stewardship;
- Partners in economic development;
- Providers of excellent customer service.

Their vision is to reduce public health and environmental
risks, assist Michigan communities with addressing
infrastructure needs, and build external partnerships to
address Michigan's environmental issues through the
authorities granted to us by the Michigan Legislature and
Constitution.

 

 

 

71

APPENDIX 
Glossary

 

MHA Michigan Housing Authority

The Michigan Homeowner Assistance Nonprofit Housing
Corporation acting through the Michigan State Housing
Development Authority, received federal funds in 2010 from
the US. Department of the Treasury to help Michigan take a
step fonrvard through a comprehensive, statewide strategy
that is aimed at helping homeowners prevent foreclosure and
stabilize communities. Through the
StepFowvardMichiganorg website, homeowners who have
experienced a hardship impacting their ability to pay their
mortgage, property taxes, or condominium fees can find out
more information about the program and print an application
for a Hardest Hit Fund loan.

 

MLB State of Michigan Land Bank Fast Track Authority

The purpose of the Michigan Land Bank Fast Track Authority
is to promote economic growth in this state through the
acquisition, assembly, and disposal of public property,
including tax reverted property, in a coordinated manner to
foster the development of that property, and to promote and
support land bank operations at the county and local levels.

 

MOU Memorandum of Understanding

A document that describes the general principles of an
agreement between parties, but does not amount to a
substantive contract.

 

MSHDA Michigan State Housing Development Authority

The Authority created under the State Housing Devel0pment
Authority act of 1966. Provides financial and technical assistance
through public and private partnerships to create

and preserve safe and decent affordable housing

 

 

NAP Nuisance Abatement Program

The Detroit Land Bank Authority launched its improved Nuisance
Abatement Program in the Spring of 2014. Its ultimate goal is
combating blight in order to rebuild dilapidated neighborhoods for
the general health, safety, and welfare of the community. NAP
focuses on properties that are boarded, open to trespass,
neglected, and/or dangerous throughout the city of Detroit.

 

 

72

 

APPENDIX 

Glossary

 

NAME

DESCRIPTION

 

NSP

Neighborhood Stabilization Program

Authorized under Section 2301 of Title of the Housing and

Economic Recovery Act of 2008, as amended, Congress
appropriated $4 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization
Program to provide grants to every State and certain local
communities to purchase foreclosed?upon or abandoned

homes and rehabilitate, resell, or redevelop these homes to

stabilize neighborhoods and stem the decline in value of
neighboring homes. The Act states that amounts
appropriated, revenues generated, or amounts othenivise
made available to States and units of general local
government under Section 2301 will be treated as though

such funds were Community Development Block Grant funds

under Title I of the Housing and Community Development
of 1974.

Act

 

OAG

City of Detroit Office of the Auditor General

The OAG performs audits of each City agency and prepares
written reports which convey the resultant audit findings and

recommendations to the City Council, the Mayor and the
management of each agency. OAG is under the direction
and control of the Auditor General, who is appointed by a
majority of city council members serving. The Auditor

General shall be a certified public accountant. The term of
Auditor General is ten (10) years beginning with the taking of

office.

 

PDD

City of Detroit Planning and Development Department
The mission of PDD is to provide a vision for the physical,
social, and economic development of the City.

 

QOL

Quality of Life Funds
Post-Petition Financing secured to fund the City?s Revenu
and Restructuring Initiatives outlined in the approved Plan
Adjustment.

 

 

RRI

 

Revenue and Restructuring Initiatives
A set of financial and operational initiatives the City must
adhere to as set forth in the City?s approved Plan of
Adjustment.


of

 

73

 

APPENDIX 
Glossary

 

NAME DESCRIPTION

 

SIGTARP Office of the Special Inspector General Troubled Asset Relief

Program
The Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP), to protect taxpayers who
funded the bailout known as the $475 billion Troubled Asset
Relief Program (TARP). A watchdog for American taxpayers,
SIGTARP is a law enforcement agency with the authority to
search, seize, and arrest. SIGTARP has a responsibility to
conduct oversight over everything and everyone related to
TARP. SIGTARP conducts audits and makes
recommendations to improve the effectiveness and efficiency
of TARP programs, and to prevent fraud, abuse, and waste.

 

 

TARP Troubled Asset Relief Program

The Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) is a program of
the United States government to purchase assets and equity
from financial institutions to strengthen its financial sector that
was signed into law by US. President George W. Bush on
October 3, 2008. It was a component of the government's
measures in 2008 to address the subprime mortgage crisis.

 

 

74

 

ATTACHMENT A

Consolidated Agencies/Departments Response

75

(li'l Ell DETRBJI

  

Dam MINORITY 1301 Third Street 0 Suite 328 - Detroit, MI 48226 313-224-0174 phone 0 313-224-4998 fax

 

 

 

November 8, 2019

Mark Lockridge, CPA

Auditor General

Of?ce of the Auditor General
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 216
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Audit of Demolition Activities?Second Draft Contract Administration for City-Funded
Residential Demolitions Interim Report

Dear Mr. Lockridge,

I write in response to your ?Audit of Demolition Activities: Interim Report on Contract
Administration for City-Funded Residential Demolitions? (hereinafter, the ?Report?).

At the outset, I wish to highlight a systemic error that undermines the usefulness and reliability of
your Report. The Report purports to base its findings on (1)31 stale sample of 34 residential preperties that
were demolished in 2014 and 2015; and (2) a ?new? sample of 62 residential preperties that were
demolished in 2016, 2017, and 2018. As the Report itself notes, however, this ?new? sample does not
capture the work that has been done on City-funded residential demolitions over the past four years. See
Report at 34. That is because the new sample contained multiple demolitions which were not City-funded,
were not residential, or for which you lacked full information. Id.

As a result, the Report ultimately audited just 13 properties from 2016, 2017, and 2018, twelve of
which were emergency demolitions Id at 19. Your Report, in other words, is based on an audit of only
one City-funded standard residential demolition?out of 1,386?that was conducted during the those
three years. Obviously, that is not a representative sample. It is surely not enough tojustify a Report
which offers such sweeping conclusions.

Your decision to rely on a non-representative sample is notjust a procedural error. It entirely
undermines your audit?s substance. The City and DBA now assiduously track contract compliance on a
whole host of the 90 contract ?criteria? you suggest must be tracked. Appendix to this letter provides a
sample of ten demolitions from your ?new? audit list of 62, and demonstrates that the City and DBA are
in compliance with close to 100% of the commercially reasonable criteria that you identi?ed.? Had you
included a more recent sample, you would undoubtedly have reached different conclusions about today?s
demolition processes.

Your Report blames the City and DBA for the fact that your ?new? sample of 62 properties
consisted largely of properties which were nonresidential and/or non-City funded?that is, properties that
were outside the scepe of your audit. Specifically, you suggest that ?unreliable data (from Salesforce)?
erroneously listed as ?City-funded? properties that were not, in fact, City?funded. Id. at 37. That is simply
incorrect. During the course of your audit, you asked ajunior DBA analyst to arrange the Salesforce

 

1 The demolition team Selected, from your sample of 62, ten of the most recent City-funded residential demolitions that had
been completed through ?nal grade.
1

   

.- Ir
cm or nrrnun

  

?Hi?

  

 

    

DETROIT 1301 Third Street Suite 328 9 Detroit, MI 48226 0 313-224-0174 phone I 313-224-4998 fax

 

 

 

extract in a speci?c way. You asked that analyst to create a new ?eld that de?ned which of the over
16,000 demolitions done to date were City-funded, and which were not.

In reSponse to your request, the junior analyst created a quick algorithm that designated everything
that was not HHF funded as ?City Funded.? That assumption was not accurate?and, for what it is worth,
did not even exclude all HHF?funded preperties. The algorithm thus wrongly suggested that many non-
City funded properties were City funded. But importantly, Salesforce expressly, and correctly, listed the
funding source on all of those properties.

By way of example, the following table shows how certain addresses were misconstrued by the
junior analyst as City-funded, even though Salesforce expressly stated otherwise:

 

 

 

 

Address Funding Source designation (analyst?s interpretation)
(in Salesforce) (in Salesforce)

8058 Thaddeus Private City

14566 Burt Rd Private City

14356 Rockdale Private City

 

15406 Archdale Rehabbed and Ready City

 

3313 Superior Other City

 

 

 

 

 

12050 Kentucky HHF City

 

It is unfair for you to blame the City and DBA for failing to track funding sources, when the City
and DBA do track funding sources?and the only confusion as to the funding sources came in response to
an analysis that you requested.

Compounding that error, you refused to consider information in your ?new? sample demonstrating
strict compliance with the criteria you identi?ed. Your Report notes that you declined to audit 2]
preperties because you received ?partial information? on those properties after a self-imposed ?deadline.?
Id. at 37. Had you audited those properties, you would have seen that the City and DBA are documenting
compliance with many of the 90 criteria you suggest must be tracked. Again, a table showing ten recent
properties that were demolished?drawn from the pool of 21 properties that you refused to consider?is
included as Appendix B.

All of this severely undermines the usefulness of your Report. In February 2018, you released a
draft report that?though it purported to cover approximately 4,000 demolitions through June 30, 2018?
was based on just thirty-four cherry?picked demolitions, all of which took place between January, 2014
and September, 2015. In response, I noted that your report misled readers ?into believing [it was] based
on recent demolition activities.? Response to Audit of Demolition Activities, February 20, 2019, at 2
(attached as Appendix A). I further noted that, because ?demolition procedures were totally overhauled in
late 2015,? your report ?has almost no relevance today.? Id. To your credit, you informed me that you

?le 

  

BEINJH BUILDING 1301 Third Street 0 Suite 328 0 Detroit, MI 48226 0 313-224-0174 phone I 313-224-4998 fax

 

 

 

 

 

 

would be updating your property sample, and that you would release a new report that was actually based
on current practices.

Lamentably, however, your most recent draft report repeats the same errors. For whatever reason,
the Report continues to focus primarily on properties that were demolished in 2014 and 2015?a bygone
era of demolition that bears almost no resemblance to the program that is operating today. A staggering 34
out of the 47 properties that are the subject of the current Report are from your old, stale sample. Twelve
of the remaining 13 properties were emergency demolitions, and are thus not representative of the
ordinary processes used to conduct residential demolitions.

That de?es both standard auditing practices, and common sense. Pursuant to government auditing
standards Standards?), auditors must sample using ?apprOpriate selection method,? depending on
the ?audit objectives.? United States Government Accountability Of?ce, Government Auditing Standards
8.107 (2011) Standards?) (available at Your audit
purports to ?encompass[ demolition and demolition related activities from the period of January 1, 2014
to December 31, 2018.? Report at 1. Given your de?ned scope, it is inconceivable?and inexcusable?to
base your ?ndings on a sample in which (1) over 72% of the demolitions were from 2014 and 2015; (2)
an additional 26% were emergency demolitions, and (3)_iust one property sampled was a standard
demolition completed under the currently operative procedures.

As I wrote in my previous response, your decision to rely on ?an unrepresentative, outdated
sample of demolition ?les severely undermines the Report?s accuracy and credibility.? Response,
Appendix A, at 7. I have attached, as Appendix A, my previous response to your February draft report.
Although you have now had nearly a year to reframe your audit, your latest Report continues to be
undermined by the exact same errors as your previous draft.

In short, your latest Report, like the previous draft, is deeply flawed and misleading. The errors
that I pointed out in my previous response largely remain, and I stand by the objections in my previous
response.

In addition to your Report?s inaccurate and misleading sampling techniques, three other points
bear emphasis.

First, at various points in the Report, you fault the City and DBA for failing to ensure that
?contractors complied with documentation requirements related to invoice and payment packets.? Id. at
29. That is wrong. YOU apparently based your conclusion on the fact that ?nancial documents are not
stored in the Salesforce system. But Salestrce has not historically been used to track ?nancial
documents. Financial documents (such as contracts, invoices and payments) are tracked in and
Oracle, not Salesforce. Had you chosen to work with City and DBA personnel?and to look in the right
place?you would have concluded that ?nancial information is assiduously tracked. Included in Appendix
is an outline of the ?nancial process for contract and invoices processing and storage.

Second, like your previous draft, the latest Report is premised on a series of conceptual errors.
Most notably, your Report faults City and DBA for failing to comply with policies and procedures that
were enacted after the sampled demolitions were completed. For example: you note that the 34 sampled
demolitions from 2014 and 2015?that is, the vast majority of your sample??failed to demonstrate
compliance with Demolition Procedures? that were issued in January 2016. Report at It is
both illogical and unfair to suggest that demolition personnel should have required compliance with
standards that had not yet even been adopted.

 

Cl? OF DETEUII

  

1301 Third Street - Suite 328 0 Detroit, MI 48226 - 313-224-0174 phone - 313-224-4998 fax

 

 

 

 

 

 

Third, and perhaps most fundamentally, your Report is based on profound misunderstandings of
commercial realities. As I noted in my February response to yonr previous draft:

You seem to envision a process in which City personnel are constantly surveilling demolition

contractors, to ensure that they are complying with every single provision in their contract. In the

real world, nobody does that. And if the City did decide to babysit each and every one of its
contractors, it would require a massive expenditure of taxpayer funds that would dramatically slow
the pace of demolitions in 

The Report, for example, faults DBA for not obtaining documentary evidence of compliance with

?the MI Manual for Uniform Control Devices for all vehicular and pedestrian detours.? Report at

50. It envisions contractors submitting ?evidence that safety barriers . . . were installed during

demolition.? Id. And it suggests that DBA should have obtained ?evidence that Contractor posted

signs during all phases of demolition to prevent trespassing.? Id. (emphasis added).

Such demands are unreasonable. Complex commercial contracts place multiple requirements on

vendors. The fact that those requirements exist does not mean that the contracting party must

provide documentary evidence that every one of them is being ful?lled. A simple example proves
the point. Imagine a standard contract which requires a vendor?s employees from refraining from
drug or alcohol use ?during work hours.? It cannot be the case?and it is not the case?that the
vendor must thus document that, at every single moment during the work-day, her employees are
not using drugs or alcohol.

Though that example might seem hyperbolic, the documentation you suggest was required is only

less absurd. Take, for example, your suggestion that evidence must be provided that signs

were ?posted . . . during all phases of demolition.? Id. Read literally, that would require a

contractor to maintain constant surveillance of the demolition site at all times. Your report does

not specify the means by which such evidence should be provided, and I can only guess at what

you are envisioning. But any type of evidence which would satisfy the ?all phases of demolition?

criterion would be prohibitively expensive. If we were to try to prove that signage was posted

during ?all? demolition phases, we would need either to install video surveillance cameras at every

demolition site, or to hire a human being to watch the site at all times. Either option would cost

signi?cant sums of money. And ultimately, those costs would be borne by the taxPayers.
Response, Appendix A, at 2, 6.

Despite my previous response, you have failed to adjust your latest Report to account for
commercial realities. Your assertion that the City and DBA must engage in pro?igate, unreasonable
oversight of demolition contractors is as flawed today as it was last February. The City, under your
reasoning, would be faced with two unappealing choices. On the one hand, the City and/or DBA could
engage in constant surveillance of demolition contractors?at great cost to taxpayers?to ensure
compliance with even the most banal of contracting requirements compliance with ?the MI Manual
for Uniform Control Devices?). Alternatively, the City could strip its contracts of requirements that serve
the best interest of Detroit residents, simply because it cannot require documentation of compliance at all
times.

Neither of those Options are palatable. And neither serves the best interests of Detroiters. In the
?nal analysis, then, many of the conclusions in Report?in addition to being misleading, unfair, and
unrepresentative?threaten to impose great harm on the residents of Detroit.

(I'll (If 



mt? 1301 Third Street I Suite 323 0 Detroit, MI 48226 I 313?224-0174 phone i 313-224-4993 fax

  

 

All of that being said, Iwant to assure you that the demolition team does intend to implement
several of the recommendations in your Report. The demolition team intends to bring the demolition
program in-house, to be run by the City of Detroit. We are committed to continuing to improve our data-
sharing processes. We are, moreover, constantly seeking to develop and improve our plans, processes,
policies, and standards. Just recently, for example, we have implemented checklists for invoice approval;
checklists for ?eld liaisons; and third-party monitoring for dirt sourcing. We are also currently testing
how we might improve compliance with demolition schedules using speci?cally articulated milestones
and ?nancial penalties for those who fail to reach them.



In the ?nal analysis, we are committed to continually improving the demolition program, and to
ensuring that dangerous, blighted structures are removed from our City?s landscape in a safe, timely, and
cost-effective manner. We had hoped (and continue to hope) that the Auditor General?s Of?ce would be a
partner in this work, and that you would help us improve our processes to the bene?t of all Detroiters.
Unfortunately, the choices you have made in conducting this audit?and the series of draft reports you
have released over the past year?have failed to help us move forward. Instead, you have presented us
with an unrepresentative, commercially unreasonable critique of a demolition program that has long since

evolved.
A ?nding-by-?nding response to your latest draft Report is attached as Appendix C.

Sincerely, 

  

Tyrone Clifton
Director, Detroit Building uthority

CC: David Bell, Director, BSEED

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer

Donald Rencher, Director, Housing and Revitalization Department
David Massaron, Chief Financial Of?cer, OCFO

Bethany Melitz, Chief of Administration

Appendix A: Previous Response to Audit Draft

  

1301 Third Street I Suite 328 Ir Detroit, MI 48226 0 313-224-0174 phone 0 313-224-4998 fax

 

 

 

February 20, 2019

Mark W. ankridge, CPA

Auditor General

Of?ce of the Auditor General
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 216
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Audit of Demolition Activities
Interim Report on Contract Compliance for City-funded Demolitions

Dear Mr. Lockridge,

I write in response to your ?Audit of Citywide Demolition Activity on Contract
Compliance for City?Funded Residential Demolitions? (hereinafter. the ?Report"). Below, and
in this lettcr?s appendices, you will ?nd the ?nding-by-?nding reSponses you requested.1

At the outset, though, I wish to highlight three overarching concerns with the Report.
These concerns, in my view, are so fundamental that they undermine the Report?s usefulness. I
urge you to revise your Report to re?ect these concerns, and to bring it in line with accepted
professional standards.

First, your Report is both mislabeled and misleading. The Report purports to reflect a
comprehensive audit of approximately 4,000 demolitions through June 30, 2018. But the Report
is actually based on just thirty-?mr cherry-picked dcmolitions, all of which took place between
January, 2014 and September, 2015. The Report makes no mention of that fact. To the contrary,
the Report says that it covers ?demolition related activities . . . through June 30, 2018." Report
at 4 (emphasis added).

Intentionally or otherwise, that statement misleads readers?including City Council, the
public, and the press~?into believing your Report is based on recent demolition activities. It is
not. And that confusion severely undermines the Report?s credibility.

 

As a preliminary matter. please note that this response does not use the ?nding-by-?ndiog response template that
your of lice provided. That is because, in my View, the Report suffers from several overarching Issues. Rather than
repeat those issues on a ?nding-by-?nding basis. I have chosen to address them universally in this letter. The
speci?c, finding-by-?ndin responses you requested are attached as Appendix A.

In addition, please note that this letter and its appendices are meant to serve as the coordinated response for all the
City agencies you audited, including HRD, BSEED, and OCP.

Iota

Appendix A

Second, and relatedly, the Report?s narrow focus on 2014 and 2015 demolitions means
that it has almost no reievance today. Your auditors were repeatedly informed that the City?s
demolition procedures were totally overhauled in late 2015. Yet for whatever reason, you chose
not to examine any demolitions that were conducted under current processes. Had you done so,
you would have learned that virtually every one of the procedures for which you fault the
demolition program have been changed.

In light of those late-2015 process improvements, the current demolition program bears
almost no resemblance to the one described in your Report. As a result, your Report is not a
?performance audit? at all. A ?performance audit,? under established professional standards, is
supposed to help management improve current performance. The Report, however, does nothing
of the sort. Instead, it is a historical retrOSpective that critiques demolition procedures that were
changed several years ago.

Third, even putting aside these issues, your Report is premised on a series of conceptual
errors. For example, your Report faults the 2015 demolition program for failing to follow
standards that were enacted in 2016. Unless you think demolition personnel have (or ought to
have) future?vision, that critique is both illogical and unfair.

What is more, your Report misapprehends the realities of commercial contracting and
compliance. You seem to envision a process in which City personnel are constantly surveilling
demolition contractors, to ensure that they are complying with every single provision in their
contract. In the real world, nobody does that. And if the City did decide to babysit each and
every one of its contractors, it would require a massive expenditure of taxpayer funds that would
dramatically slow the pace of demolitions in neighborhoods.



The remainder of this response letter proceeds in three parts. Part I explains why your
decision to base your Report on antiquated ?les was inconsistent with established professional
norms, and undermines the Report?s usefulness and credibility. Building on that theme, Part II
explains that many of the ?issues? you identify in your Report have long since been corrected.
Had you chosen to focus on current demolition practices, your Report would undoubtedly have
re?ected those corrections.

Finally, Part explains why many of the remaining ?issues? your Report identities are
not issues at all. Your report seems to suggest that the DBA, and variOUS City agencies, should
require documented proof of compiiance with every aspect of every contract- That demand is
commercially unreasonable and runs contrary to established best practices. Moreover, were we
to accede to that demand, it would dramatically increase the cost of demolitions in the City??
banning taxpayers and the residents who must now shoulder the burden of living near blighted



I. The Report?in Violation of Professional Standards?Fails to Identify a Scope, and
Relies on Outdated, Unrepresentative Demolition Files

20f8

Appendix A

To begin, your Report purports to cover qualifying2 demolitions from January, 2014
through June, 2018. Report at 4. During that period. the City conducted nearly 4,000 qualifying
demolitions. Yet your entire Report is based on a sample of ?les relating to just 34 demolitions.
And all 34 of the demolitions you used as the basis for your Report were conducted before
September 2015.

Last summer, when you were circulating intental documents about your audit, the time
period from which you sampled ?les was clear. A previous draft document, which I
reviewed, indicated that the 34 demolitions you ?sampled? for your audit were all "demolitions
performed by the City from January 2014 through September 2015." See Appendix B, O?ice of
the Auditor General: Audit of Citywide Demolition Activity: January 1, 2014 - true 30, 2018, at
1. And on June 27, 2018, I, demolition director Tim Paiazzolo, and other City personnel
engaged in discussions with your office about those 34 demolitions. As preparation for that
meeting, you prepared a list of the 34 ?sampled? demolitions??the latest of which was
demolished in September, 2015. See Appendix 02, Audited Properties.

Yet now that your Report has been prepared for public consumption, it omits any
mention of the time period from which you ?samPled? demolitions. I am puzzled by your
of?ce's decision to hold back that crucial information from City Council, the Mayor, and the
public. Withholding that information is not just an error; it is activeiy misleading. By omitting
the actual time period from which you ?sampled? ?led, your Report creates the impression that it
is trained on current demolition procedures.

More fundamentally, I am puzzled by your substantive decision to limit your audit to
2014 and 2015 demolitions in the ?rst place. The only rationale you have ever given for that
decision came in your previous correspondence?which noted that the ?original audit scope
period" was between January 2014 and September 2015. See Appendix at 1. But your Report
indicates that your audit is meant to cover demolitions through June, 2018. Report at 4. And, in
the course of conducting a wide-ranging audit of the City?s demolition program, you have never
before?or since?indicated that you understand your mandate to be limited to the ?original
audit scope period.?

Further complicating matters, your Report itself evinces confusion about the audit?s
scape, and the standards that apply. At points. for example, you fault the City and DBA for
failing to comply with policies and procedures that were enacted a?er the sampled demolirr'ans
were completed. For examme: you note that the 34 sampled demolitions failed to comply with
Demolition Procedures? that were issued in January 2016. Report at 21. Logically, those
procedures couid not possibly have applied to demolitions that took place between January 2014
and September 2015.3

 

1 A qualifying de?nition, per your report, is one "funded by the United States Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) Community DeveIOpment Block Grants (CUBS), Fire Insurance Escrow funds, HUD Neighborhood
Stabilization Program (NSF) Grants, and the City?s Quality of Life (C101) Blight Remediation Funds." Report,
Appendix A. Contract Compliance for City-funded Demalitians Performance Summary, at 1.

3 As another example, you reference Executive Order 2015-4, which was made effective on September 2, 2015?
after the bulk of your "sampled" demolitions took place. Report at 36. (tour Report erroneously notes that the
Executive Order was "[elffective August 2016").

Bof8

Appendix A

Either the scope of your audit is limited to demolitions completed in 20l4 and 20l5, or it
is not. if it is limited to 2014-15, your decision to portray the audit as one which encompassed
current demolition activities is inappropriate. If it is not so limited, it was highly inappropriate
for you to sample only ?les related to demolitions that were completed long ago, and to draw
conclusions based primarily on those ?les.

That is not just my view. Pursuant to government auditing standards Standards?),
auditors must plainly de?ne the scope of any planned audit, including ?the period of time
reviewed.? United States Government Accountability Of?ce, Government Auditing Standards
6.09 (20] l) Standards?) (available at 
(emphasis added). In addition, auditors must ?communicate an overview of . . . the timing of
the performance audit and planned reporting" to ?management of the audited entity." Id. 6.47.
To this day, you have failed to provide me an ?overview? of the scope and timing of your
audit?and your Report only exacerbates that confusion.

The GAO Standards apply not just to federal entities, but also provide guidance for audits
of local units of government in Michigan. See State of Michigan. Audit Manualfar Local Units
of Government in Michigan at 2 (2012) (available at
Manual for LUG in Michigau' 35352: 
MD (noting that when a local unit of government is subject to a single audit, ?the ?nancial
records must be audited in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America and the standards applicable to ?nancial audits contained in Government
Auditing Standards"). Lamentably, your of?ce has once again failed to follow these well-
established practices.? And the continued lack of clarity regarding the scope of your audit has
needlessly increased the uncertainty under which the City's demolition program operates.

 

Many ?Concerns? Addressed in the Report Have Since Been Rectified

in addition, your reliance on stale demolition ?les paints an outdated, unrepresentative
picture of the City's demolition program. Many of the issues you flagged from 20l4 and 2015
have long since been recti?ed. And, by focusing exclusively on long?discarded demolition
procedures that cannot possibly be changed, your Report again ?outs the professional standards
applicable to performance audits.

Beginning in late other words, a?er the last demolitions you sampled?the
DLBA migrated all data management and tracking for the demolition pregrarn to Salesforce. a
web-based platform which can be accessed on any enabled device. The DBA worked diligently
with the DLBA to build out Salesforee to accommodate City-funded demolitions. and the DEA
continues to work with the DLBA and the City to facilitate more robust and integrated data
management and tracking of demolitions.

 

In 2017, when your of?ce released its "Special Report Highlighting Concerns Relative to the City?s Demolltlon
Program," it did so without providing elther the DBA or the Detroit Land Bank Authority the opportunity to
comment. That decision flouted multiple GAO standards. See United States Government Accountability Office,
GovernmentAuditlng Standards 6.47, 7.32; 7.33.

4of8

Appendix A

Today, all City- and DLBA-funded demolitions are tracked on Salesforce, and the DBA
has modi?ed the demolition Scope of Services to require Salesforce reporting by demolition
vendors. Demolition vendors must report key performance metrics on Salesforce, such as the
knock down date, open hole request date, and ?nal grade request date. These metrics allow the
DBA to track the performance of every vendor who performs any demolition on behalf of the
City and the DLBA.

The use of Salesforce extends beyond demolition vendors to environmental consultants.
All pro?demolition environmental due is now tracked on Salesforce. including the
quality assurance/control measures which the DBA has set in place. Environmental consultants
are held to similarly rigorous standards for documentation and reporting, and the data in
Salesforce allow the DBA to track the performance of every vendor who performs any
environmental due diligence on behalf of the City and the DLBA.

If a vendor fails to meet the key performance measures, the DBA may issue a Letter of
Discipiine. Furthermore, if a vendor fails to report or inaccurately reports data on Salesforce, the
DBA may issue a Letter of Discipline. Vendors who receive multiple Letters of Discipline may
be determined ineligible for the award of future demolition work. To date, the DEA has issued
89 Letters of Discipline which has resulted in the suspension of three vendors for a total of 240
days.

I have attached, as Appendix D, a list of all the performance metrics that are currently
tracked on Salesforce. Many of the performance metrics that are tracked on Salesforce
correspond with the and HRD Requirements? your Report contends are not being tracked.
I have cross-referenced the Salesforce metrics with the and HRD Requirements" you list in
your Report.

in sum: for nearly four years, the DBA has been operating under an entirely different
system for contractor performance than it had in place during the time period from which you
pulled files. The currently operative system tracks and manages contractors?and holds
them to account if they fail to abide by key performance measures in the contract. Whatever
relevance the Report has regarding demolitions conducted in 2014 and 2015, it has no relevance
today.

As a result, despite being characterized as a ?performance audit," see Report at 4. the
Report fails to meet the most basic standards applicable to performance audits. Per applicable
GAO standards, a performance audit must ?provide objective analysis to assist management . . .
to improve program performance and operations." GAO Standards 2.10 (emphasis added).
By focusing almost entirely on processes that were long ago abandoned, your Report eliminates
any realistic possibility that it will help ?improve program performance and operations.? The
taxpayers who funded your audit deserved better.

Report Imposes Unrealistic, Commercially Unreasonable Demands

In addition to relying on stale data from a long-abandoned system, the Report envisions a
contract compliance process that is commercially unreasonable. logistically untenable, and
would be prohibitively expensive. With a goal of demolishing over [00 structures every week, it

Sofa

Appendix A

is simply not realistic to expect any vendor or project manager to document or maintain
documentation of compliance with every aspect of an extremely intricate and complicated
process.

The Report, for example, faults DBA for not obtaining documentary evidence of
compliance with ?the MI Manual for Uniform Control Devices for all vehicular and pedestrian
detours." Report at 50. It envisions contractors submitting ?evidence that safety barriers . . .
were installed during demolition." Id. And it suggests that DBA should have obtained
?evidence that Contractor posted signs during all phases of demolition to prevent trespassing."
1d. (emphasis added).

Such demands are unreasonable. Complex commercial contracts place multiple
requirements on vendors. The fact that those requirements exist does not mean that the
contracting party must provide documentary evidence that every one of them is being ful?lled.
A simple example proves the point. Imagine a standard contract which requires a vendor's
employees from refraining from drug or alcohol use ?during work hours.? It cannot be the
case?and it is not the casemthat the vendor must thus document that, at every single moment
during the work-day, her employees are not using drugs or alcohol.

Though that example might seem hyperbolic, the documentation you suggest was
required is only less absurd. Take, for example, your suggestion that evidence must be
provided that signs were ?posted . . . during all phases of demolition." Id. Read literally, that
would require a contractor to maintain constant surveillance of the demolition site at all times.
Your report does not Specify the means by which such evidence should be provided, and I can
only guess at what you are envisioning. But any type of evidence which would satisfy the ?all
phases of demolition" criterion would be prohibitively expensive. If we were to try to prove that
signage was posted during ?all? demolition phases, we would need either to install video
surveillance cameras at every demolition site, or to hire a human being to watch the site at all
times. Either option would cost signi?cant sums of money. And ultimately, those costs would
be home by the taxpayers.

These costs of are great concern to me?and to the residents of Detroit. When the
monetary costs of demolition rise, it means that the City can remove fewer blighted, dangerous
structures that pose a threat to the physical safety and well-being of Detroit families. That would
impose real hardships, on real human beings. I cannot, in good conscience, envision telling a
family with a young child that the City is unable to remove the hulking, burned?out structure
next door to their home because of costs associated with documenting compliance with ?the MI
Manual for Uniform Control Devices for all vehicular and pedestrian detours." See Report at 50.

None of this is to suggest that DEA or the City are failing to hold contractors to account.
We are monitoring contract compliancewwe just do so in a cost~effective, commercially
reasonable manner. As noted in the previous section, see in?'a Section II, the DBA has worked
with multiple City and state departments and agencies to identify some key points in the
demolition process where documentation is encouraged by best practice. Beyond that, the DBA
has consistently and openly encouraged vendors to document as much as possible, even if the
vendor is not expressly required to document a particular activity.

Sofa

Appendix A

The DBA has employed up to six field liaisons and a ?eld supervisor who are reSponsible
for monitoring and reporting on demolition activities in the ?eld. The DBA strategically deploys
its ?eld team based upon a number of considerations, including the performance history of the
vendors currently working in the ?eld, the type of work being performed on any given day, and
the geographic distribution of work being performed. The DBA ?eld team works closely with
the demolition vendors and the community to clearly communicate the performance
requirements of the Sc0pe of Services. When the ?eld team observes any potential violation of
the Scope of Services, the ?eld team will communicate with the vendor and provide the vendor
an opportunity to resolve the issue. If the vendor fails to correct or resolve the issue. then the
?eld team documents the conditions on a site and convey all available documentation to the
DBA Compliance Manager for disciplinary action.

For the most egregious violations of the Scope, the DBA will issue Health Safety
Violations. Vendors who receive Health Safety Violations may be determined ineligible for
the award of future demolition work for a period of thirty (30) to four hundred and eighty (480)
days. To date, the DBA has issued 60 Health Safety Violations which has resulted in the
suspension of 20 vendors for a total of 2,219 days.

In short, the DBA is closely monitoring contract compliancemanner
that is ef?cient and cost-effective. Our duty to the City?s taxpayers and residents demands
nothing less.

I hope that this letter has helped to alleviate any concerns you may have. I remain available for
questions, and to address any remaining concerns. Members of my Board, DBA staff, and City
personnel also stand ready to answer any questions you may have-

I end with two points. First, I want to reiterate how disappointed I am in the confusing,
unprofessional manner in which you are conducting this audit. Your decision to select an
unrepresentative, outdated sample of demolition ?les severely undermined the Report?s accuracy
and credibility. Worse, as the Report itself demonstrates, your auditors were told that the ?les
they were examining were not re?ective of current processes.5 Yet your of?ce chose to move
ahead with a deeply ?awed, misleading analysis.

I hope that?anther than simply attaching this reSponse to your Report?you will take
stock of these concerns, and thoroughly revise the Report. I also hope that your far-reaching
audit will soon be wrapped up. Finally, I hope that, when conducting future audits, your of?ce
will abide by established professional standards.

Second, I wish to emphasize the critical importance of work?and the human
costs that would be imposed if we mechanistically (and protligately) sought to require
documentation for every contract condition. You suggest that ?non-emergency" demolitions ?do

 

5 See Report at 22 (quoting a representative from the DEA explaining that record-keeping was dif?cult "prior to the
rollout ofSalesforce"); id. at 25 (quoting an representative as explaining that contractors did not submit
breakdowns of costs "prior to 2015"}.

7of8

Appendix A

not- pose a threat" to public health and safety. Report at 13. That is wrong. Your position
obscures the threats which blighted structures pose to the citizens of Detroit, undermines the
urgency and importance of blight elimination. and attempts to delegitimize the necessary work of
the DBA and our partner City Departments.

We deeply respect the office of the Auditor General, and your crucial role in suggesting
needed process improvements. But such suggestions must ultimately be made with the best
interests of Detroit residents in mind. Your Report fails on that account.

A finding-by?finding response is attached as Appendix A.

    

Ty .
Director

CC: David Bell. Director. BSEED
Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Arthur Jemison. Group Executive. Chief of Services Infrastructure
David Massuron, Acting Chief Financial Of?cer
John Naglicit. Chief Deputy CFOIFinance Director
Donald Rancher. Director. Housing and Revitalization Department
Saskia Thompson. Executive Director, Detroit Land Bank Authority

80f8

 B: A Sample of Ten Recent Demolitions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Resident Safety and
Protection 5 95% 5% 4
Pre-demolition Site I
Preparation 1 3 1 100% 0% 2
Proper Disposal of
Hazardous Materials,
Debris, etc 10 5 100% 0% S,
Post-demolition Site
Restoration 27 12 8] 9% I 5
Program Management
and Monitoring 24 16 98% 2% 8
Clearance and
Payments 26 13 97% 3% I 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Evidence of compliance has been sent to the Auditor General?s of?ce on 10/25/19'. The
following addresses were used for the recent property sample:

1274] Meyers
l9751 Trinity
19031 Heyden

19420 Lenore 5275 Wayburn
4159 Van Dyke 7322 Lawton
4405 Helen 9728 Kensington

4650 Helen

Appendix C: Response

Finding No. 1: Did Not Meet Co?rltract Performance and Timeline Requirements

Department'nge-ncv Resnonse to the Recommendationfs'}: This finding and
recommendation is baSed on procedures that have long been discarded. As outlined in our
cover letter, all data management and tracking for the demolition program?including
key contract-performance metrics and timeline tracking?has been migrated to
Salesforce.

In addition, the City and DBA now have a dedicated Production/Quality Assurance
Manager and several ?eld staf?ng personnel. The Production Manager and ?eld staff
help to mitigate and/or eliminate many of the front? end issues as well as improving
monitoring and tracking the timeliness of individual demolition projects. If a demolition
is not progressing in a timely manner, it is quickly discovered and one of the DBA staff
personnel contacts the contractor in order to hopefully get the case back on schedule if
possible.

Implementation Date andfor Timeline: 
Implementation Contact Name and Phone Number: 

Finding No. 2: Did Not Com With City Policies and Procedures, and State, Local, and
I[)ther Requirements Related to City-funded Residential Demolitions and their Contracts

Department/Agency Response to the Recommendation(s): This ?nding and
recommendation is based on procedures that have long been discarded. As outlined in our
cover letter, all data management and tracking for the demolition program?including
key contract-performance metrics and timeline tracking?has been migrated to
Salesforce. Examples of increased compliance from recent preperties can be found in
Appendix D.

In addition, as outlined in our cover letter, we reject the implication that because a quality
control metric cannot be consistently tracked, it should not be contractually required. See
Cover Letter, Section We will continue to contractually require contractors to abide
by the highest possible standards when performing residential demolitions in Detroit.
Implementation Date andior Timeline:N/A

Implementation Contact Name and Phone Number: 

Eigding No. 3: Lack of Documentation to Support Authorization of Pavment

Response to the Recommendation?l: This ?nding and
recommendation is based on procedures that have long been discarded. As outlined in our
cover letter and in Appendix D, all documentation to support authorization of payment is
now accessible via Salesforce and/or the City invoicing system.

The OCFO currently uses the Oracle Cloud ERP system to process and validate invoices
based on a 3-Way Match (Invoice, P0, System Receipt) for all purchase order

vendors. This represents approximately 90% of all of the Account Payable
disbursements. In addition, Oracle Cloud allows vendors to attach Invoices and any

Appendix 

supporting documentation to the supplier portal, and the OCFO policy requires that all
Receipts have supporting documentation in the system.

II Implementation Date andfor Timeline: 
I Implementation Contact Name and Phone Number: 

Finding No. 4: Contract Files are Not Centralizeithd Data Related to Demolitions is
Inconsistent and Unreliable
- Department/Agency Response to the Recommendationt?s]: This finding and
recommendation is based on procedures that have long been discarded. As outlined in our
cover letter and Appendix D, all documentation is now centrally accessible via
Salesforce.
I Implementation Date andi'or Timeline: 
Implementation Contact Name and Phone Number: 

Finding No. 5: Demolition Costs Were Not Recovered From Property 

I Departmenti'Agency Response to the Recommendationgsl: The decision whether to try to

recover demolition costs from property owners ultimately rests with the Law Department.
In many instances, it is simply not worth the cost of attempting to recover demolition
costs from individuals or entities who may be udgment- proof. The Law Department
continuously evaluates the prospects of recovery, and will continue to do so on a go~
forward basis.

- Implementation Date andfor Timeline: 
0 Implementation Contact Name and Phone Number: 

Finding No. 8: DBA Did Not Ful?ll Its Duties As The Program Manager Over Citv- funded
Demolitions

DepartmentJ'Ageney RespoHSe to the Recommendationgsiz DBA rejects this finding. The

Report is based on stale, outdated data which in no way re?ects current practice.
Implementation Date andfor Timeline: 

.
Implementation Contact Name and Phone Number: NIA

Aeni

 

DatnfDoerrmt-nt

Monitored

Related 

 

AREA OF
ts
AND HRD REQUIREMENTS Entered By By "um FielrU?le "mm" {Combos}
- - -
.d Sal. adhered to the MI Manon] for Uniform
Rm a? Fly Control Deviots for all vehicular and
and Protection

pedestrian detours around 
construction zone?

  

 

 

   

 

Ridmt Safety

2 ls evidmcc that safety
ban-its: of speci?c speci?ettr?on were

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Md me'on installed during dunolition?
R?jdml Surely 3 Is there any evidenocthal Contractor
posted Signs all phases of
and demolition to rcvent tn: retsin 11mm -.  -
Improved from the stud of the program . Contractors have always boar
required to take before and after pictures but not required to provide
Reside-rt Surety evidence. As the moved Onto Sultst'orcc in zots it bet-tune more
dA? lolod tract' HRD Sll' It 
and Protection 4 Be mom a plume? ah Demo on a 6 um ?um feasible For contractors to upload before and alter picturs therefore this is
now done through uplomt into Docuvnult M405 Helen only 1m picture of
before
Eontmzo: ASE Document Ashton survey reports are provadod to the demolition contractors at the
Pro-Danolition al the "me me DBA sale-STOW ASB Survey time ot'bid so they know exactly what needs to be abated and can give an
Site Preparation nonmetal. was ?utilized ?in work Contractor Complete Date; appropriate bid As was fully implemmtod. the surveys were
on A53 Survey Status loaded into the system therefore always mthe to the oontmors
6 Do the ?Asbestos Survey" stated
above include the followings:
a. List waste or
material pment. Yes. all listed information is Included in Inch asbestos survey tcport which
grgmomlm Location within the property of DBA Sal ett'oroc ASH URL mam is given to the contractors at time of bid and is now held in Solul'oroc to
repm'on such must; on or be accessed at any time.
Quantity ot'caclr material/wrote;
Recommendations for speci?c
disposal protocol
7 Is there. any evidence that prior to
disposal of'my waste. the Contractor
submitted HASP (Hatlth and Safety
Plon)nt addresses requiring abatement.
I 
a 34:51) ?2233; in; Contractor must prepare the HASP aid make available to the Owner or
Pre-Dunolition pmmdums mngiaod in "w Ashes; NM DEA NM NM authorized upon request It is not commercially reasonable to
Site Preparation Sun, or in me owner moved review and approve this documentation for every demolition The
change order ap contractor is rponsiltle for the and safely oFthr: workers on site
Detailed information regarding
temporary Controls. such as lot-l:-
out/tng-oul procedures. and
material 
DEQ Abatement
Noti?mtion 
DEQ Mid orient
Noti?cation Stan
Due, MDEQ
Abutment
Noti?urtion End
Date, MDEQ
Abat . . .
 contractor must notify EGLE MDEQ) oftheir intuit
omei?wim unmet,? MDEW to demolish l0 husinuLs days before demolition HRD requires the
. . . noti?cation in their invoicing packet vin contractor upload to Docuvnult. In
a; LARN I fail .
Fremont!? Rmuw?dbcmo? . Fm 3' [m Demo I i m? ype' addition, DBA pulls the data directly from EGLE's websrte and uploads
ID rlcg't In advance of asbestos Contractor/DEA Saltsforoc MDEQ Dunolrtron

Site Preparation

abatemmt nettviti orprior to my
activities utter roodving the Notice to
Proceed?

 

 

 

 

Noti?cation ID.
MDEQ Demolition
Noti?cation Sum
Duo. MDEQ
Demolition
Noti?u?lion End
Date, MDEQ
Dcrnolittott
Contractor 'Nr'ftme.
MDEQ Danolilion
Notification Type.

 

 

weekly into Salesforoc Soc attached report That: is no rlmlemenl
noti??rtion for 4405 Helen since this property ?as an emergency
demolition

 

 

 

I'm-Demolition
Site Preparation

submitted to the City sampling and
analysis for airborne mnomlmlion or
asbestos fibers?

9 widence that Contractor  

 

 premarital] streamis?mhi


- 



 

mar-ee-

      

 

 

 

Pro-Demolition

10 Is there any evidistce that
Contractor submitted Post? abatement

Contractors in: required to submit an air monitoring clcarmce state-lien! for

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tract HRD Sal t? me Do It
Site Preparation air monitoring md it was completed by MD can or 5 a ?mu arch property rrito Docuvaull
an independmt third pasty contractor!
Proper Disposal of
Harardous ll is there any evidence that asbestos Waste load tickets/manifests are uploaded by dune contractors to
. tract HRD Sal or: It
Marts-id, Debris, was?: was disposed Type II Landfill? 5 Dceuvault
etc
. . . .
Proper Disposal ol? '2 Is men: evidence that the Comm? I 'l'his has always been. required. Must man i documented Now, field 
Hazardous . . DBA Field Liaisons monitor demohuons and the use ot?water and complete a checklist
. . complied With the wet-wet . HRD Smartslioel NIA I . 
Material. Debris. . Liaisons for every observed demolition The checklist Includes wet-wet, See
Requirements
etc attachment.
Proper Disposal of .
I3 Is there any minimum that all debris . 
?yd? was disposed in licmsod Type Demo Contractor HRD Salesforce Doeuvault wane load "deymm'rms ?uploaded h) dam common 1?
Malena]. Debris. i Docuvault
solitary land?ll?
etc
Proper Disposal of l4 Is there any evidence that copies of
flarzrdoiis land?ll receipts for way load removed Demo Comma? Salaam: mm wistelond tickets/manifests are uploaded by demo contractors to
Mammal, Debris. were maintained for ?rich day and were Domvault
etc available for inspection?
D. 1 I5r Is there any ewdenee that Load-out
mp: 15?? ofdernolitiori debris was completed Knock down date The demolition contractor is required to do this but not required to show
Mn. ivilhiti 43 king misnoekdown date Demo Contractor DBr?t Salesl'orce and 0pm hole evidence. We know 10ml out is complete when Open hole inspection
?1 (appli? to both and Non- requsted mount Is into 5F
dc' Emergency?)
Proper Disposal of 16 Is thereariy evidence that manifests
Reunions I for the disposal of waste and materials Demo Comm? HRD smart)? Dowmh Waste load tickets/manifests are uploaded by demo contractors to
Material, DebrisI furnished to the City or its Douivnult
etc. authorimd rep?
A cert?cd consultant has been in place since the beginning of this program
Budd." Demolition cantfacl ors must submit back?ll documenttlion lo the back-?ll
H. Is thine evidaiee that the Contractor Baeit?ll platform for source review and approval Once approved, demolition
I ion complied with the Back?ll Home Contractor Plattbmir??ale Bum," contractors crate individual transactions for their property in Salisl'oioe and
"0 Requirements? sl'crte Bmk?h upload the trucking (load) tickets to Doouvault Ptocess has changed since
an I the. start ofthe program Secatachment showing the key changes and
protocols added.
[fa contractor needslwants to stockpile. they must submit proposed
rim-w  Tm. imam. 
San?R 0 ?ion stockpiling locations used by the Demo Contractor DBA Platfon?n/Snlc n?kfirgouj 1 1 In? :r?mim'nf: pn?_ 
mom'm Contractor were ueeptalrle by the City? sl'oree summ?

Back?ll Quantity

stockpiling not nectssu'y as backl'ill was taken directly to the
demolition site

 

Post-demolition
Site Riomiion

Is ihereany evidence that
Contractor submitted ?Dust Control
and Monitoring Plan" prior to
stockpiling to address saunas of
fugitive missions from the site?

 
 
 
   

?r?urler?r reddish I
'a'tirpil in; locations; 'd?dperstierial pl fo- this 
urn-tol-riaco'vc 

 

 

 

Post-demolition
Site Restoration

20 Is then: any the
Container obtained approval ?nm the
City to lninsport soil to thestoekpile

site ol?a ?endemic! site?

 

 

 

Post-demolition
site Restoration

2  [5 thereon evidence than the
Contractor removed the following from
all disturbed ground surfaces before the
open holcinspeczion and placement of
fill:
a Vegetation
Ir Topsoil
Debris
Trash
Wet. and
unsatisfactory soil mmcrials
f. Obstructions
Deleterioas materials

BSEED

BSEEDIDB
A

Saltsi'orce

BS EED Open Hole
Approval; 
Open Hole Failed

This is evidenced by the fact that there is a ?nal grad approval by BSEED
in Saluforce Ones controller IS satisfied with open hole requirement, an
Open Hole roqutsi is salt to BSEED inn Salcsf'oree is not
satis?ed with the site has been properly chaired. the optsi hole inspection
would fail Each site was properly cleared, evidenced by the open hole
approval date in Salforce

 

 

Post-dunolition
Site Rtsloratien

22. Is therean evideneeihai the
Contractor placed badr?ll and fill
materials in layers of18"in loose

 

depth?

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 . 

spreadsheets; choirs: 

 

 



 

Iappendix 

 

Post-dominion
ite Restoration

23 ls there my documentation that
Contractor obtained approval ?'orn the
City before discharging escavrrtion
water to either of the followings:

a. Municipal storm system, or to the
Surfaee waters

 

pt uppnsihle

 

a minnow.

 

24 Is that: any evidence that leveling
of the grading provided smooth
ttmsition among all sun-facts and that

BSEED:
\thten'Finnl Guide

This is evidenced by the fact that there is a ?nal guilt: approval by BSEED
in Salesl'otoe. Once contractor is satis?ed with grading. their Winter or

 

 

Post-demolition leveling muted, Dunc Saharan proml_ BSEED: Final grade requt (depmrling on time ofyear) is sent to BSEED via
Site a. Excessive mnol'l?into od'oomt A Winter/Fina] Grade salt-?om and BSEED mews for mmplimm? "grading not me:
?was 1 Failed require-treats ofthe scope. the approval would be denied. Ducto the Fact
1) Pooling in ?m?lm use". that all sitts pmod al'rnal grade grading was 
BSEED. This is evidenced by the fact that there is a final grade approval by
,5 Is ?In My ?Mme: ?m ?m mp wlmu?rinu] me BSEED, Once contractor is satis?ed with grading, their Winter or Final
Petshdemoltltun 50? on mp onhc gliding was Demo Comm? BSEED Salish?: Approval; BSEED: grade request on time ofyear} ts soil to BS EEO vra Slalsl'oroc
Stte Restoration in m, wim??in? a [a and BSEED renews foroomplranoe lt'topsorl did not meet roqutrurtents
up Failed ofthe scope, the approval would be denied Due to the fact that all sites
passed a final grade, topsoil was appropriate.
26. Is then: any documentation that . 
?unwind dam arm: mp Soil used was Becki-Ill This proetets has changed and improved srnoe the program began In 2014
Post-demolition Or Is "me my Demo Cwmdor DEA Transaction ObjC?. ?nth Increased mooning to the back?ll Plascsoeallached

Site Retorolton

amine-man From the boa-ow soorae
that topsoil is uncontwninated'?

Bockt?rll Source:
Back?tl Quantity

timdinc and Back?ll While this wrsn't documented In 20H-
l5, it Is today

 

Post-demolition
Site Rrstoration

21 Is that: any evidence that "No
Movf' lawn seed was used?

 

Post-demolition
Site Restoration

:5 Was mthanmtton obtained from
the City when a type other than "No
Mow? was used?

 

 

Post-demo? lion
Site Restomtion

29 ls there my evidenoe that straw
mule]: W35 used in the plat-Lung area?

Demo Contractor

DBA

Documlt 
Sidewalk
Rwlnoemcnt

Photos URL

This is evidenced by the fact that there ts a BSEED ?nal grade approval

 

Post-demolition
Site Rtoralion

30 Is lhll?l any evidence that the site
was watered within 7 days ot?thc
seeding date?

 

 

 
   

ne'iohh'lw;misiw in. 

'r

 empties?f?n're'mfws?

   

 

Is there any evidence that the

(teases . .

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l. . -. entertains-easternattain: tastier;
SostRemo sidewalks and streets clean  .-  . . .  . 
"e ?mum? and wasth down alter load-out? up":  
32 Is there my cvrduroetht? the
following inspections were requester]
by the contractor from BSEED Ill It
24 hours priorto the date of
inspections for every non- 
demolition?
DBA monitors tatd a demo observation checklist arch site
VIA
B??nd?mo?idm?m DBA DEA First site inspection is done by BSEED at open hole
Post-dent lition .. .Gst'lt??tri 
. . Load-out - NM -  imitate; This is} 
Stte Restoration - - .. -.  -  .
- -  - not-requirde documenluton to -
BSEED: Open . . .
0pm Hole Demo Contractor BSEED Saltsl'oroc Hole BSEED ?If 1:17:5903'12Mumihvm sulfrolme and generally
rtspon an on to insp ran by it next usrness day
. .
Back?ll Dis-no Contractor BSEED Saltsromc BSEED performs inspections
BSEED: Final Once contractoris Satisfied with grading. their Winter or Final grade
Final Grade Demo Contractor BSEED Salcst'oroe Grade roqutst is sent to BSEED via Saltst'mee, (depending on the time ot'ymr),
Retro?t/Approval and BSEED reviews for compliance
33. Are there any endure: that the site
Program was monitored by the City or its rep Sn] funds DEA andlor BSEED complete the above-mentioned ehedclists for
Management and during all phmu oi". es Docuvnult demolition, open holemspoelton, back?ll and Winter/?nal grade
. mmshect . .
Monttonng a. and inspection
it Bock?lling
34 Is that: any 
Common: dented EPA personnel to:
Program 3. Enter demolition sitts
Manngetnmt and It Review any records, NIA EPA NM NM li' access was ever denied, EPA would have inl?onaol the DEA and City
Monitoring Inspect my dunolttion methods,
and/or
d. Sample or observe any (missions?
35. Is that: any evidence that the agreed ed Knock contractor needs to move a knock date to mother day. new date ts
and upon Schedults could not be kept due Demo Contractor DEA Salfome am Dam entered ll'llD Saltsl?oree by the dune and notes are tattered rnto

Moniton n3

 

 

to unforeseen circumstances?

 

 

 

 

the notes Field

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

    
  

      

 

 

 

 

Program u. dd 1 I Planned Knock needs to movenknock datcto another day, new date Dunn DBA Saltst'orec mtcrod into Suiuforoc by tlto dcmo contractor and notrs an: uttered into
. . modi?cation to the schedulls'.? Down Duo
Monrton ng the notes field
Pro mm . .
Managc?icnl and dWritten approval not been acquired. entry into Salcsi'orcc is required.
Munim?m a written approval to the Contractot.31;   
pm ill??- -. aw.   i-
- - - . its? nirvana-7M1?:  
Management and admin: nary . . EB: -- 1. longarh - Mfumi?wcm 
Monitoring n. Mondry, Elisa-aw I -. 
Wodnday.:t11d   
Friday . .. 1- 
MDEQ 
Noti?cation ID.
DEQ Abutuncnt
Noti?cation Start
Date, MDEQ
Abatunml
Noti?cation End
Duo. MDEQ
Abrucmmt
37 Is that: any evidence that Contractor 
Dam Demolition oontnictor nus: nolil'y EGLE MDEQ) 
Management and . . . to demolish 10 busrnoss days HRD mqutrt?s tho
. . a. Elcdrunlc noti?cation ofhmm lg ContmotorlDBA oroc MDEQ Demolition . I I 
Monitonng amnh "m was mod wuh Non?wion to, noti?cation to pocket vm conlm?or upload to 
the MDEQ MDEQ Demolition
Noti?cation Start
Date. MDEQ
Dunolition
Noti?cation End
Date, MDEQ
Demolition
Contractor NMmc,
MDEQ Demolition
Noti?cation 
- ASB Veri?er
NlAmc
- ASB Post
Abatement
Veri?cation Status
- ASE Post
Abatement
Document URL
as Is than: any cvidmoc that the City "53 Pm
. Abatement Notes
or 115 rap conducted ?nal ASE Post .
clam-ion to con?rm that Yes A third party consultant conducts npost abutment
Pram a handouts Motorion were moved, Environmental [mp inspection and will upload a Post Abatement Vcn'?mtion (PAV)
and and Contractor DBA salary? Due to Saltst?oroc All demolition: must have a cleaned PAV Statement prior to
momwmg All swords arc in proper order? Ab. ASE Pigs? a! knocking. with the of Emergency Dcmolitrons
Note, The Inspection is dam: per the munth ms
discretion ofthc City or . ASE p051
Abdomen: Failed
Duo
- ASE Posr
Abatement Areas
lNleorssiblc
- ASE Post
Abutment Times
Ftn'lcd
- ASE Post
39 lt'the ?nal demmcc was done~ but Ab?magpmed Yes A third pony consultain conducts apost 
not approved by the City, did the inspection ll'i'l fails. the abatement contractor must Mum to 
Pm I . Post . . .
contractor return to the to . complete removal of all lmdous materials A second post
Mumgunmt and DBA Sulmforoc Abatuncnt Foiled . Ur ed ,Fdaud Abm 1
Monim??g mtzdalc Inspection and all Contractor Due Inspection Is [1 orm an I ,n omen I
hazardous and mbslos materials were . ASE Post Vcn?uatton (PAV) be posted to Salfomo ullowmg the knock to take

 

removed?

 

 

 

 

Timw
Failed

 

place

 

 

new.?

 

40 Did the contractor submit land?ll
receipts or waste manifests with

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

   

 

 

  

  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

le?lc? and invoice. within Ila-days or the Mo HRD Salesilfamr Docummo in This rs no longe' grammar-aged to submit
?mm? completion urlhc projcd'.? i pow
lfNo. payment will not be proussed.
Cl Is there any evtdertoe that payment
was processed before mmi?sls and NM HRD nun NM m: ralull'cd documentation mun on submillod prior to payment.
Payments . . .
invoices were 
Demolition contractors must submit category 3 back?ll documentation and
information to the bask?ll platform for source review and approval Oneo
Saltsf'orchn Transact, 0b at approved. demolition contractors matte individual transactions for-melt
in" :d any 23:31" a onan War Demo Contractor DEA cki'rll Bmk?gg property in Salesl'orae and upload the trucking (load) tickets to 
?3 ?5 5- Platform Bum All properties with (Not Applicable) were backlillod with eilltera
"an Category I or Category 2 material Therefore, the Contractor would not
have presmtod any evidence of using a Category 3 material
Dumlition contractors must submit category 3 documentation and
Back?? information to the back?ll platform for source review and approval Once
st 43 ?yes. did the wnlractor submit to Salesfomo?Ba Tammi? Ob?ect approval, demolition contractors ens-rte individual transacttons for Knit
5? the City a Rurumt for Approval to use Demo Contractor DEA ckl'tll propu'ty in Sall'oroc and upload thetrueking (load) tickets to DowvauII
"mm" Category 3 Back?ll Marcia]? Platform Backrh QM: All properties with (Not Applicable) were back?lled with eithera
um I 3" Category I or Category 2 material Therefore. the Contractor would not
have presented any evidence ofusing a Category 3 material
44 Did Conn-actor submit weekly
Back-?ll Material tracking logs forall
back?ll categories (I, 2. &3)to the
Do Ema, 19E Backl'?mp Demolition emu-octets must submit badc?ll documentation and
roam . It] a dust El Sol (daleInformation to the back?ll platform for source revrcw and approval Once
Management and 155mm? Demo Contractor DBA th?rll Publrde-ate n. .nd. ,dun] 
Monitoring Note: Thelogs should show: Platform Backlill Source. Titan :6 ad ?ml
a Scum Gummy property in as once normal
11 End use Iounion,
t: Quantitits, and
Dates
Clearances and 45 Won: all documentation pruenlod Damn HRD Sall'otchr Docuvm? To rwetve payment, the destrolitton contractors must submit all required
Payments on organmtton letterhde oele elements to HRD
46 Was the un?l for Payment for - i  -
each pmpu?ty broken down into the
following cost categories:
and u. Abatunenl
Payments Demolition
c. Seeding
.3 Grading, and
a Total for the Speci?ed proputv
41 Did the Request for Payment
Packet contain the following.
"in wonderment; targeting-eateries met-mini retraining
a. A covu' Ictlta  nyoi?islonraarnpm 
-- tum-nitration
1). Schedule ofValut: and Sworn a}    I 
-  with. all tract .
Statement for melt property address ..-.  ,r we .- 
Sworn statement ol'wruvu's oflten  I - . .
from --  . .-. -, .-  --   . .   .-  
6. Building permit Den-to Contractor HRD Sale-timer: Docuvaull
.
a henna-mun .0 Rummy Demo Contractor HRD Saluforoc Docovault
Demolish
if Final grade inspection receipt Demo Contractor HRD Saluforoe Dorm-dull
oralratement Demo Comm? HRH saurm Dowmll To receive payment. the donolrtton oonlmoors must all required
CI ms and activates and waste disposal Invotung documents to HRD.
Documentation of origin ofhaokl'tll Demo comm?r 8313mm Dom-mm? To receive payment. the demolition oonlractors must submit all ruqutral
and topsoil soumcs Invoicing documents to HRD
i Documattotton ofartalytiutl data or i . . .
certi?union verifying material is not Demo Contractor - HRD Salmforoe Docuvault To mm: paymml? 1h: amulmon must ?hm? a" mum"

contaminated

invoicing documenls to 

 

Documentation that Subcontractors
are inoomplianeo with lite Ml Workers'
Disabilit}l Compmsalion At:
requirement

   

   

  

 

1: Documentation that Subcontractors
areltoensad

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

..
nee-ta  anilineie-i?en?eeFarmed-er. -.
- . 

 

 

 

Seeding and Watering Report

  

    

demol?   

.

 

rn Seed tags iduttil'ying eon-eel seed
used per speei?uuim

gilt-ii . 

 

I 

. eit'e-f: - .- .

 

Before and alter pieturu of the site

To receive paymu'tt. the demolition contractors must submit dl required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(labeled) Dam comm? gall-om Dowmh invoicing documents to HRD *4405 Helen only his picture of?bcl'ort'.
Returned by
Contractor RFP
?eld on Selal'orec The DBA assigns contractors on Sulsl?oree only to properties they have.
48 Is "mum m.de "m the Used to track all meetvod a Notice to Proceed on M50 trucks which groups the properties
Charm and . Salsl?ororJOr old or pulled Fm were pulled from on Salesfonte. Contractors have reports available to them
structure was removed from the bid or DBNOCP . .
Payments from me mad? ode groups, not Just on Salesl'orce with all contracted properties. lf?they do not set: in property on
commuter Retums. Solesforoe. they can check contract to con?rm it was pulled after the
Also Sultal'oroe time ofbid or award
anorts folder for
Demo Contractors
49 ll?yes. Win-.1112 reason for removal
due to oithu' of the following prior to
oetunl demolition date?
it. the structure is destroyed by ?re or
Elm? and other darnin beyond its presern
condition. or due to NM NM Sol esforee NM.
The presence or environmental
hazards
Ifno. brie?y stmethe reason or
remove] and attach evidmee to this
report
Pregtam 50. Is there an evidutee ?rm the 
and original agreed upon schedules were Dario Contractor DBA Saltsforw d? ?5
Momtonng modi?ed?
51 ll?yes, was the nelson for schedules
modi?mliort due to unforeseen .
. DBA Fluid Nous,
"m b? DBA Field Notes Field issu melneked on Snlforec via those ?elds iflhis is the reason
and pufonned outside usual DBA DEA Salesl'oroo Dal DEA Fold Dd.
. . . e. art not tl'iodseltnitlles
Monitoring workweek? ll?No, brie?y state the News Gland We
reasons Md much
evidence to this report
Mugg? and 52 Is lhereuny cvidatoe that the stated ocr Snlesfome/Df NM
Memo". ?3 eonlmet protocols were revt sod 3218
l'Inttl 
Requested
Winter Glade
Requested
BSEED Felts Owed
BSEED: 0pm
Hole Approved
Grade Second
Requtst
Finn] Grade
Inspection
Scheduled
Winter Grade
Second Request
. BSEED: Winter Demo oontmetor enters Open Hole. Final Grade or \leer Gmie Inspection
Clumees and wings: 51:3:m:  Demo Contractor s??fom Grade Approved requests on Selesl'oroe BSEED schedules the inspections. enter: these
Payments Titlqu 8: BSEED Winter Grade dots on Sdl?or?ee and then enters the approvals or falls into Sulsl'eree
Inspection PI nolethat Tidernarlt has now been rqllaeed by Aeneid
Scheduled
Final
Grade Approved
BSEED: Opal
Hole. Failed
BSEED. Winter
Gmde Foiled
Open Hole
Requested
BSEED: Final
Grade Foiled
Open Hole 2nd
must
(Elm-n 
elm? and 54 Is there cvidcrtoelol' the Notice to Dana comm?
Proceed documentation being in the HRD DBA Salesl?oree DBA Also Adds Date to Snlisroree

Payments

 

?le?

 

 

 

 

Proceed Date

 

 

 

Aggenrlix 

 

Clearnn :I'ld
Payments

55 is there evidence that the contractor
started work after the Notioeto Proceed
documentation was received?

Demo Contractor

DBA

Salest'oroe

Abatement Sub-
Contractor.
Abntunun Stun
Date Planned
Knock Down Date.
Knock Down Date.

Open Hole
Request,

Wantu?lFinol Glade

Request

Plum see Salest?oree repair to so: dates for Notice to Pieced and knock
date

 

Program
Management and
Monitoring

started work [0 days (Or 24 hours if
emerng demolition) otter ?ling the
Notice oflnlent with 

56. Is rherecvidenoc that the oontmetor 

Demo Contractor

DBA

Salt-aroma

MDEQ Abatement
Noti?cation ID.
MDEQ Abatement
Noti?cation Start
Due, MDEQ
Abatement
Noti?cation End
Date, MDEQ
Abatanmt
Contractor Name
MDEQ Abutment
Notifmtion Type,
MDEQ 
Sub-Contractor.
Abutment Start
Date. 
Knock Dawn Dale.
Knock Dorm Date.
0pm Hole
Request.
Wintu'll'innl Grade
Request

Phase roe Seleoforoe report to see dot for Notioeto Proceed and knock
date

 

 

Program
Management and
Monitoring

57 Was there evidence that the site was
accessible demolition alter the to
days? lfnot. is there evidence in the

?le showing that the contractor noti?ed

the Demolition Division within 24
hours of'lhis situation?

Demo Contractor

Selrst'oroe

MDEQ Ahmemetl
Noti?uttion ID,
MDEQ Abatement
Noti?cation Strut
Date. DEQ
Abatement
Noti?mtion End
Date. MDEQ
Abutment
Contractor Name.
MDEQ Abaternmt
Noti?rztion Type.
MDEQ Abatement
Sub-Commuter.
Abuanem Stun
Due. Planned
Knock Down Dale
Knock Down Date.
Open Hole
Requat.
\Mntu?fFinul Grade
Requtst

BSEED will notify the DBA ifthe property bl:me an emergency
dunolition. and the DBA will work with the City to quickly move tlte
property to dunolition

 

Program
Management and
Monitoring

58. Ailer the 0pm Hole inspection. is
there evidence that the Baek?ll was
completed within 48 hours?

Demo Contractor

DEA



Bnek?ll Complete
(date), 
Grade Roquuted

The baekl'ill policy is no longer 48 hours, it is 14 days alter Open Hole
Approval Plume seeSalest'oroe report for times

 

Program
Management and
Monitoring

59 ls that: any evidence that the
complete donotirion activities
including el-up by the clued

indicated on the Notice to Proceed?
(for non- unugatey)

Demo Contractor
?it BSEED

 

 

 

DBA

Sulesforce

 

Deno Court-enter
Proceed Date.
Knock Down Date.
Open Hole
Requtsted,
BSEED: Open
Hole Approved,
Final Grade
Reqursted.
BSEED: Finn]

 

Grade Approved

 

Plano see Saltsl'ore report for all relevml dunolition dntt's

 

 

 

?guendix 

 

Demo Contractor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pruoeed Due.
Knock Down Date,
Open Hole
60 For emergency: Wat: all the Dem Requested,
Menagunu?tl and demolition aetivitier. including clean 6:352:13 DEA Saltsl'ome BSEED: Open ere-tee see Stilesl'ore report an all relevant dunulilion dirt
ltrlonitnrinr;I up completed within 7 calendar clays? Hale Approved.
Final Grade
Requested.
BSEED: Final
Gmde Approved
6t 15 there evidence of utility shut off
requtsts for the following?
. 3-      -  - --.. .  - - .- - .. -. rh?l'o?id?hm?m?f 
Wat - In  Hittit- -- -- .. . .  
Pro-Demolition repanlrun Gm DEA DEA 3 ?15mm DEA rescues e-mm] con?rmation from DTE and inputs (11550an
Itlta Sdufeme
Hume DEA salable: DBA recur; e-mati oun?rnintron from DTE and inputs disconnect
information into 
15 there eviduiee or confirmation of
utilin disconnects?
2 . 'nanatiire'n mn'rrfrerereire'rratirin'mr irr- twinePro-Danolilion 1 a .  -I  .  pmpu?ty.?   
- a a
I reparation DEA DEA sabre?? Gas Cm Due DBr't receives e-matl from DTE and inputs drsoonnect
Infemutmrl inter Stilesl'erce
?1 Bread: DEA DEA Salton? Utll: Electric Cut DBA receives e-mmt From DTE and inputs disconnect
Due into Salesforec.
Program 61' {hm cyan-fa: 9mm f?m'mm Hind copy Not tracked on Sdufome, OCP requests insurance certi?cates at the time
Management and 1313;": Dana Centraerer oce and NIA oi'Nutiee ofAuard and maintain eerli rreat through the term et'the
?mum-mg Furnished certi?cate of insurancethere Widener: of the demolition
3 permit or any othu? required permit SEED HRD I BSEED issues wrecking permit which is that provrded by the demo
Maximim maintained in tire rrie rer are d? ?e ?um eentmeterr as part ofthe packet which is reviewed by r-mn.
onrlonng
contractor?
Program 65 Is there evidence on: l'a't'ormanee Hard copy . 
Management and and Payment Bond for the Demo Contractor OCP and eteetronre NM sd'srm" OCP rug? "m ?Nam?
Monitoring price provided by the Conn-Adar? copy 
Program 
Management and 65. Is there an award letter in tire ?le? oce ocr Emir? DBA tire Award Date in Salesroree oce maintains documents
Monitoring 
Clmm?fd 67 Is there a P0 or in the ?le? OCP OCP Glade NIA OCP mnirrlains dourmenls
en
I i
CImmnees and m. Was tltu centred OCP OCP NM 0U submit: all Lily dunolrtron contracts to (.tty Lounctl ior renew and

Payments

 

 

approved by City Cnunul'!

 

 

 

 

anprovnl

 

 

