Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council Meeting
October 21, 2019
MEETING MINUTES
IDHS/SUPR Updates
Director Kirby welcomed the group and gave the following updates:
• SUPR tracks data each month on MAT desert counties—counties that have no access to
methadone, buprenorphine or injectable naltrexone. In March 2018 there were 58 Illinois
counties that were MAT deserts; we have reduced this number to 43 counties. In
September, 50 buprenorphine providers came on board, i.e., are listed in SAMHSA’s public
buprenorphine provider director as active prescribers. SUPR credits ongoing training efforts,
including Rush University Medical Center’s OUD Training Fellowship. Providers (physicians,
nurse practitioners and physician assistants) participate in an intensive immersion weekend
course on OUD treatment and receive ongoing mentoring and technical assistance to
support their practice. Course are limited to 30 providers. Registration for the January 2020
course can be found at the link below. Registration closes on November 22, 2019.
https://rushpsych.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_8eI8O1EOlkVYoND.
• As discussed at the September 2019 Council meeting, SAMHSA has proposed changes to
the federal substance use disorder confidentiality rules, known as 42 CFR Part 2. One of the
provisions in the rule change is to permit opioid treatment programs (OTPs) to report to the
PMP. HB 3889 proposes that the confidentiality requirements for transmitting information to
the PMP also apply to OTPs. Supports would be in place to protect patient confidentiality
should the rule change be approved.
Illinois Department of Public Health Updates
Jenny Epstein, Director of Strategic Opioid Initiatives, was participating in an Illinois Senate
committee and was unable to attend. Director Kirby gave the following update on Ms. Epstein’s
behalf:
• In August 2019, Governor Pritzker signed Senate Bill 1828, Needle and Hypodermic Syringe
Access Program Act, into law which legalizes syringe exchange programs statewide. IDPH
will operate registration for all syringe service programs (SSP) statewide. IDPH is working
on the registry and Ms. Epstein will notify the Council when it is ready for comment.
Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) Update
Dr. Maria Bruni, Senior Policy Advisory, gave the following updates:
• HFS was awarded an 18-month, 4.5 million planning grant from the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid (CMS) for a demonstration project that will expand substance use treatment
capacity by paying for services that currently are not reimbursable by Medicaid. HFS has
begun meeting with its partners and forming its statewide steering committee. The project
will convene regional meetings to listen to stakeholders, including people with lived
experience, about OUD/SUD access and capacity issues. The project also will focus on
SUD payment, and alternative payment and shared risk models for providers that serve
people with OUD/SUD.
IDHS/Prescription Monitoring Program (PMP) Update
Dr. Sarah Pointer, Clinical Director of the Prescription Monitoring Program, gave the following
updates (see attached handouts):
• The first two strategies in the State Opioid Action Plan (SOAP) focus on the PMP. The
following progress has been made for Strategy 1: Increase PMP use by providers.

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 10/21/2019 Meeting Minutes

1

 o

•

•

•

Public Act 100-0564 requires all Electronic Health Records (EHR) systems in the state
to directly integrate with the PMP through the automated EHR connection, PMPNow.
There are currently 456 PMPNow connections.
o Efforts to integrate various practice types including dentists and pharmacies, are
ongoing.
o PMPNow inquiries also have increased; there were 41, 972,099 PMPNow inquiries at
the end of September 2019.
o The new PMP website will go live in late November and will include an option to register
designees.
The PMP has made the following progress for Strategy 2: Reduce high risk opioid
prescribing through provider education and guidelines.
o The PMP Peer Review Committee reviewed the prescribing practices of 32,749
prescribers and sent letters to 1,239 prescribers who were prescribing opioids at levels
higher than recommended guidelines.
o A study conducted by UIC shows that the number of high dose opioid prescriptions per
100,000 opioid prescriptions decreased from 9,909 in January 2015 to 7,450 in June
2019 – a 25% decrease. The number of patients who were dispensed at least one
opioid prescription per 100,000 residents decreased from 18,217 to 12,722 in 2018 –
30% decrease.
The updated PMPNow website will go live in late November and will include value-added
features and improved analytics. Prescribers will be able to go the MYPMP page and a view
a summary of their prescribing practices. Patient prescription analytics will give prescribers
data on the number of patients who have been to multiple providers and/or pharmacies in
the past six months, give risk scores and send out alerts about patients who are at high risk
for overdosing. These data will give providers information they need at the point of care to
make decisions about opioid prescribing for specific patients.
Discussion: Council members discussed concerns about chronic pain patients who have
been using opioids safely for long-term pain management being rapidly tapered off their
medication due to PMP data and/or alerts. Dr. Pointer shared that the PMP used CDC
guidelines of 90 morphine milligram equivalents (MMEs) as the initial dosing notification for
increased risk for overdose. The PMP agrees that CDC guidelines should not be taken as
the ‘end all be all’ and should be couple with the clinician’s experience and relationship with
his/her patients. Council members noted that data on overlapping scripts could be used as a
tool to identify overdose risks. The PMP will take this into consideration and welcomes
feedback to make it more user-friendly.

Illinois Helpline Marketing and Communication Presentation
Jen Toth and Chelsea McCarron from Health Resource in Action (HRiA) gave the following
presentation on the Helpline Stories of Help campaign (see attached handouts):
• The Stories of Help campaign is centered on the stories of real people in Illinois who are
dedicated to helping others—people in recovery, outreach workers, providers and
community leaders. These people’s stories show that help is available and that the Helpline
can connect people to that help. To develop and produce the campaign, Helpline staff did
field research throughout the entire state to identify storytellers and worked with SUPR to
determine concepts and who/what to film.
• Campaign components include videos, 30-second TV spots, 15-second YouTube and
Facebook videos, ads on buses and transit stations in Chicago and the suburbs, and
billboards. Go to https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ThWweJsrJe0 to watch and share the
videos. Council members are encouraged to share the videos and follow and promote the
Stories of Help campaign and the Helpline on social media.
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 10/21/2019 Meeting Minutes

2

 •

•

HRiA is evaluating the Helpline, reviewing existing data and interviewing providers and
SUPR staff who used to take calls prior to the Helpline. To date, the Helpline has received
17,736 calls. Initial results suggest that the Helpline is making an impact connecting people
to care. Voice mail messages from Helpline callers thank the Helpline for treating them like
human being and giving them needed resources.
Providers are encouraged to use the provider portal through the Helpline website
(https://helplineil.org/app/GetHelp) to update their program’s information so that Helpline
staff can make accurate referrals and estimate waitlists for care. These data are critical to
connecting people looking for services to care.

November Council Meeting
The next Illinois Crisis Response Advisory Council meeting will be held on Monday, November
18, 2019 from 1:00-3:00 PM. Information on Chicago and Springfield locations will be sent
closer to the meeting date.
Council meeting minutes and materials (including handouts from this meeting) can be found on
the Council’s website: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=97186

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 10/21/2019 Meeting Minutes

3

 