Alton James ?it? 0t it Brenda 0055 Andrews

Chairperson Damion W. Ellis

Lauren Hood MCD
. I
Vice Chair-Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, 
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpcicj?detroitmigov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Planning Commission in the Committee of the
Whole Room, 13th Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5: 2019 AT 6:15 PM

to consider the request of Morton Manor Limited Dividend Housing Association, LLC to amend
Article XVII, District Map No. 18 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Chapter 50, Zoning, by showing
a R3 (Low Density Residential District) zoning classi?cation where a R2 (Two-Family Residential
District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on property at 20000 Dequindre Avenue, generally
located on the east side of Dequindre Avenue north of East Outer Drive. The location of the
proposed rezoning is indicated as the highlighted area on the accompanying map.

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow the zoning to re?ect the current use of
property which is developed with an eight-story ISO-unit apartment building.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:

R2 Two-Family Residential District

The district is designed to protect and enhance those areas developed or likely to develop
with single- or two-family dwellings. The district regulations are designed to promote a
suitable environment for homes and for activities connected with family life. The only
principal uses permitted by right are single? and two-family dwellings. Additional uses are
conditional.

R3 Low Density Residential District

This district is designed as a low?density multi?family district. The regulations are
designed to promote and encourage town and terrace house deveIOpment, courts, and
garden apartments. It is intended that this district be used primarily on local
thoroughfares thereby encouraging a suitable environment for family life. Among others,
uses permitted by tight include single and two-family dwellings, town houses, multi-
family dwellings, and community facilities necessary to serve a residential district.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing
and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning
Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article
Division 3 of Chapter 50 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that some who are affected
by this preposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors
so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313) 224-4950, through the
TTY number 7] I, or email to schedule these services.

For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


n2
n13: Hr mu 
3 33 H1
swimEAST OUTER ORProposed Rezoning from R2 to R3

