MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
SEPTEMBER 18, 2019
JAMES R. THOMPSON CENTER
100 WEST RANDOLPH ST. ROOM 9-040
1:00 PM
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
The regular meeting of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission was held at the James R.
Thompson Center, Chicago, Illinois 60601 Room 9-040 pursuant to notice.
Call the Roll:
Donald O’Connell, Acting Chairman
Thomas Gibbons, Commissioner
Patricia Pulido Sanchez, Commissioner
Melody Spann Cooper, Commissioner
Also Present:
Chimaobi Enyia, Executive Director
Thomas Schlenhardt, Associate Director
Dusanka Marijan, Licensing Administrator
Les Peterson, Enforcement Director
Pamela Paziotopoulos, Deputy General Counsel
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

I.

Approval of Minutes
a. A motion was made by Commissioner Spann Cooper to approve the release of the
minutes of the August 21, 2019 Board Meeting. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Gibbons. The motion was unanimously approved.

II.

Director’s Report
a. Director Enyia informed the Commissioners the IL Liquor Control Commission is
hosting the College Town Summit on November 14, 2019 in Champaign.
b. Director Enyia announced the ILCC Newsletter will be distributed later this
month.
c. Director Enyia shared the ILCC has nothing pending in Veto Session.
d. Sarah Hunger Deputy Solicitor General of the Attorney General’s Office
presented a review on the Lebamoff case.

 III.

Enforcement Division
a. The ILCC completed 133 SAM compliance checks, 20 failed. Ten compliance
checks were repeat violators, 2 violated again. This gives a repeat violator
compliance rate of 85%.

IV.

Licensing Division
a. The percentage of online renewals is 74%, a 7.2% increase from August 2018.
b. Mrs. Marijan also provided a report of all new licenses issued for August 2019.
c. In August 2019 the ILCC issued 243 new licenses across all categories.

V.

Industry Education
a. The total number of BASSET applicants trained in August 2019 was 8,447.
b. The total number of BASSET applicants in the look up is 281,610.

VI.

Legal Division

a. A motion was made by Commissioner Gibbons to approve the Administrative
Law Judge tax cases recommendations: D.A.S Radler, & CEB Ventures. CEB
Ventures recommendation was extended to October 16, 2019. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Spann Cooper. The motion was unanimously
approved.
b. A motion was made by Commissioner Spann Cooper to approve the
Administrative Law Judge tax cases recommendations: Pal Joey’s Inc. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Gibbons. The motion was unanimously
approved.
c. A motion was made by Commissioner Gibbons to approve the Administrative
Law Judge tax cases recommendations: Chicago Prime Steakhouse & Warner’s
MVP Lounge. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Pulido Sanchez. The
motion was unanimously approved.
d. A motion was made by Commissioner Gibbons to approve the Administrative
Law Judge default recommendations. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Pulido Sanchez. The motion was unanimously approved.

 e. A motion was made by Commissioner Gibbons to approve the Appeal dismissal
of Justice Social Club 18CA03. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Pulido Sanchez. The motion was unanimously approved.
VII.

VIII.

Public Comment

Closing Remarks and Adjournment to Hearing
a. Commissioner Gibbons made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Motion was
seconded by Commissioner Pulido Sanchez. Motion unanimously approved.

ATTEST:

_______________________________
Meagan Sharkey, Acting Commission Secretary

 