Executive Committee Agenda
Tuesday, November 19th, 2019 - 8:30 am-10:00 am
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce - 1414 N. Ashland Ave.
In attendance: David Ginople (Commission Chair), Wayne Janik (Treasurer), Marcy Huttas
(Secretary)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager), Pamela Maass
(WPBCC Executive Director)
Guests: Alma Wieser (Heaven Gallery), Kyle Sneed (Wicker Park Committee), Jane Wenger,
(Resident), Claudia Langham (Resident), Catherine Caravette (Resident),

1. Proposals
Motion 1: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $1,825.00 budget
line 1.02 (Special Events) for the 2019 WPBCC + SSA joint holiday party to be held at
Exchange 312 on December 11th. (19-1106)
DG motions. WJ seconds. All in favor. MOTION PASSES.
Motion 2: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $41,600 from
budget line 2.08 (Sidewalk Maintenance & Liter Abatement) from the 2020 Budget for
Cleanslate’s 2020 Wicker Park AfterDark contract extension. (19-1107)
DG motions. WJ seconds. All in favor. MOTION PASSES.
Motion 3: The Executive Committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $8,000 from
budget line 2.06 (Public Art) for Terry Karpowicz to remove Wicker Tree art installation from
Wicker Park until the canopy is fully completed. (19-1108)
DG motions. WJ seconds. All in favor. MOTION PASSES.

AW and her board presented on their proposal for funding for a Community Art Center in Wicker
Park. This proposal requested between $10,000 and $40,000 in funding for a new art center
including items such as rent, purchase of property, and staff salaries.
a. The committee and staff explained that these items are not appropriate for SSA
funding, do not fit into any of SSA #33’s protocol for awarding funding to outside
entities, and are not in the SSA’s budget.
b. MH, DG and staff gave the group advice on how to take advantage of the
Community Grant Program (up to $5,000 annually per organization) for funding
programming and outreach that could assist fundraising for new center
c. MH also mentioned that the SSA accepts façade rebate applications, staff
pointed out that the Lubinski Furniture Building received a façade rebate within
the last couple of years and will not be eligible for this rebate for a while.
DG, MH and WJ all agree that the proposal in its current form is not eligible for SSA
funding. Proposal rejected.

 2. 2020 Schedule
Motion 4: The Executive Committee moves to approve the proposed 2020 SSA Commission
Meeting schedule.
DG motions. WJ seconds. All in favor. MOTION PASSES.
3. Wicker Tree Updates
a. Staff discussed the Wicker Tree with Claire Rodriguez and Michael Dimitroff from
the Parks District.
b. The artist, Mike Helbing is having health issues and cannot complete the canopy
in his current state.
c. They agreed this project should be removed until the canopy is completed and
are willing to have it reinstalled when the time comes.
4. December 2019 Schedule
a. The committee discussed the proposed changes for December’s meetings.
i. Both Arts and Promote Committee will meet in December.
ii. There will only be a Commission meeting if it’s necessary.
5. Wicker Park Gurgoyle Fountain Restoration
a. The committee agreed to delay the discussion until Spring of 2020 when the
Wicker Park Fountain is running again and the SSA has budget for repairs
b. They would also like to meet with Andjrez from CSoS to discuss the request for
$28,800 in additional funding before voting on it, as they would like his advise on
how to fix other issues that weren’t rectified in the initial fountain restoration.
6. Follow-up Grants for 2019 Community Grants
a. AH and GK shared list of 2019 Community Grant recipients that haven’t
submitted their follow-up reports after multiple reminders
b. Promote Committee has suggested that if they missed the deadline, they don’t
receive their follow-up payments
c. DG asked if this meant they are also ineligible for funding the following year
i. GK said that will probably be the case but its up to Promote Committee
(or Grants/Rebates Committee)
7. Online Rebate forms
a. GK said that he feels like the forms are ready but could use an extra set of eyes
with background in construction/architecture/contracting
b. PM and DG suggested sharing with Sam Marts and David Stearns
c. GK would like this to go live on the website by Jan 1

8. UPDATE: Holiday Decorations
a. GK provided an update on the timing of installation for the new snowflake holiday
decorations – they should be up immediately before or after Thanksgiving

 