301 East Cennak Road
Corporate Boardroom, Floor
Chicago. IL 60616

mum-mum


Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
August 7, 2019 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; Don Villar, Vice Chairman; Jorge Ramirez, Secretary/Treasurer;

Roger J. Kiley; Terrance B. McGann*; Juan A. Ochoa
?Teleconference

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Lan'ta Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer; David Winters, Chief Operations Of?cer;
David Causton, SMGIMcConnick Place; Matthew Simmons, Acting General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of
Procurement; Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security Of?cer; Samina Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Jeanette Swan,
Director of Internal Audit; Stephanie Lovelace-Nieves, Controller; Jason Borrnann, Director of Treasury and Capital
Management; Tiffany Petties, Business Diversity Program Manager; Nicol Chervenak, Director of Planning and
Program Management; Kevin Lavin, Utilities Infrastructure Manager; Lisa Nelson, Project Coordinator; David Whitaker,
Choose Chicago; Marc Anderson, Choose Chicago; Joseph T. Scheper, SMGIMcConnick Place; Doug Bradley, Savor",
Rufus Pumell, Resident; Maurice Perkins, Inner City; Daniel Wolk, City Bureau; Theodore Ledford; McCafferty,
Hawthorne Strategy Group, Inc. Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

Chairman Hart asked for a motion to permit Member McGann to participate via teleconference. Upon motion duly made
by Member Villar and seconded by Member Ochoa, the remaining members present unanimously voted passing the
motion.

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the June 6, 2019.

Moved by Member Villar, seconded by Member Ramirez, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

A3. Public Comment.

Mr. Perkins form Inner City addressed the Board to request their support for the development project
located at 49th Street and State Street. Mr. Perkins requested a letter of support for the development
and the possibility of forming an advisory council for the project.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey reported on her City Club of Chicago event. Ms. Healey presented her CEO Report,
which included, City Club of Chicago; ComplexCon Chicago; Bird Sanctuary article form the Reader; Chris Lederer,
Executive Sous Chief of Marriott Marquis Chicago; Mother Wade at McCormick Place news report from Channel 7
ABC Chicago; WGN9 Around Town previews the Outside Experience at McCormick Place; and Crain's Chicago
Business article ?ve-point plan to radically rebrand Chicago.? Ms. Healey stated Gold Star families were hosted on
campus for an evening Luau BBQ during Fourth of July. Ms. Healey stated MPEA moved into their new of?ces at the
ABC Building on August 1st.


September 24, 2019

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5ih Floor
Chicago, lL 60616


"Min-H

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the preliminary ?nancial results for June 2019 and the tax collections for June
2019.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton reported the Customer Advisory Board Meeting was held on August 1st.
Mr. Causton stated the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) and the lntemational Manufacturing Technology
Show had committed to McCormick Place until 2026. Mr. Causton stated the Nike National Invitational Tournament
had 28,000 women athletes participate. Mr. Causton stated the following shows were hosted on campus: ASI Show
Chicago; Outside Experience; Humana Rock Roll Chicago Health Fitness Expo; IAVM VenueConnect;
ComplexCon; PartyLite Gifts, Inc.; and Global Business Travel Association. Mr. Causton stated Wintrust Arena hosted
the Chicago Sky, K-Pop and The Basketball Toumament. Mr. Causton stated American Idol auditions would take place
on September 21st on campus.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss item C1. Upon
motion duly made by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Villar, and the remaining members present unanimously
voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.
Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:
C1. Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the June 6, 2019 Regular Board Meeting.

Moved by Member Villar, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item C1.

D1. Consideration of Approval of New Contract - Construction Manager at Risk 3rd Floor Corporate
Center - Tap@Hyatt.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D1.

D2. Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Financial Advisory Services.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D2.

D3. Consideration of Approval of Pre-Quali?ed Vendors and Delegation of Authority for Contract Award
MPEA Natural Gas Supply Contract.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D3.

Adjournment

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Villar, and the meeting
was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

 

Approved: September 24, 2019 Secretary/Treasurer oUssistanl? Secretary


September 24,2019

