 A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
Wmmu Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY I- a MICHIGAN 48226

BUII DINGS, AND .113) 224-0484 - 

VW't't 

   

Date: October 3 l, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 12301 Gratiot
NAME: Metro Building Group LLC
Demolition Ordered: November 5, 2012

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on October 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of" the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the deferral request for this
property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within Leg (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45] calendar
da s, for the duration of the rehabilitation work. to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six months, at which
time the owner will obtain one ofthe following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
a Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_H rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end ofthe deferral period. the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions ofthe deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
ofthe deferral are not followed. the deferral may he rescinded by the City Council at any time and We may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respectfully submitted,




David Bell
Director

DB:bkd
cc: Metro Building Group LLC, 1600 Clay, Detroit, MI 4821 I

ATTN: Dennis Kefallinos
CLERK HUU 15 9M3i44

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-0484 - 1


   

   

CITY OF DETROIT
BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND 

Date: November 8, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 15084 Washburn
NAME: Nouveau Virage LLC
Demolition Ordered: July 15, 2019

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on November 7, 2019, revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The
owner has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 2?d deferral request for
this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within furty~?ve (45) calendar days from the date ofthe rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
da s, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result ofa Housing Inspection
- Certificate of Compliance, required for a_1  rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSE ED and request to extend the deferral period.
We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.
At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satisfied and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without

further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

 

David Bell
Director



cc: Nouveau Virage LLC, 15084 Washburn, Detroit, MI 48238
Noubrsu Virage LLC, 302 S. Main-#200, Royal Oak, MI 48067
Shawn Reed, 16620 Green?eld, Detroit, MI 48235

CLERK Ema HCIU 15 map-1,5

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL mm Ml MI (313) 224-0484 - 


   

Date: October 31, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 2800 Standish
NAME: Harmonie Plaza INC
Demolition Ordered: May 21, 2018

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on October 16, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 2"d deferral request for this

 

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forIv-?ve (45) calendar days from the date ofthe rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

- Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
a Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respectfully submitted,

M@mm 32527!

David Bell
Director



cc: Harmonie Plaza INC, 743 Beubien-STE 201, Detroit, MI 48226
Dennis Kefallinos, 1600 Clay, Detroit, MI 48211

HDU CLE- I 45

SUMMARY

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 6 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Animal Care,
Control and Regulation; Article Dangerous Animals; by amending Section 6?3-1 to add a
provision to be known as ?Emma?s Clause? in honor and memory of Emma Valentina Hernandez,
the nine year old girl that was mauled to death on August 19, 2019, when multiple dogs escaped a
neighbor?s yard; to require mandatory actions as part of the Detroit Animal Care and Control
Division investigation and evaluation of a veri?able complaint of a dangerous animal; to set forth
such mandatory actions such as visit(s) to the residential address, and a requirement that notes and
photographs be taken; posting of notice to contact the Animal Care and Control Division within a
set timeframe from the posting of notice; and to establish an accelerated procedure to address an
individual?s failure to contact the Animal Care and Control Division.

A19-00711 i 11/13/19

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 6 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Animal Care,
Control and Regulation; Article Dangerous Animals; by amending Section 6-3-1 to add a
provision to be known as ?Emma?s Clause? in honor and memory of Emma Valentina Hernandez,
the nine year old girl that was mauled to death on August 19, 2019, when multiple dogs escaped a
neighbor?s yard; to require mandatory actions as part of the Detroit Animal Care and Control
Division investigation and evaluation of a veri?able complaint of a dangerous animal; to set forth
such mandatory actions such as visit(s) to the residential address, and a requirement that notes and
photographs be taken; posting of notice to contact the Animal Care and Control Division within a
set timeframe from the posting of notice; and to establish an accelerated procedure to address an
individual?s failure to contact the Animal Care and Control Division.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1: That Chapter 6 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Animal Care, Control, and
Regulation; Article Dangerous Animals; is amended by amending Section 6-3-1 to read as
follows:

CHAPTER 6. ANIMAL CARE, CONTROL, AND REGULATION
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-3-1. Dangerous animal investigation; determination by the Administrator or the
Administrator's designee; Emma?s Clause requiring mandatory contact with Animal Care
and Control Division; appeal of dangerous animal determination; treatment of animals
issued dangerous animal determination; treatment of animals seized or surrendered prior to

dangerous animal determination.

A19-00711 1 11/13/19

Upon the receipt of a veri?able complaint from an individual or other report of an
attack, a bite, a dog ?ght, an injury, an observation of threatening behavior, or other reason to
cause a reasonable person to believe that a dog or other animal may be dangerous, the Animal Care
and Control Division shall evaluate the complaint or report and, where the factual circumstances
warrant, may conduct a dangerous animal investigation. Where practicable, the investigation shall
include interviewing the complainant, any victim or Victims of the attack or animal bite and any
witness or witnesses who observed the subject animal, and visiting the scene where the reported
incident took place.

This subsection shall be known as ?Emma?s Clause? in honor and memorv of
Emma Valentina Hernandez, a nine vear old girl that was mauled to death on August 19, 2019,
when multiple dogs escaped a neighbor?s vard.

Upon the receipt of a veri?able complaint from an individual regarding_an
unsecured or inadequate enclosure er fencing to contain an animal at a residential location, or other
reason to cause a reasonable person to believe that a dog or other animal may be dangerous, the
Animal Care and Control Division shall evaluate the complaint or report and, where the factual
circumstances warrant, shall conduct a dangerous animal investigation which shall include:

a. A mandatorv visit to the residential address to make contact with owner of
the property or the owner of the animal:

b. During the visit to the residential address, the animal control of?cer or
investigator shall observe. note and photograph the enclosure or fencing to

contain an animal at a residential location to assist in the determination of

its suf?ciency;

A19-00711 2 11/13/19

personal contact cannot be made with the owner of the property or the
owner of the animal, a notice shall be posted at the residence requiring that
the owner of the pronertv or the owner of the animal contact Animal Care
and Control Division within 48 hours of the date of the posting;

d. After the expiration of the 43 hour period and without contact from the
owner of the property or the owner of the animal at that residential address,
the Animal Care and Control Division may attempt a second visit or, with
the assistance of the Law Department. initiate show cause proceedings at
36?? District Court, or both.

The Animal Care and Control Division investigator who is assigned to the
dangerous animal investigation shall make a written recommendation concerning the incident and
the animal and whether the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, should issue a
dangerous animal determination, including the factual basis for the recommendation. For purposes



of making a recommendation under this section, the investigating of?cer may review and rely
upon a written police report concerning an animal attack, bite, threatening behavior, or other
observation that an animal may be dangerous. Any animal that is the subject of a dangerous animal
investigation shall not be moved or harbored at another location, excepting transport to a licensed
veterinary facility for purposes of a rabies quarantine, or have its ownership transferred, pending
the outcome of the investigation or any hearings related to the determination of whether the animal
is a dangerous animal under this section.

The Administrator or the Administrator's designee, shall review the
recommendation contained in the dangerous animal investigation, and, after such review, shall

have the authority to issue a dangerous animal determination concerning the subject dog or animal.

A19-00711 3 11/13/19

Upon a dangerous animal determination, the Animal Care and Control Division
shall provide the owner of the animal a written noti?cation of the determination by ?rst class mail.
Within ten days from the date of the receipt of the mailing, the owner of the animal may ?le a
written request for a hearing to review the determination at the 36th District Court. Pending any
hearing or resolution on the dangerous animal determination, the animal shall be con?ned in
accordance with the requirements imposed by the Administrator or the Administrator's designee,
pursuant to Section 6-3-2 of this Code, including con?nement in a securely fenced or enclosed
area. Where the owner fails to request a hearing within the ten-day period after receipt of the notice,
the dangerous animal determination made by the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee,
shall become ?nal and the animal shall be issued a dangerous animal determination under this
section.

(1) Where the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, makes a dangerous
animal determination under Subsection (6 d) of this section and the animal has caused severe injury
or death to any person or animal, the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, may seek an
order from the 36th District Court to euthanize the animal. Where the Administrator, or the
Administrator's designee, makes a second dangerous animal determination under Subsection (C)
of this section for a subsequent incident-the Administrator. or the Administrator's designee, may
seek an order from the 36th District Court to euthanize the animal. The Administrator, or the
Administrator's designee, shall take into consideration the severity and the total circumstances of
injury to any person or to any animal prior to seeking review and shall abide by the procedures
and judgment of the 36th District Court if order to euthanize the animal is sought.

Whenever an animal is seized or brought to the Animal Care and Control Division

for having attacked or bitten a person or another animal, the Animal Care and Control Division

A19-00711 4 11/13/19

shall hold and care for the animal during the pendency of a dangerous animal determination. The
Animal shall not be released unless:

(I) The owner enters into an agreement with Administrator, or the Administrator's

designee, pursuant to Section 6-3-2 of this Code; or
(2) An order from the 36th District Court compels release ofthe animal to the owner.

(Li) No animal held by the Animal Care and Control Division for a dangerous animal
determination shall be euthanized prior to receipt of an order from the 36th District Court.
Secs. 6-3-4--6?3-20. Reserved.

Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare of the PeOple of the City of Detroit.

Section 3. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 4. In the event this ordinance is passed by two?thirds majority ofCity Council
Member serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon publication in
accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is passed
by less than a two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become effective
on the thirtieth (30) day after enactment, or on the ?rst business day thereafter, in accordance with

Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

Al9?00711 5 11/13/19

[20



This proposed ordinance amends Chapter 6 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Animal Care.
Control and Regulation, by amending Article 1., In General, to amend Section 6-1-2, De?nitions;
to amend Section 6-1-3, Violations and penalties; to amend Section 6-1-4, Animal Care and
Control Division; authorization and en?trcement; minimum employment standards for animal
control o?icers; right of entry upon probable cause; interference with o??icer; damage to property;
fees; rules; to amend Section 6-1-5, Owning, harboring, keeping, maintaining, selling. or
transferring of farm or wild animals prohibited; exception for circuses, zoos, and other approved
activities; separate violations for each animal; disposition of animals in violation of this section;
to amend Section 6-1-6, Owning, harboring, keeping, or maintaining of reptiles or serpents
prohibited; exceptions; separate violations for each reptile or serpent; to amend Section 6-1?7,
Certain animals declared public nuisances; abatement; animal waste; responsibility ?tr removal
of waste; prohibition of unapproved kennels; to amend Section 6-1 -9, lmpoundment; release and
adoption; to amend Section 6-1-10, Records and reports; by amending Article II., Proper
Treatment and Transportation of Animals, to amend Section 6-2-1. Duty of care over animals;
neglect; abandonment; overcrowding of animals; to amend Section 6-2-3, Treatment of stray dogs;
to amend Section 6-2-4, Sale of baby chicks, baby rabbits, ducklings, or other fowl as pets or
novelties prohibited; by amending Article Dangerous Animals; to amend Section 6-3-1,
Dangerous animal investigation; determination by the Administrator or the Administrator?s
designee; appeal of dangerous animal determination; treatment of animals issued a dangerous
animal determination; treatment of animals seized or surrendered prior to dangerous animal
determination; to amend Section 6-3-2, Animals issued dangerous animal determination;
requirements for owners of animals issued dangerous animal determination; to amend Section 6-
3-3, Violations involving animals issued dangerous animal determination; failure to comply with
requirements; seizure; order to euthanize animal; to add Section 6-3-4, Vicious animals
prohibited; exceptions; by amending Article IV., Animal Control Shelter; to amend Section 6-4-2,
Neutering and spaying clinic; to amend Section 6-4-3, Seizure, capture, impoundment, and
harboring of stray animals; to amend Section 6-4-5, Redemption and release fees; to amend
Section 6-4- 6, Disposition upon failure to redeem, sale or transfer of live animals for research
prohibited, neutering, spaying licensing, and vaccination prior to release; by amending Article
V., Licensing and Control of Dogs to amend section 6-5-1, Dog license requirements; rabies
vaccination requirements; limitation on number of licenses issued to a residence; disposition of
licensed dogs; impoundment of unlicensed dogs; to amend Section 6-5-2, Rabies control
requirements for dogs over the age of four months; waiver of vaccination fee; to amend 6-5-4, Dog
license application; issuance and expiration of licenses; to amend Section 6-5-5, Dog license fees;
to amend Section 6-5-6, License tags; license and tags not transferable; use of microchips;
transfer of microchip registration; to add Section 6-5-7, Breeders permit required; application; to
relocate Article VI., Urban Farm Animals, and restate as Article Urban Farm Animals, to
add Article VI., Rescue Organizations; to add Section 6-6-1, Registration required; to add Section
6-6-2, Registration; information required; to add Section 6-6-3, Foster home permits issues to
animal rescue organizations; animal limit; license; to add Section 6-6?4, Foster home permit
required; to modify, repeal and add de?nitions; to modify violations and penalties; to require
reporting of efforts to ?ll a vacancy in the position of Administrator and list potential fees to be
established; to modify the complaint, hearing and remedial measures for a nuisance animal

Al9-007ll i ll/l4ll9

determination; to modify impoundment and release provisions; to add additional reporting
requirements; to modify the number of permitted animals of the same species in a single residence;
to require licensing and registration; to add categories of potentially dangerous animals and vicious
animals; to modify the dangerous dog provisions; to establish complaint, investigation, hearing
and appeal provisions for categories of determinations; to add categories of potentially dangerous
animals and vicious animals to determinations and set forth requirements for owners of such
animals; to establish euthanasia shall only be conducted by a licensed veterinarian or the Animal
Care and Control Division; to establish a reckless owner designation and set forth procedures; to
prohibit vicious animals and set forth exceptions; to modify dog license application and issuance
requirements and the maximum number of licenses per single residence; to require rabies
vaccinations be administered by a licensed veterinarian; to require that information on license
applications be updated in the event such information changes; to require that the Animal Care and
Control Division provide a veterinarian to administer vaccinations; to provide for the transfer of
licenses by the Animal Care and Control Division from a rescue organization to an individual that
has adopted an animal; to modify dog license fees including renewal fees; to require external
identification tags corresponding to a determination issued regarding an animal; to require a
breeders permit, establish an application process and set forth applicable regulations; to establish
requirements for rescue organization registration, foster home permits, and set forth foster home
animal limits, and to update language, delete duplicative or obsolete language, and make other
technical revisions.

A19-0071 1 ii 11/14/19

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 6 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Animal Care,
Control and Regulation, by amending Article 1., In General, to amend Section 6-1-2, De?nitions;
to amend Section 6-1-3, Violations and penalties; to amend Section 6?1-4, Animal Care and
Control Division; authorization and enforcement; minimum employment standards for animal
control o?icers; right of entry upon probable cause; interference with o?icer; damage to property;
?ees; rules; to amend Section 6?1-5, Owning. harboring, keeping, maintaining, selling, or
transferring of farm or wild animals prohibited; exception for circuses, zoos. and other approved
activities; separate violations for each animal; disposition of animals in violation of this section;
to amend Section 6-1-6, Owning, harboring, keeping, or maintaining of reptiles or serpents
prohibited; exceptions; separate violations for each reptile or serpent; to amend Section 6-1-7,
Certain animals declared public nuisances; abatement; animal waste; responsibility for removal
of waste; prohibition of unapproved kennels; to amend Section 6-1-9, Impoundment; release and
adoption; to amend Section 6?1?10, Records and reports; by amending Article 11., Proper
Treatment and Transportation of Animals, to amend Section 6-2-1. Duty of care over animals;
neglect; abandonment; overcrowding of animals; to amend Section 6-2-3, Treatment of stray dogs;
to amend Section 6-2-4, Sale of baby chicks, baby rabbits, ducklings, or other fowl as pets or
novelties prohibited; by amending Article Dangerous Animals; to amend Section 6-3-1,
Dangerous animal investigation; determination by the Administrator or the Administrator's
designee; appeal of dangerous animal determination; treatment of animals issued a dangerous
animal determination; treatment of animals seized or surrendered prior to dangerous animal
determination; to amend Section 6-3-2, Animals issued dangerous animal determination;

requirements for owners of animals issued dangerous animal determination; to amend Section 6-

A19-00711 I 11/14/19

3-3, Violations involving animals issued dangerous animal determination; failure to comply with
requirements; seizure; order to euthanize animal; to add Section 6-3-4, Vicious animals
prohibited; exceptions; by amending Article IV., Animal Control Shelter; to amend Section 6-4-2,
Neutering and spaying clinic; to amend Section 6-4-3, Seizure, capture, impoundment, and
harboring of stray animals; to amend Section 6-4-5, Redemption and release fees; to amend
Section 6-4-6, Disposition upon failure to redeem; sale or transfer of live animals for research
prohibited; neutering, spaying, licensing, and vaccination prior to release; by amending Article
V., Licensing and Control of Dogs; to amend Section 6-5-1, Dog license requirements; rabies
vaccination requirements; limitation on number of licenses issued to a residence; disposition of
licensed dogs; impoundment of unlicensed dogs; to amend Section 6-5-2, Rabies control
requirements for dogs over the age of four months; waiver of vaccination fee; to amend 6-5-4, Dog
license application; issuance and expiration of licenses; to amend Section 6-5-5, Dog license fees;
to amend Section 6-5-6, License tags; license and tags not transferable; use of microchips;
transfer of microchip registration; to add Section 6-5-7, Breeders permit required; application; to
relocate Article VI., Urban Farm Animals, and restate as Article Urban Farm Animals, to
add Article VL, Rescue Organizations; to add Section 6-6-1, Registration required; to add Section
Registration; information required; to add Section 6-6-3, Foster home permits issues to
animal rescue organizations; animal limit; license; to add Section 6-6-4, Foster home permit
required; to modify, repeal and add de?nitions; to modify violations and penalties; to require
reporting of efforts to ?ll a vacancy in the position of Administrator and list potential fees to be
established; to modify the complaint, hearing and remedial measures for a nuisance animal
determination; to modify impoundment and release provisions; to add additional reporting

requirements; to modify the number of permitted animals of the same species in a single residence;

2 11/14/19

require licensing and registration; to add categories of potentially dangerous animals and vicious
animals; to modify the dangerous dog provisions; to establish complaint, investigation, hearing
and appeal provisions for categories of determinations; to add categories of potentially dangerous
animals and vicious animals to determinations and set forth requirements for owners of such
animals; to establish euthanasia shall only be conducted by a licensed veterinarian or the Animal
Care and Control Division; to establish a reckless owner designation and set forth procedures; to
prohibit vicious animals and set forth exceptions; to modify dog license application and issuance
requirements and the maximum number of licenses per single residence; to require rabies
vaccinations be administered by a licensed veterinarian; to require that information on license
applications be updated in the event such information changes; to require that the Animal Care and
Control Division provide a veterinarian to administer vaccinations; to provide for the transfer of
licenses by the Animal Care and Control Division from a rescue organization to an individual that
has adopted an animal; to modify dog license fees including renewal fees; to require external
identification tags corresponding to a determination issued regarding an animal; to require a
breeders permit, establish an application process and set forth applicable regulations; to establish
requirements for rescue organization registration, foster home permits, and set forth foster home
animal limits, and to update language, delete duplicative or obsolete language, and make other
technical revisions.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1: That Chapter 6 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Animal Control, Regulation, and
Care, is amended by amending the chapter, as follows:

CHAPTER 6. ANIMAL CARE, CONTROL, AND REGULATION

ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL

A19-007ll 3 11/14/19





Sec. 6-1-2. De?nitions.

For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings

respectively ascribed to them by this section:

hours.

Abandonment means an owner leaving an animal unattended for at least 72 consecutive

Adequate Shelter means provision of and access to shelter that is:

Suitable for the Species, age, condition, size, and pipe of each animal;

(2) Provides adequate space for each animal;

Is safe and protects each animal from iniurvt raianleet. snow. hail, direct sunlight.
the adverse effects of heat or cold, physical suffering, and impairment of health;

14! Is properly lighted;

Is properly cleaned:
(6) Enables each animal to be clean and drv, except when detrimental to the species;
(7) During hot weather, is properlv shaded and does not readilv conduct heat;

(3) During_cold weather, has a windbreak at its entrance and provides a quantitv of

bedding material consisting of straw, cedar shavings. or the equivalent that is
sufficient to protect the animal ??om cold and promote the retention of body heat;

_an_d

 

(9) For dogs and cats. provides a solid surface. resting platform. pad, floor mat. or

similar device that is large enough for the animal to lie on in a normal manner and
can be maintained in a sanity manner.

Al9-00711 4 11/14/19

Under this chapter, shelters whose wire. arid. or slat floors ti) permit the animals' feet to

pass through the openings, sag under the animals' weight, or otherwise do not protect the

animals' feet or toes from iniurv are not adequate shelter.

Adaguate space means suf?cient space to allow each animal to:

11 I Easily stand, sit, lie, tum about, and make all other normal body movements in a
comfortable, normal position for the animal; and

[21 Interact safer with other animals in the enclosure.

Administrator means the individual with direct supervisory control over the Animal Care

and Control Division.

Adoption means the transfer of ownership of a cat or dog, or other animal permitted under

this code. from a releasing agencv to an individual.

Altered means an animal that has been neutered or spayed by a veterinarian licensed to
practice veterinarv medicine.

Animal means any living domesticated or wild invertebrate or vertebrate, excluding
humans.

Animal Care and Control Division means the division of the Health Department, or such
other designated City department or agency, authorized to administer and enforce the provisions
of this chapter.

Animml Contra! Investigator means any person employed or appointed bv the Citv who is

authorized to hivestigate and enforce violations under the provisions of this Chapter. investigate

complaints in compliance with legal enforcement procedures and conduct seizure of property and
animals pursuant to dangerous animal provisions.

Animal Control O??icer mea_ns anv person emoloved or appointed bv the Citv who is

A19-0071l 5 ll/l4/l9

authorized to investigate and enforce violations under the provisions of this Chapter.

Animal Control Shelter means the animal control shelter established, operated, and
maintained by the City pursuant to Article IV of this chapter.

Business License Center means the division of the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department, or such other designated City department or agency, authorized to
issue business licenses.

Danger-ans animal means an animal that:

(1) Has attacked. bitten, or otherwise caused iniurv to a person without provocatiopLor

Has attacked, bitten. or otherwise caused iniurv to another domesticated animal

without provocation: or

Has chased or approached anv person on one or more occasion and without

provocation on any public property. or on anv private propertv that is not the
property of the animal?s owner. in an apparent attempt to attack or iniure the person.

Companion animal means an animal that is commonhr considered to be, or is considered
bv its owner to be. a pet, or that is a service animal. Companion animal includes, but is not limited
to, dogs and cats. A companion animal shall not include a farm animal, urban farm animal. or
wild animal.

Dangerous animal determination means a written declaration or order issued by the
Administrator, or the Administrator?s designee, ?nding that a?dog?er?othef animal is a
dangerous animal as de?ned bv this article beame?the?degoeother?animale

 

 

Al9-00711 6 

Department means the Health Department, or successor department, with administrative
oversight and control of the Animal Care and Control Division.

Domesticated animal means any animal which is accustomed to living in an environment
managed by humans and is suitable for the purpose of human companionship or service.

Enclosure or primary enclosure means for an animal that has not been determined to be
potentiallv danaerous or dangerous under this Chapter. a pen or structure used to con?ne an animal

out of doors that is kept in a sanitagg condition, provides adequate space. is properly lighted and
provides adeguate shelter. In addition to the foregoing, an enclosure or primag: enclosure for an

animal determined to be potentially dangerous or dannerous under this Chapter shall also be

reguired to have appropriate signage, be a minimum of six feet in height and constructed so that

the sides shall be embedded into the around bv a depth of at least two feet or be constructed on

and secured to a concrete pad. that has a complete, secure top to prevent escape and is locked to

prevent accidental access or escaoe.

 

 

Farm animal means, but is not limited to, a cow, a donkey, a goat, a horse, a llama, a mule,
a pony, poultry, sheep, swine, or any animal held or raised for purposes of food or other

commercial consumption.

Foster care provider means a person or entitv that provides ca_re or rehabilitation for

companion animals through an af?liation with a public or private animal shelter, home-based

rescue. releasingagencv. or other animal welfare cruanization and accents the responsibilitv and

stewardship of animals, not to exceed the number of animals permitted pursuant to Section 6-2-

Al9-007ll 7 ll/l4/l9

this Code.

Foster home means a private residential dwellingand its surrounding grounds. or any
facilitv other than a public orprivate animal shelter, at which site through an af?liation with a
public or private animal shelter. home?based rescue, releasing agency, or other animal welfare
organization care or rehabilitation is provided for companion animals.

Impounded means an animal con?ned, kept, and maintained by the Animal Care and
Control Division, bv anv police of?cer. animal control of?cer or any other public of?cer under
the provisions of this Chapter.

Kennel means any facility, except a duly licensed pet shop, where three or more licensed
dogs or household animals are boarded, con?ned, kept, or maintained for remuneration for the
purpose of breeding, boarding, sale, sporting, or any commercial or training purposes.

Licensed dog means a dog currently licensed by the Animal Care and Control Division 
any unexpired dog license issued and valid for dogs temporarilv in the Citv under Section 6-5-3
of this Code.

Licensee means any person or premises licensed under this chapter.

Muzzle means a device constructed of strong. soft material or of metal, designed to fasten
over the mouth of an animal that prevents the animal from biting anv person or other animal and
that does not cause injury to the animal or impair its vision or respiration.

Neglect, means as likewise de?ned by Section 50 of the Michigan Penal Code, being MCL
750.50, to fail to suf?ciently and properly care for an animal to the extent that the animal?s health
is jeopardized.

Neuter, neutered, or neutering means to make a male animal incapable of reproducing.

Nuisance animal means an animal running at large on public property or anv private

Al9-00711 8 11/14/19

Iproperty that is not the property of its owner or keeper. whose behavior constitutes a nuisance,

which includes:

Making phvsical contact with a person or other domesticated animal in a harassing

manner

 

(2) Unreasonahlv disturbs or annoys the quiet. comfort. and repose of persons in the

vicinity by loud, freguent, habitual, or repeated barking, howling, or yelping;

3 Defecatin without all feces bein immediate] and ro erl removed and dis used
of in a sanitary manner or digging Upon any building, lawn, plant, shrub, tree, or
any other public propertv or private property, that is not the propenv of the owner:
9;

14} Damaging inanimate personal property.

Nuisance animal determination means a written declaration or order issued by the
Administrator. or the Administrator?s designee. ?nding that a dog or other animal is a nuisance
animal as de?ned by this article.

O??zredfor sole means all animals found on the premises indicated on the license or
licenses of a pet shop, except those of diseased, maimed, or sick animals that are housed in an
entirely separate part of the premises or in cages or kennels with a "not for sale" sign attached to
the front of each cage or kennel.

Owner means, when applied to the proprietorship of an animal, every person,
partnership, or corporation having a right of property in the animal, every-person o_r who keeps or
harbors an animal, or Elm has eta?animal in ehe?persenls care or control, or acts as its
custodian, sodomy?person who knowingly permits an animal to remain at or about any

premises occupied by the person.

Al9?007ll 9 11/14/19

Pet shop means any building, enclosure, lot, place, or structure, where birds, cats, dogs,
?sh, rabbits, and other animals are offered for sale to the public.

Potentially dangerous aniinai means an animal that:

Without provocation, chases or menaces a person or domesticated animal in an

aggressive manner. causina iniurv to a person or domesticated animal:

(2) In a menacing manner. approaches without provocation anv person or domesticated

animal as if to attack; or

(3) Has_ demonstrated a prouensitv to attack without provocation or otherwise to

endanger the safety of human beings or domesticated animals.

Potentialiv dangerous animal determination means a written declaration or order issued
bv the Administrator. or the Administrator?s desitmcc. ?nding that a dog or other animal is a
potentially dangerous animal as de?ned by this chapter.

Properiv ciganed means that carcasses. debris. food waste. and excrement are removed
from the primarv enclosure with suf?cient frequencv to minimize the animals? contact with the
above-mentioned contaminants; the primarv enclosure is sanitized with suf?cient frequencv to
minimize odors and the hazards of disease: and the primarv enclosure is cleaned so as to prevent
the animals con?ned therein from beinadirectlv or indirectlv soraved with the stream of water. or
directiv or indirectlv exposed to hazardous chemicals or disinfectants.

Provocation means anv action or activity, whether intentional or unintentional, which
would be reasonany expected to cause a normal animal in similar circumstances to react in a
manner similar to that exhibited by the animal.

Quarantine means to con?ne and isolate for the purpose of detecting and preventing the

transmission of rabies.

Al9-00711 10 11/14/19

Releasing agency means either a public animal shelter or a private animal shelter. humane
society. animal welfare organization. societv for the prevention of crueltv to animals. or other
similar entitv or home-based rescue that releases companion animals for adoption that is registered
as required bv applicable state and local law. A shall be registered with federal,
state and agencies for charitable solicitation pugposes.

Rescue organization means a person or group of persons who hold themselves out as an
animal rescue. accept or solicit dogs. cats or other animals with the intention of ?nding permanent

adoptive homes or providinajfelong care for such dogs, cats or other animals. or who use foster

homes as the primarv means of housing dogs. cats or other animals. A rescue organization shall

be registered with federal, state and appropriate agencies for charitable solicitation pumoses.

Retractable leash means a handheld animal restraint that attaches to the collar of an animal
with an internally housed cord, belt, tape, or other retractable material, which may be extended,
retracted, or locked at various 

Residence means an apartment, dwelling, ?at, house, or other building or structure where
one or more persons reside.

Restraint means a device, enclosure, or structure such as a cage, corral, fenced enclosure,
house, pen, or vehicle without means of escape, or a leash or other form of cable, rope, or tether
or secure attachment, used to securely and safety con?ne an animal.

Sanitary condition means. when referring to an enclosed area. one that has been sanitized
and proocrlv cleaned at least once dailv. kept in a condition of good order to minimize the

possibility of disease transmission and maintained in a state that is appropriate for the species, size

and number of animals enclosed therein.

Sanitize means to make physically clean and to remove and destroy. to a practical

Al9-007ll ll ll/l4/l9

minimum, agents iniurious to health.

Seize means to capture, collect, restrain, or impound an animal.

Serious physical initrrv means dis?gurement, protracted impairment of health. or

impairment of the function of a111,r bodily organ.

Service animal means, as likewise de?ned in Section 1 of the Michigan Leader Dogs for

Blind Persons Act, being MCL 287.291:

(1)

Al9?007ll

As de?ned in 28 CFR 36.104, any dog that is individually trained to do work or
perform tasks for the bene?t of an individual with a disability, including a physical,
sensory, intellectual, or other mental disability. Other species of
animals, whether wild or domestic, trained or untrained, are not service animals or
the purposes of this de?nition. The work or tasks performed by a service animal
must be directly related to the individual's disability. Examples of work or tasks
include, but are not limited to, assisting individuals who are blind or have low
vision with navigation and other tasks, alerting individuals who are deaf or hard of
hearing to the presence of people or sounds, providing non-violent protection or
rescue work, pulling a wheelchair assisting an individual during a seizure, alerting
individuals to the presence of allergens, retrieving items such as medicine or the
telephone, providing physical support and assistance with balance and stability to
individuals with mobility disabilities, and helping persons with and
neurological disabilities by preventing or interrupting impulsive or destructive
behaviors. The crime deterrent effects of an animal's presence and the provision of
emotional support, well?being, comfort, or companionship do not constitute work

or tasks for the purposes of this de?nition; and

12 11/14/19

miniature horse that has been individually trained to do work or perform tasks as

described in 28 CFR 36.104 for the benefit of a person with a disability.

Spay, spayed, or spaying means to make a female animal incapable of reproducing.

Stray animal means any animal. including but not limited to a licensed or an unlicensed

dog, running at large and loose on public property or private property that is not the propertv of

the owner without restraint and not under the control of the owner, harborer or keeper.

Tether means to secure a dog to a stationary object by means of a metal chain or coated

steel cable for keeping a dog restrained in its movement but does not mean walking a dog on a

leash or restraining a dog for temporary grooming or other professional service.

Unlicensed domeans a dog not currentlv licensed bv the Animal Care and Control

Division or any expired dogr license issued by another governmental unit for dogs temporarilv in

the Citv under Section 6-5-3 of this Code.

 

Urban farm means over one acre of land under common ownership that:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)
(5)

A19-00711

May be divided into plots for cultivation by one or more individuals and/or groups
or may be cultivated by individuals and/or groups collectively;

Is used to grow and harvest food crops and/or non-food crops for personal or group
use;

Has products, which may or may not be for commercial purposes;

Includes an orchard or a tree farm that is a principal use; and

Is one of the following:

a. Contiguous; or

b. Non-contiguous and on the same block; or

13 11/14/19

Contiguous or non-contiguous and separated by a right-of?way not greater
than 60 feet in widths 
Urban farm animal means livestock or fowl permitted to be raised or kept in accordance
with Article Jill of this chapter.
Vicious animal means an animal that without provocation or iustilication bites or attacks a
person and causes serious physical iniurv or death or that is declared vicious under this Chapter.
Wild animal means any animal that generally lives in its original and natural habitat, and
is not normally considered a domesticated animal.
Without provocation means, when applied to damage or injury caused to a person by an
animal, the person has not committed;
ii) A willful trespass or other tort upon the property of the animal?s ownerrer 
An act of abuse, assault, attack, or torment upon the animal or the owner of the
animal; gor
Q) A criminal act or an attempt to commit a criminal act which takes place where
the animal is located.

Sec. 6-1-3. Violations and penalties.

An animal owner. harborer. keeper or person who has custodv of an animal shall
prevent the animal from engaging in nuisance. menacing. potentiallv dangerous or dangerous

behavior.

An animal owner. harborer. keeper or person who has custody of an animal shall

prevent the animal from engaging in loud, frequent or habitual barking. yelpina or howling.

causing annoyance to people in the vicinity.

A19-007ll 14 11/14/19

person shall violate any provision of this chapter, or to aid and abet another to
violate such provision.

No person shall falsely represent that he or she is in possession of a service anima_l,
or a service animal in training. in anv public place or for licensing purposes.

Any person who violates this chapter may be issued an ordinance violation for each
day that the violation continues.

(D Any person who is found guilty of violating this chapter shall be convicted of a
misdemeanor for each ordinance violation that is issued, and, in the discretion of the court, may
be ?ned up to $500.00 and sentenced to up to 90 days injail, or both, for each ordinance violation
that is issued, provided, that, in addition to any costs associated with seizure, impoundment, care,
and vaccination of an unlicensed or unvaccinated dog borne by the Animal Care and Control
Division under Article of this chapter, any violation of Article of this chapter may subject the

violator, in the discretion of the court, to the following penalties:

 

(1) A ?ne of not more than $100.00 for the ?rst offense. For a ?rst offense the Animal
Care and Control Division mav require that an owner attend an Animal Awareness
Program provided bv the Animal Care and Control Division or the Michim
Humane Societv. Proof of Completion of such training within 30 days of the
citation shall negate the applicable ?ne;

(2) A ?ne or not more than $200.00 for a second offense occurring within six months
of the ?rst offense$500.00 and relinquishment of any rights of ownership of the dog
for a third offense or later offense occurring within 18 months of the ?rst offense;

and

Al9-007ll 15 ll/l4/l9

(4) Where the dog is intact after a second offense, the mandatory 

alteration of the dog with associated costs to be paid by the owner.

The Animal Care and Control Division mav require that an owner attend an Animal
Awareness Program provided bv the Animal Care and Control Division or the Michigan Humane
Societv as part of or the penaltv for a violation of this chapter. The Animal Awareness Proaram
shall include information on local ordinances, state law. animal care standards and anv_other

materials deemed annrooriate. Anv program fees collected by the respective organization shall be

retained and used for education and training for Animal Care and Control staff. law enforcement
or animal welfare personnel.

(Q) Where the provisions of this chapter have been violated, any animal control of?cer,

 

police of?cer, sheriff, or any person authorized by the Animal Care and Control Division may
seize the animal or animals in accordance with Section 6-l-4(e of this Code.

Sec. 6-1-4. Animal Care and Control Division; authorization and enforcement; minimum
employment standards for animal control of?cers; right of entry upon probable cause;
interference with officer; damage to property; fees; rules.

The Animal Care and Control Division is authorized to enforce the provisions of
this chapter concerning all animals within the City, including the care, control, regulation, and
disposition of such animals, and to administrate and operate the City's Animal Control Shelter.

The Department shall provide a written update to City Council everv 30 davs a
vacancv in the position of Administrator of the Animal Care and Control Division exists. This
update shall include the efforts undertaken to locate and hire a qualified Administrator.

(pl?The Animal Care and Control Division shall designate public servants as animal

control of?cers, to enforce the provisions of this chapter, or any rule or regulation promulgated

Al9-007ll l6 ll/l4/l9

thereto, including issuing and serving appearance tickets, citations, complaints, or other written
notices to persons for violations of any of the provisions of this chapter.

In accordance with Section 1-1-10 of this Code, public servants who are employed
as animal control of?cers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter shall have
concurrent authority with police officers and shall have such police powers as are necessary for
the enforcement of this chapter.

Pursuant to Sections 29b and 29c of the Michigan Dog Law of 1919, being MCL
287.28% and MCL 287.289c, the minimum employment standards relative to the recruitment,
selection, and appointment of animal control of?cers shall include:

(1) Requirements for educational, physical, mental, and moral ?tness;

(2) Proof of a minimum course of study of not less than 100 instructional hours

approved by the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development; and

(3) A valid driver's license.

Where the animal control of?cer is a police of?cer or has served at least three years as an animal
control officer, these standards and requirements shall not be required.

(1) The following provisions shall apply regarding the right of entry upon, onto, or into
pr0perty:

(1) Subject to the provisions of Subsections (2) and (3) of this subsection, the animal
control of?cers and investigators of the Animal Care and Control Division who are
designated to enforce the provisions of this chapter, police o?icers, sheriffs, other
peace of?cers, or any person authorized by the Animal Care and Control Division

shall have the right of entry upon, onto, or into:

Al9-007ll l7 ll/l4/l9

(2)

(3)

A19-007l 

Any residence, private property, or vehicle within the City for the purpose
of seizing any animal; or

Any residence, private property, or vehicle within the City for the purpose
of examining any animal suspected of having rabies, having been exposed

to rabies, or having attacked or bitten a person or any animal.

Subject to Subsection (3) of this subsection, as a condition to exercising the right

of entry set forth in Subsection (1) of this subsection, the person shall satisfy

Subsections a. and b. of this subsection by establishing or obtaining:

b.

Probable cause of a violation of this chapter; and

At least one of the following:

Owner consent;

A warrant issued by an appropriate judicial of?cer or magistrate;

Entry for the purpose of assisting other law enforcement, public safety, or
other personnel having a lawful right of entry; or

Exigent circumstances in which the public health, safety, or health or safety

of one or more animals is subject of imminent danger.

In addition, the following provisions shall apply:

al

Owner consent, a warrant, or exigent circumstances shall not be required to
seize any animal which is observed running loose and traversing across
public or private properties, provided, that, where the animal is located
inside private property or an adjoining fenced-in yard at the time seizure is
sought, the limitation on seizure that is delineated in Subsections (2) and (3)

of this section shall apply.

18 11/14/19

With respect to any provision within this chapter that authorizes capture or
seizure of an animal from a residence or private property, such seizure or
capture shall be made in accordance with the provision of this section.

c. Any owner aggrieved by the seizure of an animal from private property shall
have the right, within 72 hours of the seizure, to meet with the
Administrator, or the Administrator's designce, and explain any mitigating
circumstances. Subject to the provisions of this chapter governing
dangerous animals and animals possibly exposed to rabies, the
Administrator or the Administrator's designee shall have the authority to
exercise discretion to direct the immediate retum of the animal and waive
any fee relating to the seizure of the animal.

No person shall knowingly and willfully interfere with, hinder, resist or obstruct an
animal control of?cer, or any police of?cer, or any authorized agent or City employee in the law?rl
performance of their duties as delineated in this chapter.

No person shall knowingly and willfully release, remove, or attempt to release or
remove, any animal in the care or custody of an animal control of?cer, including any animal
located within the Animal Control Shelter, or within any vehicle or device used by the Animal
Care and Control Division to transport or restrain any animal.

(1) No person shall knowingly and willfully make a false statement, or to fail to reveal
any fact, concerning any information required to be disclosed or otherwise provided to the City

under any provision of this chapter.

Al9-007ll l9 ll/l4/l9

person shall knowingly and willfully burn, deface, destroy, tear down or
otherwise damage, or attempt to burn, deface, destroy, tear down or otherwise damage, any
equipment, enclosure, or impoundment facility of the Animal Care and Control Division.
(3) In accordance with Section 9?507 of the Charter, the Public Health Director is
authorized to establish necessary fees with the approval of the City Council, through adoption of
a resolution, for the cost of services which are determined to be necessary for the public health and
welfare of the City under Articles I through of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the
licensing and registration of altered and unaltered dogs. penalty for late renewal of license,
impoundment, boarding and kennelinmumantine, nuisance dog tag_and signage. potentially
dangerous dog tag and signage. dangerous doc tag and signage. adoption. vaccinations. microchip;
?eld pickup, transport, transfer of license from an animal rescue organization to an adoptive owner,
and Animal Awareness Proaram fees. The fees authorized by this section shall cover the costs of
rendering such services and shall be reviewed, revised, and approved as necessary in accordance
with this section. After adoption of a resolution by the City Council and approval of the resolution
by the Mayor, the fees shall be:
(1) Published in a daily newspaper of general circulation and in the Journal of the City
Council;

(2) Made available at the Animal Care and Control Division and at the Office of the
City Clerk; and

(3) Reviewed by the Public Health Director at least once every two years.

(D In accordance with the Michigan Public Health Code, being MCL 333.1 10! e! seq.,

and Section 2-111 of the Charter, the Director of the Department shall promulgate administrative

Al9?007ll 20 ll/l4/l9

rules and procedures, as necessary, for the administration of this chapter, including hearing
procedures for resolving matters in dispute.

Sec. 6-1-5. Owning, harboring, keeping, maintaining, selling, or transferring of farm or wild
animals prohibited; exception for circuscs, zoos, and other approved activities; separate
violations for each animal; disposition of animals in violation of this section.

Except as provided in Article V?l of this chapter, no person shall own, harbor,
keep, or maintain, sell, or transfer any farm animal, or any wild animal, on their premises or at a
public place within the City, provided, that such farm animal or wild animal may be kept in
circuses, zoos, or laboratories, or non-pro?t organizations for educational purposes, subject to the
approval of the City, where the care or custody is under the care of a trained and quali?ed animal
attendant at all times, whose responsibility shall be to see that such animals are securely under
restraint.

Each farm animal, or wild animal, that is owned, kept, maintained, sold or
transferred contrary to Subsection of this section shall constitute a separate violation of this
section.

The Animal Care and Control Division is authorized to sell, transfer, euthanize, or
dispose of any animal owned, kept, maintained, sold or transferred in violation of this section in a
manner consistent with the protection of the public health, acceptable humane practices, and any
established City administrative rules and procedures that have been promulgated under Section 6?

1-4(k of this Code.

Al9-007ll 2  11/14/19

Sec. 6-1-6. Owning, harboring, keeping, or maintaining of reptiles or serpents prohibited;
exceptions; separate violations for each reptile or serpent.

No person shall own, harbor, keep, or maintain any reptiles or serpents, except
turtles that are not in excess of 15 inches in length, in their premises or at a public place within the
City, provided, that this section does not prohibit a circus, 200, or serpentarium, subject to the
approval of the City, or to a pet shop that is licensed under Article VII of this chapter, from keeping
reptiles or serpents where such reptiles or serpents are securely con?ned in a manner consistent
with the protection of the public health and safety and with acceptable humane practices.

Each reptile or serpent that is owned, harbored, kept, or maintained contrary to
Subsection of this section shall constitute a separate violation of this section.

The Animal Care and Control Division is authorized to sell, transfer, euthanize, or
dispose of any reptile or serpent that is owned, harbored, kept, or maintained in violation of this
section in a manner consistent with the protection of the public health and safety, acceptable
humane practices, and any applicable administrative rules and procedures that have been
promulgated under Section 6-1-4(k 1) of this Code.

Sec. 6-1-7. Certain animals declared public nuisances; complaint; hearing; abatement;
animal waste; responsibility for removal of waste; prohibition of unapproved kennels.

Any animal may be declared to be a public nuisance, and be subject to capture and
abatement by the Animal Care and Control Division or by the Police Department or by any other
authorized governmental agency, in accordance with the provisions of the Michigan Dog Law of
1919, being MCL 287.26] et? seq., or this chapter and the administrative rules that have been

promulgated under Section 6-1-4(le 1) of this Code, where the animal:

22 11/14/19

unclaimed by its owner after being picked up by, or delivered to the care and
control of, the Animal Care and Control Division, or is a stray animal;
(2) Bites?apessen Makes contact with a person or other _a_nima  in a harassing manner;
or
(3) Unreasonably disturbs or annoys the quiet, comfort, and repose of persons in the
vicinity by loud, frequent, habitual, or repeated barking, howling or yelping; or
(4) Defecates; digsrer?unnates upon any building, lawn, plant, shrub, tree, or any

other public property, or a_ny private prepertyrether?t-han?the that is not the property

of the animal?s owner, without all feces being immediately and properly removed
and disposed of in a sanitgy manner by the owner.

(bl Anv resident of the City may submit to the Department a complaint of nuisance
behavior which shall include:
Allegations of nuisance behavior for a minimum of two interactions for anv
complaint based on Subsection 6-1-7t'alt'3) of this section; or
(2) Allegations of nuisance behavior for a minimum ofa two week time frame for any
complaint based on Subsections 6-1-7tali4l of this section.
to) Upon receipt of a verifiable nuisance complaint or upon personal observation by an
animal control of?cer of nuisance behavior, the Animal Care and Control Division shall evaluate
the complaint. investigate. and. where factual circumstances warrant, conduct a nuisance animal

hearin .
1 Noti?cation for the nuisance animal hearin shall be made to the animal owner and

the petitioner via ?rst class mail within 14 davs of submission of the nuisance

complaint.

Al9-007ll 23 ll/l4/l9

(2)






take any available and reasonable measures to abate the 

The Administraton or the Administrator?s designeeq shall hear testimonv regarding
the alleged nuisance behavior and shall have the authoritv to issue a nuisance
animal determinatidn.

Within 14 davs of the date of the nuisance animal hearing. the Animal Care and
Control Division shall provide the owner of the animal a written noti?cation of the
Administrator. or Administrator?s designee. determination bv ?rst class mail.
Within ten davs from the date of the receipt of the mailing, the owner of the animal
mav ?le a written request for a hearing to review the determination at the 36th
District Court. Where the owner fails to request a hearing within the ten-day period
after receipt of the notice. the determination made bv the Administrator. or the
Administrator's designee. shall become ?nal and the animal shall be issued a
nuisance animal determination under this article.

No owner of any animal declared to be a public nuisance shall fail to immediately

 

cheek-h as required bv the determination letter issued pursuant to Subsection (clt?3) of this section,

which mav include:

(I)

(2)

Al9-007ll

Installation and maintenance of any enclosure, pen. or structure used to con?ne the
animal out of doors shall be a minimum of six feet in being and constructed so
that the sides shall be embedded into the around bv a depth of at least two Feet or
be constructed on and secured to a concrete and and kept in a sanitarv condition:

Installation and maintenance of an opaque fence. as permitted bv law! to limit views

to neighboringlards or the street:

24 ll/l4/l9

(41

L51



The owner of the animal that has been issued a nuisance animal determination must
post a standard sign obtained from the Division of Animal Care and Control to
serve as a warning notice on any premises where the animal is harbored, kept, or
sheltered in a place conspicuously visible to the public stating in bold, black letters

at least six. inches in hei 1rht NUISANCE ANIMAL: KEEP

   

The fee for the sign shall be the cost of production to the City and be
listed on the fee schedu?

Mandatory attendance at an Animal Awareness Program provided by the Animal
Care and Control Division or the Michigan Humane Society within 30 days of

issuance of the nuisance determination. The Animal Awareness Program shall

Include information on local ordinances, state law, animal care standards and any

 

other materials deemed appropriate. Any program fees collected by the respective
organization shall be retained and used for education and training for Animal Care
and Control staff, law enforcement onanimal welfare personnel; and

The owner must purchase an approved form of external identi?cation from the
Animal Care and Control Division, indicating to other residents that the animal is
determined to be a nuisance animal under this chapter.

Where any animal has defecated upon any building, lawn, plant, shrub, tree, or any

other public or private property, other than the property of the owner of the animal, and the owner

of the animal upon notice immediately and properly removes all feces deposited by such animal

and disposes of same in a sanitary manner, the public nuisance shall be considered abated and not

a violation of this section; provided, that it shall be lawful for a blind or disabled person with a

service animal to fail to and properly collect and dispose of any animal waste or

AI9-007ll

25 ll/l4/l9

excrement on any public or private property.

No person shall maintain or Operate a kennel, or construct, maintain, or use an accessory
building for a kennel, within the City without obtaining all relevant licenses and 3 permits from
the Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department and written approval by the
Department.

Sec. 6-1-9. Impoundment; release and adoption.

The Animal Care and Control Division is authorized to impound any animal which
is stray, loose, Fanning at large, makes phvsieal contact with a person or other animal in a harassing
or menacing manner, or has bitten or otherwise injured any person or other animal and needs to be
con?rmed con?ned for observation. The Animal Care and Control Division is authori zecl to
capture anv animal which is observed to be strav. loose. or at large and return it to its owner, if
known, with the issuance of appropriate citationts}.

Any person may retain or trap in a humane manner and hold for the Animal Care
and Control Division any animal trespassing upon the person's property. The person must 
notify the Animal Care and Control Division regarding any stray animal under the person's control,
and, upon request, shall turn ever the animal over to the Animal Care and Control Division.

The Animal Care and Control Division may contract with any non-pro?t
corporation that is organized for the purpose of sheltering animals to assist in the care,
impoundment, release, or adoption of stray animals not determined to be dangerous by the Animal
Care and Control Division.

Sec. 6-1-10. Records and reports.

Whenever a dog, cat, ferret, or other animal is delivered to, left with, or impounded

by the Animal Care and Control Division, the Administrator shall make a record of the receipt of

Al9-007ll 26 11/14/19

the animal which includes a basic description of the animal, the date the animal was acquired by
the Animal Care and Control Division and under what circumstances, the date of any notice sent
to the owner of the animal, and the subsequent disposition of the animal by the Animal Care and
Control Division.

In accordance with Section 9a of the Michigan Pet Shops, Animal Control Shelters,
and Animal Protection Shelters Act, being MCL 287.339a, the Animal Care and Control Division
shall maintain written records concerning:

(1) The total number of dogs, cats, and ferrets less than six months of age, the total
number of dogs, cats, and ferrets six months of age and older, and all other animals
received and returned to owners, adopted to new owners, and sold or transferred
with or without payment to any person;

(2) The number of adopted dogs, cats, and ferrets that were altered;

(3) The number of adopted dogs, cats, and ferrets that were not altered; and

(4) The number of dogs, cats, and ferrets euthanized annually.

In accordance with Section 9a of the Michigan Pet Shops, Animal Control Shelters,
and Animal Protection Shelters Act, being MCL 287.339a, the Animal Care and Control Division
shall provide a cow of these statistics, annually, to the Michigan Department of Agriculture and
Rural Development and to the Mayor and to the City Council.

The Animal Care and Control Division shall submit a report to the City Council
through the City Clerk's Of?ce upon the disposition of a dangerous animal pursuant to Section 6?

3-2 of this Code or by order of the 36th District Court.

Al9-007ll 27 ll/l4/l9

Beginning on January of the calendar year. The 11; Administrator shall submit
eat-annual a Quarterly report to the City Council, which, for the period covered by the report shall
include:

(1) The number of incidents of dangerous behavior reported to the Animal Care and

Control Division;

(2) The number of animals that have been issued a nuisance animal. potentially
dangerous animal. dangerous animal or vicious animal determination; and

(3) The location of all animals that have been issued a potentially dangerous animal or
dangerous animal determination and are residing with their owners. llt_i_s
information shall be posted on the City?s website.

(4) A description of outreach and marketina efforts to residents. rescue organizations.
foster care providers. community groups. and other stakeholders regarding the
requirements of this Chapter. and Article in particular. At minimum. these
efforts shall include at least one outreach event in each City Council district
between February and April 15' ot'cach year. The Department may partner with
third-party entities for outreach and marketing efforts.

The Administrator, or the Administrator?s designee. shall present the contents of

each quarterly report required in Subsection (cl in the appropriate City Council standing

committee.

Secs. 6-l-ll--6-1-20. Reserved.

Al9-007ll 28 ll/l4/l9

ARTICLE II. PROPER TREATMENT AND TRANSPORTATION 0F ANIMALS
Sec. 6-2-1. Duty of care over animals; neglect; abandonment; overcrowding of animals.

All persons owning, harboring, or keeping an animal shall attend to and responsibly
care for the animal, including, but not limited to, providing proper food, water, shelter, sanitation,
and medical treatment for injuries, parasites, and diseases that is sufficient to maintain the animal
in good health and minimize suffering for the animal according to its species, age, and
circumstances.

No person having care, custody, or control of any animal shall cause neglect, as
de?ned by Section 6-1-2 of this Code.

No person having care, custody, or control of any animal shall cause abandonment,
as de?ned by Section 6-1 -2 of this Code.

No person shall own, harbor, keep, or shelter more than {our animals of the
same species over the age of four months in a single residence. Animals shall be grogerly licensed
and registered on the effective date of this ordinance. New licenses shall not be issued for animals
over the limit of two upon death or rehomina of animals formerly licensed al that residence.

No person shall overcrowd rabbits, domestic fowl, poultry, or any other animals in
any crate, box, or other receptacle.

Whether or not authorized by Section 53 of Chapter IX, of the Michigan Penal
Code, Animals, being MCL 750.53, the Animal Care and Control Division is authorized to
impound any animal which:

(1) Appears to have been neglected or cruelly treated, including but not limited to

actions prohibited in Sections 49 through 51 of Chapter IX, of the Michigan Penal

Code, Animals, being MCL 750.49 through 750.5 or

A19-007ll 29 ll/l4/l9

(2) Appears to have been abandoned.
Sec. 6?2-3. Treatment of stray dogs.

The Animal Care and Control Division is authorized to seize and impound any stray
dog that is on public or private property in accordance with Section 6-1-3(e f) of this Code, and to
return, sell, transfer, or euthanize any such animal in accordance with this chapter.

All persons shall immediately notify the Animal Care and Control Division
regarding any stray dog under their control and, upon request, shall turn over any stray dog to the
Animal Care and Control Division. The Animal Care and Control Division shall impound, register,
and notify the owner of the dog, if any, at the owner's last known address.

No person shall harbor, hold, or keep for reward any dog which has strayed upon
the person's premises or property has been picked up on a public highway or other public place
unaccompanied by its owner, or has been stolen from the owner.

No person other than the owner shall procure a license for any dog, which has
strayed upon the person's premises or property, which has been picked up on a public highway
or other public place unaccompanied by its owner, or which has been stolen from the owner.

The provisions of this section prohibiting the harboring, holding, or keeping and
licensing a stray dog do not apply to a non-pro?t corporation that is organized for the purpose of
sheltering dogs or to a legal purchaser of a dog from such organization.

Sec. 6-2-4. Sale of baby chicks, baby rabbits, ducklings, or other fowl as pets or novelties
prohibited.

Except as provided in Article of this chapter, no person shall sell, or offer for sale,
barter, or give away baby chicks, baby rabbits, ducklings or other fowl as pets or novelties, whether

or not dyed, colored or otherwise arti?cially treated. This section shall not be construed to prohibit

Al9-007ll 30 11/14/19

the display or sale of natural chicks or ducklings in proper brooder facilities by hatcheries or
businesses, including licensed pet shops, engaged in the selling of the same to be raised for
commercial purposes.

Secs. 6-2-8--6-2-20. Reserved.

ARTICLE POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS. DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS
Sec. 6-3-1. Potentiallv daemons animal. Dangerous dangerous animal or vicious animal
investigation; determination by the Administrator or the Administrator's designee; appeal
of dangerous?animal determination; treatment of animals issued a dangerous?animal
determination; treatment of animals seized or surrendered prior to Eotentially dangerous
Mdangerous animal or vicious animal determination.

Upon the receipt of a veri?able complaint from an individual or other report of an
attack, a bite, a dog ?ght, an injury, an observation of threatening behavior, or other reason to
cause a reasonable person to believe that a dog or other animal may be potentiallv dingerous.
dangerous or vicious, the Animal Care and Control Division shall evaluate the complaint or report
and, where the factual circumstances warrant, may conduct a potentially dangerous animal,

dangerous animal or vicious animal investigation. Where practicable, the investigation shall

2 .include interviewing the complainant, any victim or victims of the menacing behavior, the attack

or animal bite and any witness or witnesses who observed the subject animal, and visiting the scene
where the reported incident took place.

The Animal Care and Control Division investigator who is assigned to the
potentiallv dange_rous animal. dangerous animal or vicious animal investigation shall make a
written recommendation concerning the incident and the animal and whether the Administrator,

or the Administrator's designee, should issue a potentiallv dangerous animal, dangerous animal 

Al9?00711 31 11/14/19

vicious animal determination, including the factual basis for the recommendation. For purposes of
making a recommendation under this section, the investigating of?cer may review and rely upon
a written police report concerning an animal attack, bite, threateaiogmpLeing behavior, or other
observation that an animal may be potentiallv dangerous. dangerous or vicious. Any animal that
is the subject of a potentially dangerous animal, dangerous animal or vicious animal investigation
shall not be moved or harbored at another location, excepting except for the transport of the animal
to a licensed veterinary facility for purposes of a rabies quarantine, or have its ownership
transferred, pending the outcome of the investigation or any hearings related to the determination
of whether the animal is a potentially dangerous animal, dangerous animal or vicious animal under
this seat-ion @1913.

The Administrator or the Administrator's designee, shall review the
recommendation contained in the potentially dangerous animal, dangerous animal or vicious
anti?ma] investigation, and, a?er such review, shall have the authority to issue a potentially:
dangerous animal. dangerous animal or vicious animal determination concerning the subject dog
or animal.

Upon a potentiallv dangerous animal or dangerous animal determination, the
Animal Care and Control Division shall provide the owner of the animal a written noti?cation of
the determination by ?rst class mail. Within ten days from the date of the receipt of the mailing,
the owner of the animal may ?le a written request for a hearing to review the determination at the
36th District Court. Pending any hearing or resolution on the notentiallv dangerous animal or
dangerous animal determination, the animal shall be con?ned in accordance with the requirements
imposed by the Administrator or the Administrator's designee, pursuant to Section 6-3-2 of this

Code, including con?nement in a securely fenced or enclosed area. Where the owner fails to

A19-00711 32 

request a hearing within the ten-day period after receipt of the notice, the dangerous?animal
determination made by the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, shall become ?nal and
the animal shall be issued a potentially dangerous animal or dangerous animal determination under

this section.
Where the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, makes a dangerees

vicious animal determination under Subsection of this section and the animal has caused severe

 

physical injury or death to any person or domesticated animal, the Administrator, or the
Administrator's designee, may seek an order from the 36th District Court to euthanize the animal.
Where the Administrator. or the Administrator's designee, makes a second dangerous animal
determination under Subsection of this section for a subsequent incident. the Administrator. or
the Administrator?s designee, mav seek an order from the 36th District Court to euthanize the
animal. The Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, shall take into consideration the
severity and the total circumstances of injury to any person or to any domesticated animal prior to
seeking review and shall abide by the procedures and judgment of the 36th District Court if an
order to euthanize the animal is sought.

(0 Whenever an animal is seized or brought to the Animal Care and Control Division
for having attacked or bitten a person or another domesticated animal, the Animal Care and Control
Division shall hold and care for the animal during the pendency of a dangerous animal or vicious
determination. The Animal shall not be released unless:

(I) The owner enters into an agreement with th_e Administrator, or the Administrator's

designee, pursuant to Section 6-3-2 of this Code; or

(2) An order from the 36th District Court compels release of the animal to the owner.

A19-007l] 33 ll/l4/l9

Unless an animal is forfeited to the ownership of the Animal Care and Control

Division No animal held by the Animal Care and Control Division for a dangerous animal 

 

vicious animal determination shall be euthanized prior to receipt of an order from the 36th District
Court.

Sec. 6-3-2. Animals issued notentiallr dangerous anim_al or dangerous animal determination;
requirements for owners of animals issued potentially dangerous animm dangerous
animal determination.

In all cases where an animal has been issued a potentially dangerous animal or
dangerous animal determination under Section 6-3-1 of this Code and the animal is not euthanized,
the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, shall make the determination of whether the
animal may be returned to its owner. As part of the terms as o_f return, the Administrator, or the

Administrator?s designee, shall order the owner to comply with each of the following

 

requirements:
(1) The owner shall maintain proper licensing and up-to-date vaccinations for the
animal as required under Article of this chapter;
(2) Where the animal was capable of reproduction prior to the potentially dangerous
"animal or dangerous animal determination, the animal must be sterilized m;
(3) When the animal is on the owner's property, the animal must be con?ned securely
indoors or securely outdoors within a locked enclosure, pen, or structure that
prevents the entry of any person and the escape of the con?ned animal. Any
enclosure, pen, or structure used to con?ne an animal that has been issued a
potentiallyr dangerous animal or dangerous animal determination shall be a

minimum of six feet in height. Where the enclosure, pen, or structure used to

Al9-007ll 34 11/14/19

9-007] 1

con?ne the animal does not have a bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be
embedded into the ground at a depth of at least two feet or be constructed on and
secured to a concrete pad. and have a complete, secure top to prevent escape and
be locked to prevent accidental access or escape. Any enclosure, pen, or structure,
including any fencing, used for the purpose of compliance with this section is
required to be humane?aintained in a sanitarv condition and provide protection
from the weather for the animal. Every owner of an animal that has been issued a
potentially dangerous animal or dangerous animal determination shall allow
inspection of the required enclosure, pen, or structure by the Animal?Gem
General-Mien C_ity to ensure compliance with this section;

While off the owner's property, an animal that has been issued a potentially
dangerous animal or dangerous animal determination must be securely muzzled to
prevent the possibility of biting and under restraint by a substantial chain or leash
not exceeding six feet in length by a person 18 years of age or older who is

responsible for the animal at all times when the animal is off the owner?s property.

 

The muzzle must be made and attach? in a manner that does not cause injury to
the animal or impair its vision or respiration, but must prevent the animal from
biting any person or animal; and

The owner must permit the _C_ity to perform an
annual inspection of the animal and all enclosures, pens, or structures used to house
the animal at a time suitable to the Department and to the owner; and

The owner of the animal that has been issued a dangerous animal determination

must post a standard sien obtained from the Division of Animal Care and Control

35 ll/l4/l9

serve as a warning notice on any premises where the animal is harbored, kept, or
sheltered in a place conspicuously visible to the public stating in bold, black letters
at least six inches in height DANGEROUS ANIMAL: KEEP
The fee for the sign shall he the cost of production to the Citv and be
listed on the fee schedule.

The owner of the animal that has been issued a potentiallv dangerous am_;a_l
determination must post a standard sien obtained from the Division of Animal Care
and Control to serve as a warninn notice on any premises where the animal is
harbored, kept, or sheltered in a place consriicuouslv visible to the public station in
bold, black letters at least six inches in height POTENTIALLY
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: KEEP The fee for the sign shall be the cost

of production to the C?and be listed on the fee schedule.

In addition, the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, may order the

owner of an animal that has been issued a potentially dangerous animal or dangerous animal

determination under Section 6-3-1 of this Code to comply with any one or more of the following

requirements:

(1)

(2)

A19-007ll

The owner must con?ne the dangerous animal to the secure enclosure described in
Subsection of this section at all times and only allow the animal out the
enclosure under the conditions set forth in Subsection of this section, where
necessary, to obtain veterinary care or to comply with a court order;

The owner and the animal must complete a course of animal obedience training

approved by the Animal Care and Control Division;

36 ll/l4/l9

(3)

(4)



(cl

The owner must purchase an approved form of external identi?cation from the
Animal Care and Control Division, indicating to other residents that the animal is
potentially dangerous or dangerous; or

The owner must obtain and provide proof of current liability insurance in an amount
determined by the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, to be suf?cient
to compensate and protect the public from our damage or harm caused bLthe
animal: or

The owner must attend an Animal Awareness Program provided bv the Animal
Care and Control Division or the Michigan Humane Societv. The Animal
Awareness Program shall include information on local ordinances. state law.

animal care standards and anv other materials deemed appropriate. An}: program

fees collected by the respective organization shall be retained and used for

 

education and trainina for Animal Care and Control staff. law enforcement or

animal welfare personnel.

Compliance with anv requirements set forth in Subparts and shall occur

within 30 davs of the determination being issued. The 30-dav time?ame mav be extended by the

Administrator. in writing. for aged cause. Bond shall be posted for the cost of 30 dav boarding or

extended timeframe at Animal Care and Control. Failure to comnlv with the requirements for

return on the animal within the established timeframe shall result in the forfeiture of the animal to

the ownership of the Division of Animal Care and Control.

Al9-00711

37 ll/l4/19

See. 6-3-3. Violations involving animals issued potentiallv dangerous animal. dangerous
animal or vicious animal determination; failure to comply with requirements; reckless
owner designation: seizure; order to euthanize animal.

No person who owns an animal that has been issued a potential Iv dangerous animal.
dangerous animal or vicious animal determination under Article of this Code
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements of Section 6-3-2 of this Code, or any order of the
Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, as authorized under Section?6449f this Code.

Where an animal has been issued a potentially danagous animal or dangerous
animal determination pursuant to Section 6-3-1 of this Code and thereafter attacks or injures a
person or domesticated animal, or where the owner fails to comply with any order issued under
Section 6-3-2(a) or of this Code, the animal may be seized and impounded, at the owner's
expense, by the Animal Care and Control Division. The Administrator, or the Administrator's
designee, is authorized to order the owner of the animal to comply with any of the alternatives
contained in Section 6-3-2(b) of this Code or seek an order from the 36th District Court to
euthanize the animal. Euthanasia of an animal shall only be conducted by a licensed veterinarian
or the 'Animal Care and Control Division.

{cl A person is a reckless doa comer who:

(I) Receives 3 or more determinatiopg for violation of the nuisance animal provisions
in Section 6-1-7 in a consecutive 24-month period that are upheld bv the district
court if appealed: or

2 Receives 2 or more determinations under Section 6-3-2 for a otentiall dan erous

animal in a consecutive 24-month period that are upheld by the district court if

appealed; or

Al9?007ll 38 11/14/19

Receives 1 determination under Section 15-3-2 for a dangerous animal in a
consecutive 24-month period which is upheld bv the district court if appealed; or

Excluding violations set forth in Subpapis and receives 4 or more citations
for violation of this chapter in a consecutive S-vear period. These mav include
licensinggr animal limit violations or failure to update location of an animal that
has been determined to be potentially dangerous or dangerous.

The Administrator, or the Administrator's desianee. shall issue a noti?cation of the

declaration of reckless dog owner to the person with the following:
111 Name and address of the person subject to the declaration;

2

 

The descri tion violation. and determinations that led to the declaration'

   

3) The name. description. and license number of all animals subiect to the effects of

the declaration and

 

Instructions on appealing the declaration to the 36"1 district court.

to) Once declared a reckless dog owner, the eitv licenses of all dogs owned by the
person shall be revoked. and the person shall not own. keep. posses. or harbor a dog for a period
of 5 calendar years from the date of the declaration.

A person declared to be a reckless dog: owner mav apply to the Administrator to
have the declaration waived after 2 gears upon meeting the followinggonditions:

1 The person has no subseguent violations of this chapter;

(21 The person has no subsequent violations of the Michigan Don Law of 1919. being

MCL 287.26] at sea? or this chapter and the administrative rules that have been

promulgated under Section of this Code.

Al9-00711 39 11/14/19

The person has completed the Animal Awareness Program identi?ed in Secs. 6- I -
6-3-2tbli5) or 6-1-7tdlt4} desianed to improve the person?s understanding of
dog ownership responsibilities and based upon an interview with the Administrator
establishes that understanding.

If the Administrator ?nds sufficient evidence that the person has complied with all
conditions in the Section. the Administrator mav rescind the reckless owner declaration subiect to
conditions if necessarv to ensure future compliance with this chapter. If the Administrator declines
to remove the declaration. the person mav appeal pursuant to Chapter 3. Administrative Hearings
and Enforcement. and Administrative Appeals. Article IV. Administrative Appeals. of this Code.
Sec. 6-3-4. Vicious animals prohibited: exceptions.

It shall be unlawful to keep. possess. or harbor a vicious dog. as determined under
Article ofthis Chapter. within the Citv.

Provisions of this Section shall not applv to a police don beinar used to assist one or
more law enforcement of?cers actingin an of?cial capacitv.

The Administrator of the Animal Care and Control Division shall seek a destruction

order from the district court to euthanize an animal that has been declared vicious under Article 111

 

of this Chapter.

The owner of an animal subiect to a destruction order of the district court mav
appeal as prescribed bv the Revised Judicature Act of 1961. beine MCL 600.10]. at seq. and MCL
600.8342 in particular. or other applicable state law.

The owner of a vicious don shall be liable for and shall new all costs associated with
impoundrnent. removal. or euthanasia of said animal. The owner shall Dav anv other associated

costs incurred with the enforcement of this Chapter relative to their animal.

Al9-007ll 40 11/14/19

Secs. 6-3-5--6-3-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER
See. 6-4-2. Neutering and spaying clinic.

Services of a neutering and spaying clinic at the Animal Control Shelter may be
made available to residents of the City to have their dogs and cats acute-realm m. The
Animal Control Shelter shall give priority for such services to dogs and cats owned by residents
of the City who receive public assistance, or whose income consists primarily of payments derived
from the Social Security Act or the Railroad Retirement Act, or bene?ts from the US. Department
of Veterans' Affairs.

A fee schedule for neutering?and?spaylng alteration that is based on an owner's
ability to pay and the complexity of the surgery involved shall be established and approved in
accordance with Section 6-1-4G L) of this Code.

The availability of any services within this section shall be limited by the annual
budget approved by City Council and Mayor for the neutering and spaying clinic.

See. 6-4-3. Seizure, capture, impoundment, and harboring of stray animals.

The Animal Control Shelter shall seize, capture, impound, and harbor all stray animals and
all animals owned or harbored contrary to the provisions of this chapter, provided, that, where the
animal is on private property, the provisions of Section 6-1-3(e of this Code shall apply.

See. 6-4-5. Redemption and release fees.

A release fee shall be required to be paid to the Animal Control Shelter by each
person claiming ownership or buying any dog, cat or other animal that is in the custody of the
Animal Control Shelter, provided, that an owner reclaiming his or her stray dog on more than one

(1) occasion shall be charged an additional fee for multiple releases.

Al9-007ll 4  ll/l4/l9

Any animal that has been con?ned for rabies observation, or has been con?scated
by the Animal Care and Control Division or by the Police Department and impounded as a result
of alleged unlaw?rl activity or as a result of eviction from a premises, shall not be released from
the Animal Control Shelter unless the owner or person lawfully claiming the animal shall pay to
the Animal Control Shelter a service charge for the care, custody and feeding of animal for each
impoundment.

A fee schedule for services rendered under this section shall be established and
approved in accordance with Section 6-1-46 5) of this Code and posted at the Animal Control
Shelter.

Sec. 6-4-6. Disposition upon failure to redeem; sale or transfer of live animals for research
prohibited; neutering, spaying, licensing, and vaccination prior to release.

A?er being impounded, an animal, which is not claimed, and released within the
time period prescribed by Section 6-4-4 of this Code, may be euthanized by the Animal Control
Shelter.

The Animal Control Shelter shall not knowingly sell or transfer any unclaimed live
animal to any organization or person for the purpose of research.

During such times as a neutering and spaying clinic shall exist at the Animal
Control Shelter, all dogs and cats sold by the shelter shall be Heatered?er?spayed at the
shelter before being released to the purchaser. A fee that is established and approved in accordance
with Section 6-1-46 3) of this Code shall be charged for this service and paid to the Animal Control
Shelter prior to the surgical procedure taking place. The purchaser must agree in writing to all
conditions prescribed by the Animal Control Shelter concerning the entire neutering-swaying

alteration process.

Al9-007ll 42 ll/l4/l9

All dogs sold by the Animal Control Shelter shall be currently licensed and

vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian before release.
Secs. 6-4-7--6-4-20. Reserved.

ARTICLE V. LICENSING AND CONTROL OF DOGS
Sec. 6-5-1. Dog license requirements; rabies vaccination requirements; limitation on number
of licenses issued to a residence; disposition of licensed dogs; impoundment of unlicensed
dogs.

No person shall own, harbor, keep, or shelter a dog more than four months of age
within the City without purchasing a license for the dog, in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter, from the Animal Care and Control Division, from a City agency or department
authorized to accept payment for a City dog license, or from a non-pro?t organization authorized
to accept payment for a City dog license. A person must be 18 veers of age or older to obtain a
City dog license.

In accordance with Section 6-5-4(a) of this Code, the Animal Care and Control
Division, or any City agency or department authorized to accept payment for a City dog license,

or a non-pro?t organization authorized to accept payment for a City dog license, shall not issue

.more than four tw_o dog licenses for a residence within the City unless the applicant for a license

presents a signed notarized statement indicating whether one or more dogs previously licensed at

the residence:
(1) Has died;
(2) Has been sold or has been permanently transferred to a person not at the same

residence or to an agency or organization; or

Al9-007ll 43 11/14/19

(3) Has escaped or reported stolen and has not been located by the owner for at least a

two-month period.

The Animal Care and Control Division is authorized to impound, sell, euthanize,
or dispose of any unlicensed dog consistent with the Michigan Dog Law of 1919, being MCL
287.261 er seq., and this chapter. Where any stray dog is captured by the Animal Care and Control
Division and is duly licensed in compliance with this chapter, the dog may be released to the owner
upon payment of any fees, including impoundment charges, m, which are established and
approved in accordance with Section 6-1-46 of this Code, provided, that the dog has not been
declared a public nuisance under Section 6?1?6 of this Code, or issued a potentially
dangerous animal, dangerous animal or vicious animal determination pursuant to Section-644-
Article of this Code, and the release of the dog to the owner would be consistent with protecting
public health and safety.

Where any stray dog is captured by the Animal Care and Control Division and is
not duly licensed in compliance with this chapter, the dog shall only be released to its owner upon
settlement of any other violation or penalty that is provided for in Section 6-1-3 of this Code,
payment of license fee, and either:

(1) Proof of rabies vaccination as described in Section 6-5-2 of this Code; or

(2) Payment of costs associated with vaccination performed by the Animal Care and

Control Division.

An animal owner. harborer, keeper or person who has custodv of an animal em
Update the information provided on a license application in the event anv of the information
m, includina but not limited to the street address where an animal is located. The updated

information shall be ?led with the Animal Care and Control Division. or with any authorized City

Al9-007ll 44 ll/l4/l9

agencv or department. or with a non-pro?t organization authorized by the City to issue a dog

license.

Sec. 6-5-2. Rabies control requirements for dogs over the age of four months; waiver of
vaccination fee.

Any dog over the age of four (4) months that is owned, harbored, kept, or sheltered
within the City shall at all times be vaccinated against rabies, unless a written statement, renewable
each year by a veterinarian is produced by such owner showing that the dog should not be
vaccinated. Any owner or person harboring keeping, or sheltering a dog within the City shall have
the duty, upon demand by the Animal Care and Control Division or by any authorized agent of the
Animal Care and Control Division, to produce a proof of vaccination against rabies. A proof of
vaccination against rabies shall consist of a written certi?cate or statement signed by a licensed
veterinarian, and shall state the owner's name and address, a description of the dog, including the
breed, sex, and age of the dog, the date of vaccination, the type of vaccine used, and the date re-
vaccination is due. One copy of the certi?cate or statement shall be forwarded by the veterinarian
signing such document to the Animal Care and Control Division in a manner as prescribed by the
City.

The Animal Care and Control Division shall provide a licensed veterinarian to
vaccinate a dog, without payment of a fee, where:

The owner, as determined by the Animal Control Division, is an indigent person

who is unable to pay;

(2) The owner presents proof of the current receipt of state or local public assistance;

01?

Al9-00711 45 11/14/19

(3) The owner's income consists entirely of bene?ts under the Social Security Act or
the Railroad Retirement Act, or bene?ts from the US. Department of Veterans'
Affairs, provided, that waiver of payment for a dog vaccination shall apply to only
one dog per residence.
Sec. 6-5-4. Dog license application; issuance and expiration of licenses.

An application for a City dog license may be ?led with the Animal Care and Control
Division, or with any authorized City agency or department, or with a non-pro?t organization
authorized by the City to issue a dog license, by a person 13 years of age or older who presents a
valid government issued identi?cation card.

The application for a dog license shall state:

(1) The full name of the owner of the dog;

(2) The age, breed, color, markings, name, and sex of the dog; and

(3) The name and address of the last previous owner of the dog, if applicable.

The application for a dog license shall be accompanied by a license fee that is
established and approved in accordance with Section 6-1-46 3) of this Code and a valid certi?cate
of a current vaccination for rabies with a vaccine licensed by the United States Department of
Agriculture that-is signed by a licensed veterinarian. A license for a dog may only be issued without
such certi?cation in accordance with Section 6-5-2 of this Code.

Where the required application for a dog license has been completed and the license
fee paid, the Animal Care and Control Division, or any authorized City agency or department or
non-pro?t organization authorized by the City, shall cause to be issued to an applicant an annual
license to harbor, keep, or shelter a dog within the City for the term commencing at the date of the

issuance of the license and expiring one year from the date of the rabies vaccination.

Al9-007ll 46 ll/l4/l9

All dog licenses, which are required under this article for any dog that is a service
animal, shall be issued for the life of the dog.

The Animal Care and Control Division may transfer a license from an animal in the
care of a rescue organization under Article VI of this Chapter to a person upon proof of adoption
of the animal.

Sec. 6-5-5. Dog license fees.

The Animal Care and Control Division, any authorized City agency or department,
or any non-pro?t organization authorized to issue a City dog license, shall at the time of and before
issuing a dog license and for each renewal, collect from each applicant a license fee, which is
established and approved in accordance with Section 6-1 -4G g) of this Code, for each neutered-er
spayed mgr} dog with a surcharge to be established for each dog not neatered?er?spayed M.
Licenses renewed more than 30 davs after expiration or obtained more than 30 days after newlv
acquiring a dog shall incur a penaltyr of double the applicable license fee. When the license is
issued from a non-pro?t organization authorized to issue a City dog license, the organization is
authorized to deduct a portion designated by the City for each license so issued to pay the
organization for the administrative costs incurred, before forwarding the balance of the license fee
to the Animal Care and Control Division.

A schedule that contains the license fees shall be posted at locations where City dog
licenses are issued.

A dog license for a dog that is a service animal shall be issued without any charge

to the owner.

Al9?007ll 4'7 ll/l4/l9

Sec. 6-5-6. License tags; license and tags not transferable; use of microchips; transfer of
microchip registration.

The dog license issued by the Animal Care and Control Division shall consist of a
metal tag which shall have stamped or engraved thereon the year issued. The license tags delivered
shall be approved by the Animal Care and Control Division before delivery. The shape and style
of the license tags shall be changed annually. License tags will be attached to a substantial collar
harness of durable material. Other than those provided for in this section or required by Section 6?
or [71, no of?cial license tags shall be used on the collar or harness of any dog. This
requirement does not prohibit the placement of private identi?cation tags on any animal.

No person shall remove the collar or harness, with the license tag attached, ?'om
any dog without consent of the owner or the party to whom the license for the dog is issued,
provided, that an animal control of?cer may remove a collar or harness from an impounded dog
for the purpose of identi?cation, or for the safety, of the dog.

A collar or harness, with license tag attached, shall be worn at all times by a dog,
when the dog is on any street, highway, or public place within the City.

Upon satisfactory proof that the license tag, as required in this section, has been
lost, the. Animal Care and Control Division, or other agency authorized by the City to issue dog
licenses, is authorized to issue a duplicate license tag upon the payment of a license replacement
fee that is established and approved in accordance with Section 6-1-46 3) of this Code.

Dog licenses or license tags issued under this section are not transferable between

dogs or between owners.

Al9-007ll 48 ll/l4/l9

The Animal Care and Control Division is authorized to implant and utilize
microchips to identify licensed dogs and to collect a fee that is established and approved in
accordance with Section 6-1-46 of this Code for such services.

Any person owning any a dog which has been implanted with a microchip pursuant
to this section shall transfer in writing the microchip registration with the Animal Care and Control
Division upon the barter, gift, sale, trade or other transfer of the dog.

Sec. 6-5-7. Breec?permit required; application.

No person shall breed or own an unaltered female doc. that produces a litter of

puppies without obtainina a breeders permit from the Animal Care and Control Division.

The Animal Care and Control Division shall issue a breeders permit upon receipt

of a completed application form. veri?cation of current licensing and vaccination records. and
payment of the applicable fee.

The breeders permit shall be valid for one vear from the date of issuance and allow
for a maximum of two litters per female dog:

The Animal Care and Control Division mav revoke a breeders permit for failure to
adhere to this Section.

Secs. 6-5-8--6-5-20. Reserved.



ARTICLE VI. RESCUE ORGANIZATIONS

Sec. 6-6-1. Registration reguired.
It shall be unlawful to engage in the activitv of a rescue organization within the Citv. which
shall include the placement ofanv animal in a foster home within the Citv of Detroit. without ?rst

mistering the rescue organization with the Department.

Al9-007ll 49 11/14/19

Sec. 6

Sec. 6-6-2. Registration; information rcguired.

Registration required under this article shall be made on a form that is provided bv
the Department. The registration shall be considered completed when the appropriate person has
signed and dated the registration in the presence of a notarv public. has paid the required
registration fee: and has provided the information that is required on the form; including:

i) Name and type of organization.

(2) Capacity for the type and number of animals.

L3) Proof of current liability insurance in an amount determined bv the Administrator.
or the Administrator?s designee. to be suf?cient to compensate and protect the
public from anv damage or harm caused bv the animal.

Name and address of all foster homes associated with the rescue organization.

Lb} Registration shall be filed annua_ lL

Any information provided in accord_ance with Subsection (at of this section shall
be supplemented in writing and sent bv certified mail. return receipt requested. to the Department
within ten business days of circumstances that would render false or incomplete the infonnation

that was previously submitted.

45-3. Foster home ermits issued to animal rescue or anization- animal limit' license.

     

The Department shall issue to each reaistered rescue organization a speci?ed

number of foster home permits which the rescue oraanization shall use to identiFv foster homes

permitted by the rescue organization to have an animal placed as a foster animal within the Citv.

Each registered foster home permit shall be limited to four total temporarv foster

 

dogs.

to) Each foster dog shall be licensed to the animal rescue organization pursuant to the

Al9-007ll 50 ll/l4/l9



10

procedure set forth in Article V. ol'lhis Chapter. Licenses be hr the Animal ("are

 

and Control Division upon adoption by an individuaLigjmi in the C_it_v_
Sec. 13-6?4. Foster home permit required.

ta] It shall be unlawful to onerate a 'i'ostcr home related to a rescue oraaniza?rtion without
?rst obtaininu a From the rescue oraanization For which mineral-in u-?ilLopuratc the 131.51g:
Loan;

it shall be ttnlawl'ui to operate a foster home without an al'liliation with a reaistered
rescue oraanization.

Secs. 6?6-5-43-5-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE URBAN FARM ANIMALS (RESERVED)

Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare of the People ol?the City of Detroit.

Section 3. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that conflict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective six months after publication in
accordance with paragraph 3 of Section 4-'1 .18 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Section 5. This ordinance shall not take effect unless the companion ordinance amending
amend Chapter 6 of the 2019 Detroit City Code, Ania/ml Care, (L'oniml Regulation; Article
ill, Dangerous Animals; Section 6-3-1 to add a provision to be known as ?Emma?s Clause? in
honor and memory of Emma Valentina Hernandez, dated November 13, 2019, is enacted.

Approved as to form:

gamma JM

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

51 11/14/19

. 
[Tc-(fer, 
Iii". - 

?l?v?riiri/jf??lh I'm;

 



is to improve,
modernize and maintain the
street lighting system in Detroit.

November 18, 2019

The Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: West Vemor Springwells Business Improvement District
Petition #1150

Dear Council Members:

The West Vemor Springwells Business Improvement District is requesting permission to hang
approximately 70 banners on West Vemor (from Woodmere to Clark) to celebrate the holiday
season along the business district.

The Public Lighting Authority has inspected poles and ?nds them to be structurally sound and is
recommending approval for the West Vemor Springwells Business Improvement District to
hang banners on West Vemor from December 12, 2019 to January 11, 2020.

Respectfully Submitted,

La/

Beau Tayl ecutive Director
Public Lighting Authority

Enclosure: Petition
cc: Council Members

File
PLD

 

 

 

 

City of. Ecttoit
OFFICE OFTHE cm CLERK.

Andre P. Gilbert ll

Janice M. Winfrey
Deputy City Clerk

City Clerk

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, November 18, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Win?ey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT LAW DEPARTMENT
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION FINANCE DIV.

1150 West Vernor Springwells Business Improvement District, request to hang
approximately 70 banners along West Vernor from Woodmere to Clark from 12-
2-2019 to 1-11?2020

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 - Fax (313) 224-1466

City Of Detroit Banner Permit Application
For Banners in the Public Right-Of-Way

This application is for the proposed banner(s) for a specified period of time only. The City of Detroit will
be strictly adhering to the Banner Permit Guidelines; please print them out for reference. This form
must be completed and returned at least 60 days prior to the date of installation. lfsubmitted later than
60 days prior, application is subject to denial. If the requested Banner location is on a Michigan State
Truck Line or Wayne County Road the application must be submitted at least 180 clays prior to the date
of installation. After expiration of the permit (if granted), or should the banner change in any way,
another application will be required.

SECTION 1 - APPLICANT INFORMATION

 

Contact Name; THERESA ZAJAC

 

Name of Organization: THE WEST VERNOR SPRINGWELLS BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT

 

Mailing Address; 7752 W. VERNOR SUITE 101

 

phone Number; 313.842.0896 x1002 EMailAddress; 

 

Type of Bannerls) check all that apply:

]City of Detroit Non-Profit ]Other
Community Business District
]Special Event Holiday

If registered as a non-profit, please indicate your non-profit status identification number and
attach a copy of the certificate.

Non-profit identification number:
If applying for a business district bannerls) please identify the business district.

Business District: THE WEST VERNOR SPRINGWELLS BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT

 

Type of Request:

Initial Permit Permit Renewal

If this request is for permit renewal, please provide the following:
Permit Identification Number:

Permit Expiration Date:

 

2 Woodward Ave., Suite 333, Detroit, MI 48226 Phone (313)224-2019 banners@detroitmi.gov

 

 

 

 

SECTION 2 COMMERCIAL BANNER COMPANY

Contact Name: TODD WEEMS
Name of Organization; LABOR SOLUTIONS
Mailing Address; 1515 PINGREE, LINCOLN PARK, MI 48146

Phone Number; 313-289-4538 EvMail Address; 

 

SECTION 3 BANNER INFORMATION

Purpose of Banner(s):

HOLIDAY BANNERS TO BE PUT UP A LONG BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.

 

 

Time Period to display Banner(s): Install Date: 12/2/19 Removal Date: 1/11/2020
Number of Banner(s) to display: 70

Streets on which Banner(s) are to be displayed:

ALONG WEST VERNOR FROM WOODMERE TO CLARK. (SEE ATTACHED MAP)

 

 

Are any of the poles located on a Michigan State Trunk Line or Wayne County Road?
Refer to ?sting of Trunk Lines and Wayne County Roads. YES NO

Describe wording on the Banner(s) and any graphics:

1. WORDING: (FELIZ NAVIDAD MEANING MERRY 
2. NAVIDAD (MEANING MERRY SNOWMAN ON A SLED)

3. 3 OF 3 BELLS WITH RIBBON. TRUMPET. AND
CHRISTMAS TREE

(PLEASE SEE ATTACHED DESIGN)

 

2 Woodward Ave., Suite 333, Detroit, MI 48226 Phone (313)224-2019 banners@detroitmi.gov

 

 

 

The following items MUST BE included in the permit application package in order for it to be
considered:

Completed banner permit application form

Signed and dated indemnity agreement

Signed and dated maintenance and removal agreement

Copy of certificate of insurance

Sketch, drawing, or actual sample of the banner to be displayed

Listing and/or map of the specific locations for the Bannerls)

$100 non?refundable permit fee

A refundable deposit to be held in escrow presented to Business License Department
prior to the issuance of the Banner Permit

The undersigned applica nt(s) agrees to abide by the provisions set by the City bf Detroit to
suspend 3 Banner or Banner(s) during the time period requested for this permit.

THERESA ZAJAC TODD WEEMS

 

 

Applicant: Print Name Commercial Banner Representative: Print Name

installer/remover

. I .. ,1 . 
.3. Wmc?/r?ae

 

 

 

Applicant: Signature Commercial Banner Representative: Signature
10/17/19 10/17/19
Date Date

 

 

2 Woodward Ave., Suite 333, Detroit, MI 48226 Phone (313)224-2019 banners@detroitmi.gov

 

 

 

AGREEMENT 0F INDEMNITY

CITY OF DETROIT:

For and in consideration of the granting of a permit by the City of Detroit to suspend a Banner
or Banners, the undersigned does agree to indemnify and hold harmless the City of Detroit, its
officers, agents and employees from any and all claims arising out of the placement of,
maintenance of, use of, or removal of banners, including claims involving Banners (or the
structure upon which they are hung) falling on people or property.

INDEMNITOR (S):

7 - 1*
gaff/?MW 7742/44"

 

Signature of Authorized 

THERESA ZAJAC
Name

7752 WEST VERNOR HWY DETROIT, MI 48209

 

Address, City, State, Zip Code

 

 

313?842?0986 X1002 10/17/19
Phone Number Date
14

.

x/ 

 

Signature of Authorized Representative (Banner Company)

TODD WEEMS

 

Name

1515 PINGREE. LINCOLN PARK, MI 48146

 

Address, City, State, Zip Code
313-249-4538 10/17/19

 

 

Phone Number Date

 

2 Woodward Ave? Suite 333, Detroit, MI 48226 Phone (313)224-2019 banners@detroitmi.gov

 

 

 

MAINTENANCE 8: REMOVAL AGREEMENT

 

It is understood and agreed that during the initial display, and subsequent renewal periods
if applicable, the permittee shall be responsible for inspecting banners and poles;
replacing and/or removing banners that are torn, defaced or in general disrepair,
including rigging. Where any street banner is found to present an immediate threat of
harm to the pu blic health, welfare or safety, the City shall summarily cause its removal.

ltisalso understood and agreed that banners are to be removed within seventy-two (72)
hours ofthe revocation date ofthe permit. Any street banner not removed within that
time period shall be removed by the City without notice to the permittee.

If the City removes banners because they are in disrepair, present a threat of harm, or
because the permit has expired, it is understood and agreed that a portion or allofthe
refundable deposit will be forfeited by the permittee in order to cover the City?s?
expense.  _fthe expense of removal exceeds the amount of deposit, it is understood
and agreed that the excess amount shall be collected from the perso n/entity to which

the permit was issued.

It is also understood and agreed that in such cases when the City removes banners
there is no guarantee that the banners can be reclaimed by the permittee.

Theresa Zajac Todd Weems

 

Commercial Banner Representative: Print Name

Applicant: Print Name
installer/remover

?4an was 

Applicant. Signature Commercial Banner Representative: Signature

 

10/17/19 10/17/19
Date Date

 

 

 

2 Woodward Ave., Suite 333, Detroit, MI 48226 Phone (313)224?2019 banners@detroitmi.gov

 

 

 

5?49 31

 

09/03/2019

DATE 
CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE I I I

 

 

THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED AS A MATTER OF INFORMATION ONLY AND CONFERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER. THIS
CERTIFICATE DOES NOT AFFIRMATIVELY OR NEGATIVELY AMEND. EXTEND OR ALTER THE COVERAGE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES
BELOW. THIS CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A CONTRACT BETWEEN THE ISSUING AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER, AND THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER.

 

IMPORTANT: If the certificate holder is an ADDITIONAL INSURED, the policyIies) must have ADDITIONAL INSURED provisions or be endorsed.
If SUBROGATION IS WAIVED, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy. certain policies may require an endorsement. A statement on
this certi?cate does not confer rights to the certificate holder In lieu of such endorsement(s).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRODUCER Annette West. CISR
Ralph C. Wllson Agency. Inc ExtI: (2-1-6) 355-1414 mg {243} 3011-037?
annettew@rcwa.net
30" 5059 INSURERISI AFFORDINC COVERAGE NAIC 
South?eld MI 48086-5069 INSURER A. North?eld Insurance Company 27987
INSURED INSURER B: Travelers -AssIgned Risk Insurance Company
West Vernor 8. BUSIness Improvement INSURER c:
7752 West Vernor nghway INSURER .
INSURER E:
Detrolt MI 43209 INSURER F:
COVERAGES CERTIFICATE NUMBER: 3019 202? REVISION NUMBER:

 

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE POLICIES OF INSURANCE LISTED BELOW HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE INSURED NAMED ABOVE FOR THE POLICY PERIOD
INDICATED. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY REQUIREMENT. TERM OR CONDITION OF ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THIS
CERTIFICATE MAY BE ISSUED OR MAY PERTAIN. THE INSURANCE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES DESCRIBED HEREIN IS SUBJECT TO ALL THE TERMS.
EXCLUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH POLICIES. LIMITS SHOWN MAY HAVE BEEN REDUCED BY PAID CLAIMS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INSR ADDL POLICY EFF POLICY EXP
LTR TYPE OF INSURANCE won POLICY NUMBER LIMITS
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY EACH OCCURRENCE 1.000.000
DAMAGE TDRENTEO
I CLAIMS-MADE OCCUR PREMISES IE: Occurrence! 100300
MED EXP (Any one person) 5'000
A WS104968 08/12/2019 08/12/2020 PERSONAL on 1.000.000
GENLAGGREGATE PER: GENERALAGGREGATE 2.000.000
POLICY LOO PRODUCTS - COMPIOPAGG 21000-000
5
COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY [Ea ?Nun? 5
ANY AUTO BODILY INJURY (Per person) 
OWNED SCHEDULED
AUTOS ONLY AUTOS BODILY INJURY (Per accldent) 
HIRED NON-OWNED PROPERTY DAMAGE 
AUTOS ONLY AUTOS ONLY Moon/I
3
UMBRELLA LIAB OCCUR EACH OCCURRENCE 
EXCESS LIAB CLAIMS-MADE AGGREGATE 
OED I I RETENTION 
WORKERS COMPENSATION PER 0TH-
AND LIABILITY STATUTE I ER 500 000
. 6KUB4815P81619 0811512019 08/13/2020 EACH ACCIDENT 
(Mandatory In NH) E.L. DISEASE - EA EMPLOYEE 
If yes. describe under 500 000
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS below E.L. DISEASE - POLICY LIMIT 5 -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS I LOCATIONS I VEHICLES (ACORD 101. AddltIonal Remarks Schedule. may be attached If more space ls requlred)

 

CERTIFICATE HOLDER CANCELLATION

 

 

SHOULD ANY OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED POLICIES BE CANCELLED BEFORE
THE EXPIRATION DATE THEREOF. NOTICE WILL BE DELIVERED IN
Clty of Detrolt ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICY PROVISIONS.

 

1210 Cl I BuIIdin
ty 0 9 AUTHORIZEDREPRESENTATIVE

Detrolt MI 43207
I 2% 24'

 

 

1988-2015 ACORD CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
ACORD 25 (2016103) The ACORD name and logo are reglstered marks of ACORD

 

avenue poie banner 24"w 61"t,

2-sided, 20qty

avenue pole banner 24"w 61't.

2-sided, 20qty.

 

 

 

 

 

 

avenue pole banner. 24"w 61"t.
2-slded, 15qty

 

avenue pole banner, 24"w 61 avenue pole banner. 24"w 61"t,
2-sided, 15qty 2-sided,15qty

 

age 5m.-
if 




  



    

   

 

 

 

CI to 63?] (ormarl/r It:

 

West Vernor Springwells
Business Improvement District

 

 

?mar

- 

 

  

 

 

2 Miles
West Vernor and Springwells Business Improvement District (BID)

BID Zone: West Vernor from Woodmere to Clark; and Springwells, from West Vernor to the
Southboand l-75 service drive.

The map above generally respresents parcels within the BID, parcels without West Vernor or
Springwells addresses are including in the BID and recieve BID services. Please contact the
BID for inquiries about specific parcels.

Glenn, Safe and {?anking foryoul

 .

DocuSign Envelope ID: 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 1026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT IN CIAL 0 CER PHONE: 313 - 628?2158
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF AN I FAX. 313 . 224 0542

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS

 



 

November 13, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Authorization to submit a grant application to the Michigan Department of
Transportation for the Transportation Economic Development Fund Category A
Grant

The Department of Public Works is hereby requesting authorization from Detroit City
Council to submit a grant application to the Michigan Department of Transportation for
the Transportation Economic Development Fund Category A Grant. The amount
being sought is $1,126,444.00. The State share is $1,126,444.00 of the approved
amount, there is a required cash match of $360,710.00. The total project cost is
$1,487,154.00. If awarded, Richard Doherty, the Department of Public Works Head
Engineer, will be the project lead for this grant and the planned improvements will be
maintained by the Department of Public Works.

The Transportation Economic Development Fund Category A Grant will enable the
department to:

- Improve roads that can withstand increased truck traffic for the new Dakkota
Integrated Systems Plant
. Make Improvements to Van Dyke Ave. and the 1-94 Townsend Service Drive

If the application is approved, a cash match will be provided from appropriation 04189.

We respectfully request your approval to submit the grant application by adopting the
attached resolution.

 

Sincerely, 

DocuSlgne by: H?ncu?rgned by:

[?aw 


Ryan Friedrichs Officegrbf Budget

Director, Office of Development and Grants 

CC:

Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

DocuSign Envelope ID: 1g

Office of Development and Grants ?Tammi-Ron-

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Department of Public Works has requested authorization from City Council to
submit a grant application to the Michigan Department of Transportation, for the Transportation
Economic Development Fund Category A Grant, in the amount of $1,126,444.00, to improve
roads that can withstand increased truck traffic for the new Dakkota Integrated Systems Plant; and

WHEREAS, the Department of Public Works has $360,710.00 available in its FY 2020
Departmental allocation, in appropriation 04189, for the City match requirement for the
Transportation Economic Development Fund Category A Grant; and

WHEREAS, if awarded, Richard Doherty, the Department of Public Works Head Engineer, will be
the project lead for this grant and the planned improvements will be maintained by the Department
of Public Works; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget; now

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Department of Public Works is hereby authorized to submit
a grant application to the Michigan Department of Transportation for the Transportation Economic
Development Fund Category A Grant.

Page 1 of 1

DocuSign Envelope ID: 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 AVENUE. SUITE 1026

CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PHONE: 3 I - 628-2 I 58

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENTAND GRANTS FAX: 3 I3 0 224 - 0542


 

 

Grant Application Request Form (GARF)

In order to secure the Of?ce of DeveloPment and Grants (ODG) approval required under Section 18-4-2 of the
Detroit City Charter, this form is to be ?lled out by City Departments as soon as possible upon learning of an
opportunity that the Department would like to pursue. This form must be signed and submitted not later than
20 business days prior to the application deadline.

Please submit this form to the following 006 staff: Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director,
parkersa@detroitmi.gov and Greg Andrews, Program Analyst IV, andrewsgr?idetroitmig?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City Department Depanmenl at Public Works

Date 11l13l2019

Department Contact Name Richard Doherty

Department Contact Phone 313-224-3955

Department Contact Email DaherlleQdetrollml gov

Grant Opportunity Title Tiansponalion Economic Development Fund Category A
Grant Opportunity Funding?ency Michigan Department of Transportation

Web Link to Opportunity Information Mmi
Award Amount (that Department will apply for) 51.126.444

Application Due Date Rolling

Anticipated Proposed Bidget Amount $1,487,154

cty Match Contribution Amount $360,710

 

Source of City Match (include Appropriation

Number, Cost Center, and Object Code) 3301 '041 89'1 93801 ?6321 00
?a Of be To improve roads that can withstand
funded and the Bud at for each .

Sample: 3 Increased truck traffic for the new Dakkota
ABCAfterschool ?09mm: 5150.000 Integrated Systems Kettering Site

- XYZ Youth leadership program: $100,000
- Salary/Benet? ts: $95,000

- Supplies: $5,000

Brief Statement of Priorities] Purpose for the

 

 

To make improvements to Van Dyke Avenue. from

Application . the Townsend Service Dr. to Hendrie St. and the
Sample. To support ?Pans? prmm?sm Van Dyke bridge overpass. as well as improvements
MNO to the Townsend Service Or. on the l-94 exit ramp.
neighborhood.

 

Key Performance Indicators to be Used to .
Measure the Programs/Services/Activitles Of m'les Of roads ?xed by 2020

Sample:

ll of kids newly enrolled in ABC and XYZ
96 of kids from ABC who demonstrate
improved educational performance

 

 

 

Oladayo Akinyemi I II ilSilcl?

Director's Name (Please Print) Dine ctor?s Signiiture Date

 

 

 

DocuSign Envelope ID: 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 1026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT . . _1 a PHONE: 313 0 628-2158
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL til-I-ll f1 l1. FAX: 313 . 224 . 0542

 

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

 

October 28, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Authorization to submit a grant application to the Michigan Department of
Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy for the FY 2020 Scrap Tire Regulatory
Program Grant

The Detroit Police Department is hereby requesting authorization from Detroit City
Council to submit a grant application to the Michigan Department of Environment, Great
Lakes, and Energy for the FY 2020 Scrap Tire Regulatory Program Grant. The amount
being sought is $68,105.00. There is no match requirement. The total project cost is
$68,105.00.

The Scrap Tire Regulatory Program Grant will enable the department to:

- Purchase cameras, license plate readers, and tracking devices to monitor the
sources of tire dumping on vacant lots.

We respectfully request your approval to submit the grant application by adopting the
attached resolution.

Sincerel 
?fu?-Igne by.
[?lth @lu?vldA-S.


Ryan Friedrichs

Director, Office of Development and Grants
CC:

Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

DocuSign Envelope ID: 

Office of Development and Grants cmc?emon

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Police Department has requested authorization from City Council to
submit a grant application to the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy,
for the FY 2020 Scrap Tire Regulatory Program Grant, in the amount of $68,105.00, to purchase
cameras, license plate readers, and tracking devices to monitor the sources of tire dumping on
vacant lots; and

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Detroit Police Department is hereby authorized to submit a
grant application to the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy for the FY
2020 Scrap Tire Regulatory Program Grant.

Page 1 of 1

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, surru l026

CITY or DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF PHONE: 313 a 628-258

OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS FAX: 3 l3 . 224 . 0542



Grant Application Request Form (GARF)

 

 

In order to secure the Office of Development and Grants (ODG) approval required under Section 18-4-2 of the
Detroit City Charter, this form is to be filled out by City Departments as soon as possible upon learning of an
opportunity that the Department would like to pursue. This form must be signed and submitted not later than
20 business days priorto the application deadline.

Please submit this form to the following ODG staff: Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director,
parkersa@detroitmi.gov and Greg Andrews, Program Analyst IV, andrewsgr@deiroitmi.gov

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City Department Detroit Police Department

Date 10l18/19

Department Contact Name Lt Rebecca McKay

Department Contact Phone 313-378-1944

Department Contact Email mckay3393@detroliml gov

Grant Opportunity Title Scrap Tire Law Enforcement Program 2020

Grant Opportunity Funding Agency Mi Dept of Environment. Great Lakes. and Energy

Web Link to Opportunity Information michigan 
Award Amount (that Department will apply for) $641105

Application Due Date Novemberi, 2019

Anticipated Proposed Budget Amount $68,105

City Match Contribution Amount 0 

 

Source of City Match (include Appropriation
Number, Cost Center, and Object Code) 0

List of programs/services/activities to be
funded and the Budget for each

 

This grant will purchase cameras, license
plate readers, and provide tracking devices to

Sample: 
monItor the sources of tire dumping on vacant
- YZ Youth leadership program: $100,000 

- Salary/Benefits: $95, 000

- Supplies: 000

Brief Statement of Priorities/Purpose for the
Application

Sample: To support expansion of promising
youth development programs in MNO
neighborhood.

Key Performance Indicators to be Used to
Measure the Programs/Services/Activities

 

To reduce the amount of tire dumping by
scrappers on vacant lots.

 

Number of arrests for illegal dumping
Number of tire dealers and community leaders

 

 

 

Sample: . 

of kids newly enrolled in ABC and YZ Fame

of kids from ABC who demonstrate Number of cases prosecuted 

improved educan-Ona, performance Decrease In annual tonnage of tires dumped

 

MM @907

Director?s Name (Please Print) Director?s Signature Date

 

_City of Detroit

EN 50 

 

EMORAN DU 
TO: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez
FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
James Craig, Chief of Police
Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison
VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 15 November 2019
RE: POLICING ORDINANCE PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS

I would like to propose the following changes to the Biased-Based Policing Ordinance:

1.

Include a list of the policing agencies that are referred to under the amended de?nition of
police officer.

The prohibition of biased-based policing on the basis of the perception of all characteristics
or descriptions listed in the ordinance, i.e. perception of religion, perception of gender, etc.

As witness testimony often provides descriptions upon which reasonable suspicion is
based, sections referring to the basis for reasonable suspicion and probable cause should state
that a public servant who is a police officer ?shall not solely base.? For example, Sec. 23-8?4,

sect. should read as: I

public servant who is a police officer shall not solely base reasonable suspicion for an
investigative detention, probable cause for an arrest, or any other police action, on a person?s
appearance. . 

4. The inclusion of a definition for biased-based policing.

Please reach out to my of?ce if you have any questions at, 313-224?1 198.

SRB

ditty of Eetrm?t

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

 

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ 
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

MEMORANDUM
TO: David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division
THRU: Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez 
DATE: November 14, 2019
RE: Resolution to Support DACA

 

I request that the Legislative Policy Division draft a resolution to oppose ending the Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Oral arguments were held on November 12, 2019,
regarding the Trump Administration?s attempt to discontinue the program, which will remove

protecti

ons for about 700,000 young people brought to the US. as children.

Please contact my of?ce for more information. Thank you.

Cc:

Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison
City Clerk

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1139


(?fty of Eetrm?t

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

RAQU EL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER

 

DISTRICT 6
MEMORANDUM
TO: Ron Brundidge, Director, Department of Public Works
THRU: Council President Brenda Jones

 

FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez
DATE: November 14, 2019

RE: Garbage Pick?up Noise concerns

 

Residents have reached out to my of?ce with concerns related to routine pickup of garbage
in the Brush Park neighborhood between 3-6am, which disrupts residents?sleep. The current
contract with GFL limits collection of refuse to between 7am and 7pm for residential homes.

Please advise whether there are there any laws, agreements, or policies in place to prevent GFL and
other companies from refuse collection during these early morning times in close proximity to
residential neighborhoods.

Please feel free to reach out to my office with questions at (313) 224-2450.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison. Mayor Duggan?s Of?ce
City Clerk

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 27

179-.? H..- all 1 I'd/xi} 

Elbernita ?Twinkie? Clark

TWINKIE CLARK was born on November 15, 1954, in Detroit, Michigan to Pastor Elbert Clark and Dr.
Mattie Moss Clark, the legendary gospel music innovator. TWINKIE has a remarkable legacy and a powerful
musical gift.? She is an extraordinary musician and anointed vocalist; and

Her mother introduced her to the piano as an infant, and by the age of four, TWIN KIE was playing full songs
on the instrument. By the time she was nine, TWINKIE had switched to the organ, and by age twelve, she had
made her recording debut as an organist on the Southwest Michigan State Choir?s album, A Closer Walk with
Thee. TWINKIE started writing songs in her teens in the 19705. She received her formal musical training at
Howard University. TWINKIE wrote and produced a couple of albums for her mother, but her best-known
compositions and productions were for her longtime sibling gospel group, The Clark Sisters. The legendary
ensemble also included her sisters Karen, Dorinda, and Jacky Clark. arrangements and
productions were an innovative blend that literally kicked gospel into the modern era. The Clark Sisters were
able to cross over to the secular charts and ?ll dance?oors with their 1981 gold record hit ?You Brought the
Sunshine.? Gospel had never really sounded like this before. Some of it had to do with organ
playing, which was singular and always striking, earning her the title of ?Queen of the Hammond 3-3? in gospel
circles and beyond; and

TWINKIE left the Clark Sisters of?cially in 1989 to devote more time to her own ministry, although she
continued to add her production, songwriting, and organ expertise to various projects. TWINKIE has produced
albums for several choirs and traveled the world abroad as an evangelist, workshop facilitator, music educator,
singer and a powerful woman of God. She has had her compositions recorded and sampled by some of the
Gospel greats and even secular artists. Amid her travels, networking and the lending of her songwriting and
production expertise to others over the years, TWINKIE found the time to record and release a catalog of solo
albums: Praise Belongs to God (1979), Ye Shall Receive Power (1981), Comin? Home (1982), Masterpiece
(1996), Live in Charlotte (2002), Home Once Again: Live in Detroit (2004), With Humility (2011) and Live 
Unplugged in 2013. TWINKIE has understood the ministerial calling on her life from a very young age and
she has followed in her mother?s footsteps. Musically, she has been labeled a Gospel Legend. Her mother also
garnered the title for her career. Through her many seasons of life, TWINKIE has inspired peers, supporters
and fans around the world with the power of her musical talents, voice and message. TWINKIE CLARK has
skillfully mastered the delicate balance between music, life and ministry with resounding clarity building a
rich musical legacy that continues to exceed expectations. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones hereby present this Testimonial
Resolution to TWIN KIE CLARK as a gesture of admiration and respect, and in recognition of her outstanding
musical achievements and dedication to her faith.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,



MEMBER 4 I

r4 
I [?521

la
DR. ROBERT BRUMFIELD

Dr. Robert Brumfield served as the Senior Pastor of Oak Grove African Methodist Episcopal Church for 19 years.
Prior to his assignment to the pastorate of Oak Grove, Dr. Brum?eld served as the Pastor of Bethel AME Church in
Indianapolis, lndiana. He spearheaded the restoration and renovation of Bethel-Indianapolis. Organized by Bishop
William Paul Quinn in 1836, Bethel is a National Historic Landmark. Additionally, Dr. Brum?eld led the renovation
and restoration initiatives at four other AME Churches: Bethel (Liberty, Mississippi), Allen Chapel (Meridian.
Mississippi), Allen Chapel (Thibodaux, Louisiana). and Bethel (Baton Rouge, Louisiana); and

Dr. Brum?eld is committed to enhancing the quality of life and improving the human condition of God?s people by
rebuilding families and reshaping communities through discipleship, leadership, fellowship and stewardship. A
passionate advocate for human, political and civil rights, Dr. Brum?eld has immersed himself in the affairs of Detroit
at a grassroots level. He was appointed as an advisor to former Governor Jennifer Granholin. several Detroit Mayors.
and to the Detroit Chief of Police. He also is a Deputy with the Wayne County Sheriffs Department and serves as a
Chaplain; and

A native of New Orleans, Louisiana. Dr. Brum?eld began his ministry in the Eighth Episcopal District (Louisiana
and Mississippi) of the African Methodist Episcopal Church in 1980. During his pastorate at Bethel-Baton Rouge,
he helped organize and sponsor the Louisiana delegation to the Million Man March in Washington. D.C. In 1984.
Dr. Brum?eld Spearheaded the ?rst Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday celebration in the state of Mississippi for
the city of Meridian. In 1986, he did the same thing in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana. The following year, in 1987, he
organized the ?rst Juneteenth celebration in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and

Dr. Brumfield distinguished himself in law enforcement and served on the city and state levels in Louisiana for 14
years. In 1988, the ChiefJustice ofthe Louisiana Supreme Court appointed him as a member ofthe Louisiana Task
Force on Racial and Ethnic Fairness in the Courts. He also has served on the NAACP State Executive Committees
in Louisiana and Mississippi. Dr. Brum?eld earned a Bachelor of Science Degree and a uris Doctorate from Tulane
University and holds a Doctorate in Sacred Theology from the Notre Dame Graduate School of Theology. Dr.
Brum?eld is a member of the National Urban League. Nu Omega Chapter of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity lnc.,
Corinthian Lodge #15 Prince Hall Af?liate, the Wolverine Consistory #6 Masons, and a life member of the
NAACP. He is married to the former Sharon Johnson and is the proud father of five; and

Dr. Brumfield is the newly-appointed Presiding Elder of the Chicago Conference, South District of the African
Methodist Episcopal Church which contains 18 churches. He has also been appointed to Governor Gretchen
Whitmer?s Clergy Advisory Committee and as a member ofthe Urban Alliance ofMichigan. NOW, THERE FORE
BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones, congratulate Dr. Robert Brum?eld for his
tremendous achievements and express their deepest admiration, respect and gratitude to him for his dedicated service
and positive contributions to the city ofDetroit.

COUNCIL 2

 

 

 



 

 

CIUNCIL EMBER I CC 

November 12, 2019

DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

.- 1r, 

.--. 1COUNCIL MEMBER BRENDA JONES:

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SECONDARY STREET NAME IN HONOR OF MR. WILLIE
HORTON AT THE INTERSECTION OF W. CANFIELD AVENUE AND THE JOHN C. LODGE SERVICE DRIVE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

 

The intersection of W. Can?eld Avenue and the John C. Lodge Service Drive is historically signi?cant, being the former
location of the Jefferies Homes a/k/a the Jefferies Housing Projects, named for Edward J. efferies, where Willie Horton
was raised during his formative years until being signed to the Detroit Tigers at the age of 17 in 196]; and

Willie Horton is a former left ?elder and designated hitter in Major League Baseball who played 15 years of his 18 year
career with the Detroit Tigers; and

Willie Horton is the youngest of twenty-one children of James Horton and his wife Lillian (Wattison) Horton. Willie hit a
home run at Tiger Stadium when he was 16 years old during an all-city high school game. After winning a city
championship with Detroit Northwestern High School in 1959, he signed with the Tigers in 196] playing for the Tigers?
farm team, the Duluth Dukes in Minnesota, on the shores of Lake Superior, and made his debut with the Tigers on
September 10, 1963; and

In 1965, his ?rst full season as a starter, Willie Horton ranked second in the American League with 104 runs batted in
(RBIs) and third with 29 home runs. He was named to the All-Star team, and placed eighth in the MVP balloting. Becoming
known for his tremendous strength, often hitting home runs with a one-handed swing, he again collected 100 RBIs in the
1966 season; and

During the 1967 Detroit 12?? Street rebellion, he tried bravely to restore peace. He stood in his Tiger uniform on a car in the
middle of the chaos, pleading for calm; and

Horton was selected seven-times as a member of the American League All-Star team; having played in only four in 1965,
1968, 1970 and 1973, due to injuries; and

He enjoyed his best season in 1968 with the world champion Tigers, ?nishing second in the American League with 36
homers, a .543 slugging average and 278 total bases. In the later years of his career, he was twice named the American
Leagues? top designated hitter; and

On July 15, 2000, Willie Horton became just the sixth former player given the ultimate honor by the Detroit Tigers; a statue
of Horton was placed in Comerica Park and his number 23 was retired; and

Since 2003, Willie Horton has served as a Special Assistant to Tigers President/CEP/General Manger; and

For the ?fteenth consecutive year, the State of Michigan recognized one man?s ability to overcome obstacles and achieve a
lifetime of success when ?Willie Horton Day? was celebrated on Thursday, October 18, 2004. Horton is the fourth person
in Michigan history to be given a day, with the third being Rosa Parks. Over the years, Willie Horton has received many
awards and accolades in the ?elds of Civil and Human Rights for his continued work in support of the military and their
families; and

Willie Horton enjoys his retirement with his wife, Gloria. They have seven children (one deceased), twenty-one
grandchildren, twenty-two great-grandchildren, and two great-great grandchildren. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council on behalf of Detroit Tigers, Inc., assigns the secondary street name ?Willie Horton Drive,?
to be located at the intersection of W. Can?eld Avenue and the John C. Lodge Service Drive in celebration of his
noteworthy achievements.

 

 

 

 

November 14, 2019

 

DATE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
. -

f) .
681/le Cheat?Kati-tam
In Memoriam

MR. JERRY LAWRENCE

WHEREAS, We. the members of the Detroit City Council, join the family and friends of Mr. Jerry Lawrence, Sr. in
honoring his life and legacy. Mr. Lawrence made his heavenly transition on October 9, 2019, after a life well-
lived: and

WHEREAS, JERRY LAWRENCE was born on August 7, I953, in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. He was welcomed into the world
by his loving parents, Nettie and Roosevelt Lawrence Sr. JERRY was the fourth oldest of ten children from this
union. He professed the faith of Jesus Christ at an early age. JERRY graduated from Kettering High School and
initially attended Wayne County Community College. He transferred to Wayne State University, where he
became a member of Omega Psi Fraternity Nu Sigma Chapter; and

WHEREAS, JERRY enjoyed hiking and the outdoors which led him to become a camp counselor with the YMCA. He also
traveled frequently with friends to Mexico. JERRY began his career in the area of professional sales and was
employed at Honeywell, Raytheon and Kelly Services. His work in corporate America became too taxing due to
the extensive traveling it required. After living coast to coast, JERRY returned to the Midwest; and

WHEREAS, JERRY always had a strong desire to help others to succeed. He started working with the Detroit Employment
Solutions Corporation, the workforce agency for the city of Detroit. While there, he provided vocational training
for people who wanted to work in the skilled trades industries. He also linked with a government subcontractor to
obtain federal contracts for construction projects. JERRY was unwavering in his commitment to provide
Detroiter?s with the essential skills and tools needed to enter the workforce. His most inspired work was the 4
years he served with AmeriCorps, where he worked with low-income families, senior citizens and students,
providing hands-on energy assistance and education to help them understand how to lower their utility costs and
become more energy ef?cient; and

WHEREAS, A lifelong jazz enthusiast. JERRY was involved with the Detroit Jazz Festival as a volunteer and Artist
Relationship representative for more than 20 years He enjoyed his leisure activities of annual trips to the NBA
All-Star weekends with his sons and volunteering with the Police Academy Junior Cadets on Saturdays at Eastern
Market with his brothers. JERRY also enjoyed his acquaintance with boxing legend, Thomas Hearns and one-
time interaction with rapper and actor, Common. MR. JERRY LAWRENCE leaves a legacy of strength, dignity
and service. reminders of this are his sons. Isaac, Jerry Jr., and Jeffrey; eight brothers, Roosevelt, Roland
Fige Bornu, Roy (Pat), Gregory (Norene), Jesse Sr.. Thomas (Denise), Thaddeus (Lanette), and Cyrus; one sister,
Shirley and a host of nephews, nieces. cousins, other relatives and friends. He exempli?ed the Spirit of a true
community champion and will be greatly missed. NOW, THEREFORE BE lT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones, join with family and friends in honoring
the life and legacy of MR. JERRY LAWRENCE.

COUNCIL 

 

    

 

 

 

0 

A: 
00?:th BER

5 2:MBER 



 

 

21119 if.

DATE I., 

