301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5?h Floor

Chicago, IL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
October 15, 2019 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Don Villar, Vice Chairman; Jorge Ramirez*, Secretary/Treasurer; Dr. Sonat Birnecker Han;
Roger J. Kiley; Terrance B. McGann; Juan A. Ochoa; Sherman Wright

'Arrived at 9:18 a.m.

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Larita Clark, Chief Financial Officer; David Winters, Chief Operations Officer;
David Causton, SMG/McCormick Place; Matthew Simmons, General Counsel; Pat Allen, Director of Labor Relations;
Dao Ngo, Director of Procurement; Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security Officer; Stephanie Lovelace-Nieves, Controller;
Samina Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Jeanette Swan, Director of Internal Audit; Jason Bormann, Director of
Treasury and Capital Management; Tiffany Wright, Business Diversity Program Manager; Nicol Chervenak, Director of
Planning and Program Management; Lisa Nelson, Project Coordinator; Dave Nanda, Senior Director of Technology;
Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager, Community Engagement and Special Events; David Whitaker, Choose Chicago;
Joseph T. Scheper, SMG/McCormick Place; Doug Bradley, Savor; Rufus Purnell, Resident; Jill Jaworski, Pat
Doerr, Hospitality Business Association of Chicago; McCafferty, Hawthorne Strategy Group, Inc.; Maria
Calderon, Compliance Officer and Board Administrator

General Matters:

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Vice Chairman Villar, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon
called roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Vice Chairman Villar called forthe approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the September 24, 2019.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey thanked the Board, staff and everyone present for the more than four years she had
spent working at the Authority. Ms. Healey stated construction of the 3rd Floor Corporate Center Tap@ Hyatt had
started a week ago and would be completed by the beginning of next year.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the financial results for September 2019 and Mr. Bormann presented the tax
collections for September 2019.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton stated True Value hosted their show every other year and this year they
hosted a private event at Wintrust Arena. Mr. Causton stated held their show on campus with 10,000 attendees
and Bank of America Chicago Marathon had over 100 countries represented. Mr. Causton stated the foundation of the
Food Processing Suppliers Association during Process Expo ran a food drive with all proceeds going to the Greater
Chicago Food Depository. Mr. Causton stated the following shows and events were hosted on campus: National
Association of Personal Financial Advisors; Educause had 8,000 attendees; 2019 Chicago National College Fair; and
Rachel Maddow in Conversation. Mr. Causton stated the following shows will host their events on campus: Society for
Neuroscience Annual Meeting; International Association of Chiefs of Police; National Funeral Directors Association
Annual Convention; Matchroom Boxing USA: USYK vs and An Evening of Soul with Patti LaBeIle Friends.
Mr. Causton reported AEG Facilities and SMG merged two weeks ago creating ASM Global. Mr. Causton thanked Ms.
Healey for the years they worked together and wished her the best in her new role.

1 i

do

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5'h Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Executive Session: Vice Chairman Villar asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss item C1.
Upon motion duly made by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present
unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

Ci.

D1.

D2.

E1.

E2.

Adjournment

Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the September 24, 2019 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member Birnecker Hart, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members
present voted approving item C1.

Consideration of Approval of New Reference Contract for Furniture for 3rd Floor Corporate Center 
Tap@ Hyatt.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D1.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for the MPEA Bond Finance Team.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D2.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 19-07 - Resolution Honoring Lori T. Healey.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item E1.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 19-08 Appointment of Acting Chief Executive
Officer of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item E2.

Vice Chairman Villar moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member McGann, and
the meeting was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

 

Approved: November 19, 2019 Secretary/Treasurer??r Assistant Secretary

