Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting

Chairman of Finance Frank Avila, Commissioner Cameron
Davis, Commissioner Kimberly Du Buclet, Commissioner
Marcelino Garcia, Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan,
Commissioner Josina Morita, Commissioner Debra Shore,
Commissioner Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, President Board of
Commissioners Kari K. Steele
Thursday, November 7, 2019

1:00 PM

Board Room

DEPARTMENTAL BUDGET PRESENTATIONS

Call Meeting to Order
Frank Avila, Chairman for the Committee on Budget and Employment, called the
meeting to order at 1:05 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9-

Frank Avila; Cameron Davis; Kimberly Du Buclet; Marcelino Garcia; Barbara J.
McGowan; Josina Morita; Debra Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; and Kari K.
Steele

Public Comment
None

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

1

Meeting Minutes

19-1111

November 7, 2019

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Kari K. Steele and presiding Chairman of the
Committee on Budget and Employment, Frank Avila, a Special Meeting will be
held on Thursday, November 7, 2019, at 1:00 p.m. in the Board Room, 100 East
Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of this meeting is to present and accept the 2020 Executive
Director’s Budget Recommendations and related changes.
The Executive Director’s Budget Recommendations is available for review on
the District’s website, www.mwrd.org <http://www.mwrd.org>.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
Attachments:

2020 Budget Executive Director Presentation
2020 Budget Presentation Departmental Slides
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Kari K. Steele,
that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays

2

19-1109

Authority to Accept the Executive Director’s 2020 Budget Recommendations
and the Attached Changes

Attachments:

BF-19 Consolidated Packet FINAL.pdf
A motion was made by Kari K. Steele, seconded by Kimberly Du Buclet, that this
Agenda Item be Adopted. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:

Aye:

5-

Frank Avila; Cameron Davis; Kimberly Du Buclet; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele

Absent:

4-

Marcelino Garcia; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Open Discussion
Brian A. Perkovich, Executive Director, presented the 2020 Budget Recommendations

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

November 7, 2019

Summary of Requests
Engineering - Stormwater Management Fund
1. Debra Shore requested the District consider outsourcing to get more projects done
2. Cameron Davis requested a place holder of $100K to help green infrastructure in
Stormwater Management Fund
Engineering - Corportate Fund
1. Marcelino Garcia requested information on how the $214K budget for local education is
utilized
Finance
1. Debra Shore requested possible increase for court reporting service to include the
technical advisory committee
2. Debra Shore requested a memo to the Board on how to search Board proceedings and
old transcripts
Law
1. Cameron Davis and Marcelino Garcia requested the Board have their own legal position
General Administration
1. Mariyana T. Spyropoulos requested sink and light sensors be added to restrooms
2. Debra Shore requested a space study be conducted for the District's main office
building
Human Resources
1. Debra Shore requested a report on the impact of the Parental Leave program on the
budget
2. Debra Shore requested a survey by employees on the Return to Work program
Board of Commissioners/Treasury
1. Debra Shore requested staff research potential legislative changes for transferring
surplus revenues

Adjournment
A motion was made by Debra Shore, seconded by Cameron Davis, that this
Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

5-

Frank Avila; Cameron Davis; Kimberly Du Buclet; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele

Absent:

4-

Marcelino Garcia; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

November 7, 2019

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing agenda
items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this November 7, 2019, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Kari K. Steele
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
November 7, 2019

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 4

 