 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Homeland Security and Emergency Management Committee

11:30 AM
Wednesday, October 23, 2019 Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Lowry, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Miller,

Morrison, Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (IS)

Absent: Tobolski and Moore (2)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Vice-Chairman Lowry asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordaneewith Cook County Code.

No public speakers

19-6288
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval ofthe minutes from the meeting of 9/25/2019

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to approve
19-6288. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Lowry, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Miller,
Morrison, Morrison, Silvestri. Sims and Suf?'edin (IS)
Absent: Tobolski and Moore (2)

19-4277

Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN and ALMA E. ANAYA, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT RENAMING THE COOK COUNTY
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AS THE
COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES, ARTICLE II. - COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY SERVICES, Sec. 26-31 - 26-43 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES

ARTICLE II. - COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF WW
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY

Sec. 26-31. - Establishment.

There is hereby created the Cook County Department of Homeland?SW Emergency
Management DEMPS) to coordinate the efforts of the County to develop, plan, analyze, conduct,
provide, implement and maintain programs for disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery
within the County and with private organizations, other political subdivisions, the State and federal
governments, established pursuant to Section 10 ofthe Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA)
Act (20 ILCS 3305/10).

DEMPS shall consist of the Executive Director, who shall serve as emergency
coordinator of the County's emergency management programs pursuant to the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act, and such additional employees as may be selected by the President or Executive
Director per the County's hiring rules.

Sec. 26?32. - Executive Director.

The Executive Director ofthe DEMPS shall be appointed by the President ofthe County
Board of Commissioners and shall serve until removed by the President.

The Executive Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration,
training and operation ofthe DEM PS, subject to the direction and control ofthe President and the
Chief ofthe Bureau ofAdministration, including the preparation by the DHSEM DEMPS ofan emergency
operations plan consistent with the National Incident Management System (NIMS), as adopted by
Resolution No. 05-R-464.

Page 2 of 14

 The Executive Director shall possess all powers and duties set forth for the Executive Director
by statute and in this Ordinance, including the authority to designate emergency vehicles as provided in the
Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-215.

In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve as the Executive Director, the
President or any person designated by him or her shall be and act as Executive Director until a new
appointment is made as provided in this article.

Sec. 26-33. - Functions.

The DHSEM DEMPS shall perform such functions within the County as shall be prescribed in
and by the County's Emergency Operations Plan and the State Emergency Operations Plan and
emergency management program prepared by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA), and
such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by IEMA and the Governor.

As used herein, the terms ?emergency management agency? and "emergency services and
disaster agency" are equivalent. The DEMPS shall serve as the mandated emergency
management agency for all political subdivisions within the County except those areas served by
emergency management agencies which have been accredited by IEMA. All political subdivisions served
by the DEMPS shall be responsible for engaging in emergency preparedness and response
activities within their jurisdictions. Political subdivisions which maintain a nonmandated emergency
services and disaster agency not accredited by the IEMA may apply to DHSEM DEMPS for certification,
in which case each such political subdivision shall biennially submit an emergency operations plan to
DEMPS as provided in Title 29 of the Illinois Administrative Code, Part 301, Political
Subdivision Emergency and Disaster Service Agencies. Each municipality that does not maintain an
emergency services and disaster agency shall designate a liaison of?cer to facilitate the cooperation and
protection of that municipal corporation with DEMPS, in accordance with Section ID of the
IEMA Act (20 ILCS 3305/10).

The DEMPS shall perform or coordinate the performance of such duties as may be
required of the County pursuant to any Mutual Aid agreement with any other political subdivision,
municipality, or quasi?municipality entered into as provided in Section 13 of the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/13).

In accordance with Chapter 34, Section 34-141 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, the
Executive Director, in consultation with the Chief Procurement Of?cer and utilizing a competitive
procurement process approved by the County's Code when practicable, shall be authorized to request the
Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contracts for the availability ofemergency
equipment or supplies which may be required in the event of an emergency or disaster. Except as
approved by the Board, such contracts shall not commit the County to make payment in excess of $25,000
unless such equipment or supplies are purchased under the emergency purchase authority set forth in
Section 26?39 ofthis Ordinance.

Page 3 of 14

Sec. 26-34. - Service as mobile support team.

All or any members DEMPS may be designated as members ofa Mobile Support

Team created by the Director of the as provided by Section 8 of the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act (20 3305/8).

Any member ofa Mobile Support Team who is a County employee or officer while serving on
call to duty by the Governor or the Director of shall receive the compensation and have the
powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not
a paid of?cer or employee of the County, while so serving, shall receive from the State reasonable
compensation as provided by law.

Sec. 26-35. - Agreements with other political subdivisions and nongovernmental organizations.

Mutual Aid, Intergavernmenta] or Interagency Agreements. The Executive Director of the
Department of Emergency Management (DH-SE-M DEMPS) may negotiate
Mutual Aid Agreements and lntergovernmental or lnteragency Agreements with other political
subdivisions and taxing districts of the State as well as with nongovernmental organizations, provided such
agreements are consistent with the State Emergency Operations Plan and Emergency Management
Program. Negotiated Mutual Aid Agreements, lntergovermnental Agreements or lnteragency
Agreements shall be approved by the County Board in advance of execution by the Executive Director.
Where applicable, said agreements shall adhere to applicable procurement rules under the County's Code
of Ordinances or the procurement standards required under the funding grant agreement, whichever
standards are more restrictive.

Agreements and/0r Memoranda of Understanding Related to Training and Curriculum
Development. The Executive Director or his/her designee is authorized to negotiate and execute
agreements or Memoranda of Understanding with other political subdivisions or governmental
units, nonprofit entities, volunteer groups, and private parties for the purpose of procuring and providing
training and curriculum development for ?rst responder agencies and other stakeholders throughout Cook
County, as appropriated, and including provisions providing indemni?cation. Where applicable, said
agreements or MOUs shall adhere to applicable procurement rules under the County's Code of
Ordinances or the procurement standards required under the funding grant agreement, whichever
standards are more restrictive. Said agreements or MOUs shall not require additional authorization from
the County Board when limited to the purpose of procuring and/or providing training and/or curriculum
development for first responder agencies and other stakeholders unless said agreement or MOU is greater
than $150,000.00.

Agreements and/or Memoranda of Understanding to Advance Additional Partnership
Opportunities. in order to facilitate and advance additional partnership opportunities to effectuate
effective and efficient emergency response and coordination activities, the Executive Director shall be
authorized to negotiate and execute MOUs or agreements with other political subdivisions, governmental
units, nonprofit entities, volunteer groups and private parties, setting forth the agreed roles of the parties
thereto with respect to preparedness and response activities within Cook County, without further approval
by the County Board. These agreements or MOUs shall not bind Cook County to indemni?cation

Page 4 of 14

provisions, nor shall such MOUs obligate Cook County to make any direct payments to a third party from
County corporate or grant funds. Said agreements or MOUs may not require a separate Mutual Aid
Agreement, lntergovermnental Agreement or lnteragency Agreements; however, should the agreement or
MOU require the County to indemnify the other party, County Board authorization will be required in
advance of execution.

[Records to be maintained. The Executive Director shall further maintain a record of all
agreements or MOUS entered into pursuant to the authority afforded in subsection and and make
available to the President or the Cook County Board of Commissioners a quarterly report listing the
various agreements or MOUs entered into pursuant to this authority at their request.

Sec. 26-36. Emergency action.

If the Governor proclaims that a disaster exists in the event of an emergency created by an
occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or loss of life or property resulting from any
natural or technological cause, including, but not limited to, fire, ?ood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage,
epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation,
critical shortages of essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, hostile military or paramilitary action, public
health emergencies, or acts of domestic terrorism, and such disaster affects the County, it shall be the
duty of the DEMPS to activate its Emergency Operations Plan and to cooperate fully with the
and with the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.

If the President declares a local disaster exists in the event of an emergency as set forth in
subsection it shall be the duty ofthe DEMPS to activate its Emergency Operations Plan and
to cooperate fully with the President in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. The
declaration of a local disaster shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days,
without consent of the Board.

See. 26-37. Compensation.

Members ofthe DEMPS who are paid employees or of?cers of the County, if called for
training by the Director of IEMA, shall receive for the time spent in such training the same rate of pay as
is attached to the position held. Members who are not such County employees or of?cers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the County Board.

See. 26-38. - Reimbursement by state; funds received from federal government and private
donation.

The County Treasurer shall establish a DEMPS fund within the general corporate fund for
emergency and disaster services purposes and shall make such funds available to the Executive Director
for use in accordance with the proper purposes of the DEMPS as established in this article. The
County Treasurer shall receive and allocate to the DHSEM DEM PS fund:

Page 5 of 14

 Any reimbursement by the State or Federal governments to the County for expenses incident to
training members of the DEMPS as prescribed by the Director of 

Compensation for services and expenses of members of a Mobile Support Team which service is
outside the County in response to a call by the Governor or Director of IEMA, as provided by law;

Any other reimbursement made by the State or Federal government or private donations for
sponsoring and reimbursing the DEMPS emergency management activities and costs.

Sec. 26-39. - Emergency powers of President and Executive Director.

ln the event of the occurrence of a disaster as set forth in Section 26?36 of this article, and upon
proclamation by the Governor that a disaster exists or proclamation by the President that a local disaster
exists, the President may exercise the following emergency powers during such disaster:

(1) To utilize all available resources of the County, including facilities, equipment, and personnel, as
reasonably necessary to cope with the disaster, and to transfer the direction, personnel or
functions of County departments and agencies for the purpose of performing or facilitating
disaster response and recovery programs.

(2) To suspend some or all of the provisions of any regulatory ordinance or the orders, rules and
regulations of any County agency, and to suspend the enforcement thereof, if strict compliance
with the provisions of any ordinance, order, rule or regulation would in any way prevent, hinder
or delay necessary action, including emergency purchases, by DEMPS, in coping with
the disaster.

(3) To enter into contracts and incur obligations, on recommendation of the Executive Director,
necessary to place the County in a position to respond and recover from a disaster.

in the event of declared disaster, the Executive Director of DEMPS is authorized on
behalf of the County to procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for
such purposes in view of the exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law and County ordinance pertaining to County contracts, obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, and the appropriation, expenditure, and disposition of public funds and property, as
provided in Section 100) of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act (20 

Sec. 26-40. - Oath.

Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the DHSEM DEM PS organization shall, before
entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following oath, which shall be ?led with the Executive Director:

"1 do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance
to the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic;

Page 6 of 14

that i take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will
well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And i do further swear (or
affirm) that 1 do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by
force or violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Cook County Department of
Hemeland?Seeurityeand Emergency Management, I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or
ofthis State by force or violence."

Sec. 26-41. - Designation of space.

The President is authorized to designate space in a County building, or elsewhere, as may be
provided for by the Board for DEMPS for the performance of its operations and for the
performance of emergency preparedness and response activities.

Sec. 26-42. - Duty to cooperate.

All Departments and Officers of the County shall cooperate in developing, planning, analyzing,
conducting, providing, exercising, implementing and maintaining programs for disaster mitigation,
preparedness, response and recovery as requested by the Executive Director. In the event a disaster is
declared affecting Cook County, all Departments and Officers of the County shall implement their
emergency plans as applicable as requested by the Executive Director. Every County Officer, including
elected of?cials, shall designate a minimum of three emergency interim successors pursuant to the
Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act, 5 275/ I et seq., and obtain their oaths in the manner
set forth in said Act. Such designations and oaths shall be maintained on ?le by the DEMPS,
which shall supply sample forms to County officers, as defined in the Emergency Interim Executive
Succession Act, 5 275/ 1 et seq., to facilitate such designations.

Sec. 26-43. - Construction.

This Ordinance shall be broadly construed to enable the President, the Executive Director and the
DEMPS to perform any task necessary to protect the health and safety of the residents of Cook
County. This Ordinance is not intended to abrogate or limit any immunity or other protection available by
state or federal statute or common law to the County, to any municipality, or to any person participating in
an emergency preparedness or response activity.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adOption.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to accept
as substituted 19-4277. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Lowry, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Miller,
Morrison, Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (15)
Absent: Tobolski and Moore (2)

Page 7 of 14

19-4277

Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS ARROYO JR, SCOTT R. BRITTON,
JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET DEGN EN, BRIDGET GAINER, BRANDON JOHNSON,
BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N.
SILVESTRI and DEBORAH SIMS, Cook County Board OfCommissioners

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 19-4277

RENAMING THE COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AS THE COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AND REGIONAL SECURITY AND THE HOMELAND SECURITY AND
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE AS THE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND
REGIONAL SECURITY COMMITTEE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES, ARTICLE II. - COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY AND EMERGENCY SERVICES, Sec. 26-31 - 26-43 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as follows:

Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES

ARTICLE II. - COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF 
AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND REGIONAL SECURITY
Sec. 26-3 I. Establishment.

There is hereby created the Cook County Department of Hmnel-and?Seemd-EfH-Hd Emergency
Management and Regional Security (DHSEM DEMRS) to coordinate the efforts of the County
to develop, plan, analyze, conduct, provide, implement and maintain programs for disaster
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery within the County and with private
organizations, other political subdivisions, the State and federal governments, established pursuant
to Section IO ofthe Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA) Act (20 ILCS 3305/10).
DEMRS shall consist of the Executive Director, who shall serve as emergency
coordinator of the County?s emergency management programs pursuant to the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act, and such additional employees as may be selected by the President or
Executive Director per the County's hiring rules.

 

Sec. 26?32. - Executive Director.

(3) The Executive Director of the DEM RS shall be appointed by the President of the
County Board of Commissioners and shall serve until removed by the President.

Page 8 of 14

 The Executive Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, training
and operation ofthe DEMRS, subject to the direction and control ofthe President and
the Chief ofthe Bureau of Administration, including the preparation by DEMRS of
an emergency operations plan consistent with the National Incident Management System (NIMS),
as adopted by Resolution No. 05-R-464.

The Executive Director shall possess all powers and duties set forth for the Executive Director
by statute and in this Ordinance, including the authority to designate emergency vehicles as
provided in the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12?215.

In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve as the Executive
Director, the President or any person designated by him or her shall be and act as
Executive Director until a new appointment is made as provided in this article.

Sec. 26-33. - Functions.

(3) The DEMRS shall perform such functions within the County as shall be prescribed in
and by the County's Emergency Operations Plan and the State Emergency Operations Plan and
emergency management program prepared by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
(IEMA), and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by IEMA and the
Governor.

As used herein, the terms "emergency management agency" and "emergency services and
disaster agency? are equivalent. The DHSEM DEMRS shall serve as the mandated emergency
management agency for all political subdivisions within the County except those areas served by
emergency management agencies which have been accredited by IEMA. All political subdivisions
served by the DEMRS shall be responsible for engaging in emergency preparedness and
response activities within theirjurisdictions. Political subdivisions which maintain a nonmandated
emergency services and disaster agency not accredited by the IEMA may apply to DHSEM
DEMRS for certi?cation, in which case each such political subdivision shall biennially submit an
emergency operations plan DEMRS as provided in Title 29 ofthe Illinois
Administrative Code, Part 301, Political Subdivision Emergency and Disaster Service Agencies.
Each municipality that does not maintain an emergency services and disaster agency shall
designate a liaison officer to facilitate the cooperation and protection of that municipal corporation
with 19st DEMRS, in accordance with Section 10 ofthe Act (20 ILCS 3305/10).

The DEMRS shall perform or coordinate the performance of such duties as may be
required of the County pursuant to any Mutual Aid agreement with any other political subdivision,
municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as provided in Section 13 ofthe Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/13).

In accordance with Chapter 34, Section 34?141 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, the
Executive Director, in consultation with the Chief Procurement Of?cer and utilizing a competitive
procurement process approved by the County's Code when practicable, shall be authorized to
request the Chief Procurement Of?cer to enter into and execute contracts for the availability of

emergency equipment or supplies which may be required in the event of an emergency or disaster.
Except as approved by the Board, such contracts shall not commit the County to make payment in
excess of $25,000 unless such equipment or
supplies are purchased under the emergency purchase authority set forth in Section 26-39 of this

Page 9 of 14









(C)

Ordinance.
Sec. 26-34. - Service as mobile support team.

All or any members DEMRS may be designated as members ofa Mobile Support
Team created by the Director of the IEMA as provided by Section 8 ofthe Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/8).

Any member of a Mobile Support Team who is a County employee or officer while serving on
call to duty by the Governor or the Director of IEMA shall receive the compensation and have the
powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member
who is not a paid officer or employee of the County, while so serving, shall receive from the State
reasonable compensation as provided by law.

See. 26?35. - Agreements with other political subdivisions and nongovernmental organizations.

Mutual Aid. Intergovernmental or lnterageney Agreements. The Executive Director of the
Department of Emergency Management and Regional Security may
negotiate Mutual Aid Agreements and Intergovernmental or Interagency Agreements with other
political subdivisions and taxing districts of the State as well as with nongovernmental
organizations, provided such agreements are consistent with the State Emergency Operations Plan
and Emergency Management Program. Negotiated Mutual Aid Agreements, Intergovernmental
Agreements or Interagency Agreements shall be approved by the County Board in advance of
execution by the Executive Director. Where applicable, said agreements shall adhere to applicable
procurement rules under the County's Code of Ordinances or the procurement standards required
under the funding grant agreement, whichever standards are more restrictive.

Agreements and/0r Memoranda of Understanding Related to Training and Curriculum
Development. The Executive Director or his/her designee is authorized to negotiate and execute
agreements or Memoranda of Understanding with other political subdivisions or
governmental units, nonpro?t entities, volunteer groups, and private parties for the purpose of
procuring and providing training and curriculum development for first responder agencies and other
stakeholders throughout Cook County, as appropriated, and including provisions providing
indemnification. Where applicable, said agreements or MOUs shall adhere to applicable
procurement rules under the County?s Code of Ordinances or the procurement standards required
under the funding grant agreement, whichever standards are more restrictive. Said agreements or
MOUs shall not require additional authorization from the County Board when limited to the
purpose of procuring and/or
providing training and/or curriculum development for first responder agencies and other
stakeholders unless said agreement or MOU is greater than $150,000.00.

Agreements and/0r Memoranda of Understanding to Advance Additional Partnership
Opportunities: In order to facilitate and advance additional partnership opportunities to effectuate
effective and efficient emergency response and coordination activities, the Executive Director
shall be authorized to negotiate and execute MOUs or agreements with other political
subdivisions, govermnental units, nonpro?t entities, volunteer groups and private parties, setting

Page 10 of 14

forth the agreed roles of the parties thereto with respect to preparedness and response activities
within Cook County, without further approval by the County Board. These agreements or MOUs
shall not bind Cook County to indemni?cation provisions, nor shall such MOUs obligate Cook
County to make any direct payments to a third party from County corporate or grant funds. Said
agreements or MOUs may not require a separate Mutual Aid Agreement, lntergovermnental
Agreement or lnteragency Agreements; however, should the agreement or MOU require the
County to indemnify the other party, County Board authorization will be required in advance of
execution.

Records to be The Executive Director shall further maintain a record of all
agreements or MOUs entered into pursuant to the authority afforded in subsection and
and make available to the President or the Cook County Board of Commissioners a
quarterly report listing the various agreements or MOUs entered into pursuant to this
authority at their request.

Sec. 26-36. Emergency action.

If the Governor proclaims that a disaster exists in the event of an emergency created by an
occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or loss of life or property resulting
from any natural or technological cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind,
storm, hazardous materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert
danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods of severe and inclement
weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot,
hostile military or paramilitary action, public health emergencies, or acts of domestic terrorism,
and such disaster affects the County, it shall be the duty of the DEMRS to activate its
Emergency Operations Plan and to cooperate fully with the IEMA and with the Governor in the
exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.

If the President declares a local disaster exists in the event of an emergency as set forth in
subsection it shall be the duty of the DEMRS to activate its Emergency Operations
Plan and to cooperate fully with the President in the exercise of emergency powers as provided
by law. The declaration of a local disaster shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess
of seven days, without consent of the Board.

(Ord. No. 07-0-58, 10-2-2007; Ord. No. 09-0?69, 

Sec. 26-37. - Compensation.

Members ofthe DHSEM DEMRS who are paid employees or officers ofthe County, ifcalled

for training by the Director of shall receive for the time spent in such training the same rate
of pay as is attached to the position held. Members who are not such County employees or officers
shall receive for such training time such compensation as may be established by the County Board.

Sec. 26?38. - Reimbursement by state; funds received from federal government and private
donation.

The County Treasurer shall establish a DEMRS fund within the general corporate
fund for emergency and disaster services purposes and shall make such funds available to the
Executive Director for use in accordance with the proper purposes of the DEMRS as

Page 11 of 14

established in this article. The County Treasurer shall receive and allocate to the 
DEMRS fund:

Any reimbursement by the State or Federal governments to the County for expenses
incident to training members ofthe BH-SEM DEMRS as prescribed by the Director of 

Compensation for services and expenses of members of a Mobile Support Team which
service is outside the County in response to a call by the Governor or Director of IEMA, as
provided by law;

Any other reimbursement made by the State or Federal government or private
donations for sponsoring and reimbursing the DEM RS emergency management
activities and costs.

Sec. 26-39. - Emergency powers of President and Executive Director.

In the event of the occurrence of a disaster as set forth in Section 26-36 of this article, and upon
proclamation by the Governor that a disaster exists or proclamation by the President that a local
disaster exists, the President may exercise the following emergency powers during such disaster:

(1) To utilize all available resources ofthe County, including facilities, equipment, and
personnel, as reasonably necessary to cope with the disaster, and to transfer the direction,
personnel or functions of County departments and agencies for the purpose of performing or
facilitating disaster response and recovery programs.

(2) To suspend some or all of the provisions of any regulatory ordinance or the orders, rules
and regulations of any County agency, and to suspend the enforcement thereof, if strict
compliance with the provisions of any ordinance, order, rule or regulation would in any way
prevent, hinder or delay necessary action, including emergency purchases, by DHSEM DEMRS,
in coping with the disaster.

(3) To enter into contracts and incur obligations, on recommendation of the Executive
Director, necessary to place the County in a position to respond and recover from a disaster.

In the event of declared disaster, the Executive Director of DEMRS is authorized on
behalf of the County to procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be
necessary for such purposes in view of the exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures
or formalities normally prescribed by law and County ordinance pertaining to County contracts,
obligations, the employment of temporary workers, and the appropriation, expenditure, and
disposition of public funds and property, as provided in Section 100) ofthe Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 

Sec. 26-40. Oath.

Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the DEM RS organization shall, before entering
upon his duties, subscribe to the following oath, which shall be ?led with the Executive Director:"l do
solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions,
and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this
obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not

Page 12 of 14

advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during such
time as I am af?liated with the Cook County Department of Hemeland Security?and Emergency
Management and Regional Security, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force
or violence."

 

Sec. 26?41. - Designation of space.

The President is authorized to designate space in a County building, or elsewhere, as may
be provided for by the Board for DEMRS for the performance of its operations and
for the performance of emergency preparedness and response activities.

Sec. 26?42. - Duty to cooperate.

All Departments and Of?cers of the County shall cooperate in developing, planning, analyzing,
conducting, providing, exercising, implementing and maintaining programs for disaster mitigation,
preparedness, response and recovery as requested by the Executive Director. In the event a
disaster is declared affecting Cook County, all Departments and Of?cers of the County shall
implement their emergency plans as applicable as requested by the Executive Director. Every
County Of?cer, including elected of?cials, shall designate a minimum of three emergency interim
successors pursuant to the Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act, 5 ILCS 275/1 et seq.,
and obtain their oaths in the manner set forth in said Act. Such designations and oaths shall be
maintained on ?le by the DH-SEM DEMRS, which shall supply sample forms to County of?cers, as
de?ned in the Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act, 5 ILCS 275/1 et seq., to facilitate
such designations.

Sec. 26-43. - Construction.

This Ordinance shall be broadly construed to enable the President, the Executive Director and the DHSEM
DEMRS to perform any task necessary to protect the health and safety of the residents of Cook County.
This Ordinance is not intended to abrogate or limit any immunity or other protection available by state or
federal statute or common law to the County, to any municipality, or to any person participating in an
emergency preparedness or response activity.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED the purpose ofthis ordinance amendment is a name change and all rights
and obligations in agreements executed under this Chapter 26 before the effective date of this ordinance
remain unaffected.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter
2? Administration,, Article County Board, Division 2. - Rules of Organization and Procedure, Sec.
2-109 is hereby amended as follows:

(9) Emergency Management and Regional

Security, Committee of the Whole.

 

Page 13 of 14

Effective Date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to
recommend for approval as substituted 19?4277. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Lowry, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Miller,
Morrison, Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (lS)
Absent: Tobolski and Moore (2)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to adjourn
the meeting The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Lowry, Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Miller,
Morrison, Morrison, Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (15)
Absent: Tobolski and Moore (2)

Respectfully submitted,

ice-Chairman Secretary

A video recording ofthis meeting is available at 

Page 14 of 14

