Lakeview SSA 27
Commission Meeting Minutes
September 12, 2019, 8:30 AM
Sheil Park, 3505 N. Southport Ave., Chicago, IL 60657
Present:​ Matt Lederer, Terese McDonald, Luis Monje, Erin Schwartz, Chuck Stewart, TJ Walczak, Doug
Zylstra
Absent: ​Jason Aragon, Darian Campise, Paul Leamon, Amy Novotny
Staff:​ Dillon Goodson, Nicole McLellan
Guests:​ Christopher Comes, Lisa Ripson
Call to Order
Terese McDonald called the meeting to order at 8:32 AM.
Reading of Mission Statement
Terese McDonald read the SSA 27 mission statement.
Public Comment
There was no public comment.
Presentation by Ripson Group
Christopher Comes and Lisa Ripson from the SSA’s neighborhood public relations firm, Ripson Group,
recapped their work in the first half of 2019 and recommended campaign objectives for the remainder
of the year. Commissioners asked Ripson Group to prioritize opportunities to promote Lakeview during
the holiday season, with a special focus on highlighting our small businesses.
Reading and Approval of Minutes
Matt Lederer motioned to approve the minutes from the SSA Commission meeting on July 11, 2019,
seconded by Erin Schwartz; motion carries.
Trick or Treat on Southport 2019 MOU
Dillon Goodson presented a proposed memorandum of understanding (MOU) between SSA 27 and
Friends of Lakeview for Trick or Treat on Southport. The event was historically fully funded by SSA 27.
However, because the event has income-generating potential that could offset the cost of the event,
reducing the SSA’s expenses, the MOU proposes that the SSA will support Trick or Treat on Southport in
2019 through a reimbursement for potential net losses from the program, not to exceed $2,500. TJ
Walczak motioned to approve the MOU as presented, seconded by Chuck Stewart; motion carries.
Committee & Task Force Reports
●

●

Low-Line Committee: ​Nicole McLellan updated Commissioners that Phase 1B construction of
the Lakeview Low-Line, funded by SSA, would resume in September. She estimated that Phase 2
construction, funded by Friends of Lakeview, would begin later in the fall.
Streetscape Committee:

 ○

○

Holiday Décor Contract: ​Nicole McLellan updated Commissioners on changes to the
SSA’s holiday décor that occurred since the last SSA Commission meeting, including the
relocation of the menorah near the Paulina Station, which would present new
programming opportunities with the Chabad of Lakeview. Commissioners suggested
seeking sponsorship to help offset the cost of holiday programming in future years.
Committee Appointment:​ Luis Monje invited Commissioners to consider joining the
Streetscape Committee, noting that a nomination could be approved at a future
Commission meeting.

Treasurer’s Report
Matt Lederer shared the SSA’s financials through July 2019 and mentioned that the Commission would
consider modifications to the 2019 budget in November.
Partner Board Reports
●
●

Lakeview Chamber of Commerce: ​Dillon Goodson updated the Commission on upcoming
community programming hosted by the Lakeview Chamber.
Friends of Lakeview: ​Erin Schwartz recapped the Lakeview Low-Line fundraising ride hosted by
SoulCycle in August. Dillon Goodson mentioned that Taco Fest is coming up September 21-22
and invited Commissioners to attend.

Staff Report
Dillon Goodson welcomed Nicole MeLellan as the Lakeview Chamber’s Community Development
Manager and highlighted her professional experience. He also mentioned that going forward, any staff
updates would be communicated in-person at Commission meetings and captured in the minutes.
Security Rebate Program
●

Blo Blow Dry Bar (3821 N. Southport Ave.):​ The applicant has applied to install shatter-resistant
window film with a total project cost of $504.00. Dillon Goodson noted that the application
doesn’t meet the eligibility requirements of the current program guidelines, but suggested that
the Commission could revise the guidelines to open up funding to more businesses and
residents making different kinds of improvements. Nicole McLellan shared examples of projects
that are eligible as part of similar rebate programs in other communities. Commissioners
discussed the application and whether to expand program eligibility. Erin Schwartz motioned to
incorporate shatter-resistant window film into the list of eligible projects, seconded by TJ
Walczak; motion carries. Matt Lederer motioned to approve a rebate of $252.00, or 50% of the
total project cost, whichever is less, seconded by TJ Walczak; motion carries.

Adjourn
Doug Zylstra motioned to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Erin Schwartz; meeting adjourned at 9:29
AM.

 