Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
October 16th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Juan M. Calderon
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Board Members Absent
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Victor M. Gonzalez
For the Department
Allison Arwady, M.D., Acting Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
October 16th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:05 am by Board President, Dr. Carolyn Lopez.
Approval of Minutes: Quorum was present, and September Minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Acting Commissioner, Dr. Allison Arwady, provided the following updates:
Family Connects: The pilot rollout for Family Connects Chicago (FCC) is underway. We have been engaged
at St. Bernard and Norwegian American Hospitals and have received many positive responses from new
moms. Our team will begin to schedule with those families for a home visit within 3-5 weeks of birth of
their babies. Our third hospital partner, Rush University, is finalizing the hiring of two nurses to implement
FCC. CDPH continues to look for other hospital partnerships as part of the pilot. The citywide advisory
board will have its first meeting in November.
Supporting residents with complex health needs: The City’s Department of Buildings, Family and Support
Services, Chicago Animal Care and Control and CDPH met recently to identify ways of working together to
help Chicago residents who have multiple health needs and require a cross-departmental response,
including extreme hoarding cases and matters where older adults need specialized assistance. Next steps
will involve identifying opportunities within City departments, developing cross-departmental indicators
of need, and exchanging information across departments. Additional City departments may be invited to
participate in the next meeting which will take place in November.
Tobacco funding: CDPH just posted RFP’s amounting to $200,000 to help residents quit tobacco, with a
focus on populations with the greatest levels of tobacco use and related diseases: African Americans,
LGBT adults, people in poverty, and people with behavioral health issues such as substance use disorders.
Our investments will support implementation, uptake, and sustainability of evidence-based cessation
programs.
Flu campaign: CDPH recently began the flu vaccination season, reaching residents through our CareVan
program in collaboration with Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Illinois, in partnership with all 50 aldermanic
offices, as well as faith-based institutions and other community partners. No-cost flu shots are available to
residents at five CDPH family flu shot clinics and more than 70 walk-in clinic events CDPH will be
sponsoring throughout the City.
Health and Housing: CDPH recently participated in a roundtable discussion with Senator Durbin, organized
by Cook County Health and the University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System. The roundtable
discussion focused on health and housing and was intended to encourage healthcare partnerships to
address homelessness. CDPH joined representatives from hospitals, Deborah’s Place, Housing Forward,
Alliance for Health Equity, Center for Housing & Health, and the City’s Department of Family and Support
Services. CDPH spoke about our support of the Flexible Housing Pool, which uses investments from public
and private sources – including the City, hospitals, foundations, and managed care organizations – to
increase access to permanent supportive housing for high-need individuals who do not qualify for
traditional housing subsidies.
CDC site visit for HIV-STI: Leaders from the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) National
Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention will visit Chicago later this month. CDPH and
colleagues from the Illinois Department of Public Health will share program successes and challenges and
discuss local implementation of CDC priorities, like the federal Ending the HIV Epidemic 2030 initiative.
CDPH will also convene the first meeting of the Syphilis Task Force, during the visit, providing an
opportunity for CDC leaders to address the group.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
October 16th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez gave a brief summary of the rules and regulations of the board to
the attending audience.
Board’s Comments on Commissioner’s Update: Members discussed the current situation with the teacher’s strike.
Dr. Horace E. Smith, member, questioned Chicago Teachers Union’s (CTU) demands to have nurses at every
Chicago Public School’s (CPS) school and suggested, rather, that CPS prioritize on communities of greater needs.
Melanie Dreher, member, spoke about the importance of having a nurse in a school, and the impact it has on
education. After discussion, the Board agreed to invite the Chief Health Officer from CPS to give an update to
members on nurses in schools at an upcoming meeting.
Presentation: “Healthy Chicago 2025 Update” Presented by Sheri Cohen, Senior Health Planning Analyst, Chicago
Department of Public Health (CDPH).
Comments from Board: Juan Calderon, member, commented to the presenter that he did not see enough
community involvement in the new plan. Sheri Cohen, CDPH presenter, assured the Board that they did, provided
examples, and also indicated that CDPH is also looking at ways to improve the model and community engagement.
Melanie Dreher, member, noted that housing instability is a major concern for her, and indicated this should also
be something the plan should include as well.
Old Business:


Policy Resolutions: Juan Calderon, member, addressed resolutions previously presented to the Board, and
expressed his urgency to complete them. Mr. Calderon also indicated he was interested in presenting a
new mental health resolution in the coming months, and requested assistance from the Board to
strengthen advocacy. Dr. Lopez agreed to help develop a process on Board resolutions via the CDPH
liaison.

New Business:


Ethics Training: Dr. Lopez reminded the Board that at the November meeting, the Chicago Board of Ethics
will be providing training for members. Dr. Lopez also advised members to confirm their assistance for
this important training. In addition, Dr. Lopez indicated to members that they would be receiving a
communication with a link to the electronic version of the recently updated Ethics and Open Meetings
Guide for Board and Commission Members, which was distributed at the September meeting, via the
CDPH liaison.

Public Comments: None
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:39AM.

 