STATE OF ILLINOIS
COUNTY OF COOK

October 3, 2019

MINUTES FOR THE REGULAR MONTHLY BOARD MEETING
NORTH SHORE MOSQUITO ABATEMENT DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
At the convened monthly meeting for the North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Board of Trustees held at the District office, 117 Northfield Road, Northfield, Illinois,
Thursday, October 3, 2019. President Zbesko called the meeting to order at 7:04 pm.
ROLL CALL
Trustee Carol Blustein
Trustee Nelson Howard
Trustee Kathleen Kendrick
Trustee John Zbesko
Trustee William Zimmer

Absent
Present
Present
Present
Absent

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE
Executive Director Mark Clifton
Communications Manager David Zazra
Attorney Ross Secler of Odelson & Sterk
Internal Operations Manager Jennifer Zimmer
I.

MINUTES

Approval of Minutes: Minutes of the September 5, 2019, meeting of the NSMAD were
approved as corrected and distributed to the members of the Board. Trustee Kendrick
moved to approve, Trustee Howard seconded. All ayes.
II.

REPORT FROM BOARD OFFICERS

President: President Zbesko stated for the record that due to an increasing frequency in
the reporting of mosquito borne vector diseases, specifically Eastern Equine Encephalitis
(EEE), he is glad that the NSMAD is prepared and has the capacity to deal with the
potential of other emerging threats in our area.
Vice President: No report.
Secretary: No report.
Trustee: Absent

1

 Treasurer: In Trustee Zimmer’s absence, the Internal Operations Manager read financials
as well as September bills and payrolls. Total receipts were $1,650, total disbursements
were $117,577 and total assets were $2,328,497. All totals rounded to the nearest dollar.
The finance report was accepted. The report will be filed for the audit.
III.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND LAB REPORT:

The Trustees were presented with a revamped photovoltaic system production third
quarter report for 2019. Executive Director Clifton explained to the Trustees that the
system continues to work as expected.
Executive Director Clifton then moved on to present the District’s Lab Report. Nuisance
mosquito abundance has increased throughout the District due to a large amount of rain.
Due to this late season surge, the District still has a few seasonal staff members working
and treating standing water. Only a few resident complaints have been recorded in the
past few weeks. The changing weather should end the season soon.
The amount of vector mosquitoes throughout the District is average for this time of the
year. In a few weeks, these mosquitoes will be dying off and entering diapause. Districtwide, the vector index is low and where it should be for the month of October. To date,
no confirmed human cases of West Nile virus were found within the District this season.
The District’s switch to PCR testing this year has resulted in an 18% increase in mosquito
testing this season over last year. NSMAD analysis has shown that conducting PCR
testing is about half the cost of the RAMP testing that the District has used in previous
years. PCR testing has been completed for the season.
IV.

REPORT FROM LEGAL COUNSEL:

Attorney Ross Secler was asked last meeting to investigate Illinois state rules for
mosquito abatement district bidding requirements. He found that no bidding requirements
exist for mosquito abatement districts except for large scale construction contracts over
$40,000. He recommended that that District continue to follow governmental best
practices which has been the longstanding District policy.
Trustee Zbesko stated for the record that even though the NSMAD is not bound by any
statutes for bidding requirements, it has been long standing District policy to bring any
expenditure over $5,000 to the Trustees for approval. Also, the District requires two
competitive bids for goods or service contracts above $5,000.
Lastly, attorney Ross Secler offered to take questions from the Board on the proposal for
legal services for 2020 that will be voted on later in the meeting.
V.

COMMUNICATION MANAGER REPORT:

2

 Communications Manager, Dave Zazra, updated the Board on public relations and
communications activities for the month of September, including media releases, public
outreach to residents, intergovernmental outreach, updates to the website and
GovDelivery and Twitter messaging metrics.
VI. INTERNAL OPERATION MANAGER REPORT:
Internal Operations Manager, Jennifer Zimmer, updated the Board on the financial
operations of the District, including a third quarter report, and information on upcoming
activities at the next Board meeting.
VII.

OLD BUSINESS: None

IX.

NEW BUSINESS:

Trustee Howard made a motion to approve the signage bid from South Water Signs for
an amount not to exceed $15,000. Trustee Kendrick seconded. All ayes.
Trustee Kendrick made a motion to approve the asbestos removal quote from Celtic
Environmental in the amount of $8,160. Trustee Howard seconded. All ayes.
Trustee Howard made a motion to purchase -80 C freezer for an amount not to exceed
$12,000. Trustee Kendrick seconded. All ayes.
Trustee Kendrick made a motion to approve the 2020 auditor contract renewal with
McClure, Inserra & Company in the amount of $11,300. Trustee Howard seconded. All
ayes.
Trustee Kendrick made a motion to approve the 2020 legal contract renewal with
Odelson & Sterk, Ltd for a monthly retainer of $1,500. Trustee Howard seconded. All
ayes.
Announcements:
November 19, 2019, at 7:00 P.M. and NSMAD headquarters, 117 Northfield Road,
Northfield, IL, were fixed as the time and place of the next regular meeting. Trustee
Zbesko asked for a motion to adjourn. Trustee Howard seconded. All ayes.
Adjournment: The October 3rd meeting was adjourned at 8:14 pm.
ATTESTED
President, John Zbesko

SUBMITTED
Secretary, Kitty Kendrick

3

 