Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
September 17, 2019, 8:00 a.m.
Minutes for September 17, 2019
Commissioners present: Neville Reid, John Cooke, Juan Morado, Jr. (via phone until 8:36 a.m.),
Alejandra Garza and Peter O’Brien
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage, Gina Oka, Kate Schellinger,
Tom Strachan, Judy Salgado, Nicole Vahl, Patricia Hayden, Larry Cohn (At Properties), Nosa
Ehimwenman (BOWA Construction), Mike Nardini (CBRE), Susan S. Stevens (Gazette)
Approval of Minutes
President Reid called the meeting to order and took the roll call of Commissioners.
Commissioner Cooke moved and Commissioner Garza seconded that the minutes from the
last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Introduction and Swearing-In of New Commissioners
Dr. McKinney introduced newly-appointed Commissioner Alejandra Garza and Commissioner
Peter O’Brien. Swearing-in of the commissioners was conducted by Ms. Oka.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney provided the following report:
Policy Update – Two internal policies that guide the work at the IMD have been updated, and
one new policy has been developed.
Cost Savings – Negotiations to decrease our costs under our contract for property
management have been successful. Court reporter will no longer provide recordings or
transcripts of meetings; recordings will be done in-house and minutes will be generated based
on notes taken by staff.
Audit – Annual audit has begun. Plante Moran will be presenting the audit findings at our next
board meeting.
The Chicago Prize – IMD submitted application. The application has passed the administrative
review process and advanced to the evaluation panel.
PD30 Amendment – Efforts continue in working through the County’s issues; updates will
continue to be provided.

Page 1 of 3

 Financial Report
Mr. Strachan provided two financial reports:
•
•

FY 2019
YTD FY 2020
Old Business

No Old Business to report.
New Business
Presentation on IMD Development Projects – Chris Fahey & Mike Nardini presented an
overview of four development projects. Use-value Hearing Officer(s) for the different projects
were assigned as follows:
Habitat-Ankura and Cresset-Diversified - Ms. Oka presented the resolution to move forward
with the Habitat, Ankura and Cresset-Diversified project and to appoint President Neville Reid
and Commissioner Alejandra Garza as use value hearing officers. Commissioner O’Brien moved
that the resolution be approved, Commissioner Garza seconded, and the resolution was
approved by voice vote.
Cinespace Chicago Film Studio - Ms. Oka presented the resolution to move forward with the
Cinespace Chicago Film Studio project and to appoint Commissioners John Cooke and Peter
O’Brien as use value hearing officers. Commissioner Cooke moved that the resolution be
approved, Commissioner O’Brien seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.
General Capital - Ms. Oka presented the resolution to move forward with the General Capital
project and to appoint President Reid as use value hearing officer. Commissioner Cooke moved
that the resolution be approved, Commissioner Garza seconded, and the resolution was
approved by voice vote.
Spiro Douvris Construction - Ms. Oka presented the resolution to move forward with the
Spiro Douvris Construction project and to appoint Commissioners John Cooke and Peter
O’Brien as use value hearing officers. Commissioner Garza moved that the resolution be
approved, Commissioner Cooke seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.
Historic Minutes - Ms. Oka presented the resolution to approve certain historic minutes.
Commissioner Garza moved that the resolution be approved, Commissioner Cooke seconded,
and the resolution was approved by voice vote.

Page 2 of 3

 Executive Session
Upon motion by Commissioner O’Brien, seconded by Commissioner Garza, and carried by
unanimous vote, the Commission went into executive session pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2 (c) (7),
(11) and (21).
Open Session (Resumed)
The Commission returned to open session.
Surplus Investment - Ms. Oka presented the resolution to invest IMD funds pursuant to the
Investment Policy Statement, and to authorize the Executive Director to transmit funds for
investment. Commissioner Garza moved that the resolution be approved, Commissioner
Cooke seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.
Commissioner O’Brien moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Cooke and approved by voice vote. President Reid noted the next meeting
would be held on November 19, 2019.

Respectfully submitted,
Neville Reid
President

Page 3 of 3

 