CHICAGO CITY COUNCIL

Council Chamber, Second Floor
City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St.
Chicago, IL 60602

MEETING DATE: NOVEMBER 26, 2019

City Council Regular Meeting Agenda *
*Agenda items are shown in bold font. Text not in bold font is explanatory, for the
convenience of the reader.
In accordance with Rule 3 of the City Council Rules of Order and Procedure, the
following is the agenda and order of business for regular City Council meetings:

1. Call to order by the Mayor.
The Mayor, or in his or her absence the President Pro Tempore, calls the City
Council to order to begin the meeting.
2. Call of the roll.
The City Clerk calls the roll of members present beginning with the 1st Ward.
3. Determination of Quorum.
If a quorum is present, the Council may proceed. A quorum consists of the
majority of the members of the City Council, including the Mayor. If no quorum is
present, the City Council shall, by majority vote of the members present, move to
recess or adjourn.
4. Pledge of Allegiance.
The Pledge of Allegiance is recited by the members of the City Council and
assembled guests.
5. Invocation.
An invocation is given.

*The committee agendas/reports posted on the Chicago City Council Calendar list the items that may be called for a
vote at the City Council meeting and are considered to be part of the City Council meeting agenda.

 6. Public Comment.
Members of the general public may address the City Council on subject matters
appearing on meeting agenda.
7. Reports and Communications from the Mayor.
Reports and communications from the Mayor and City departments are
announced into the record by the City Clerk and sent to the appropriate
committee unless there is 2/3 vote to Suspend the City Council’s Rules of Order
and Procedure and consider them immediately. The Mayor or Presiding Officer
may also present resolutions or proclamations.
8. Communications from the City Clerk.
The City Clerk apprises the City Council of communications from various
departments and agencies that were filed in his or her office from the time of the
previous meeting. The City Clerk also notes the publication of the previous City
Council Journal and other documents required or requested to be published.
Matters submitted to the City Clerk by members of the general public or other
entities requiring City Council approval are also introduced and referred to the
appropriate committee for deliberation.
9. Reports of Standing Committees.**
Standing committee chairmen report out to the full City Council the
recommendations of the membership on matters under their consideration.
Joint committees comprising two or more standing committees also report their
recommendations at this time.
**The committee agendas/reports posted on the Chicago City Council
Calendar(link is external) list the items that may be called for a vote at the
City Council meeting and are considered to be part of the City Council
meeting agenda.
10. Reports of Special Committees.
Special committee chairmen present their reports. Special committees are
created by resolution adopted by 2/3 affirmative vote of the aldermen entitled by
law to be elected.
11. Agreed Calendar.
Non-controversial resolutions honoring or paying tribute to individuals or
organizations or ceremonial in nature are considered under the Agreed Calendar
and on recommendation of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, they are
voted upon as a group by the full City Council. The Agreed Calendar is also
commonly referred to as the Consent Calendar.

 12.

Presentation of petitions, communication, resolutions,
orders, and ordinances introduced by Aldermen.
The City Clerk will "Call the Wards" and read into the record new legislative
proposals (ordinances, orders, petitions, resolutions, or other original
matters) introduced by aldermen on a variety of topics including but not
limited to Municipal Code amendments, traffic regulations, zoning matters,
licensing requirements, etc. The order of presentation alternates each
meeting beginning with the 1st Ward on one meeting, then the 50th Ward on
the next succeeding meeting, and so forth.
Under City Council Rules, all legislative matters introduced are automatically
referred to a City Council Committee without debate, unless there is a 2/3
vote of the members (34 votes are required) to suspend the rules to allow
immediate consideration of the matter in question.
Matters may be referred to a Joint Committee for consideration; however, if
two or more committees are called, the subject matter is referred, without
debate, to the Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics.

13.

Correction and approval of the Journal of the Proceedings
of the last preceding meeting or meetings.
Corrections to the Journal of Proceedings are presented and referred to the
Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics for review. The Chairman of the
Committee on Finance will also recommend that the full City Council approve of
the Journal(s) of the last preceding regular meeting, as corrected, as well as
any special meetings which occurred from the time of the last City Council
meeting.

14.

Unfinished Business.
Aldermen may request that the City Council call up for consideration
previously deferred items. Notification of intentions to consider such
matter(s) must be given to all aldermen and must clearly identify the item
intended to be called up for a vote.

15.

Miscellaneous Business.
At this point in the meeting, any alderman may motion to discharge a
committee from further consideration of a matter which has been pending in
committee for more than 60 days. The motion to discharge requires a
majority vote of all aldermen (26 votes are required).

 16.

Ordinance setting the next regular meeting.
An ordinance is presented setting the date and time of the next regular
meeting of the City Council. If no meeting date is set, then in accordance
with the Municipal Code, the regular meeting shall be held at 10:00 a.m. of
every second and fourth Wednesday of each calendar month.

17.

Roll call on omnibus.
An omnibus vote is a single roll call vote taken and applied to all items not
voted upon separately, or for which another vote was not employed during
the course of the meeting.

18.

Adjournment.
If no further business is to be considered and the meeting is concluded, then
a motion is made to adjourn.

 City of Chicago
COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SAFETY
November 25, 2019
City Hall - Room 201A
1:00 p.m.
C=1,

MEETING AGENDA
(Amended)

I.
II.
III.

C)
N.)
CD
=2,

Items before the Committee
Public Commentary
Adjournment

C)

AGENDA ITEMS
1. 02019-8518

Amendment of Municipal Code Chapters 4,7,8 and 9 regarding
cannabis-related penalties

*Please Note:
Items on this Agenda are subject to change. If you have any questions regarding this Agenda, please contact
the Committee on Public Safety at 312-744-6213. Each person participating in public comment shall have up to
three minutes to address all items on the agenda during the public comment period.

  

 

Rule 41 Filing(s)

 

 

 

COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS

SCOTT WAGUESPACK
AI.DERMAN, 32ND WARD

FINANCE

(CHAIRMAN)

2657 NORTH CLYBOURN AVENUE
cHtcAGo, tLLtNots 60614

BUDGET AND GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS

PHONË:773-24a'1330
E-MAIL: WARf)32@CITYOFCHICAGO.ORG
ç--vg

$

(þ1

COMMITTEES AND RULES

CITY OF CHICAGO

ETHICS AND GOVERNMENT OVERSIGHT

CITY COUNCIL

ENVIRONMENT PRO]'ECTION & ENERGY

CITY HALL ROOM 3O2
121 NORTH LASALLE STREET

HUMAN RELATIONS AND HEALTH

cHtcAGo, lLLtNots 60602

C{

{tu

PHONE: 312'744-3380
F AX: 312-7 44-1955

r-i}

HOUSING AND REAL ESTATE

TRANSPORTATION AND THE PUBLIC WAY
ZONING, LANDMARKS AND
BUILDING STANDARDS

û:.r'\

NOTICE

qet

November 22,2019

TO THE HONORABLE MEMBERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

Dear Colleagues
Pursuant to Rule 41 of the City Council Rules of Order, I hereby give notice that at the
City Council meeting to be held on November 26,2019,1 intend to call for a vote on the
following items which were reported out of committee by the Committee on the Budget and
Government Operations and the Committee on Finance, and ordered to be deferred and
published at the City Council meeting of November 20,2019:

Committee on the Budget and Government Operations

1.

A substitute ordinance amending the 2019 Annual Appropriation Ordinance (SO20198406).

2. A substituted series of amendments

to the 2020 Budget Recommendations, and the
Annual Appropriation Ordinance (text portion) (SO201 9-8825).

3.

The 2020 AnnualAppropriation Ordinance, as amended (O2019-8a07(v1))

4.

A substitute ordinance, as amended, amending various Municipal Code provisions
concerning departmental functions and duties (2020 Management Ordinance - SO20198537).

Committee on Finance

5. An ordinance authorizing a revised

property tax levy of the City of Chicago for the year
(02019-8520).
2019
Amount of Tax Levy: $1 ,474,222,000.

6.

An ordinance authorizing a bond refunding financial plan to retire or restructure city debt
and revenue obligations by issuance of General Obligation Bonds (Refunding Series)
and additional Corporation Obligations (Additional Sales Tax Obligations) subject to
defined debt limits (C.2019-8927).

 7. An ordinance authorizing

the property tax levy of the City of Chicago ior 2020 (020198521). Amount of Tax Levy: $1,539,033,000.

8. An ordinance amending

various Municipal Code provisions concerning revenue derived
from certain taxes, fines and fees (2020 Revenue Ordinance - 02019-8527).

Scott Waguespack, Chairman
Committee on Finance

 