Employee Retirement Review Committee
Meeting Minutes
September 23, 2019
Members Present
Tom McKone
Mike Bowen
Andrew Fuller
April Morgan

Non-Members Present
Rachel Yarch
Janice Irving

Call to Order
The September 23, 2019 meeting was called to order at 1:38 p.m.
Minutes
Upon a motion by Mr. Fuller and seconded by Mr. Bowen minutes of the August 26, 2019 meeting
were approved as amended with the following correction under the minutes section: change Ms.
Bowen to Mr. Bowen.
Old Business
Burke, Warren, MacKay & Serritella Invoice Questions – Mr. McKone followed up on the question
about how charges are allocated between the Snow Case and general counsel duties. Ms. Yarch
advised if an entry is to advise the committee, such as with regard to the procedure for the review
committee hearing or things that nature that will be applicable to this committee going forward, then
it would be appropriate to bill it to the general counsel.
New Business
IRS Letters – Mr. McKone advised that letters and corrected W-2Cs have been sent out to all
participants for 2016, 2017 and 2018.
General Administration
Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Ms. Morgan an invoice for Marquette Associates was
approved for August, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. McKone an invoice
for Burke, Warren, MacKay & Serritella for the Snow Case was approved for June, 2019. Upon a
motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Ms. Morgan an invoice for Burke, Warren, MacKay &
Serritella for the Snow Case was approved for August, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Fuller and
seconded by Ms. Morgan an invoice for Burke, Warren, MacKay & Serritella was approved for
August, 2019. Upon a motion by Mr. Fuller and seconded by Mr. Bowen an invoice for Northern
Trust for the 2Q2019 was approved.
Executive Session – Litigation Matters
Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Mr. Fuller, the committee voted to move into
executive session for discussion of matters covered by 5 ILCS 120/20(c)(11) (litigation exception to
the Open Meetings Act).
After a short time, the committee returned from executive session and resumed the regular meeting.
During the executive session, the committee discussed pending litigation.
Adjournment
Upon a motion by Mr. Bowen and seconded by Ms. Morgan, the meeting adjourned at 2:04 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted,
Janice Irving
Plan Administrator

 