 76%?



INTERNAL
OPERATIONS
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3535

(313) 224-4550 - 

(313) 224?5505



   

CITY OF DETROIT
LAW DEPARTMENT

 

November 14, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: BRIDGETT MATHIS-WOODFORD vs CITY OF DETROIT
GENERAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
FILE 14809 (PSB)

We have reviewed the above-captioned lawsuit, the facts and particulars of which are set
forth in a con?dential attorney?client privileged memorandum that is being separately hand
delivered to each member of your Honorable Body. From this review, it is our considered
opinion that a settlement in the amount of SEVENTEEN THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED
DOLLARS is in the best interests of the City of Detroit.

We, therefore, request authorization to settle this matter in the amount of
SEVENTEEN THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS and that your
Honorable Body authorize and direct the Finance Director to issue a draft in that amount payable
to Bridgett Mathis-Woodford and her attorney, Frank L. Partipilo, to be delivered upon
receipt of properly executed releases and order of dismissal in Workers Compensation Claim
#14809, approved by the Law Department.

  

Assistant Corporation Counsel

gs
Attachment(s)
cc: Budget Department

APPROVED: 'le I

     

CHARLES RAIMI
Deputy Corporation Counsel

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCILMEMBER:

 

RESOLVED, that settlement of the above matter be and hereby is authorized in the
amount of SEVENTEEN THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Finance Director be and is authorized and directed to draw a
warrant upon the proper fund in favor Bridgett Mathis-Woodford and her attorney, Frank L.
Partipilo, in the sum of SEVENTEEN THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS
in full payment of any and all claims which they may have against the City of
Detroit by reason of any injuries or occupational diseases and their resultant disabilities incurred
or sustained as the result of her past employment with the City of Detroit and that said amount be
paid upon presentation by the Law Department of a redemption order approved by the Workers

Compensation Department of the State of Michigan.

APPROVED: wow i 5 2019



CI aAli'LEs RAIMI
Deputy Corporation Counsel

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
9 . DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3535


   

(313) 224-4550 - 
(313) 224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

CITY OF DETROIT

November 14, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: REGINALD WHITLOW vs CITY OF DETROIT
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

FILE 14566 (PSB)

We have reviewed the above-captioned lawsuit, the facts and particulars of which are set forth
in a con?dential attorney?client privileged memorandum that is being separately hand delivered to
each member of your Honorable Body. From this review, it is our considered Opinion that a settlement
in the amount of ONE HUNDRED THIRTY THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED SIXTY-THREE
DOLLARS is in the best interests of the City of Detroit.

We, therefore, request authorization to settle this matter in the amount of ONE HUNDRED
THIRTY THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED SIXTY-THREE DOLLARS and that
your Honorable Body authorize and direct the Finance Director to issue a draft in that amount payable
to Reginald Whitlow and his attorney, Joel L. Alpert, to be delivered upon receipt of properly
executed releases and order of dismissal in Workers Compensation Claim #14566, approved by the
Law Department.

spectfuily su

   

gs
Attachment(s)
cc: Budget Department

APPROVED: 3 5 we

(nu/LL;?

CHARLES RAIMI
Deputy Corporation Counsel

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCILMEMBER:

 

RESOLVED, that settlement of the above matter be and hereby is authorized in the amount
of ONE HUNDRED THIRTY THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED SIXTY-THREE DOLLARS
and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Finance Director be and is authorized and directed to draw a warrant
upon the proper fund in favor Reginald Whitlow and his attorney, Joel L. Alpert, in the sum of
ONE HUNDRED THIRTY THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED SIXTY-THREE DOLLARS
in full payment of any and all claims which they may have against the City of Detroit
by reason of any injuries or occupational diseases and their resultant disabilities incurred or sustained
as the result of his past employment with the City of Detroit and that said amount be paid upon
presentation by the Law Department of a redemption order approved by the Workers Compensation

Department of the State of Michigan.

APPROVED: MW 15 2019

cal/LL;

CHARLES RAIMI 
Deputy Corporation Counsel

 

. a: 
City of Detroit 6
COUNCILMAN soon R. BENSON -


,1

MEMORANDUM
TO: David 'iv?i/liitaker1 Director Legislative Policy Division
FROM: Scott Benson, City Council District 3 
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
Neil Barclay, President CEO, Charles H. Wright Museum
Hon. Mary Sheffield, Chair, Neighborhood Community Services
VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, President, Detroit City Council
DATE: 18 November 2019
RE: REPORT ON PROCESS TO PLACE MILLAGE INITIATIVE ON

WAYNE COUNTY BALLOT FOR CHARLES H. WRIGHT
MUSEUM OF AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY AND THE
DETROIT HISTORICAL SOCIETY

My of?ce is requesting a report on the process to place a question on the March or
August 2020 ballot requesting a millage to support the Charles H. Wright Museum of
African American History, and the Detroit Historical Society. The request is to provide
the process and regulations around placing the millage question on either the March 2020
or the August 2020 ballot. Please include trigger dates for submission of ballot language
and all available avenues to place the language on the ballot.

Please respond to this request by 19 November 2019. Thank you in advance for your
consideration on this matter.

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226

(313) 224?1198 Fax (313) 224?1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

 

1/ 7

WW

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

ditty at Ectrnit 64;

CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336

Email: historic@detroitmi.gov

TO: Planning and Economic Standing Committee

FROM: Janese Chapman, Senior Historic Planner

DATE: November 18, 2019

RE: Extension of study period for the proposed Shalom Fellowship
International Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal
Historic District

The study by the Historic Designation Advisory Board of the proposed Shalom
Fellowship International Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal
Historic District is currently underway. It would appear that to provide time for
the completion of this process that it is necessary to extend the study period for this
proposed historic district. A resolution is attached for your consideration.

Respectfully submitted,



anese Chapman, Senior Historic Planner
Legislative Policy Division

Cc: City Clerk
David Bell Director, BSEED
Marcell R. Todd Jr. Director, City Planning Commission
David Whitaker Director, Legislative Policy Division

BY

 

NOW BE IT RESOLVED that in accordance with the forgoing communication,
the period of study for the proposed Shalom Fellowship International
Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal located at 4001 Fourteenth
Street, established by resolution on October 23, 2018 is hereby extended to March
31, 2020.

 

(titty at Ectruit
CITY COUNCIL
HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD

218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336

Email: historic@detroitmi. gov

 

November 18, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition 0289 Historic Designation Advisory Board submitting its final report
recommending designation and proposed draft ordinance designating the proposed
Shalom Fellowship International Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal
Church Historic District (For Introduction of Ordinance and setting of public hearing)

At the direction of the Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) at its meeting ofJune 20,
2019, we are pleased to submit to Your Honorable Body the board?s final report on the
proposed Shalom Fellowship International Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal
Historic District. The recommendation ofthe Advisory Board is for designation and, therefore, a
draft ordinance of designation is attached. The ordinance has been approved as to form by the
Law Department.

Ad Hoc members of the Advisory Board for this study were Dr. Gertrude Stack and Mario Paul.
Both representatives recommend designation.

If you should have any questions, please contact HDAB staff at (313) 224-3487.

spectfully submitted,

A
Janese Chaparr?, Deputy Director

Historic Designation Advisory Board

Attachment

cc: City Clerk
Marcell Todd, Director, CPC
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Historic District Commission

QEitp of Eetrnit

CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336
Email: historic@detroitmi. gov

DRAFT FINAL Report
Proposed Shalom Fellowship International Ministries/
Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church Historic District
4001 Fourteenth Street, Detroit, MI

 

 

 

 

 

photo credit: Shalom Fellowship International Ministries

By a resolution dated October 23, 2018, the Detroit City Council charged the Historic Designation
Advisory Board, a study committee, with the of?cial study of the proposed Shalom Fellowship
International Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church Historic District in

accordance with Chapter 25 of the 1984 Detroit City Code and the Michigan Local Historic
Districts Act.

The proposed Shalom Fellowship International Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue Methodist
Episcopal Church Historic District consists of two contributing, early twentieth century
buildings?a religious structure and rectory, on the southwest corner of Fourteenth Avenue and
Poplar Street. The property is located on a residential street north of Martin Luther King Boulevard
and south of Grand River Avenue, within the Core City neighborhood in City Council District 6.
Just west of the Woodbridge National Register Historic District and north of North Corktown, the
proposed district is approximately three miles northwest of the city center (Campus Martius Park).

BOUNDARIES

The boundaries of the proposed Shalom Fellowship International Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue
Methodist Episcopal Church Historic District, outlined in heavy black on the attached map, are
as follows:

On the north, the centerline of Poplar Street;

On the east, the centerline of Fourteenth Avenue;

011 the south, the south line of Lot 287 of the Subdivision of the Godfroy Farm, L1 P293 Plats,
and

On the west, the centerline of the alley running north?south between Fourteenth Avenue and
Fifteenth Avenue.

Boundary ustification: The boundary description above includes the three contiguous lots upon
which the religious building and rectory are situated0.7.2.

 

Proposed Shalom lnternattonaU'Fourteonlh Avenue Methn-dlsl Eplscopal Church Hlstoric 
4001 and 3951 Fourteenth Auanue. MI
(Boundaries are by heavy black lines).

HISTORY

Signi?cance:

The proposed Shalom Fellowship International Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue Methodist
Episcopal Church Historic District is signi?cant on the local level under National Register criterion
A, for its religious history which represents the ?ourishing of the Methodist Episcopal Church in
Detroit as evidenced through the merger of two smaller congregations, and criterion C, for its early
twentieth century Neo-Gothic religious architecture and associated Prairie style rectory. Its period
of signi?cance is 1912 c. 1913, spaning the years the church and rectory were erected.

The land in the near?northwest part of Detroit where Shalom Fellowship International Ministries
sits today was part of the Godfroy arm (Private Claim 726), a French ribbon farm that extended
from the Detroit River northward approximately 1.5 miles. It was ?rst con?rmed as a land grant
by New France to Zacharie Cicotte (1709?1775), a prosperous merchant, in 1751. Originally in
Spring?eld Township, the Cicotte Farm became part of Detroit in 1857 when the area between
Eighth and Twenty-?fth streets was incorporated into the city through annexation.

After Detroit was ?rmly established under American control, former French and British ownership
claims were recon?rmed by the United States Commissioners. The Cicotte Farm was recon?rmed
in 1819, and shortly thereafter, the Cicotte heirs sold it to Peter Godfroy, a second cousin whose
family was in the fur-trading business. Born in Detroit in 1797, Godfrey?s French ancestors came
from Quebec as early as 1715. Godfroy died 1848, leaving the land to his widow, Marianne (nee
Navarre).1 Between 1864 and 1875, the farm was subdivided into lots and sold off.2 While
residential development in the subdivision took place at a rapid pace with one? and two-story wood
and brick small-scale buildings ?lling in by the end of the nineteenth century, the site at the corner
of Poplar and 14th lay vacant until the church was built in 1912. Previously, a frame house stood
on the site of the rectory, as evidenced by the Sanborn Fire Insurance Map of 1897.

The Methodist Church in America

The Methodist Episcopal Church (MEC) was formally established in the thirteen American
colonies in 1784 and became the ?rst denomination in the United States to organize itself on a
national basis. Overseen by John Wesley, an Anglican priest, the MEC was part of the evangelical
revival movement within the Church of England based on the beliefs of repentance, faith
justi?cation, and Christian perfection that led to assured salvation. Among the early Methodist
Episcopal worshippers were slaves, poor whites, shopkeepers, merchants and small planters. The
faith appealed to African Americans and women because of its anti-elite, counterculture

 

Accessed 10/29/18.

2Michigan. Subdivision Being Part of the Godroy Farm, RC. 726, lying between Michigan Avenue and Grand River
Avenue. intaue.asp?.?BCC Ace, 11/5/18,

foundations.3 From its start the Methodist movement focused particular attention on the concerns
of workers and still does today.

By the early nineteenth century, MEC. became the largest and most in?uential religious
denomination in the United States as it grew in respectability and numbers. However, in 1844 the
denomination that had condemned slavery divided along regional lines, as the North and South
were divided on the issue of slavery. In the meantime, Catholics replaced the MEC as the largest
denomination in the United States with the in?ux of European immigrants in the late nineteenth
century.

The Methodist Episcopal Church merged with two other Methodist congregations?Methodist
Episcopal Church South and Methodist Protestant Church, in 1939 to form the Methodist Church.
In 1968, with the uni?cation of the Methodist Church and the Evangelical United Brethren Church,
along with the dissolution of the Central Jurisdiction, a segregated group of African American
congregations, the United Methodist Church was formed. 4 Detroit?s many Methodist
congregations, among them the ?rst established in Detroit, Central (United) Methodist on Grand
Circus Park and Woodward Avenue (1826) and Cass Avenue Methodist (est.1880, now Cass
Community United Methodist Church), followed suit. The Fourteenth Avenue Methodist
Episcopal Church also became an af?liate of the United Methodist Church Detroit West District.

Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church

Fourteenth Avenue MEC was established to house the merged Arnold (1888) and Haven (1871)
M. E. Churches. Arnold moved from Seventeenth and Buchanan, and Haven from Sixteenth and
Bagg (Temple). The reason for the moves of these two ?ourishing congregations was to
consolidate into a larger, more up-to-date building centered in the residential community they both
served. This near-northwest side community, de?ned loosely between Michigan and Grand River
avenues east of Lawton, was thought to be poised for change and development pressures were
mounting on each of the smaller congregations. The erection of Michigan Central Station
(completed in 1913) and Roosevelt Park cut through the reach of Haven M.E. Church, and, closer
to Grand River, businesses and manufacturing were encroaching into the territory of Arnold M. E.
Church. After their moves, both of the older churches were sold and are no longer standing.

Permit #1606 was issued to Harley Atcheson, architects, on May 16, 1912 for the construction
of a brick church with a slate roof at an estimated construction cost of $30,000. On June 23 of that
year, a new cornerstone was laid atop the one from Haven M.E. Church. When it was removed
from Haven, it was discovered that most of the contents of the rusty box behind it had disintegrated.
Some salvaged documents, plus the directories from both Haven and Arnold M.E. churches and
the latest edition of the Detroit Free Press, were placed within the stone of the new church. Sydney

 

3 Richard Allen, one of two African American preachers who attended the founding meeting of the MEC Church in

Baltimore in 1784, established the African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church in 1794 after receiving second-class
treatment as a preacher in the MEC church in Philadelphia.
Allen [bishonli?fEarly life and freedom Acc. 10/29/18.

4 Accessed 10/29/18.

B. Eva of Port Huron, former pastor of Arnold Church, and Rev. Reuben Crosby of Hancock,
former pastor of Haven Church, led congregants in prayer at the dedication, which took place on
March 2, 1913. Reverend Luther Ellsworth Lovejoy, the new pastor, gave the ?rst sermon at the
new church. To ?nance the building, subscriptions were sold and the church opened debt?free.
According to an article in the Detroit Free Press entitled ?Methodists to Open Fourteenth Avenue
Church Sunday March ?the new edi?ce will have a pastor?s study, a Sunday school room with
adjustable partitions, gymnasium with locker rooms and shower baths, ladies? parlor, rest rooms,
vault, dining room, kitchen and heating plant. The main auditorium will seat about 700 persons.?

Pastors of the church resided in the rectory next door, which was constructed circa 1913 (building
permit not found). The congregation continued to grow when Wesley Church was displaced by
the effries Freeway and merged with Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Church in 1949. In 1959, the
church underwent a shift in neighborhood p0pulation leading to dwindling membership and
?nancial hardship. It was placed under the leadership of Reverend Jack Reid Crawford, a twenty-
six-year-old bachelor and Harvard University Cleric Graduate. His purpose was to revitalize the
church, restore membership and increase community services. Under his leadership, the
membership increased to 255 active members. Reverend Crawford also established a youth center
that was available for children ?ve days a week, and a day care center was opened in the building
in 1973.

The last pastor of the Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church was Reverend Earl A. Grice
Jr. He presided over the United Methodist Church Ethnic Minority Local Churches Pastors when
the group met in Detroit in 1982. Improvements were made to the facility?it was re-roofed in
asphalt in 1983 and interior work was done in l984?before the sale of the buildings to Shalom
Temple Ministries in 1985.

Shalom Fellowship International Ministries5

Shalom Fellowship International Ministries emerged from the Church of God in Christ (COGIC)
denomination. The Church of God in Christ was founded in 1897 by Charles Harrison Mason, son
of a slave, and Charles Price Jones. These men were Baptist ministers who were widely accepted
in their community. They were known as leaders of the 18905 black Holiness movement. The
Holiness movement, which ignited in the late?nineteenth century, holds the belief that an
individual?s good deeds will not cleanse sin or guarantee Christ?s eternal salvation. This belief
emphasizes that an individual must be bom again and ?lled with the Holy Spirit of God. Mason
faithfully continued with the Baptist group, upholding Holiness as he evangelized from state to
state.

The early phase of the Church of God in Christ came with much con?ict. Mason was inspired to
name his assembly the Church of God in Christ, and in so doing, COGIC was born. The name
change created controversy and caused Mason and his assembly to split from the Baptist group.
Many disagreed with the split and left his assembly altogether. In 1907, Mason decided to establish

 

?Shalom Fellowship International Ministries section prepared from document authored by Deborah Allen, Secretary
to Dr. Stacks, Shalom Fellowship International Ministries.

a church in Memphis, Tennessee which is also based on the Pentecostal-Holiness religion. His
church maintained the COGIC name which to bc a very largc and renowned Pentecostal-
Holiness denomination.

Isaiah Winans, born in 1875 in the state of Mississippi, moved his family to Detroit in the early
19005. In 1912, he converted to the COGIC faith and was ordained as a minister of the gospel three
years later. He became associated with two established COGIC congregations in Detroit. In 1919,
he and his congregants decided to establish their own Clinton Street COGIC assembly and held
their meetings on Mack Avenue in the city of Detroit.

The Clinton Street congregation grew and later purchased the land on the corner of Mack and
Chene in the 19205. In 1929, they built Zion Congregation Church of God in Christ, still known
as ?Mack Avenue.?6 In 1944, Pastor Isaiah Winans and his church had a major dispute with
COGIC founder, Charles Mason, and the National COGIC Headquarters in Memphis, causing
them to split with the Memphis organization and establish the Congregation Church of God in
Christ.

Charles Mason died in 1961 and is remembered as the founder and pioneer of the Church of God
in Christ (COGIC), Inc. Today, COGIC is a well?established Pentecostal-Holiness Christian
denomination with its headquarters still located in Memphis, Tennessee. It has more than 12,000
churches and over 6.5 million members in the United States. Internationally, COGIC is listed in
more than 83 nations. Worldwide, it has more than 25,000 congregations.

Elder Jessie T. Stacks and wife Evangelist Gertrude Stacks were members of Mack Avenue who
remained faithful to the Congregation Church of God in Christ under the pastorate of Pastor Isaiah
Winans. Under his tutelage, Elder Stacks received intense indoctrination of Holiness and was
ordained and appointed to the of?ce of assistant pastor. In 1967, shortly before pastor Isaiah
Winans demise, he appointed Elder Jessie T. Stacks to the of?ce of Pastor of the Congregation
Church of God in Christ. Not long after, the name of the church was changed back to Zion
Congregation Church of God in Christ.

Pastor Jesse T. Stacks and a small group of faithful members decided to leave Zion Congregation
Church of God in Christ due to irreconcilable differences. Among the members that stood with
Pastor Jesse Stacks was the legendary Winans family. Together, they established Zion Temple
Congregational Church in June of 1976, founded by Pastor Jesse T. Stacks. The church was located
at 15700 Muirland in Detroit, Michigan. Shortly after its? establishment, Pastor Stacks was
reminded that God had told him on a trip to Jerusalem to name the church Shalom Temple, and
the name was then changed.

Shalom Temple membership grew, and from this ministry, many ministries were produced and
cultivated. Some of the most well?known and renowned gospel singers/artists that revolutionized
the gospel industry came from this ministry. These gospel artists are known as the Testimonial

 

6 Zion Congregational Church of God in Christ was listed by the city of Detroit as a historic building district in
2009.

Singers, who later changed their name to the Winans; BeBe and CeCe Winans; Vicky Winans;
Vanessa Bell and Laura Lee.

Many leaders that have ministries still have deep roots in Shalom Temple including; BishoP-Elect
Marvin L. Winans of Perfecting Church, Prophetess Juanita Bynum, and Pastor Tamara Bennett,
daughter of the late Bishop Jessie Stacks of This is Pentecost in Sacramento, California. Tamara
Bennett has aired live on several occasions on the Word Network Televised Broadcast.

In 1982, Shalom Temple congregation paid off its church and celebrated the burning of its
mortgage. Their membership grew beyond capacity. In 1985, Pastor Stacks and his congregation
moved from the little red barn located at the corner of Muirland and purchased a larger historic
building known as the Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church. Prior to the move, Pastor
Stacks changed the building?s name to Shalom Temple. There he continued in kingdom building
and taught, preached, trained, and ordained ministers and church elders. He was a proli?c and
dynamic bible scholar and teacher of the holy scriptures.

Pastor Stacks? theological education was yet furthered by attending Morris Cerullo School of
Ministry in California. He received an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from the Bishop A.L.
Hardy Theological Seminary in Seattle, Washington, and was subsequently elevated to the
bishopric by Bishop James Feltus Jr. of First Church of God in Christ United in September of
1992. Bishop Jesse T. Stacks became overseer and pastor of three churches: Shalom Temple
Ministries of Detroit, Harrisburg, and Chicago, Illinois. He also became the spiritual
father and con?dante to many faith-based pastors and leaders.

In 2001, prior to Bishop Stacks? demise, he appointed and charged his wife, Dr. Gertrude Stacks,
with the leadership of Shalom Temple Ministries, known as Shalom Fellowship International
Ministries since 2002. Dr. Gertrude Stacks received her honorary Doctor of Humanities degree
from A.L. Hardy Theological Academy in 1999, and her Doctor of Divinity degree from the same
in 2004.

Dr. Stacks accepted Christ at the age of twenty-?ve. She was raised in the COGIC church and is
the daughter of the late Prophet Cato Weatherspoon. Instrumental in the life and ministry of Dr.
Stacks was the late Dr. Estella Boyd. Dr. Boyd was the National Mother in Zion and founder of
the Fellowship Outreach Prayer band. Under the tutelage of the late Dr. Boyd, Dr. Stacks was
assigned to be her companion whom she nurtured and trained as a forerunner and Evangelist of
the gospel. Dr. Boyd?s countless prayers, teachings, and counsel aided immeasurably in the
nurturing of Shalom Fellowship International Ministries. She was a pillar of Mack Avenue,
Shalom Temple and Shalom Fellowship International Ministries for many decades until her death
in 2003. She is passionately remembered as a remarkable and legendary vessel throughout the
history of Shalom and to the Body Jesus Christ.

Since appointed as pastor, Dr. Stacks has established a dynamic fellowship ministry and Spiritual
Clinic. The Spiritual Clinic deals exclusively with substance and character building. It is designed
to cultivate the gifts of God and renders healing and deliverance to the Body of Jesus Christ
physically, mentally and spiritually. The ministry of Shalom is known to provide ongoing aid to

its community, and for decades, the church has served a resource for poor, needy and
underprivileged.

Architect: Harlev Atcheson

Alvin E. Harley (1884?1976) was a well-known architect who practiced in Detroit from 1903 to
1963.7 Originally from the farmlands of Manitoba, he completed his education to London,
Ontario, where his family had relocated. Harley landed his ?rst drafting job in the of?ce of Herbert
Matthews, a local London architect, and, after three years, decided to become an architect himself.
He moved to Detroit to begin his apprenticeship at a time when the city was expanding and
business for architects was plentiful as the automobile manufacturing boom was getting underway.
Harley quickly found work as a draftsman and apprentice with two of the city?s leading architects,
?rst Albert Kahn (1903), and then George D. Mason (1905), exposing himself to industrial projects
as well as more traditional architecture.

After leaving Mason?s employ in 1908, Harley joined in partnership with another architect from
Mason?s of?ce, Norman Swain Atcheson (1 876?193 8). Atcheson, bom in St. Louis, was an alumni
of the University of Michigan (1896-97). He continued his architectural training in Los Angeles
before brie?y returning to Michigan to train with Detroit architect Edward S. Van Leyen in
1898 and then went to New York to study at the Art Students? League, (1899-1900) and apprentice
with architectural ?rms in that city before again returning to Detroit.8 During the Harley 
Atcheson partnership, the number of buildings constructed in Detroit more than doubled, and the
?rm contributed to that count with the Administration Building and Exhibition Building at the
State Fair Grounds (1910) and the Henry Clay Hotel at 1538 Centre Street (1913), among others.
In 1912, their partnership was dissolved and Harley became the sole owner of Alvin Harley,
Architect (1912-1932). Atkinson, who likely had a strong hand in the designs for Fourteenth
Avenue M.E. Church, continued in practice in Detroit for several years after his partnership with
Harley ended in 1912, although less is known about his subsequent career. He died in San Mateo,
California in 1938.

Harley?s continued success paralleled that of the burgeoning automobile industry that brought
people and capital to the city. Prestigious residential, commercial and industrial contracts came
his way. Harley maintained his of?ce in the McKerchey Building, a mixed-use building he
designed, until he and Harold Ellington joined forces as Harley Ellington, Architects and
Engineers, in 1933. Harley specialized in mausoleum and cemetery design and Ellington relied on
his prior brewery experience to remain strong during the Great Depression.

Charles E. Day, Sr. merged his ?rm with Harley Ellington in 1943, becoming Harley, Ellington
Day (1941-60). After World War II ended, they designed projects for the federal and municipal
governments (including Detroit Civic Center?s Veterans Memorial Building and City-County

 



8 Marquis 14: Marquis, Albert Nelson, Editor, The Book of Dctroiters, Chicago, Marquis, 1914, 27

Building). Retired in 1963, Alvin E. Harley, the originator of the ?rm, died at age 92 in 1986.
After other reiterations. Harley lives on in the name of the ?rm of Harley Ellis Devereaux (2006-
Present).

ARCHITECTURE

The church property at the corner of Fourteenth Avenue and Putnam is composed of three
subdivision lots measuring 42? wide by 145? deep each. The Fourteenth Street right?of?way is 80
feet wide and Poplar is 50 feet wide. The church and rectory to its south are oriented toward
Fourteenth Avenue and sit on graded lots with ample front lawns. Each is accessed offofconcretc
walkways with steps extending from the public sidewalk to their front porches. The church
building. located on the corner. also has access from Poplar Street on its north side. by way of a
concrete walkways from the public sidewalk leading to the east face of the tower at the northwest
corner and into the north transept. which also has a concrete sloped accessible ramp.

Church

The red-orange brick and Bedford limestone church building is a tall. two-story edi?ce on a
basically rectangular footprint anchored at its northeast corner by a massive square tower. It sits
on a high basement that allows for a spacious. fenestratcd sub?ground space. Originally roofed in
slate. its large gable roofis now clad in aSphalt shingles.

The front facade of the church is composed ol?threc bays. unified by limestone banding. buttress
*aps. water table. molded coping- and trim. Small rectangular panes of green opaleseent stained
glass occupy the window 5 on the front facade and tower. The central entrance bay is articulated as
two levels. Sex eral steps between wide. sloping wing walls lead to the main entrance. which is
composed of double doors with a Gothic arched. three section transom above. The entrance is set
within a buttressed. gabled masonry frame. At the upper level is a large traeery window framed by
a gablcd arch. Both levels ofthis entrance section are framed by masonry tabs. At the apex ofthe
gable is a stone crest set into a square block. The entrance is flanked by a small narrow window
with a ?at stone arch on either side.

To the north of the central bay is the three?stage tower anchoring the northeast corner of the
building. with a stone gable entlamcd entrance at ground level: a single small elongated window
at the mid-level. and a pair oflouvered windows at the top. To the north of the entrance. earth
the water table and foundation stone. are two cornerstones. the bottom one:

HAVEN 1871
ARNOLD 1888
UNITED 1911
and the top one:
FOURTEENTH AVENUE
METHODIST
EPISCOPAL CHURCH
1912

The north side of the tower has a double window at its lower level; a small window at its mid-
leyel. and a loux cred double-opening at the top. The tower is topped by stone crenellation. A new
bell was installed in the tower in 1941.

Continuing with the north elevation facing Poplar Street. the three identical bays est ot?the tower
are composed of large, square replacement windows at elerestory level. and below. brick panels
that replaced windows, with a panel of brick in between. all framed with limestone. The transom
arm juts out to a modest degree. and thatures a single-door entrance famed in limestone with a
wooden gablcd porch hood supported by triangular brackets. At second story lC?\ e1 is a double
hung window. Beyond the transom is the single-story apsc composed ot? a blind Gothic arch
?anked by wall buttresses and a small window to its west. A low. single story section spans the
width ofthe rear t?the church. extending to the alley running north?smith behind the property.

The south elevation has no transept arm or entrances. multiple bays are articulated similarly to
the three bays between the tower and transept of the north elexation. occupied by replacement
windows on the upper the original windows are still on the ?rst story. These original
groupings of two or three double hung sash windows in wood frames are protected by metal
security bars. The last. upper window are in a smaller opening that still has its stained
glass upper sashes. On this south elevation are a few star-ended metal tie rods beneath the
eax es that allow for the span o?r?the ceiling on the interior.

Upon entering the church through its main entrance, a side staircase goes up to the sanctuary and
another goes down to basement. Golden oak paneled wainscoting, traceried stair rails, banisters,
and newel posts provide a warm glow to the narthex. The two doors into the sanctuary contain
stained glass from the 19805. Paneled oak continues into the sanctuary on the wainscoting, choir
loft, and rear wall of the alter. The pews are also oak. The ceiling, its curvature resembling that
of a Gothic arch, is now painted white but likely had oak timbering beneath the paint.

Rectory

The church rectory is a two-story. brick \eneer.
tour-square style. asymmetrical red-orange brick
residential building with an almost square footprint.
It sits on a high basement and is crowned by a
shallow hip roof with a centered frontal dormer
containing a row of three double-hung sash
windows. the upper sash composed t?tw row of
four lights. Both the main root. dormer root?. and
porch root?hay deep ox erhangs.

entrance bay is on the north hall' of the front
facade. accessed through a full-length porch It is
accessed Lip three concrete steps extending ft the
public sidewalk north of center and more concrete
steps between the brick porch walls with concrete

 

?10

slab caps. In front of the entrance is a roofed section of the porch supported by square brick
columns. Now boarded. a wide window is located to the south of the entrance. Symmetrically
arranged on the second story are two shingled box bays containing a pair of double-hung sash
windows, separated by a single. smaller double hung windmv in the center.

The south elevation of the rectory features a chimney wall. a hooded, long box bay, and small
windows, all boarded on the ?rst floor. The rear elevation featured a roof dormer and a small
porch. now absent, with boarded basement and first floor window openings. Original paired
windows still exist at the second story. The grassy back yard is occupied by a small shed offofthe
alley.

CRITERIA
The proposed historic district meets the National Register Criteria A and at a local level:

A) That are associated with events that have made a signi?cant contribution to the broad
patterns of our history; and

C) That embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction,
or that represent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that represent
a signi?cant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction.

Furthermore, the proposed historic district meets the National Register Criterion Consideration A:
Religious Properties as the property derives its primary signi?cance from architectural distinction
and historical importance.

COMPOSITION OF THE HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD

The Historic Designation Advisory Board has nine members, who are residents of Detroit, and
two ex-of?eio members. The appointed members are Melanie A. Bazil, Naomi Beasley?Porter,
Carolyn Carter, Keith A. Dye, Louis Fisher, Zen? 0 gel-Gibson, Theresa Hagood, Calvin
Jackson and Joseph Rashid. The ex-of?cio members, who may be represented by members of
their staff, are the Director of the City Flaming Commission and the Director of the Planning
and Development Department. Ad hoe members for this study are Dr. Gertrude Stacks and Marlo
Paul.

Bibliography
City of Detroit, Building permit 1606, May 16, 1912.
Church Literary Documents Review/retrieved from the church secretary. 08 August 2018.

Church of God in Christ - Wikipedia. of God in Christ.

11

City of Detroit. Zion Congregational Church of God in Christ Historic District Final 


City of Detroit Executive Of?ce. Dennis W. Archer Mayor. Acknowledgement of founding letter.
City of Detroit Online Library Methodist Episcopal Church/Detroit

Detroit Free Press
2nd anniversary of church dedication, Mar 7, 1915, 52.
Arnold and Haven Churches in Detroit will merge and new church?14th Ave. ME Church,
Bishop Frederick D. Leete Welds Trowel, June 24, 1912
Merged churches enter new home, March 3, 1913.
New 14th Ave. ME Church will be Dedicated, Feb 20, 1913, 9
Palmer, Friend. Detroit in Earlier Days, 18 Sept. 1904. 38.
Acc. 10/20/2018.
Congregation Free of Debt: Will burn its mortgage Sunday. 3 Jan. 1942, Detroit Main

 

Library, Burton Historical Collection (BHC).
Methodist Church Unite Membership, BHC.
Young Paster Inj ects New Life Into Church, BHC.

Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church, Financial and Mortgage Report. an.1, 1936.
Church Record, BHC.

Michigan. Plat of Subdivision of Part of the Godfroy Farm, Part of PC. 726 Being north of
Michigan Ave. and South of Grand River.

Sanborn Fire Insurance Map, 1897

Personal interviews:
Dr. Gertrude Stacks. Personal Interview with Deborah Allen. August 16, 2018.

Personal interview, Meeting at church Nov. 8, 2017: anese Chapman, Deborah Goldstein met
with Deborah Allen, Pastor Stack?s secretary; Rev. Stack on phone.

12

SUMMARY

This ordinance amends Chapter 21, Article II, Division 5 of the 2019 Detroit City Code by
adding Section 21-2-239 to establish the Shalom Fellowship International Ministries/Fourteenth
Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church Historic District, and to de?ne the elements of design for the
district.

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 21, Article II of the 1984 Detroit City Code by
adding Section 21-2-2? to establish the Shalom Fellowship International Ministries/Fourteenth
Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church Historic District and to de?ne the elements of design for the
district.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 21, Article II, of the 1984 Detroit City Code be amended by adding
Section 21-2?211 to read as follows:

Sec. 21-2-21]. Shalom Fellowship International Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue
Methodist Episcopal Church Historic District.

(Al A historic district to be known as the Shalom Fellowship International
Ministries/Fourteenth Avenue Methodist Eniscocal Church Historic District is herebyI established

in accordance with the provisions of this article.

This historic district desianation is hereby certi?ed as being consistent with the Detroit

Master Plan.

The boundaries of the Shalom Fellowship International MinistriesfFourteenth Avenue
Methodist Episcopal Church Historic District are as shown on the man on tile in the of?ce of the
Citv Clerk. and are as I'ollows: 0n the north. the centerline of Poplar Street; On the east. the
of Fourteenth Avenue: 0n the south. the south line of Lot 287 the Subdivision of the
Godfrey Farm, Ll P293 Plats. WCR: and On the west. the centerline of the alley running north-
south between Fourteenth Avenue and Fifteenth Avenue [legal description: West 14th 289 thru

FIT 

237 Sub ot'chFrov Farm. Ll P293. Pals. ?I'd/i I '5 A I


uh.- .T.- 



The de?ned elements ol? desian. as provided for in Section 2-5 2 -2 of this Code, shall

be as follows:

(1)

(3)

Height. The religious buildine at 4001 Fourteenth Street consists ofa tall. two 
storv space on a birth basement with a tailor three (3) stone tower at its northeast
corner. The associated residential buildinn is two (Elstoriesta?ll.

Proportion of?tiilr?ug 's Pit-our Facade. The religious building is wider than tall
on all elevations. The front facade is articulated in three sections: the prominent.
sliahtlv oroiectinc central entrance section with a trianeular cable. the lower aisle
section to the south. and the tall northeast comer tower. The secondarv north
elevation alone Poolar Street features three (3) reeularlv spaced bavs. a shallow
lransept arm. and a one storv end section. The front facade of the residential
building is wider than tell but appears square in form.

Progenitor: of Openings ll?r'thin the Facade. The front facade of the 
buildinn consists ofaooroximatelv ?fteen percent {15%?topenincs. A large double-
door entrance cocaine with a transom above is centrallv positioned on the ?rst
floor: a larne tracerv window is set at the choir loft level directlv above. A small.
narrow window openinc. taller than wide. ?anks the entrance cocaine. and a
sliahtlv Iaraer window occupies the south aisle section of the front facade. Square
basement windows on the front facade and transect are protected with metal bars.
The front (east) face of the tower has a single entrance cocaine in its ?rst ?oor at
aradc. a narrow window taller than wide at its second staue. and. on all four 
elevations. a laree. louvered window openino at its top stace. The north elevation
features larae square openinos containinu metal replacement windows at the second
level and brick-filled similar openinas on its ?rst story. Its transept has a sinale
entrance openina with a window above: the rear elevation has small. boarded or

brick-?lled windows. The residential buildine has approximately thirtv-?ve

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

mrcent onenines in its front facade. Most are taller than wide and contain
double-hunts sashes. with the escention of the onenine. now boarded. to the south
ofthe entrance. which is wider than tall.

th?im ofSolids to l?ofds in the Front Facade. Each of the three (3) vertical
sections of the front facade ofthe building_are Fenesttg?rd individually.
with openines centered horizontaliv within their wall surfaces and. where there are
two or three (3) stories. onenines spaced one above the other. Bavs of windows
are evenlv spaced and svmmetrieal alone the length of the buildina?s north
elevation to the transent- which breaks the A of solids to voids also
exists on the residential buildine. with pairs of one-over?one sash windows located
in box bags at second storv level directlv above the entrance opening on the north
side of the front facade and a laree window openina. now boarded. on the south
side. Its donner has an eicht-over-one sash lrinle window openine.

nfBiriirit'iiELoii Streets. No discernible soacina nattern exists:
the huildines are surrounded bv vacant land.

of Entrance (uni/or Porch Protections. No of entrances or oorch
proiections exists between the two buildings. Both buildinas have substantial
porches on their front facades: the porch of the residential buildine is off-center.
under a hv square piers. while the porch of the religious buiidine is
centered on the front facade and is uncovered. Both buildinas are accessed bv
several steps up the graded front vard leadina to their porch steps.

Relationship ofMei'erinls. The maior buildine material of both buildinas is brick.
The religious buildina is trimmed in Bedford limestone and has masonrv steps; the

rectorv also has masonrv trim and stens. Maior wooden elements of the religious

(8)

(9)

buildina include the tracerv on the front facade and window hood on the north
elevation. Wood window frames Filled with stainedplass exist on the front facade;
metal windows and doors have replaced oriainal wood frames on the side
elevations. with the exception of those on the sub-?oor level of the south elevation.
The main front double-doors and tower door have been replaced bv metal framed
doors. The residential building features wooden elements such as eave brackets and
shinuled box bavs. The roof of the religious buildinu was oriainallv slate with
copper ?ashine: both buildings are now clad in asphalt shingles.

Relationship ofTexnn-es. The maior textural relationship of the buildintt
and residential buildina is that of stretcher bond. variegated brick with mortar ioints
iuxtaposed with smooth masonrv trim and wood. Textural interest of the 
building is focused on the door surrounds. front sable. and tower. Wooden elements
such as window frames. shinales and detail. provide textural interest. as does the
repetition of small stained alass window panes- Asphalt shinaled roofs generallv do
not add to textural interest.

of Colors. The two buildinos are clad in reddish-orange brick which
contrasts sharplv with the beige color of the masonrv trim. Window frames.
mullions and munitions on the front facade of the relinious buildina appear to be
weathered white; thev are ?lled with ureen onalescent stained glass panes.
Replacement windows on the side elevations are brown. Steps to the church are
presentlv painted prav: liuht posts and wine walls are painted a liaht oranae.
Wooden trim on the residential buildina appears to be pale vellow and shinales on

the bavs and dormers are brown. Roofs of both buildinas are brown. The oriuinal

(10)

(11)

colors. as determined bv professional analysis. are alwavs acceptable for the
building and max provide guidance for similar buildinas.

Relationship oLrh-ehitectnm! Details. The Nee-Gothic style of the religious
buildina is de?ned by its steengable roof. Gothic-arched tracerv window. wall
buttresses. crenelated tower. and unil?vina stone bandina and trim. Detail is
concentrated on the central entrance bav. Several steps between wide. sloping wine
walls lead to the main entrance. which is set within a buttressed. cabled limestone
frame with tabs and composed of double doors with a Gothic arched. three-Dart
transom above. At the ugper level is a larae tracerv window Framed by a cabled
arch. At the apex of the cable is a stone crest set into a square block. To the north
of the central bav is the three-stage tower anchorina the northeast comer of the
building. It has a stone cable framed entrance at around level: a single small
elongated window at mid-level. and a pair ofloutrered windows at the too. Small
rectanaular panes of areen opaleseent stained glass occuov the windows on the
front facade and tower. To the north of the entrance. beneath the water table and
foundation stone. are two cornerstones of inscribed test. the bottom one in three 
lines: HAVEN 1871: ARNOLD 1888: UNITED [911 and the top one in four 
lines: FOURTEENTH AVENUE: EPISCOPAL CHURCH: 1912,.
The residential buildine is devoid ofornamentation: architectonic elements such as
the square brick porch columns. eave brackets. and shinsled box bays define the
stvle and neriod ol?the buildina.

Relationship of The buildina has a front aabled roof: its
tower roof cannot be seen from the street. The sinale story rear section has a flat

roof. The roof of the residential buildina and its donners are hipped.

(12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

t't?ults ofContiuuttv. The two buildine facades do not result in a consistent pattern
amongst themselves or the rest of the streetscane. which consists ofvacant land.
Relationship of .S'ieui?cuut Landscape Features (out Surface Treatments. Both
buildinas sit on graded lots with ample front lawns. Each is accessed off of concrete
walkwavs with steps extending from the omblic sidewalk to their front porches. The
church building. located on the corner. also has access from Poular Street on its
north side by wav of a concrete walkwavs from the oublic sidewalk leadina to the
east face of the tower at the northwest corner and to the north transect. which also
has a concrete sloped accessible ramo. Overgrown Foundation nlantinus are present
on the front (east) and south elevation of the residential buildina. No other
significant landscapina or street furniture exist.

Relationship ompeu Space to Structures. Open space in the form of slonine crass
turf front lawns occunv the front vards of the and residential buildinas. as
well as a shallower lawn space on the north. or Poplar Street. elevation. A large
rear grass vard also exists to the rear of the rectory. esposinu the rear of the south
elevation ofthe structure to view. Bevond the nrooertv lines of the district
Scale of made and Facade Elements. The buildine facade is of a scale
ofa moderatelv sized religious structure in the Citv ofDetroil. Elements within the
facade ranee from larce. as are the cable and traccrv window. to small. as are the
slender windows. The residential buildina is tvnical ol'a moderatelv scaled. solidlv

built. middle class residential ?tour snuare" stvle buildine of the 19103.

(16)

(17)

(13)

(19)

(20)

(21)

Erpressioa Elevation. The Front elevation of the 
buildino. is vertical in expression due to the tall pitched cable rool? and the earner
tower. The residential buildino is neutral in directional expression.

ofBaiidina Setbacks. The huiidines are set back considerahiv From the
public right of war of Fourteenth Street. with less of a setback on Poplar. The two
{it buildinas maintain a on the north end oftheir block ofFourteenth Street.
Relationship of Lot Coverage. The building occupies approximately
eiehtv percent of the lets it occupies. the residential huildino occupies

approximately thimr percent ofits lot.

 

tee a Cotmiexitu li?ithin the Fa aa'e. Both ofthe buildin 1r?5 front in ades are

 

straightforward in their massing. fenestration. and architectural detail. resultine in

a low decree ofcomplexitv.

Orientation. Vistas. Overview. The two buildines are oriented toward Fourteenth
Street: the huildine has a secondartr entrance alone Poplar Street in the
north transept arm. The tower of the buildint.I anchors the corner
of Fourteenth Street and Poplar in a residential area that is surrounded bv vacant
land. The buildina stands out from its surroundinns due to its scale and
SAM

Symmetric or Aswametrtc Appearance. The religious buildine is asvmmetrical in
appearance. its northwest tower domination the Front {east} and north facades. The
residential buildine is also asvmmetrical. with its entrance and porch on the north
half of the front facade. However. both buildines are straiehtforward in their

architectural arraneements.

(22) Genera! Envirrmmemof Character. Once located in a densely populated
neiahborhood of small-scale. late 19th century brick and wood frame houses. the
setting of Shalom Fellowship International MinistriesfFourteenth Avenue
Methodist Eoisconal Church Historic_ District is now a sea of vacant land.
Consequently, the building.- is removed from its historic contest. while at
the same time sianalina opportunity for future development due in its location in
the near northwest area of downtown Detroit. north of the Corktovm Historic
District and west of the oodbridee Historic District.

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances, or resolutions, in con?ict with this

ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This Ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,

health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. If this ordinance is passed by a two-thirds majority of City Council

members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon publication
in accordance with Section 4-116 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter; otherwise, it shall become

effective in accordance with Section 4-115 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter:

Approved as to form:



T. Garcia

Corporation Counsel

 

NOV 15 2319
#2945 

:zuiit?li'l?l?: Rev'tanzath? Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313.224.6380
cm or 2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 908 Fax: 313.224.1629
DETROIT Detroit, Michigan 48226 

 

 

November 13, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for Authorization to Accept the "Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction Grant?

Honorable City Council:

Through the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) competitive grant funds, the City of
Detroit was awarded $9.1 million for Lead Hazard Reduction and $600,000.00 for Healthy Homes
Supplemental funding. A total of $9.7 million. The grant will be used to address the pressing issue of
child lead poisoning. The high impact neighborhood target areas for this grant are census tracts 5238,
5240, 5241 and 5242 located in Southwest Detroit. The ?Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction Grant?
allocation has been approved by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). There is a
cash match requirement for this grant in the amount of $910,000.00.

The City of Detroit through its Housing and Revitalization Department (HRD) proposes to accept this grant
in the amount of $9.7 million to work with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to
identify households with recipients under age 6 with elevated blood lead levels, provide lead inspection
risk assessment and lead hazard reduction services in homes where recipients live in.

The Housing Revitalization Department requests this Honorable Body?s authorization to accept this
grant by supporting the attached resolution.

 


Director

Attachment

 

APPROVED

cc: 5. Washington, Mayor?s Office W..
V. Miller, HRD

guess-r DIRECTOR . 
1} 


 

 

 

 

 
   

CITY OF
DETROIT

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has approved the "Lead
Based Paint Hazard Reduction Grant? to address the pressing issue of child lead poisoning in the
City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, the Housing Revitalization Department has requested authorization to accept the
?Lead Hazard Reduction Program Grant? for assisting the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) to identify households with recipients under age 6 with elevated blood lead
levels, provide lead inspection risk assessment and lead hazard reduction services in homes
where recipients live in. The cash match of $910,000.00 will come from Appropriation #10409,
HRD Economic Development Small Business Development for Housing CDBG Match Lead Grant.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Mayor ofthe City of Detroit or his designee, is hereby
authorized to accept the "Lead Based Paint Hazard Reduction Program Grant? in the amount of
$9.7 million from the Department of Housing and Urban Development and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Budget Director be and is hereby authorized to establish, set-up, appropriate
and increase Appropriation #20735 by $9.7 million; and to honor vouchers when submitted, in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Agreement between the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the City of Detroit for the "Lead
Hazard Reduction Program Grant?.

Li/md MW




PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL. 
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOUR
MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-0484 - 



 
 
 

CITY OF DETROIT
BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DliPAR'l?MliN'l?

 

Date: November I3, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 14526 Mack
NAME: JDK Investments LLC
Demolition Ordered: March 21, 2016

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on October 21, 2019, revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 151 deferral request for this

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recowmended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within fertxn?ve (45) calendar days from the date ofthe rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every fortv~?ve (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

I Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certificate oprproval as a result ofa Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respectfully submitted.

   
    

David Bell
Director



cc: JDK Investments LLC, 1600 Clay, Detroit, MI 48226
ATTN: Julian Kefallinos

CLERK 20.1.3 HEN-J 113?. 

 
 
 

2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or D17. Dli'l?ROI'l?, MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS. AND (313) 224-0484 - I



(If 3 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL 

Date: November 13, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 6084 Chopin
NAME: Suzanne Axelson
Demolition Ordered: September 21, 2015

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on November 2019, revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The
owner has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1St deferral request for
this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

I. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within t? (10) business davs from the date ofthe City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within fortv~?ve (45) calendar rlavs from the date ofthe rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
M, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

 

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

- Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.
We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.
At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the office of the City Clerk.

Respectfully submitted,

Du
Director



may re ,3qu 331911? an}: 6084 Chopin, Detroit, MI 43210

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL 
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOUR
r" 22
CITY DI.IR0I l, 48 6
BUILDINGS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL Dlil?ARl'MliNl . (3I3) 224?0454 - 


   

Date: November 13, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 2653 Harding
NAME: NYENYE MK INC
Demolition Ordered: March 10, 2010

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on November 7, 2019, revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The
owner has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the deferral request for
this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following

conditions:

I. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within till (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-five (45) calendar days from the date ofthe rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty??ve (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result ofa Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. [f the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respectft ysubmitlcd.

    

[Jaw iell
Director



cc: NYENYE MK 319 Lafayette-Suite I 14, New York, NY 10012

CITT CLERK 20191140.} '13 ami?i?l?

?x COLI-LMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CliNl'liR

   

1 2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CI MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND . . (3I3) 224-0484 - TTY27II
R01 
kg

November 5, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: 12324 Gratiot

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted
above, we submit the following information:

A special inspection conducted on October 18, 2019 revealed that the property did not
meet the requirements of the application to defer. The property continues to be open to
trespass and not maintained.

Therefore, we respectfully recommend that the request for a deferral be denied. We will
proceed to have building demolished as originally ordered with the cost of demolition

assessed against the property.

ectfully su

 
 
  

 

itted.

 


Director

DB :bkd

cc: DK Investments LLC, 1600 Clay. Detroit, MI 48211
ATTN: Julian Kefallinos

CLERK 2019 NW 13 mrl?'d?

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL l.-1R
2 WOODWARD FOURTH FLOOR

-

 
  

or MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND (313) 224-0484 - 

?33 . I I MLGOV

November 4, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: 1 1980 Gratiot

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted
above, we submit the following information:

A special inspection conducted on October 31, 2019 revealed that the property did not
meet the requirements of the application to defer. The property continues to be open to
trespass and not maintained.

Therefore, we respectfully recommend that the request for a deferral be denied. We will
proceed to have building demolished as originally ordered with the cost of demolition
assessed against the property.

 

David Bell
Director

DB :bkd

cc: JDK Investments LLC, 1600 Clay, Detroit, MI 48211
ATTN: Julian Kefellinos

CLERK 201'? NW 18 

TO:

THROUGH:

FROM:

DATE:

RE:

MEMORANDUM . f.

Raquel Contaneda?Lopez?
Council Member
Detroit City Council

Tonja Long
Attorney

Law Department
City of Detroit

Scott Benson, Council Member
City of Detroit

Roy McCalister, Jr., Council Member?Q
City of Detroit

November 19, 2019

QUESTIONS RELATIVE TO PROVISION OF CITY
SERVICES 

 

1. Can you please share any statistics you may have regarding biased policing by
the Detroit Police Department? (Please include the origin and age of the
information)

2. What constitutes ?English Language Pro?ciency?, as it pertains to this
proposed legislation?

3. As it pertains to the Detroit Police Department, how much of this is in-line
with their existing policy of Unbiased Policing?

4. Pg 2- The crossed out de?nitions, why are they being removed?

5. Pg 3- Line 13- The reason for removing this line?

6. Pg 4- Request for ?Procedure? to remain.

7. Pg 6- Request for the word ?Solicitation? to remain.

8. Pg 6- Lines 7-13P1ease explain the contradictions of Section 23 -8-4 Items 
C.

9. Pg 6- Has the Detroit Police Department agreed to the elimination of this
Section 23-8-5, Item B-l What is the reason for removing this line?

10. As it pertains to the Detroit Police Department, how much of this is in?line
with their existing policy of Unbiased Policing?

11. Pg 7- Line 13-18- 3&4 request those to remain.

12. Pg 2? With the upcoming Census Count on the horizon in 2020, how may this
affect the count and the following Census counts respectively?

Roy McCalister, Jr.

Detroit City Council

CC:

Esteemed Colleagues
City Clerk

