th
October 10
, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.

Noticed for 10:00 AM: Commenced at 10:00 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (10/10/2019) (Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Kevin Irvine, Johnny Miller, Alejandro Silva, Berna
Jakes, Gloria Chevere. Director Arabel Alva Rosales was absent.

PUBLIC COMMENT: Cynthia Allen, Bob Israel, Andrea Reed, Suheir Ibrahim (written comment read

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
September th
11
, 2019. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with six yes votes and one
abstention (Chevere).
BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to consider Board Agenda Item 4-A with
separate votes. After the motion was moved and seconded, the motion was adopted with six yes

Chairman Peterson then asked for a motion to approve an ordinance fixing the salary of Judge Glo
Chevere as a temporary member of the Chicago Transit Board. After the motion was moved and
seconded, the ordinance was adopted with five yes votes and one abstention (Chevere).

Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve an ordinance fixing the salary of Kevin Irvin
member of the Chicago Transit Board. After the motion was moved and seconded, the motion was
adopted with five yes votes and one abstention (Irvine).

Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve an ordinance fixing the salary of Johnny Mi
a member of the Chicago Transit Board. After the motion was moved and seconded, the motion w
adopted with five yes votes and one abstention (Miller).

Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve an ordinance appointing members and cha
certain standing committees of the Chicago Transit Board. After the motion was moved and secon
the ordinance was adopted with six yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Chairman Silva presented the report. The commi
th
reviewed the monthly (September) report on Finance and approved the
11
, September
2019
committee meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda items, listed o
Committee Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommen
for Board approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Silva. After b
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with five yes votes and one abstention (Chevere)
All approved August 2019 Board ordinances are available on-line, www.transitchicago.com
. “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 019-85 through 019-96.
1

 CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Bill Mooney presented the Construction Repo
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (October 2019), “Construction Report”.
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjournththe
, 2019
October 10
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 