COUNTY BUILDING
118 NORTH CLARK, ROOM 567
c/o 7th District
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(T) 312-603-5443
(F) 312-603-3759

CHAIR
Alma E. Anaya
CONTACT
Nadia Ismail
Nadia.ismail@cookcountyil.gov
(T) 312-603-5443

COOK COUNTY COMMISSION
ON SOCIAL INNOVATION
October 17, 2019
4:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Cook County Building
County Building, 118 N. Clark Street, Board Room 567
Chicago, IL 60602
MINUTES

1.

Call to Order
The October 17th meeting of The Cook County Commission on Social Innovation was convened via an
in-person meeting from 4:03pm-5:50pm. The meeting was chaired by Cook County Commissioner Alma
Anaya, Chair of the Commission on Social Innovation. This meeting was open to the public.
Commission Members Present:
• Commissioner Alma Anaya
• Marc Loveless
• John Yonan
• Wendy Raymer
• Carrie Thomas
• Ana Guajardo

•
•
•
•
•
•

Xochitl Flores
Morgan Malone
Howard Males
Rodger Cooley
Ald. Maria Hadden
Karin NorringtonReaves

Commission Staff Present:
• Nadia Ismail
• Victoria Moreno

Cook County Commissioner Kevin Morrison and a member of his office staff, Caitlin McElroy, attended
this meeting. As did Brian Ceci, a staff member of Commissioner Donna Miller’s office.
2.

Welcome
Commissioner Anaya introduced three new members of the Commission who were in attendance:
• Commissioner Rodger Cooley, executive director of the Chicago Food Policy Action Council
• Commissioner Maria Hadden, Alderwoman of the City of Chicago’s 49th Ward
• Commissioner Karin Norrington-Reaves, Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago-Cook
Workforce Partnership

3.

Approval of the Minutes
A motion to approve the September 19, 2019 meeting minutes was made by Commissioner
Loveless and seconded by Commissioner Males. The minutes were approved through a
unanimous voice-vote of the Commission.

•

Presentation by Commissioner John Yonan
In his presentation, Commissioner Yonan addressed the way in which Metra ridership in the South
Suburbs decreased dramatically over the past 20 years. As such, the Cook County Department of
Transportation and Highways in partnership with the Office of the President of Cook County, created a

 •

study to examine the lines that need the most assistance and the best way in which the County could assist
them.
o One hope is that with better access to affordable transportation, the South Suburbs will experience
less population loss and have greater access to employment opportunities. This utilizes an existing
resource (rail) to solve these large-scale issues.
o The study has resulted in a proposed Pilot Program. The pilot objective is to “demonstrate that we
can provide better transit service for south Cook County residents by changing fare policies,
increasing service on the Metra Electric Line, and improving coordination between Metra, Pace,
and the CTA.”
Following his presentation, Commissioners agreed to provide a letter of support for the Fair Transit for
South Cook County project. A draft of the letter will be emailed to commissioners for approval before the
December meeting.

4.

Committee Reports & Planning
a. The Financial Capital, Social & Human Capital, and Intellectual Capital Committees will all be
meeting in the coming month before the November Commission meeting.
b. Financial and Public Capital Committees combined their meetings in the past month and reported back
saying that the two committees are hoping to combine forces on the Lincoln Highway Logistic
Corridor’s Strategic Planning. Within their meeting, committee member David Doig discussed the
investment opportunities that exist around the Lincoln Highway Corridor.
c. Commissioner Thomas was following up on an earlier conversation begun by the Social & Human
Capital Committee regarding recession-proofing vulnerable communities in the County. She suggested
that we connect the committee with research available through the Federal Reserve and CBPP.
Commissioner Norrington-Reaves said that she would work with the committee to connect them to the
Federal Reserve to conduct that research.

5.

Announcements
• Commissioner Thomas – There is a new City of Chicago City Sticker Amnesty
Program, see the Chicago Jobs Council Facebook page to watch the webinar on this.

6.

•

Commissioner Malone – Oct. 22, 10:00am-2:00pm UIC Forum Vendor Fair for small
businesses

•

Commissioner Flores – We are putting together a digital toolkit for the Census, visit
www.cookcountyil.gov/census to learn more.

•

Commissioner Norrington-Reaves – Chatham Education Center is building in an
Opportunity Zone, retrofitting an older building. They are looking for support in
reaching sponsors.

Adjourn
a. Commissioner Raymer motioned to adjourn, seconded by Commissioner Loveless

 