COUNTY BUILDING
118 NORTH CLARK, ROOM 567
c/o 7th District
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(T) 312-603-5443
(F) 312-603-3759

CHAIR
Alma E. Anaya

COOK COUNTY COMMISSION
ON SOCIAL INNOVATION

CONTACT
Nadia Ismail
Nadia.ismail@cookcountyil.gov
(T) 312-603-5443

September 19, 2019
4:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m.
Cook County Administrative Building
69 W. Washington, Lower Level Conference Room A
Chicago, IL 60602

MINUTES
1.

Welcome
The September 19th meeting of The Cook County Commission on Social Innovation was convened
via an in-person meeting from 4:00pm-6:00pm. The meeting was chaired by Cook County
Commissioner Alma Anaya, Chair of the Commission on Social Innovation. This meeting was open
to the public; one member of the public provided comment.
Commission Members Present:
• Commissioner Alma Anaya
• Marc Loveless
• John Yonan
• Xochitl Flores
• Christyn Freemon
• Rodger Cooley
• Ana Guajardo
• Harold Rice
• Xochitl Espinosa

Commission Staff Present:
• Nadia Ismail
• Victoria Moreno

2.

Approval of the Minutes
a. A motion to approve the August 15, 2019 meeting minutes was made by Commissioner Loveless
and seconded by Commissioner Espinosa. The minutes were approved through a unanimous
voice-vote of the Commission.

3.

Committee Reports and Monthly Planning
a. The Commission members representing the Financial Capital Committee reported on the
committee meeting held this month. The Committee is seeking to leverage Opportunity Zone
funding to increase investment in in investment around the Lincoln Highway Corridor. They
discussed the need to invest in transportation and explore property tax solutions for the south
suburbs.

4.

Presentations
a. Two presentations were given during this meeting. Both presentations were on the topic of
leveraging Opportunity Zones.

 b. The first presentation was given by Umi Grigsby, a representative of City of Chicago Clerk Anna
Valencia’s Office who was presenting on behalf of the Clerk.
i. Ms. Grigsby presentation included an introduction to the establishment of Opportunity
Zones through a federal act passed in 2017 which allowed governors to choose low-income
Census tracts in their states that could be assisted through development.
She then discussed the Illinois Medical District’s innovation district investment prospectus.
Her presentation ended with a stated goal of pursuing innovative strategies to ensure
inclusive growth.
c. The second presentation was provided by Christyn Freemon, our Commission member and the
Executive Director of Your Project Forward.
i. Commissioner Freemon described the way Opportunity Zones were designed to incentivize
investment in low-income communities. She shared an overview of the deferral of taxing,
capital gains, and returns on investment that can be leveraged by investors in Opportunity
Funds.
ii. Commissioner Freemon shared a video of the Forbes Opportunity Zone Summit in which
entrepreneurs and investors were encouraging others to invest in Opportunity Zones
through a “Buy Back the Block” initiative.
iii. In addition, Commissioner Freemon guided a discussion on preparing areas of Cook
County to be “shovel-ready”
d. The Office of Chair Anaya also handed out a document with a summary of how Opportunity
Zones are selected and what current concerns and issues exist surrounding Opportunity Zones
nationally. Including lack of impact evaluation mechanisms, and no regulatory requirement for
community benefits assurances.

5.

Adjourn
a. Commissioner Loveless motioned to adjourn, seconded by Commissioner Yonan. The minutes
were approved through a unanimous voice-vote of the Commission.

 