COOK COUNTY
A LT 

JOHN .IAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
November 22, 2019

 

Employee Recognition

The internal medicine residency program team composed of Dr. Ruben Alfonso Hernandez Acosta, Dr. Chineme
Nwaichi and Dr. Olakanmi Olagoke captured ?rst place for the Doctor's Dilemma competition at the Illinois Chapter
Northern Region Annual American College of Physicians Residents? and Medical Students? Day. Doctor's Dilemma is a
medical jeopardy competition testing the medical knowledge of residents. These residents Will represent Cook County
Health and Northern Illinois for the national Doctor?s Dilemma in April 2020.

CCH senior leaders have selected the following staff - Dr. Dhara Amin, Attending Physician for Emergency Medicine;
Mamtha Bajjappa, Manager of Clinical Excellence and Performance Improvement; Dr. Ashlesha Patel, Chair, Division of
Family Planning Services; and Dr. Pierko, Associate Chair, Division of Hospital Medicine to attend the
Institute for Healthcare lmprovement's 10-month Improvement Advisor Program. With participants from around the
world, the teachings from this program will help advance our commitment to providing safe, quality patient care.
Training is scheduled to be completed by June 2020.

Nancy Rivera, Regional Operations Director for the Northwest Cluster, was recently honored at 50th
Anniversary Gala for her commitment to the organization, as well as her understanding of how leadership through
education is the foundation for the continuing success of students, their families and the Latino Community. As a high
school student, Nancy got involved with ASPIRA of Illinois and has continued working with the organization since that

time.

Dr. Whitney Lyn, Attending Physician for Family and Community Medicine, was awarded the Illinois Perinatal Quality
Collaborative Abstract Award of Excellence for her work on project to extend screenings for postpartum
depression. The ?Silent Cries" project piloted two health centers, John Sengstacke and Logan Square, which have large
maternal and child health populations, and results demonstrated the importance of extending screenings for one year as

a routine practice for moms.

On Sunday, November 10, the newly formed CCH Employee Engagement Committee held its inaugural Years of Service
of Recognition Program. More than 1,200 employees who have reached a milestone anniversary and 40-plus years'of service were honored. The time and effort put forth by the Employee Engagement Committee
was evident in making this year?s event a huge success to recognize our dedicated staff.

CCH Employee Engagement Committee:

0 Chair Jillyan lwinski, System Director of Respiratory Services

- Co-chair ?Jo Salazar, Manager of Organizational Development and Performance
Marciana Bowen, Nurse Coordinator for the Infusion Center

Mari Luz Dominquez, Administrative Analyst for? Respiratory Services

Patricia Hernandez, Director of CareLink

Ann Marie Homco, System Manager of Patient Financial Services

Rosina Honore, Ambulatory Clinic Manager for Robbins Health Center

0 Dr. Benjamin Mba, Chair of Medicine Administration

Til-Fan: Aerie-fani- Adminic'I-ra'I-nr ?Fnr' Drnuirlon'l' anni'l'al n?F 

vu?u u-uv . 

Eze Nwaezeigwe, Director of Finance/Cost Reimbursement

Elizabeth Pedersen, Communications Manager

Alicia Perez-Mariscal, Ambulatory Clinic Manager for the Dr. Jorge Prieto Health Center
Barbara Pryor, Chief Human Resource Officer

Dedra Ries, Regional Health Officer For Communicable Diseases

Darlene Vlahovic, Director of Med ical/Surgical Nursing

Sonja Watkins, Director of Regulatory Affairs and Accreditation

Ashante Wells-Baines, Administrative Analyst for Emergency Medicine

Wayne Wright, Director of Organizational Development and Training

Activities and Announcements

0 Following approval by the CCH Board of Directors this past summer, IMPACT 2023, 2020-2022 Strategic
Plan, was approved by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on October 23, 2019. IMPACT 2023 goes into
effect on December 1, 2019. A full review of IMPACT 2020 will occur at a CCH board meeting in the first quarter
of 2020.

- new health center in North Riverside is scheduled to open on January 27, 2020. All services currently
provided at the Cicero Health Center will transition to the new facility. The new health center includes 32 exam
rooms, up from 14 in the Cicero clinic. In addition to primary care, the new center will also include OB-Gyne,
dental, behavioral health and WIC services.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.2

I The National Commission on Correctional Health Care honored the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention
Center? 5 Ambassador Program with the 2019 Program of the Year Award. Participation in the Ambassador
Program is the highest level of achievement a resident can earn, and this award recognizes programs of
excellence among the thousands provided by the jails, prisons and juvenile facilities accredited by 

- CCH was granted $750,000 by the U.S. Department of Justice?s Office for Victims of Crime to study and address
child abuse and neglect. In partnership with the Chicago Children?s Advocacy Center, CCH will bring together
critical stakeholders to form the Collaboration of Helpers Lowering Deaths of Children (Project CHILD). Project
goal is to reduce child maltreatment across three Illinois counties Cook, Peoria and Vermillion.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 3.2, 6.2

On February 19, 2020, CCH will host its fourth Research and Innovation Summit, on the topic Addressing Social
Needs. The summit will provide a forum for discussion and collaboration, as well as give participants the
opportunity to learn about initiatives.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 6.3

0 City Bureau?s Open Gov Report Card, which grades Chicago and Cook County government agencies on
transparency and the accessibility of public meetings, gave Cook County Health an A rating. Out of the 148
agencies graded, CCH was among only four agencies that received an A. Grades are based on the availability of
information about an agency?s meetings, opportunities for members of the public to make comments, as well as
the scheduling of meetings and how often they are canceled.

2 Page

 internal medicine residency program is the most viewed medical residency in Illinois on FREIDATM, the
American Medical Association?s Residency Fellowship Database?. Nationally, CCH has the most viewed
emergency medicine residency out of 240 programs, the second most viewed internal medicine residency out
of 531 programs, and the third most viewed urology residency out of 140 programs.

On October 16 and 24, CCH hosted Community Forums on Trauma and Stop the Bleed Trainings to showcase
the work done by the system's Trauma Unit and provide training to members of the community. The Trauma
Unit, which is one of the busiest in the nation, has been caring for the residents of Cook County for more than 50
yea rs. The Stop the Bleed course, held by CCH clinical staff, teaches people how to control bleeding until
emergency services arrive. The Forums on Trauma offer members of the community the chance to learn more
about what our trauma team does both inside and outside the hospital, including groundbreaking research. In
total, more than 45 people participated in the forums and trainings. One of the forums was filmed and will be
aired on CAN TV(Chicago cable channel 27) at the following times:

Saturday, November 23 at 4pm

Sunday, November 24 at 12:30pm

Friday, November 30 at 8am, 2pm and 8pm

IMPACT 2020 Objective 7.4

Food As Medicine Update

CCH has created a virtual holiday food drive to support our partnership with the Greater Chicago Food
Depository and their work to address food insecurity and hunger in Cook County. The online fundraiser runs
through January 10, 2020 with a goal of raising $15,000. Donations can be made at
- through purchasing power, every dollar raised helps provide 3
meals. 2018 virtual holiday food drive raised $13,333 for GCFD.

Through November 15, Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD)
resulted in 222 visits to 13 CCH health centers Arlington Heights, Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage
Grove, Englewood, Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Provident/Sengstacke, Prieto, Robbins, and

Woodlawn.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 29,506
individuals, representing 98,122 household members, totaling more than 592,500 pounds of fresh produce.
Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health

center visit.

CCH Fresh Markets are offered in the south suburbs. Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonpro?t
that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to
healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with Experimental Station's Link Up' Illinois Link Match program to offer
SNAP users with a match on all purchases at CCH Fresh Markets, up to $20/market/week. CCH Fresh Markets?
schedule is listed below:

0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm

0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am-3pm

0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

3 Page

 .A. Pn?mlpA?

Local

State

Federal

The Cook County Finance Committee conducted Departmental Review Hearings on the FY2020 Executive Budget
Recommendation from October 28 through November 4. CCH appeared before the committee on OCtober 29
and Dr. Shannon provided an overview of proposed budget and responded to Commissioners questions.
The Cook County Boa rd approved the FY2020 Annual Appropriations Ordinance on November 21, 2019. Cook
County?s 2020 fiscal year begins on December 1, 2019.

The Illinois General Assembly was in Springfield for two weeks of Veto Session from October 28?30 and
November 12?14. Updates on bills from tracking list follows:

0 HB3888 (Rep. Rita Mayfield, D?Waukegan/Sen. John Curran, R-Woodridge) Phases out the use of
ethylene oxide in most parts of Illinois, effective January 1, 2021. Provides non-critical access
hospitals until January 1, 2022 and critical access hospitals until January 1, 2023 to phase out use of HO.
Status: Passed House 60-47-4; did not advance in the Senate.

0 581864 (Sen. Terry Link, D-Gurnee/Rep. Ann Williams, D-Chicago) - Amends Smoke Free Illinois Act to
include e-cigarettes and alternative tobacco products. Status: Passed Senate 41?11-0; did not advance in
the House.

0 $3668 (Sen. President Cullerton, D?Chicago) Creates the Flavored Tobacco Ban Act, which bans all
flavored tobacco products, including flavored vaping products. Status: Failed to advance in Senate.

0 582104 (Sen. Emil Jones D-Chicago/ Rep. Mike Zalewski, D-Riverside) ?Amends the Pharmacy Practice
Act to adopt several recommendations made by the Collaborative Pharmaceutical Task Force. Status:
Passed both chambers; awaits action by Governor.

 

The schedule for the 2020 Spring Session legislative session has been posted. The Governor?s State of the State
address is scheduled to take place on January 29 and the Budget Address is scheduled for February 26.

The Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) announced April 1, 2020 as the new start date
for Integrated Health Homes (IHHs), which are intended to provide enhanced care coordination for children and
adults with high to moderate behavioral health needs. IHHs require federal approval and allow states to draw
down additional Medicaid matching funds for approved care coordination services for eight quarters;
services are matched at the normal Medicaid federal participation rate starting in the ninth quarter.

Open enrollment for Get Covered Illinois, the state?s health insurance Marketplace, began November 1 and ends
December 15. Get Covered Illinois has a tool on their website that helps consumers connect with application
assisters.

Continuing Resolution With the first continuing resolution (CR) of FY 2020 expiring on November 21, there is
still no agreement between the House and Senate on top line funding levels for each of the twelve
appropriations bills. On November 12, the House and Senate appropriations committee chairs announced that
they would advance another CR the week of November 18th which would fund the government through
December 20, in order to give themselves time to make progress on the bills.

4 Page

Prescription Drug Pricing - Ongoing debate between moderates and progressives in the House Democratic
caucus has slowed progress on HR 3, the Lower Drug Costs Now Act, developed by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
The bill, which would allow Medicare to negotiate the prices of at least 25 of the most expensive drugs
with drug makers, was scheduled for the House floor by the end of October. Leaders now are looking to bring it

to the floor in December.

Meanwhile the Senate Finance Committee approach in legislation supported by Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-
Iowa) and Ranking Democrat Ron Wyden which focuses on capping Medicare costs for seniors, was
publicly endorsed by senior White House officials. While the Senate will not take up HR 3, House leaders? goal is
to put down a marker in the event that the Senate does pass its bill. House leadership staff have suggested that
the savings from this bill which the Congressional Budget Office estimates could be more than $300 billion
over ten years - could be used as an offset for health care priorities, including the Medicaid DSH cut delay.

Health Care for the Justice-Involved On October 17, Sen. Ed Markey joined by Sen. Dick Durbin (0-
and two other Democratic senators, introduced 5. 2628, the Equity in Pretrial Medicaid Coverage Act, which
would repeal the statutory Medicaid inmate exclusion forjail inmates in pretrial custody. Repealing the inmate
exclusion has been a longstanding priority of the National Association of Counties and legislation to
accomplish it has been introduced in the House in recent years. This is the first time that Senate legislation has

been introduced.

Similarly, Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) introduced S. 2626, the Restoring Health Benefits forJustice-lnvolved
Individuals Act, which would permit otherwise eligible individuals who are in custody pending charges to receive
Medicare, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), or veterans' health bene?ts.

The and National Sheriffs? Association task force spearheading this effort is currently searching for
Republican cosponsors for the bills, a prerequisite'for any hope of moving them in the GOP?controlled Senate.
Cook County Justice Advisory Council Executive Director Delrice Adams and Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart are

members of the task force.

Public Health: Vaping, e-Cigarettes - On November 13, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on
Health approved HR 2339, which would raise the minimum age to buy tobacco products to 21 and ban some
popular flavored tobacco products, like mint and menthol.

Meanwhile the FDA has yet to roll out regulations to limit flavored vaping products, pursuant to an Executive
Order issued by the president in September. The Administration appears to be mulling a more limited ban that
would exempt tobacco and menthol flavors. The CDC has released data showing that over 80 percent of the
vaping related lung injuries are related to products containing THC.

Maternal Health At its November 13 hearing, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health
unanimously approved two bills to improve maternal health, including a bill that would allow states to extend
Medicaid eligibility for up to one year after a beneficiary gives birth and receive a higher federal match rate and
one to create new programs to improve maternal health by addressing racial and ethnic disparities and other
measures. The former, HR 4996, the Helping Medicaid Offer Maternity Services Act of 2019, was introduced by
Rep. Robin Kelly and cosponsored by a bipartisan group of representatives, including Rep. Lauren
Underwood The bill would create a new state plan option to extend continuous Medicaid or Children's
Health Insurance Plan eligibility for up to a year after a bene?ciary gives birth. The bill would also give states that
choose to extend Medicaid for postpartum beneficiaries a 5 percent increase in their federal match in 2020.

5 Page

 4.1- .. nan'l:rnn In Tn?rnr?

l?ol? urn?lg.? I I'll' II I I?uI?Iul IrII?uluul I quI-rLuIIu'I? I 

LU cu II

in the first year they choose to extend coverage, notjust in 2020. The amended bill was approved unanimously.

The other bipartisan bill, HR 4995, the Maternal Health Quality Improvement Act, would create new programs to

improve maternal health including:
authorizing grants for the Alliance for Innovation on Maternal Health program;
0 authorizing grants for medical and nursing school programs aimed at preventing discrimination in
maternity care;
0 directing HHS to study and make recommendations for best practices to reduce provider discrimination;
authorizing funding for perinatal quality collaboratives; and
authorizing a grant program to integrate services for pregnant and postpartum women to reduce

adverse outcomes after a birth.

0

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for CCH at both the State and Federal level.

6 Page

Community Outreach

December 3

December 4

December 5

December 13

December 18

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Sunrise Total Men's Health Event, hosted by
Sunrise Clinical Health Services, which will take place at the Israel of God Banquet Hall located
at 520 138th Street in Riverdale. This Men?s Health Fair will feature Guest Speaker Dr.
Nathaniel Horn, Boston Medical Group and include Dr. Ayanna Gardner (Pharmacist), Dr. John
Artis (Chiropractor), and Dr. Shirley Hill (Nutritionist) who will address health topics.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Malcolm College FREE Service Days, which
is hosted by the Wellness Center of Malcolm College at the school located at 1900 W. Jackson
Boulevard in Chicago. This event for the students and community will provides services such as
health insurance enrollment, counseling, mental health support services and nutrition
education, to name a few. The CORE Center does HIV testing at this event.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Vive en Forma?s Senior Fest 19 which will
take place at the Humboldt Park Field House located at 1440 N. Humboldt Boulevard in Chicago.
The Fest provides resources on community health initiatives and services that address public
health concerns and improve people?s everyday living conditions.

Cook County Health promotion at the Bremen Township Produce Distribution 8: CCH
Information Sharing which will take place at the Bremen Township Administrative Offices
located at 16361 S. Kedzie Parkway in Markham.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Marillac St. Vincent Family Services -
Marillac Social Center Pantry and Resource Fair that is sponsored by the Marillac Social Center
and takes place at the Center located at 212 S. Francisco in Chicago.

The quarterly Advisory Council meetings for the following health centers will take place this month:
0 December 11 Cottage Grove Health Center 1645 Cottage Grove Avenue, Ford Heights, IL 60411
0 December 12 - Englewood Health Center? 1135 W. 69th Street, Chicago, IL 60621

IMPACT 2020 Objective 7.4

The Greater Chicago Food Depository Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of December include the following ACHN

Health Centers.

0 December 3 Cicero Health Center - 5912 West Cermak Road, Cicero, IL 60804

December 5 Austin Health Center 4800 West Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60651

December 10 - Cottage Grove Health Center - 1645 Cottage Grove Avenue, Ford Heights, IL 60411
December 17 Robbins Health Center- 13450 South Kedzie Avenue, Robbins, IL 60472

December 19 Englewood Health Center 1135 West 69th Street, Chicago, IL 60621

December 19 Near South Health Center 3525 South Michigan, Chicago, IL 60653

7- Page

