 M?n/yba  510/?
[ad  {41/ LE 

EIGHB ORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES
STANDING
COMMITTEE

18100 MEYERS 5

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48235
(313) 224-1100 
(313) 224-3544 FAX


CITY or DETROIT
PARKS RECREATION DEPARTMENT
ADMINISTRATION OFFICE

November 19, 2019

Honorable City Council:

Re: Authorization to accept a donation of park improvements from Greening of Detroit to plant
trees at Sorenson Play?eld in Rouge Park.

Detroit General Services Department is requesting authorization from your Honorable Body to
accept a donation of park improvements from Greening of Detroit to plant twenty-?ve trees at
Sorenson Play?eld in Rouge Park.

The Greening of Detroit will purchase and install twenty-?ve, 1.5? trees at the Southeast

corner of Rouge Park (Sorenson Play?eld). The cost of $15,000 will be borne by Greening of

Detroit. Once planted the trees will be on a watering plan to maintain the site through the 2020
summer season.

We respectfully request your authorization to accept this donation of park improvements from
Greening of Detroit to be installed at Rouge Park with a waiver of reconsideration

Sinesrely,


. '1


uan Counts
Director

 

RESOLVED

Councilman

 

Whereas, the General Services Department is requesting authorization to aCcept a park
improvement from Greening of Detroit to be installed at Rouge Park

Whereas, park improvements will consists of purchasing and installing twenty??ve trees,
measuring 1.5? to be placed in the Southeast corner of Rouge Park (Sorenson Play?eld). The
cost of $15,000 will be borne by the Greening of Detroit

Resolved, the General Services Department is authorized to accept a donation of park
improvements from the Greening of Detroit.

 1ll'vll'l?l i?li'lITMl'Hl'

Parks& Recreation
Division

ASSET IMPROVEMENT AUTHORIZATION

I

DETROIT

   

I DPRD Prop ii: T?equest tracking ii: RP0115

 

Code:

 

Form Purpose

This form Is for individuals or organizations who wish to provide labor. artwork, or funding to physically Improve or enhance
a City asset. Requestor and project information is Initially populated from information provided in the SmartSheet
application process. In the event of any con?ict between this document and the SmartSheet, this document shall prevail.

Requester Information I
Applicant Name: The Greening of Detroit 4 Contact Name: Drew Decker TI

 

 





Phone: 3132851244

 

i
Address: 13000 McNichols
i


Organization type: Non Pro?t

Email: drew@greeningoidetroit.com iWebsite:

Preferred contact method: Email

Affected City Asset or Location

Asset or Location Name: Sorensen Playfleld

 

- 

location at the property: NW part of park

 

Address: Sawyer Ave and Pierson St



 

ProjectSummary .  
I Tree planting along pathway at the NW park of Sorensen Playfield. C25 TREES) I

 

Improvement Type

1

Affects a Park: YES I Affects a Facility: N0

  

Will Do Maintenance: N0

 

Desire to wave usage fees in exchange: 

Physical Improvement Type: Not Art Estimated Value; $15,000

 

Responsibilities
This set of questions is to make sure that the proposed for the initial work and the ongoing maintenance and
reinvestment are clearly understood.

Who would be responsible for the Planning and Design?: Other Based on the approximate location I submitted to
Juliana via email, lell select trees appropriate for the location at proper distances close to the new walking path. _Jl

 

 

 

 

 

 

AIA Asset Improvement Authorization 20190611.docx Page 1

GENERAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
Parks Recreation
Division

PARTNERSHIP ANALYSIS AND

RECOMMENDATION

CITY OF

DETROIT

   

 

 

 

 

AIM Code: DPRD Prop Request tracking RP0115 

 

Form Purpose
This form is for internal City use only. It is used to review and analyze proposals pending a recommendation to proceed.
Required participants are listed, but can be waived by Director.

 

Requestor Information

 

 

Applicant Name: The Greening of Detroit Contact Name: Drew Decker

 

 

 

Affected City Asset or Location

 

Asset or Location Name: Sorensen Playfield

 

 

Address: Sawyer Ave and Pierson St Specific location at the property: NW part of park

 

 

 

Project Summary

 

 

Tree planting along pathway at the NW park of Sorensen Playfield. (25 17?213.)

 

 

Landscape Architect Input (required for all park or public space asset lmpro vement requests)

 

 

Asset Asset Life Any previous experience with this applicant? Describe:

Has the appropriate gift letter been provided? ml Yes No 
What is the impact on PDU and/or Grounds?: - milNlPEC

Other comments: id/K

LA name and signature: gags Mun Date: 

 

 





Facilities Input (requiredfor all improvement requests)

 

 

What would the impact be on GSD maintenance? (staff and expense)
Custodial: p/k HVAC: 
Plumbing: Other: 
Electrical: NIX

Facilities name and signature: Date:

 

 

Partnership Analysis 8: Recommendation 20190703.docx Page 1 of 2

9/26/2019
Juliana Fulton
General Services Department
[8100 Meyer Rd
Detroit, MI

To whom it may concern,

On behalf of The Greening of Detroit, I am writing to offer our full assistance in
purchasing and installing 25 trees in the SE corner of Rouge Park
(Sorensen Play?eld) . The costs, approximately $15,000 are being borne by the group
mentioned above. These improvements will take place on 11/02/19. We have worked
with community representatives to ensure these improvements are desired. These trees
will be on a watering plan to maintain this site throughout the summer.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,

Andrew Decker
Senior Forester

18100 Mew-ms
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48235

CITY or DETROIT (313) 224-1100 - 
PARKS a: RECREATION DEPARTMENT (313) 224-3544 FAX

ADMINISTRATION OFFICE 

 

November 19, 2019

Honorable City Council:

Re: Authorization to accept a donation of park improvements from the College Core Block
Clubs to be installed at Lollo Park.

Detroit General Services Department is requesting authorization from your Honorable Body to
accept a donation of park improvements from the College Core Block Clubs to add engineered
wood ?ber to the Lollo Park.

Park improvements consist of the purchase and installation of replacement engineered wood
?ber at the playscape. The costs, approximately $500 will be borne by College Core Block
Clubs.

We respectfully request your authorization at accept this donation of park improvements from
College Core Block Clubs to be installed at Lollo Park with a waiver of reconsideration

Sincerely,

7
of, .
40w

aJuan Counts
Director

 

RESOLVED

Councilman

 

Whereas, the General Services Department is requesting authorization to accept a park
improvement from the College Core Block Clubs to be installed at Lollo Park

Whereas, the park improvement will consist of purchasing and installing replacement
engineered wood ?ber at the playscape in Lollo Park

Resolved, General Services Department is authorized to accept a donation of park improvements
from the College Core Block Clubs to be installed at Lollo Park.

 unmcn Btl?h?l??f
Parks 8. Recreation
Division

ASSET IMPROVEMENT AUTHORIZATION

 

Deiiriz'iirr

 

AIM Code:

I DPRD Prop ii: I Requesttracking RP0088 1

Form Purpose

This form is for individuals or organizations who wish to provide labor, artwork, or funding to physically improve or enhance
a City asset. Requestor and project information is initially populated from information provided in the SmartSheet
application process. In the event of any conflict between this document and the SmartSheet, this document shall prevail.

Requestor Information

 

Applicant Name: College Core Block Clubs Contact Name: Gaston Nash 

 

Address: 16526 Monica Phone: 3135304021

 

Email: Website:

 

 

Preferred contact method: Email

 

 

Organization type: Non Profit

 

Affected City Asset or Location

 

Asset or Location Name: Lollo Park

 

 

Address: 8500 Puritan Specific location at the property:

 

 

 

Project Summary

 

 

 

Adding engineered wood fiber to the park with donation of $500 from college Core block clubs.

 

Improvement Type

 

Affects a Park: YES Affects a Facility: NO

 

Will Do Maintenance: YES Desire to wave usage fees in exchange: 

 

 

Physical Improvement Type: Not Art Estimated Value:

 

 

 

Responsibilities
This set of questions is to make sure that the proposed responsibilities for the initial work and the ongoing maintenance and
reinvestment are clearly understood.

 

 

Who would be responsible for the Planning and Design?: Na

 

 

AIA Asset Improvement Authorization 20190611.d0cx Page 1

   PA RTN RS HIP A ALYS A 

Parks 8: Recreation

cn'vor i
RECOMMENDATION

 

 

 

AIM Code: DPRD Prop #2 Request tracking RP0088

 

 

Form Purpose
This form is for internal City use only. It is used to review and analyze proposals pending a recommendation to proceed.
Required participants are listed, but can be waived by Director.

Requestor Information

 

 

Applicant Name: College Core Block Clubs Contact Name: Gaston Nash Ill

 

 

 

Affected City Asset or Location

 

Asset or Location Name: Lollo Park

 

 

Address: 8500 Puritan Specific location at the property:

 

 

 

Project Summary

 

 

 

Adding engineered wood fiber to the park with donation of $500 from college Core block clubs.

 

Landscape Architect Input (requiredfor all park or public space asset improvement requests)

 

 

Asset Value: Asset Life Cycle; Any previous experience with this applicant? Describe:
$600 L45, hc's our 01mm uni?M ambassade
?rlu imma-

Has the appropriate gift letter been provided? Yes El No El 
What is the impact on PDU and/or Grounds?:

Other comments:

umummuw ima umiu SW 3 

LA name and signature: I Date:

 

 

 

 

Facilities Input (required for all improvement requests) (A [in (W I A-

What would the impact be on GSD maintenance? (staff and expense)
Custodial: HVAC:
Plumbing: Other:
Electrical:
Facilities name and signature: I A. Date:

 

 

Partnership Analysis Recommendation 20190703.docx Page 1 of 2

(ill?l I l.l'l'l'R il-IS]
(Allaclununl to the Asset [mprm Request)

Janet Anderson, 

Director, General Services Department
Detroit Parks and Recreation Division
18100 Meyers Road Lower Level
Detroit, Michigan 48235

Dear Dr. Anderson:

On behalf of College Core Block Clubs 1 am writing to offer our full assistance in
purchasing and installing replacement engineered wood ?ber at the playscape in Lollo
Park The costs, approximately $500 are being borne by the group mentioned above.
These improvements will take place on a date of the choosing of the General Services
Department to install. We have worked with community representatives to ensure these
improvements are desired.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,

?aw

Treasurer

Gaston Nash 111

Rev 20190522

