ILLINOIS INTERNATIONAL PORT DISTRICT

Summary Record of Proceedings
ofthe
REGULAR BOARD MEETING
March 19, 2019

The Regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Illinois International Port District and
Committee meetings were held Tuesday, March 19, 2019, at 3600 E. 95?h Street, Chicago, Illinois.

The roll was called at 8:45 am. The following Directors were present: Terry Fitzmaurice, Ray
Suarez, Aaron Del Mar, Charles Bowen, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, and William Habel.
A quorum was present. Terry Sullivan was absent. Michael Forde entered the meeting at 8:50 am.

Also present: Clayton Harris Executive Director; Counsel Brad Smith, Neal and Leroy; Kurt
Oelerich, Treasurer.

General public present: Steve Ostrowski, Senior Vice President, Alex Moore, Managing
Director, Loop Capital; Zach Krug and Tim Dunn, Grant Crowley, Crowley?s Yacht
Yard; and, Mike Brackin, NASCO.

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice made a motion to suspend the order of the Board meeting and enter
into the Leases and Agreements Committee meeting followed by the Finance and Personnel
Committee meeting. The motion was seconded by Mr. Bowen, and the motion carried
unanimously.

Due to the length of the Agenda and appreciating the time of the public attending the meeting,
Vice Chairman itzmaurice made a motion to suspend the order of the Committee meetings to
offer the public in attendance the opportunity speak prior to the start of the Committee and Board
Meetings. The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion carried unanimously.

Public Comments were made at this time.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes March 19, 2019
Page 2

PUBLIC COMMENT

NASCO

Mr. Brackin asked the Board why the updated NASCO lease agreement for the warehouse spaces
that were approved at the February Board Meeting have not been executed. Mr. Brackin indicated
they have changed the length of the lease twice, at the Board?s request, and both leases have been
rejected. Mr. Brackin summarized the area NASCO occupies and continued growth at
the Port. He also summarized the rent NASCO pays, as well as the dockage and wharfage it pays,
and noted all payments are paid on time. Mr. Brackin indicated concern with the Master
Lease being considered and its relationship with the Port going forward. Mr. Brackin asked what
needs to be done to get this lease signed.

Chairman orde indicated it would be discussed in Executive Session.

Chairman Forde inquired about the progress on the dock wall repairs. Mr. Brackin indicated they
have repaired a 100 foot section of the wall as a test. The test was successful and NASCO is
waiting for ?nal reporting. Mr. Brackin reported NASCO has provided engineering reports as
required in the agreement. NASCO is awaiting an engineering report and once
completed, will share this report with the Board.

Mr. Brackin reported NASCO is in compliance with the Prevailing Wage Act and required reports
are ?led.

COFCO

Tim Dunn of COFCO introduced himself. COFCO (acquired Nidera in 2017) has been a tenant
at the Port for over 20 years. Mr. Dunn reported that its market has seen a move towards soybeans
and due to changing business economics the market is favoring water transportation. COFCO
would like to bring in soybeans to its grain elevators. The process would take approximately two
weeks to complete and would involve removing the remaining wheat product and moving in
soybean via barge. This would be a onetime project and COFCO hopes to have this done in mid-
May to early-June. Mr. Dunn asked for the Board provide approval of this project.

Loop Capital
Alex Moore of Loop Capital introduced himself and is attending the meeting to speak for Jim

Reynolds. the Chairman and Chief Executive Of?cer of Loop Capital who could not make the
meeting. Mr. Moore thanked the Board for considering the Loop Capital Group for the Master
Lease.

Mr. Moore reminded the Board that last year Loop Capital was chosen to be the Port?s sole
underwriter for the its debt re?nancing. Mr. Moore indicated Loop Capital?s continued interest
and is prepared to move ahead with the re?nancing if the Board chooses not to go forward with a
Master Lease. Mr. Moore shared his opinion that the Port Authority is a bankable credit. He
believes Loop Capital can ?nd funding to re?nance outstanding debt, fund any future capital
improvements and make inroads on the Port?s pension obligation, all at a cost that is affordable to
the Port. Mr. Moore shared how his clients view credit risk and quality of investment in their
portfolios, and when he weighs the risk and the improvement at the Port, including its leadership,
its improvement in performance, and the strength in its balance sheet, he believes the Port
Authority is a bankable name.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes March 19, 2019

 

 

Page 3
SUMMARY REPORT ON STANDING COMMITTEES
Committee Members Present: Others Present:
Michael Forde Clayton Harris 111, Executive Director
Paul Chialdikas William Habel
Chuck Bowen Terry Sullivan
Henry Wisniewski Aaron Del Mar
Ray Suarez Brad Smith, Neal Leroy
Terry itzmaurice (via teleconference) Kurt Oelerich, Treasurer

 

 

 

LEASES AND AGREEMENTS COMMITTEE

 

The Leases and Agreements Committee was held on Tuesday, March 19, 2019.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chairman Forde made a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: Clean Harbors, Tenant
Update, Letter of Intent, Leases and Update on RFPs. The motion was seconded by Mr. Suarez
and the motion carried unanimously.

Old Business

Clean Harbors Update - Executive Session

Vacant Land and Tenant Updates - Executive Session
Letter of Intent Executive Session

Update of RF Ps - Executive Session

Following discussion, Chairman Forde made a motion to exit Executive Session. The motion was
seconded by Mr. Habel and the motion passed unanimously.

Letter of Intent to Lease Space at the Port

After discussion in Executive Session, the Committee recommended the Board approve Counsel
Smith, Executive Director Harris 111 and Chairman orde to begin negotiations with JLL regarding
leasing 70+ acres of land at the Port and present to the Board at the April meeting.

Resolution for Agreement
After discussion in Executive Session, the Committee recommended the Board approve the
TIF/Intergovemmental Agreement Resolution relating to the Butler Dive road and rail project.

 

Sweet Mix Roof
After discussion in Executive Session, the Committee recommended the Board approve the
Executive Director to collect information regarding needed repairs to the roof and potential cost.

Dockside Steel
After discussion in Executive Session, the Committee recommended the Board pursue forcible
entry if Dockside Steel fails to pay its rent in full within the next ?ve days.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes March 19, 2019
Page 4

Leases and Agreements Committee (continued)

New Business

FTZ Applications
Executive Director Harris reported two FTZ applications have been submitted to the Board for

approval. Both companies are in the storage and distribution business.

1) Morrison Express Corporation
2) Apex Logistics International

After discussion, the Committee recommended the Board approve the two TZ applications.
Square Marsh Resolution

Executive Director Harris 111 reported Nature Conservancy is requesting access to Square March
to allow measurement of wetlands and perform wildlife surveys.

 

After discussion, the Committee recommended the Board approve providing Nature Conservancy
access to Square March for their stated purpose, however, all indemni?cation documents must be
in place prior to access.

Executive Director Report

The Executive Director reported:

a The Solar Panel proposal with ARE/Patrick has been cancelled. The Executive Director
will be exploring reissuing another RFP.

- He has received inquiries to lease approximately one acre of land and an additional inquiry
to lease land for rail car storage. The Executive Director will report back to the Committee
once more detail is provided.

0 Cambridge Systems was chosen to develop a Master Plan for the Port.

0 The Chicago Booth School Growth Plan for the Port was presented to the Board.

There being no further business, Chairman Forde closed the Leases and Agreements Committee
and opened the Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes March 19, 2019
Page 5

 

 

FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE

 

The Finance and Personnel Committee was held on Tuesday, March 19, 2019.
Old Business

Financial Reports and Financial Update
Treasurer Oelen'ch presented the February 2019 ?nancial reports for review. A number of points
were noted and discussed, including:

The February 2019 revenue fell above the budgeted amount. Revenue, year to date, falls
above the budgeted amount.
The February 2019 total expense fell below the budgeted amount.
The February 2019 Net Income exceeded the budgeted amount. Net Income for the year
is above the budgeted amount.

Following discussion, the Committee recommended approval of the February Financial Reports
by the Board of Directors.

The Executive Director reported the ?nal 2018 payment from Harborside has been received. The
?nal payment for 2018 was $93,000.

New Business
Executive Director Report

The Executive Director reported:
0 He will be meeting with Senate President Cullerton regarding the Capital Bill.
0 He will be meeting with legislators and the Traf?c for Illinois Council to discuss capital
projects at Ports and in Illinois.
0 He will be speaking at Unions League Club: Environmental Committee.

There being no ?irther business for the Finance and Personnel Committee, Chairman orde closed
the Finance and Personnel Committee and opened the Regular Board Meeting.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes March 19, 2019
Page 6

 

 

REGULAR BOARD MEETING

 

The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry Sullivan, Charles Bowen, Ray
Suarez, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, William Habel, and Aaron Del Mar. A quorum was
present. Mr. Fitzmaurice and Mr. Sullivan were absent.

ADOPTION OF MINUTES 
Board Minutes February 15. 2019 and Special Board Meeting March 1.2019

The Minutes of the February 15, 2019 Board Meeting were presented. Chairman Forde made a
motion to approve the February Minutes. The motion was seconded by Mr. Suarez and the motion
passed unanimously.

The Minutes of the March 1, 2019 Special Board Meeting were presented. Chairman orde made
a motion to approve the March Special Board Meeting Minutes. The motion was seconded by Mr.
Suarez and the motion passed unanimously.

Leases and Agreements Committee Report Items Reguiring Action

Letter of Intent to Lease Space at the Port

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve Counsel Smith,
Executive Director Harris and Chairman Forde to begin negotiations with LL regarding leasing
+70 acres of land at the Port and present to the Board at the April meeting. Chairman Forde
requested a motion, Mr. Suarez made the motion to begin negotiations with LL. The motion was
seconded by Mr. Bowen and the motion passed unanimously.

Resolution for 

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve the
TIP/Intergovernmental Agreement Resolution relating to the Butler Dive road and rail project.
Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the Resolution, the motion was seconded by Mr. Bowen
and the motion passed unanimously.

 

Sweet Mix Roof

Chairman orde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve the Executive Director
to collect information and provide an analysis regarding needed repairs to Shed 1?s roof and
potential cost. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the Executive Director to conduct this
analysis and report his ?ndings to the Board. The motion was seconded by Mr. Habel and the
motion passed unanimously.

Dockside Steel

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve pursuing forcible entry
if Dockside Steel fails to pay its rent in full within the next ?ve days. Chairman Forde made a
motion to pursue forcible entry if rent is not received. The motion was seconded by Mr. Chialdikas
and the motion passed unanimously.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes March 19, 2019
Page 7

Leases and Agreements Committee Report Items Requiring Action (continued)

FTZ Applications
Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve the following FTZ

Applications:
1) Morrison Express Corporation
2) Apex Logistics International

Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the two FTZ applications. The motion was seconded
by Mr. Chialdikas and the motion passed unanimously.

Square Marsh Resolution

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve providing Nature
Conservancy access to Square Marsh to allow measurement of wetlands and perform wildlife
surveys. Access to Square Marsh is subject to having all indemni?cation documents submitted
and approved. Chairman Forde made a motion to allow access, subject to indemni?cation
documents. The motion was seconded by Mr. Bowen and the motion passed unanimously.

 

Finance and Personnel Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve the
February 2019 Financial Reports. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the February 2019
Financial Reports. Mr. Bowen seconded the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Executive Director Report

See Committee Minutes.

ADJOURNMENT

With no other business before the Board, Chairman orde made a motion to adjourn. The motion
was seconded by Mr. Suarez, and the motion passed unanimously.

The next Committee meetings and regular Board meeting will take place on Friday, April 19, 2019.
The meetings will be held at 9:00 am at 3600 E. 95lh Street, Chicago, IL.

Mivb?i Sig/0"

Michael Forde Kath] en Dart
Chairman Sec tary

