ILLINOIS INTERNATIONAL PORT DISTRICT

Summary Record of Proceedings
ofthe
REGULAR BOARD MEETING
June 21, 2019

The Regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Illinois International Port District and
Committee meetings were held Friday. June 21. 2019. at 3600 E. 95th Street. Chicago. Illinois.

The roll was called at 9:00 am. The following Directors were present: Terry Fitzmaurice. Terry
Sullivan. Ray Suarez. Aaron Del Mar, Charles Bowen. Henry Wisniewski. Paul Chialdikas. and
William Habel. A quorum was present. Michael Forde was absent.

Also present: Clayton Harris 111. Executive Director; Counsel Brad Smith. Neal and Leroy; Kurt
Oelerich. Treasurer.

General public present:
Mr. Del Mar

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice requested a motion to suspend the order of the Board meeting and
enter into the Leases and Agreements Committee meeting followed by the Finance and Personnel
Committee meeting. The motion was made by Mr. Del Mar and seconded by Mr. Chialdikas. and
the motion carried unanimously.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes June 21, 2019

 

 

Page 2

SUMMARY REPORT ON STANDING COMMITTEES
Committee Members Present: Others Present:

Clayton Harris 111, Executive Director

Paul Chialdikas William Habel
Chuck Bowen . Terry Sullivan
Henry Wisniewski Aaron Del Mar
Ray Suarez Brad Smith, Neal Leroy
Terry Fitzmaurice Kurt Oelerich, Treasurer

 

 

 

LEASES AND AGREEMENTS COMMITTEE

 

The Leases and Agreements Committee was held on Friday, June 21, 2019.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice requested a motion tO enter Executive Session to discuss: NASCO
Lease Agreement, Letter of Intent, and Tenant Updates. The motion was made by Mr. Del Mar
and was seconded by Mr. Chialdikas and the motion carried unanimously.

Old Business
NASCO Lease Executive Session

After discussion, the Committee recommended the Board request Counsel Smith to redraft the
NASCO lease for its current space with a term of 5 years, and include a 5 year Option to renew.
The Committee requested the lease be completed for signature at the July meeting.

Letter of Intent, .l LL Executive Session

Tenant Update - Executive Session

After discussion, the Committee recommended the Board approve the Kinder Morgan tank project,
subject to Counsel Smith?s approval.

After discussion, the Committee recommended the Board request Counsel Smith to send default
notices to Dockside Steel relating to its late rental payments and failure to pay its real estate taxes.

Following discussion, Vice Chairman itzmaurice requested a motion to exit Executive Session.
Mr. Del Mar made the motion to exit executive Session and the motion was seconded by Mr.
Chialdikas and the motion passed unanimously.

There being no further business, Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice closed the Leases and Agreements
Committee Meeting and opened the Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes June 21, 2019
Page 3

 

 

FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE

 

The Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting was held on Friday, June 21, 2019.

Vice Chairman itzmaurice requested a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: Invoices and
Employee related matters. The motion was made by Mr. Del Mar and was seconded by Mr.
Chialdikas and the motion carried unanimously.

Financial Reports and Financial Update
Treasurer Oelerich presented the May 2019 ?nancial reports for review. A number of points were
noted and discussed, including:

The May 2019 revenue and year to date 2019 Revenue fell above the budgeted amount.

0 The May 2019 total expense and year to date 2019 results fell below the budgeted
amount.

0 The May 2019 Net Income exceeded the budgeted amount. Net Income for the year to
date is above the budgeted amount.

Following discussion, the Committee recommended approval of the May Financial Reports by the
Board of Directors.

Board Financial Update

Old Business
Letter of Credit

Treasurer Oelerich noted the increase in interest expense is re?ective of the quarterly increase
required in the current letter of credit at US Bank. US Bank has sent correspondence regarding
the Port?s progress in obtaining new ?nancing.

The Committee discussed Loop Capital?s proposal regarding a new letter of credit at a favorable
interest rate and Loop Capital?s report of investor interest. Also discussed was the impact the
Master Lease has on the Port not moving forward with obtaining new ?nancing.

The Committee requested Counsel Smith and Executive Director reply to the US Bank
correspondence appropriately.

The Committee directed the Executive Director to include the Master Lease on the Agenda for the
July meetings.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes June 21, 2019
Page 4

Finance and Personnel Committee
Old Business (continued)

2019 Audit

The Committee reviewed the 2019 Audit. After discussion, the Committee recommended a policy
be set that would require all Board members to receive and answer all surveys/questionnaires
relating to the Audit prior to completion of the Audit. In addition, the Committee recommended
all future engagements and RFPs include this policy. The Committee requested the Treasurer
provide the most recent survey/questionnaire to each Board member.

Harbors ide

The Committee directed the Executive Director to contact Harborside to attend the July meeting
to provide an update on the course operations.

New Business
Invoices Executive Session
Employee Matters - Executive Session

There being no further business for the Finance and Personnel Committee, Vice Chairman
Fitzmaurice closed the Finance and Personnel Committee and opened the Regular Board Meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes June 21, 2019
Page 5

 

 

REGULAR BOARD MEETING

 

The following Directors were present: Terry Fitzmaurice, Charles Bowen, Ray Suarez, Terry
Sullivan, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, William Habel, and Aaron Del Mar. A quorum was
present. Michael Forde was absent.

ADOPTION OF MINUTES Board Minutes May 17. 2019

The Minutes of the May 17, 2019 Board Meeting were presented. Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice
requested a motion to approve the May Minutes. The motion was made by Mr. Bowen and
seconded by Mr. Chialdikas and the motion passed unanimously.

April 18. 2019 Executive Session Meeting Minutes

The Minutes of the April 18, 2019 Executive Session Meeting were presented. Vice Chairman
itzmaurice requested a motion approve the April 18, 2019 Executive Session Minutes. The
motion was made by Mr. Suarez, the motion was seconded by Mr. Bowen and the motion passed
unanimously.

Leases and Agreements Committee Report ltems Requiring Action

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice reported the Committee recommended the Board request Counsel
Smith to redraft the NASCO lease for its current space with a term of 5 years and include a 5 year
option to renew. The Committee requested the lease be completed for signature at the July
meeting. Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice requested a motion requesting Counsel Smith to redraft the
NASCO lease to re?ect a 5 year term with a 5 year option. Mr. Suarez made the motion and Mr.
Bowen seconded the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice reported the Committee recommended the Board approve the Kinder
Morgan tank project, subject to Counsel Smith?s approval. Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice requested
a motion to approve the Kinder Morgan tank project, subject to Counsel Smith?s approval. Mr.
Bowen made the motion and Mr. Habel seconded the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice reported the Committee recommended the Board request Counsel
Smith to send default notices to Dockside Steel relating to its late rental payments and failure to
pay its real estate taxes. Vice Chairman itzmaurice requested a motion to approve Counsel Smith
sending default notices to Dockside Steel relating to its late rental payments and failure to pay its
real estate taxes. Mr. Suarez made the motion and Mr. Chialdikas seconded the motion and the
motion passed unanimously.

 

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes June 21, 2019
Page 6

Regular Board Meeting (continued)
Finance and Personnel Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice reported the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve
the April 2019 Financial Reports. Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice requested a motion to approve the
April 2019 Financial Reports. Mr. Bowen made the motion and Mr. Fitzmaurice seconded the
motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice reported the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve
the May 2019 Financial Reports. Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice requested a motion to approve the
May 2019 Financial Reports. Mr. Bowen made the motion and Mr. Suarez seconded the motion.
Board members itzmaurice, Suarez, Bowen, Sullivan, Habel, Wisniewski and Chialdikas voted
aye, Mr. Del Mar voted nay.

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice reported the Committee recommended the Board approve the
Executive Director and Counsel Smith to contact US Bank and respond to its recent
correspondence regarding re?nancing. Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice requested a motion to approve
the Executive Director and Counsel Smith to contact US Bank and respond to its recent
correspondence regarding re?nancing. Mr. Suarez made the motion and Mr. Del Mar seconded
the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice reported the Committee recommended the Board approve the
Executive Director Harris to negotiate a 6 month contract for consulting services with Emily
Rhodes. Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice requested a motion to approve the Executive Director to
negotiate a 6 month with Emily Rhodes for consulting services. Mr. Suarez made the motion and
Mr. Chialdikas seconded the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

New Business

Mr. Habel made a motion to list the Master Lease for discussion on the July Agenda. The motion
was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion passed unanimously.

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice made a motion to list debt re?nancing for discussion on the July
Agenda. The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion passed unanimously.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes June 21, 2019
Page 7

PUBLIC COMMENT

None

ADJOURNMENT

With no other business before the Board, Vice Chairman itzmaurice requested a made a motion
to adjourn. The motion was made by Mr. Chialdikas and seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice, and the
motion passed unanimously.

The next Committee meetings and regular Board meeting will take place on Friday, July 19, 2019.
The meetings will be held at 9:00 am at 3600 E. 95?h Street, Chicago, IL.

i it
/9 2 xiv/RA? #1an
Terry Fitzmaurice Kathleen Dart
Vice Chairman secretary

