Cook County Complete Count Census Commission
Community and Faith Based Organizations Subcommittee
Date: October 16, 2019
Time: 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m.

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chair McMorris, Vice Chair Anaya, Commissioner Andy Kang, Victoria Moreno
(staff)
SUBCOMMITTEE MINUTES

I.

Call to Order
The October 16th meeting of The Cook County Complete Count Census Commission
Community and Faith Based Organizations Subcommittee was convened via an inperson meeting from 11:05 a.m. - 11:50 a.m. The meeting was chaired by Lamell
McMorris. This meeting was open to the public, no public comment was given.

II.

Public Comment
a. Public Comment was given by George Blakemore.

III.

Voting on Meeting Minutes from September 3, 2019
a. A motion was made to approve the minutes by Vice-Chair Anaya, seconded by
Commissioner Kang.

IV.

Review External Subcommittee members recommendations
a. Commissioner Kang suggested including Asian American organizations from the
North Side of Chicago
b. Committee members agreed East Garfield Park should have at least one
representative.
c. Vice Chair described the nomination process, and that all committee members
were invited to provide suggestions. The next step is to send out formal
invitations to all nominees.

1

 d. Once new members join, will ask their recommendations on where to have
community meetings.
V.

Confirm Strategic plan (vision, mission & goals) of subcommittee
a. Chair McMorris explained his suggestion of the subcommittee having its own
mission, vision, and goals and read each of these to the other subcommittee
members.
b. Regarding the goals, Chair McMorris said each subcommittee member would
“own” some of the roundtables. Goal is to have 10 roundtables.
c. Vice-Chair Anaya suggested the County’s Census Program Administrator and
partnerships with City of Chicago and State of Illinois can help with this process.
d. Vice-Chair Anaya explained to the subcommittee that the County Board President
recently announced an additional $2m go to Census outreach efforts and that the
City had announced $2.7m.
e. Chair McMorris requested everyone review the vision, mission, and goals and
provide final feedback at the next meeting

VI.

Strategize scheduling and planning of subcommittee community/stakeholder
meetings across the county
a. Chair McMorris said it would be ideal for the subcommittee to have at least 3 of the
community meetings completed by the end of the year
b. Vice-Chair Anaya suggested a schedule of these be created to then publicize and work
with partners to tailor according to the community or issue.
c. Vice-Chair Anaya stated all the meetings should be ADA accessible.

VII.

Discuss the increasing of the census education grant applicants
a. Chair McMorris explained the importance of increasing number of applications and
mentioned this is tied directly to getting the word out
b. Vice-Chair Anaya stated that the Bureau of Economic Development had mentioned that
72 applications had been received thus far
c. The Program Administrator’s recommendations will come to the full Commission at the
November meeting
d. Vice-Chair Anaya will share copy of Program Administrator presentation

2

 VIII.

Review Calendar for the Year
a. The subcommittee’s meetings will go through December 2020
b. The times of the community meetings can be adjusted and will be reflective of other
members’ availability
c. Draft calendar will be shared with all members

IX.

Next Steps
a. Chair McMorris stated he will focus on Woodlawn and South Suburbs
i. Woodlawn was worst performing community in last Census
b. Vice-Chair Anaya stated County is waiting on updated hard to count map from GIS
c. Vice-Chair Anaya is interested in addressing issues such as communities that lack
Internet access, housing insecurity
d. Comment was received from Christian Perry (Commissioner Donna Miller’s Office)
stating their office can assist with venues in South Suburbs and would like to learn format
of community meetings
e. Comment was received from Ashlee Horton (Commissioner Brandon Johnson’s Office)
who wanted to know how many faith based groups are part of the subcommittee. She also
stated Commissioner Johnson’s district had one of the lowest response rates. Their office
can also assist with venues.
f. Comment was received by concerned citizen who needed clarification on U.S.
Constitution requirement to count all people in the United States.

X.

Adjournment
a. Motion was made by Vice-Chair Anaya to adjourn the meeting, seconded by
Commissioner Kang. Meeting was adjourned at 11:50 a.m.

3

 