SSA #19 Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, October 16, 2019, 8:30 am at The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard St.
In Attendance: Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Gale Howard,
Commissioner; Sandi Price, RPBA staff; Cindy Plante, RPBA staff
Absent: Simone Freeman, Commissioner;
Guests: John Harris, A5 Marketing; Lizzy Kreindler, A5 Marketing; Amona Buechler, former
commissioner
1. Meeting called to order by Carrie Sullivan at 8:36 am.
2. There was no community input.
3. August 21, 2019 Minutes & September 18, 2019 Minutes
Gale moved approval
Carrie seconded
Approved 3-0
4. January – August 2019 Financials were presented,
Gale moved approval
Carrie seconded
Approved 3-0
5. Commissioner Seats –
a. Badou Diakhate of Badou Senegalese Cuisine – not yet received
b. Mike Smith of Hairz R Us – not yet received
c. Cally Radunzel of Curls & Co (after she moves)
d. Enoch from Buffalo Joe’s – he’s out of town
e. Others to reach out to
i. Howard Street Brewing Co after they open
ii. Casey Walters, antique auctioneer/resident
6. Events & Updates from A5
a. Halloween - A5 is collaborating with area businesses on a trick or treat to immediately
follow the annual Trunk or Treat Event at Willye White Park on 10/31. Fliers will be
handed out at the park district event encouraging attendees to stick around and continue
trick or treating at the businesses. 14 businesses have committed to participating.
Proposed budget for decorations and candy at $309. Interest in bringing back a puppet
parade next year, or maybe a haunted house in one of the vacant storefronts.
b. Live Love Shop – Live Love Shop will be advertised on 8 area bus shelters (6 in English,
2 in Spanish) from November 18 - December 29. Included stops are Devon/Clark,
Clark/Lunt, Sheridan/Loyola, and Howard/Sheridan. Train station advertising is a
separate agency that’s more expensive and more difficult to deal with. Next year may
also look at additional outdoor advertising opportunities – View Chicago is another group
that does ads on buildings.
c. Chalk Howard 2020 kickoff meeting is scheduled for November 13 at 1:30pm
d. Photography – Lindsey Gallup will be in the area for the next round of photography on
Wednesday October 30. This group will include Neville Muir of Insurance Center, Irma
Rizzo of Willye White Park, Malik at Hip Circle Studio, Joe Prudden from Buffalo Joe’s.
Lenice from Good to Go wanted to do it but is on vacation. Will sub in Fred from Theo
Ubique instead, and possibly Red’s Belizean.

 7. New / Closing Businesses – I’m Soul Hungry has reopened. He signed a new 5 year lease
after conversations with the property owner. Cally is waiting for a building inspection. The
Chicago Police Department has signed off on the license for Howard Street Brewing. Amona
may be leasing the former TJam space to a new Mediterranean restaurant. Tai Chi Bubble
tea opening soon on Sheridan will also have ramen. Recruiting restaurants that are being
priced out of Andersonville and other neighborhoods – have reached out to Hamburger
Mary’s, Taste of Heaven, and Wishbone.
8. New Business – Lights on Howard are currently being installed. Charlotte is proposing that
we light up the mural at Sheridan and Howard.
9. Old Business – Charlotte has bought a flag pole for Howard/Greenview/Rogers. Next
meeting will include discussion of 3 year strategic plan.
10. Meeting was adjourned 9:50 am.
11. Next SSA Meeting - Wed., November 20, 2019 at 8:30 am, The Factory Theater.

 