ILLINOIS INTERNATIONAL PORT DISTRICT

Summary Record of Proceedings
ofthe
REGULAR BOARD MEETING
April 18, 2019

The Regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Illinois International Port District and
Committee meetings were held Thursday, April 18, 2019. at 3600 E. 95?h Street, Chicago, Illinois.

The roll was called at 9:06 am. The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry
Fitzmaurice, Ray Suarez, Aaron Del Mar, Terry Sullivan, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, and
William Habel. A quorum was present. Charles Bowen attended via teleconference.

Also present: Clayton Harris 111, Executive Director; Counsel Brad Smith, Neal and Leroy; Kurt
Oelerich, Treasurer.

General public present:

Alderwoman Susan Garza, John Heroff, 10th Ward Director of Policy and Legislative Affairs,
Laurie Cohen, Civic Federation; Mike Brackin, NASCO. Bria Scudder, Assistant 1St Deputy
Governor, State of Illinois and Jeff Holt, BMO were in attendance via teleconference.

Chairman Forde made a motion to allow Director Bowen to attend the meeting via teleconference.
In addition, Chairman Forde made a motion to allow Bria Scudder and Jeff Holt to attend the
meeting via teleconference. The motion was seconded by Mr. Habel and the motion passed
unanimously.

Chairman Forde made a motion to suspend the order of the Board meeting and enter into the Leases
and Agreements Committee meeting followed by the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting.
The motion was seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice, and the motion carried unanimously.

Due to the length of the Agenda and appreciating the time of the public attending the meeting,
Chairman Forde made a motion to suspend the order of the Committee meetings to offer the public
in attendance the opportunity speak prior to the start of the Committee and Board Meetings. The
motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion carried unanimously.

Public Comments were made at this time and again at the conclusion of the Board Meeting. (See
Public Comment Section)

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes April 18, 2019

 

 

Page 2
SUMMARY REPORT ON STANDING COMMITTEES
Committee Members Present: Others Present:
Michael Forde Clayton Harris 111, Executive Director
Paul Chialdikas William Habel
Chuck Bowen (via teleconference) Terry Sullivan
Henry Wisniewski Aaron Del Mar
Ray Suarez Brad Smith, Neal Leroy
Terry Fitzmaurice Kurt Oelerich, Treasurer

 

 

LEASES AND AGREEMENTS COMMITTEE

 

 

The Leases and Agreements Committee was held on Thursday, April 18, 2019.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chairman Forde made a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: Clean Harbors, Tenant
Update, Letter of Intent, Leases and Update on RFPs. The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar
and the motion carried unanimously.

Chairman Forde requested a motion to allow Alderwoman Garza, Mr. Heroff, Ms. Scudder and
Mr. Holt to attend the Executive Session for a limited comment period as it relates to non-
attorney/client matters related to the Master Lease. The motion was made by Mr. Suarez, seconded
by Mr. Del Mar and the motion carried unanimously.

Old Business

Clean Harbors Update - Executive Session

Vacant Land and Tenant Updates - Executive Session
Letter of Intent Executive Session

Update on Master Lease - Executive Session

Following discussion, Chairman Forde made a motion to exit Executive Session. The motion was
seconded by Mr. Wisniewski and the motion passed unanimously.

After the conclusion of Executive Session, the Leases and Agreements Committee continued. At
this time, Mr. David Doig of Chicago Neighborhood Initiative joined the public attending the
meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes April 18, 2019
Page 3

Leases and Agreements Committee (continued)
New Business

Summons FOIA Response
The Committee recommended the Board approve Counsel Smith to answer the summons
accordingly.

COFCO
After discussion, Committee recommended the Board approve request for a short-term
off-loading project.

There being no further business, Chairman Forde closed the Leases and Agreements Committee
Meeting and opened the Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes April 18, 2019
Page 4

 

 

FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE

 

The Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting was held on Thursday, April 18, 2019.

Financial Reports and Financial Update
Treasurer Oelerich presented the March 2019 ?nancial reports for review. A number of points
were noted and discussed, including:

0 The March 2019 revenue and year to date 2019 Revenue fell below the budgeted
amount.

I The March 2019 total expense fell below the budgeted amount.

a The March 2019 Net Income exceeded the budgeted amount. Net Income for the year to
date is above the budgeted amount.

Treasurer Oelerich reported Harborside is opened and over 450 rounds were reported in March.

Following discussion, the Committee recommended approval of the March Financial Reports by
the Board of Directors.

Mr. Fitzmaurice exited the meeting at this time due to a prescheduled appointment.

Old Business
None

New Business
None

Executive Director Report

Executive Director Harris reported:

0 He has met with President Cullerton in reference to the Capital Bill including the Port.

0 He has met with US. Representative Garcia in reference to Transportation and
Infrastructure funding needs.

0 He has met with USACE, City of Chicago and Alderwoman Garza in reference to the CDF.

0 Cambridge Systems, who has been chosen to develop a Master Plan for the Port, will begin
work within the next 30 days.

0 He will be speaking at the Rail Supply Chain Summit on May 9th and invited the Board
members to attend.

The ?rst ship of the season is scheduled to enter the Port on April 

0 He will be meeting with a rail contractor regarding the Butler Drive project.

0 He will be hosting an Illinois Ports? Association meeting with State agencies and
Transportation Committee members for House and Senate on May This is in regards
to the Capital Bill including the Port.

There being no further business for the Finance and Personnel Committee, Chairman Forde closed
the Finance and Personnel Committee and opened the Regular Board Meeting.

 

 

IIPD Board Of Directors
Meeting Minutes April 18, 2019
Page 5

 

 

REGULAR BOARD MEETING

 

The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry Sullivan, Ray Suarez, Henry
Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, William Habel, and Aaron Del Mar. A quorum was present. Charles
Bowen via teleconference. Mr. Fitzmaurice had an excused absence.

ADOPTION OF MINUTES Board Minutes March 19. 2019

The Minutes of the March 19, 2019 Board Meeting were presented. Chairman Forde made a
motion to approve the March Minutes. The motion was seconded by Mr. Suarez and the motion
passed unanimously.

Leases and Agreements Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Summons 01A Resnonse

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve Counsel Smith to
answer the summons accordingly. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve Counsel Smith to
answer the summons accordingly, the motion was seconded by Mr. Chialdikas and the motion
passed unanimously.

COFCO

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve request for
a short-term Off-loading project. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve request for
a short-term Off-loading project, the motion was seconded by Mr. Suarez and the motion passed
unanimously.

Finance and Personnel Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve the March
2019 Financial Reports. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the March 2019 Financial
Reports. Mr. Habel seconded the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Executive Director Report

See Committee Minutes.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes - April 18, 2019
Page 6

PUBLIC COMMENT

Comments made prior to Executive Session

Mr. Brackin of NASCO asked for a follow up from the March Board meeting and status on the
execution of the updated NASCO lease agreement. Mr. Brackin inquired as to why the Chairman
has not signed the lease agreement for the warehouse spaces that was approved at the February
Board Meeting. Mr. Brackin indicated that the lack of a lease agreement is negatively impacting
business as customers require lease information to bring in cargo. Mr.
Brackin asked that the Chairman sign the lease. Chairman Forde requested Mr. Brackin to call him
at his of?ce today to discuss the lease.

Bria Scudder, Assistant 1SI Deputy Governor, State of Illinois indicated she was looking forward
to getting caught up on the Port.

Comments made at the end of the Board Meeting

David Doig, Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives, addressed the Board. Mr. Doig was late to the
meeting and inquired as to why the Alderwoman was allowed to attend the Executive Session and
he was not. Chairman Forde indicated that Alderwoman was allowed to attend for a limited
comment period. The Board elected to include the Alderwoman.

Mr. Doig indicated his group, IIPD Crossings, submitted a response to the Addendum and was
inquiring as to status. Chairman Forde indicated the Board has been updated and there was no
action taken at this time. Mr. Del Mar asked Mr. Doig about his experience with the Addendum
process. Mr. Doig indicated that they received noti?cation and had sufficient time to respond. He
is attending today to get a status on the response.

Mr. Doig asked if there will be a formal response from the Board regarding IIPD Crossings
Addendum response. IIPD Crossings remains very interested in this opportunity, including in the
redevelopment opportunities at the Port. Mr. Doig noted he has had had great success in the area
just to the west of the Bishop Ford Expressway. Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives has created
many jobs and opportunities for residents of the southeast side of Chicago and hopes to do that at
the Port.

Chairman Forde indicated that once the Board is prepared to take action on the Addendum, a
meeting notice and agenda has been posted.

ADJOURNMENT

With no other business before the Board, Chairman Forde made a motion to adjourn. The motion
was seconded by Mr. Suarez, and the motion passed unanimously.

The next Committee meetings and regular Board meeting will take place on Friday, May 17, 2019.
The meetings will be held at 9:00 am at 3600 E. 95th Street, Chicago, IL.

1%4} 

Michael Forde Ka?ileen Dart
Chairman Secretary

