ILLINOIS INTERNATIONAL PORT DISTRICT

Summary Record of Proceedings
ofthe
REGULAR BOARD MEETING
August 16, 2019

The Regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Illinois International Port District and
Committee meetings were held Friday, August 16, 2019, at 3600 E. 95th Street, Chicago, Illinois.

The roll was called at 9:00 am. The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry
Sullivan, Ray Suarez, Aaron Del Mar, Charles Bowen, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, and
William Habel. Terry Fitzmaurice was absent. A quorum was present.

Also present: Clayton Harris Executive Director; Counsel Brad Smith, Neal and Leroy; Kurt
Oelerich, Treasurer.

General public present:

Maria Fattore Lazzaroni, 10th Ward Constituent Service Coordinator; Adrian Brizuela, 10th Ward;
Judy Freeman, Green SEED Energy, Jim Harrington, Green SEED Energy; Terry Hardin, 160
Driving Academy; and Tim Dunn, COFCO.

Chairman Forde requested a motion to suspend the order of the Board meeting and enter into the
Leases and Agreements Committee meeting followed by the Finance and Personnel Committee
meeting. The motion was made by Mr. Suarez and seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion carried
unanimously.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes August 16, 2019

 

 

Page 2
SUMMARY REPORT ON STANDING COMMITTEES
Committee Members Present: Others Present:
Michael orde Clayton Harris Executive Director
Paul Chialdikas William Habel
Chuck Bowen Terry Sullivan
Henry Wisniewski Aaron Del Mar
Ray Suarez Brad Smith, Neal Leroy

Kurt Oelerich, Treasurer

 

 

 

LEASES AND AGREEMENTS COMMITTEE

 

The Leases and Agreements Committee was held on Friday, August 16, 2019.

Old Business

NASCO Lease
Counsel Smith reported the lease terms have been updated and will be forwarded to NASCO for
review and signature.

City of Chicago Agreements

Executive Director Harris reported on the request to expand the helipad. Executive
Director Harris has spoken with the Alderman regarding the request and she indicated she had no
issues with the expansion.

Executive Director Harris reported on the request to relocate its bomb squad training
operations to land to the east of its former operations. Executive Director Harris has spoken with
the Alderman regarding the request and she indicated she had no issues with the relocation. The
use of the land would be for two years.

Executive Director Harris reported City attorneys are preparing the appropriate documents and he
should receive them for review prior to the September Board meeting.

Mr. Chialdikas asked the Executive Director to contact the Harborside team and discuss the CPD
relocation and any concerns they may have regarding potential noise to the golf course.

Butler Drive TIF
Executive Director Harris 111 reported Swanson can no longer provide the engineering services in
regards to the rail for the Butler Drive project.

Executive Director Harris requested approval to release an updated RFP for engineering
services. After discussion, the Committee recommended the Board approve the release of an
updated RFP for engineering services as needed.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes August 16, 2019
Page 3

Old Business

COFCO Rail

Mr. Dunne of COFCO indicated the company is ready to move out wheat and move in soybean.
Mr. Dunne indicated timing is now critical. He asked the Committee to approve CRL to serve as
rail carrier.

Committee members discussed a number of issues including the number of cars expected to be
loaded, storage timing for soybeans, the grain market and competitor rail carrier costs.

Chairman Forde reminded the Board that CRL owes the Port approximately $250,000 from its past
operations at the Port. Chairman Forde indicated the Port staff has had discussions with CRL and
the Committee will consider his request.

New Business

FTZ Application
Panasonic is requesting a new operating license. After discussion, the Committee
recommended approval of the Panasonic TZ application.

Advanced Flexible Composites Inc. is located within the Port?s FTZ Zone. However, due
to proximity, it would like to locate in the Rockford FTZ Zone. Counsel Smith will
research this request.

Abbott Laboratory has requested approval to expand its sub zone area. After discussion,
the Committee recommended approval of the Abbott Laboratory application and updating
of its contract re?ecting the new sub zone area.

Lease Proposals

Green SEED Energv Judy Freeman of Green SEED Energy reported the MWRD review
has been completed regarding a Compressed Natural Gas facility. Although MWRD
approval is still needed, Green SEED Energy has obtained ?nancing approval for the
facility. Green SEED Energy would like to move forward with leasing the former
Hagenneister site. Green SEED Energy is requesting a lease agreement for the storage
area to begin October 1, 2019, with hopes of having the site improved and operational by
the Spring of 2020. This is all subject to MWRD approval.

160 Driving Academ. Terry Hardin presented an overview of the driving academy. The
Academy is requesting the opportunity to lease approximately 2?3 acres of land at the Port.
The site of interest is located south of CFD Engine Co. 80 on Doty Avenue. The site would
be used by the Academy as a truck maneuver yard for driving instruction. Students coming
to the site will have obtained their permits through class room instruction and would be
ready to take on truck driving skill instruction with the ultimate goal of obtaining
commercial driver?s license (CDL). The site would hold 6-7 trucks and all training would
be performed on?site. 160 Driving Academy is a large job?creator, having trained over
3,500 drivers nationwide to date in 2019.

Mr. Hardin has submitted a letter of intent for review and consideration.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes August 16, 2019
Page 4

New Business
Lease Proposals (continued)

All Star Fence. Executive Director Harris reported All Star Fence is interested in leasing
the storage yard of the former Hagermeister site. All Star Fence has submitted a letter of
intent for review and consideration

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chairman Forde made a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: litigation update, tenant
update, and lease proposals. The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion carried
unanimously.

Executive Session

Litigation Update Executive Session
Tenant Update - Executive Session

Following discussion, Chairman Forde made a motion to exit Executive Session, the motion was
seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion passed unanimously.

Chairman Forde reported that after discussion, the Committee recommended the Board approve
the proposed agreements with Meiko.

There being no further business, Chairman Forde closed the Leases and Agreements Committee
Meeting and opened the Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes August 16, 2019
Page 5

 

 

FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE

 

The Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting was held on Friday, August 16, 2019.

Chairman Forde made a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: debt re?nancing update,
personnel updates. The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion carried unanimously.

Debt Re?nancing Update Executive Session
Personnel Updates Executive Session

Following discussion, Chairman Forde made a motion to exit Executive Session, the motion was
seconded by Mr. De] Mar and the motion passed unanimously.

Financial Reports and Financial Update
Treasurer Oelerich presented the July 2019 ?nancial reports for review. A number of points were
noted and discussed, including:

The July 2019 revenue fell above the budgeted amount.
The July 2019 total expense and year to date 2019 results fell below the budgeted
amounts.

0 The July 2019 Net Income exceeded the budgeted amount. Net Income for the year to date
is above the budgeted amount.

0 Harborside reports its to-date revenues are ahead of budgeted projections.

Following discussion, the Committee recommended approval of the July Financial Reports by the
Board of Directors.

Debt Re?nancing
Chairman Forde reported the Port?s current Letter of Credit expires in November. Loop Capital

is moving forward on the re?nancing and are con?dent it can complete the re?nancing before the
November expiration.

New Business
IIPD Financial Records

Chairman Forde discussed the need to keep all records on site. Executive Director discussed
?irther automating records. Committee members requested the Treasurer provide information on
further automation. The Committee discussed the importance of oversight, security and
transparency.

 

There being no further business for the Finance and Personnel Committee, Chairman Forde closed
the Finance and Personnel Committee and opened the Regular Board Meeting.

 

 Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes August 16, 2019
Page 6

 

 

REGULAR BOARD MEETING

 

The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Charles Bowen, Ray Suarez, Terry
Sullivan, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, William Habel, and Aaron Del Mar. A quorum was
present.

Leases and Agreements Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Chairman Forde reported that after discussion, the Committee recommended the Board approve
the release of an updated RFP for engineering services related to the Butler Drive project.
Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the release of an updated RFP for engineering services,
as needed. The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion passed unanimously.

Chairman orde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve Panasonic?s request for
a new FTZ operating license. Chairman orde made a motion to approve Panasonic?s request for
a new FTZ operating license. The motion was seconded by Mr. Bowen and the motion passed
unanimously.

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve Abbott Laboratory?s
request to expand its sub zone area. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve Abbott
Laboratory?s request to expand its sub zone area. The motion was seconded by Mr. Chialdikas
and the motion passed unanimously.

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve the proposed
agreements with Meiko. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the proposed agreements with
Meiko. The motion was seconded by Mr. Bowen and the motion passed unanimously.

Finance and Personnel Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve the July
2019 Financial Reports. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the July 2019 Financial
Reports. Mr. Suarez seconded the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve salary
revisions for designated personnel. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve salary revisions
for designated personnel. Mr. Suarez seconded the motion and it passed unanimously with one
exception. Mr. Del Mar requested the minutes re?ect his objection due to pension concerns.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes August 16, 2019
Page 7

PUBLIC COMMENT

None

ADJOURNMENT

With no other business before the Board, Chairman Forde requested a motion to adjourn. Mr. Del
Mar made a motion, the motion was seconded by Mr. orde, and the motion passed unanimously.

The next Committee meetings and regular Board meeting will take place on Friday, September 20,
2019. The meetings will be held at 9:00 am at 3600 E. 95t 1 Street, Chicago, IL.



Michael Forde Kath en Dart
Chairman Secretary

    

