ILLINOIS INTERNATIONAL PORT DISTRICT

Summary Record of Proceedings
of the
REGULAR BOARD MEETING
January 18, 2019

The Regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Illinois International Port District and
Committee meetings were held Friday, January 18, 2019, at 3600 E. 95?h Street, Chicago, Illinois.

The roll was called at 9:00 am. The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry
Fitzmaurice, Aaron Del Mar, Charles Bowen, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, and William
Habel. Mr. Suarez received an excused absence. A quorum was present.

Mr. Sullivan attended the meeting via teleconference.

Also present: Clayton Harris Executive Director; Counsel Brad Smith, Neal and Leroy; Kurt
Oelerich, Treasurer.

General public present: Josh Wagner, Policy Director of Indiana, Illinois, Iowa FFC, Todd
Bjornstad, President of Chicago South Shore (CSS), and Sandra Del Torro, Friends of the Park.

Chairman Forde made a motion to allow Mr. Sullivan to attend the meeting via teleconference.
The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion passed unanimously.

Due to the length of the Agenda and appreciating the time of the public attending the meeting,
Chairman Forde made a motion to suspend the order of the Committee meetings to offer the public
in attendance the opportunity speak prior to the start of the Committee and Board Meetings. The
motion was seconded by Mr. Bowen and the motion carried unanimously.

Public Comments by Mr. Bjornstad were made at this time, see Public Comment sections below.
Chairman Forde made a motion to suspend the order of the Board meeting and enter into the Leases

and Agreements Committee meeting followed by the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting.
The motion was seconded by Mr. itzmaurice, and the motion carried unanimously.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes January 18, 2019

 

 

Page 2
SUMMARY REPORT ON STANDING COMMITTEES
Committee Members Present: Others Present:
Michael Forde Clayton Harris 111, Executive Director
Paul Chialdikas William Habel
Chuck Bowen Terry Sullivan
Henry Wisniewski
Ray Suarez Brad Smith, Neal Leroy
Terry Fitzmaurice Kurt Oelerich, Treasurer

 

 

LEASES AND AGREEMENTS COMMITTEE

 

 

The Leases and Agreements Committee was held on Friday, January 18, 2019.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chairman orde made a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: Clean Harbors. Tenant
Update and Contract Approval. The motion was seconded by Mr. itzmaurice and the motion
carried unanimously.

Old Business

Clean Harbors Update - Executive Session
Tenant Update

New Business - Executive Session
Tenant Update and Contract Approvals

Following discussion, Chairman orde made a motion to exit Executive Session. The motion was
seconded by Mr. Chialdikas and the motion passed unanimously.

Open Session

Executive Director Report

The Executive Director reported:

0 The U. S. Army Corp of Engineers has published a notice regarding the preparation of an
Environmental Impact Study related to the CDF. Comments are being taken regarding
potential new sites for the dredging project.

0 CMAP has issued a Request for Proposals from quali?ed consultants to produce a Master
Plan for the IIPD. Proposals are due February 8, 2019. CMAP will hold a pre-bid meeting
on January 23, 2019.

The solar panel project is moving forward and the Executive Director will continue to
update the Board as the process continues.

0 The Butler Drive rail project is moving forward. The Executive Director is working with
the City regarding the amount of the Port?s initial investment and timing of reimbursement.

There being no further business, Chairman Forde closed the Leases and Agreements Committee
and opened the Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes January 18, 2019
Page 3

 

 

FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE

 

The Finance and Personnel Committee was held on Friday, January 18, 2019.
Old Business

Financial Reports and Financial Update
Treasurer Oelerich presented the December 2018 and year-end ?nancial reports for review. A
number of points were noted and discussed, including:

0 The December 2018 and year-end revenue total fell below the budgeted amounts.
The licensing and fees year-end total is below budgeted projections due in large part to
lower than expected actively on the rail lot. FTZ fees fell below projections due to fee
adjustments made during the year.

0 The December 2018 expense total fell below the budgeted amount. The Year-end
expense total fell below the budgeted amount.

0 The Treasurer reported that the 2018 performance re?ected an improvement over 2017.

0 Overall, the year-end 2018 Net Income exceeded the budgeted amount.

The Treasurer reminded the Committee of the annual actuary adjustment for the pension.

Following discussion, the Committee recommended approval of the December Financial Reports
by the Board of Directors.

There being no further business for the Finance and Personnel Committee, Chairman Forde closed
the Finance and Personnel Committee and opened the Regular Board Meeting.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes January 18, 2019
Page 4

 

 

REGULAR BOARD MEETING

 

The following Directors were present: Michael Forde. Terry Fitzmaurice, Charles Bowen, Henry
Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, William Habel, and Aaron Del Mar. A quorum was present. Mr.
Sullivan attended via teleconference.

ADOPTION OF MINUTES Board Minutes December 21, 2018

The Minutes of the December 21, 2018 Board Meeting were presented. Chairman Forde requested
a motion to approve the December minutes. Mr. Bowen made a motion to approve the December
Minutes. The motion was seconded by Mr. Habel and the motion passed unanimously.

Leases and Agreements Committee Report Items Reguiring Action

None

Finance and Personnel Committee Report Items Reguiring Action

Chairman orde reported the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve the
December 2018 Financial Reports. Chairman orde made a motion to approve the December 2018
Financial Reports. Mr. Bowen seconded the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Executive Director Report

See Committee Minutes.

PUBLIC COMMENT

Todd Bjornstad of CSS discussed investment in the Port over the past 20 years. CSS is
working on its response to the Master Lease RFP. Mr. Bjornstad indicated SS will continue to
provide quality service to the Port.

Josh Wagner Policy Director of Indiana, Illinois, Iowa introduced himself and summarized
the FCC and its role in advocacy, awareness/education and moitoring of the Illinois Prevaling
Wage Act.

Mr. Wagner presented a memo from the Indiana, Illinois, Iowa FC lawyer. Mr. Wagner wants to
make sure the Port is following compliance rules.

Ms. De] Torro from Friends of the Park introduced herself. She noted the recent U. S. Army Corp
of Engineers published notice regarding the CDF. Ms. De] Torro noted Friends of the Park?s long
advocacy for the current CDF area to be converted into park land.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes January 18, 2019
Page 5

ADJOURNMENT

With no other business before the Board, Chairman orde made a motion to adjourn. The motion
was seconded by Mr. Habel, and the motion passed unanimously.

The next Committee meetings and regular Board meeting will take place on Friday, February 15,
2019. The meetings will be held at 9:00 am at 3600 E. 95th Street, Chicago, IL.



Michael Forde Kathleen Dart
Chairman Secretary

