ILLINOIS INTERNATIONAL PORT DISTRICT

Summary Record of Proceedings
ofthe
REGULAR BOARD MEETING
February 15, 2019

The Regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Illinois International Port District and
Committee meetings were held Friday, February 15. 2019, at 3600 E. 95th Street, Chicago, Illinois.

The roll was called at 9:00 am. The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry
Sullivan, Ray Suarez, Aaron Del Mar, Charles Bowen, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, and
William Habel. A quorum was present.

Terry Fitzmaurice attended the meeting via teleconference.

Also present: Clayton Harris 111, Executive Director; Counsel Brad Smith, Neal and Leroy; Kurt
Oelerich, Treasurer.

General public present: Jeff Holt, BMO, T. Hawley, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa FFC, Beth Dybala,
CAIC, Jennifer Brans?eld, Chicago Neighborhood Initiative, Mike Puente, WBEZ, Joan Coogan,
City of Chicago.

Chairman Forde made a motion to allow Mr. Fitzmaurice to attend the meeting via teleconference.
The motion was seconded by Mr. Bowen and the motion passed unanimously.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes February 15, 2019

 

 

Page 2
SUMMARY REPORT ON STANDING COMMITTEES
Committee Members Present: Others Present:
Michael Forde Clayton Harris 111, Executive Director
Paul Chialdikas William Habel
Chuck Bowen Terry Sullivan
Henry Wisniewski Aaron Del Mar
Ray Suarez Brad Smith, Neal Leroy
Terry Fitzmaurice (via teleconference) Kurt Oelerich, Treasurer

 

 

 

LEASES AND AGREEMENTS COMMITTEE

 

The Leases and Agreements Committee was held on Friday, February 15, 2019.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chairman Forde made a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: Clean Harbors, Tenant
Update, Leases, Contracts, Master Lease RFP and Letter of Credit (Finance and Personnel). The
motion was seconded by Mr. Bowen and the motion carried unanimously.

Old Business

Clean Harbors Update - Executive Session

Tenant Updates and Contract Updates - Executive Session
Master Lease RFP - Executive Session

Following discussion, Chairman Forde made a motion to exit Executive Session. The motion was
seconded by Mr. Suarez and the motion passed unanimously.

After discussion, the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve the revised and
updated NASCO lease agreement with a ?ve year term, subject to Chairman Forde?s review.

New Business

Prevailing Wage
Chairman Forde summarized the Prevailing Wage Act. The Chairman stressed the importance of

making sure the Port is in compliance with the existing law and its requirements.

Committee members discussed appropriate ways to determine the Port?s responsibilities and
obligations of compliance. After discussion,'the Committee recommended the Board of Directors
direct Counsel Smith to contact the Illinois Attorney General and request their opinion and
direction on conformance.

Dockside Steel

The Executive Director reported Dockside Steel is again in arrears regarding its rent
payments. After discussion, the Committee recommended the Board of Directors direct Counsel
Smith to issue a ?ve-day notice to Dockside Steel and asked the Executive Director to keep the
Board up-to-date on the rental payment status.

There being no further business, Chairman Forde closed the Leases and Agreements Committee
and opened the Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes February 15, 2019
Page 3

 

 

FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE

 

The Finance and Personnel Committee was held on Friday, February 15, 2019.
Old Business

Financial Reports and Financial Update
Treasurer Oelerich presented the January 2019 ?nancial reports for review. A number of points
were noted and discussed, including:

0 The January 2019 revenue fell below the budgeted amount.
I The January 2019 total expense fell below the budgeted amount.
I The January 2019 Net Income exceeded the budgeted amount.

The Treasurer pointed out the annual sinking fund payment has been transferred.

Following discussion, the Committee recommended approval of the January Financial Reports by
the Board of Directors.

The Treasurer pointed out there is an option to pay down the debt from the sinking fund account.
Mr. Holt recommended to hold off on this until the Master Lease responses are reviewed, noting
his expectations that responses may include paying down the debt.

Letter of Credit
Executive Session

New Business

Dockage and Wharfage Audit

Treasurer Oelerich reported he has collected information from the Baker and Tilly regarding
performing an audit of tenant dockage and wharfage accounting. The fee to perform an audit on
one-year of information is approximately $2,500. The estimated fee for a three year audit would
range from approximately $4,000 to $5,000. The fees may require revision based on the agreed
upon scope. 

Chairman Forde requested Treasurer Oelerich draft a service agreement with a fee not to exceed
$5,000 and submit it to Counsel Smith for review. If the agreement is approved by Counsel Smith,
the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve proceeding with the audit.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes February 15, 2019

Page 4

Executive Director Report

The Executive Director reported:

Transfer Logistics is closing its business and in the process of vacating its space on Iroquois
Landing.

CMAP has received 8 responses to the Master Planning RFP and has extended the date for
responses to February 20, 2019.

He continues to work on the Butler Drive project including the rail contract with Swanson.
The Solar Project negotiations are not progressing well and the project may be cancelled.
He is working to implement electronic auto-pay for payments and invoices.

He has met with Speaker Madigan regarding the Port?s inclusion in the State?s capital bill.
He has met with Representative Walker regarding and an extension of FTZ 22.
He attended and spoke at the Cleveland AGLPA meeting.

He has met with the Army Corp of Engineers regarding the CDF options.

He is talking with Shark Minnow regarding assisting in certain marketing areas, including
the P0rt?s website.

There being no further business for the Finance and Personnel Committee, Chairman Forde closed
the Finance and Personnel Committee and opened the Regular Board Meeting.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes February 15, 2019
Page 5

 

 

 

REGULAR BOARD MEETING

 

The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry Sullivan, Charles Bowen, Ray
Suarez, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, William Habel, and Aaron Del Mar. A quorum was
present. Mr. Fitzmaurice attended via teleconference.

ADOPTION OF MINUTES Board Minutes Januarv 18. 2019

The Minutes of the January 18, 2019 Board Meeting were presented. Chairman orde made a
motion to approve the January Minutes. The motion was seconded by Mr. Wisniewski and the
motion passed unanimously.

Leases and Agreements Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve directing Counsel
Smith to contact the Illinois Attorney General?s Office for direction and legal guidance regarding
compliance with the Prevailing Wage Act. Chairman Forde made a motion directing Counsel
Smith to contact the Attorney General?s Office. Mr. Bowen seconded the motion and the motion
passed unanimously.

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve a Resolution creating
an Evaluation Committee to review the four responses to the Master Lease RFP. Chairman Forde
made a motion approving the Resolution creating the Evaluation Committee. Mr. Suarez seconded
the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board direct Counsel Smith to issue a
five day notice to Dockside Steel regarding non-payment of rent. Chairman Forde made a motion
to direct Counsel Smith to issue the five day notice. Mr. Del Mar seconded the motion and the
motion passed unanimously.

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve the updated NASCO
lease agreement, re?ecting a ?ve year term, subject to Chairman orde?s review. Chairman Forde
made a motion approving the NASCO lease agreement, subject to his review. Mr. Suarez seconded
the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Finance and Personnel Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve the January
2019 Financial Reports. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the January 2019 Financial
Reports. Mr. Suarez seconded the motion and the motion passed unanimously.

Executive Director Report

See Committee Minutes.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes February 15, 2019
Page 6

PUBLIC COMMENT

No comments from the attending public.
ADJOURNMENT

With no other business before the Board, Chairman Forde made a motion to adjourn. The motion
was seconded by Mr. Suarez, and the motion passed unanimously.

The next Committee meetings and regular Board meeting will take place on Friday, March 15,
2019. The meetings will be held at 9:00 am at 3600 E. 95lh Street, Chicago, IL.

1,4: 

Micha??l Forde Kat ?leen Dart
Chairman Secretary

