ILLINOIS INTERNATIONAL PORT DISTRICT

Summary Record of Proceedings
of the
REGULAR BOARD MEETING
July 19, 2019

The Regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Illinois International Port District and
Committee meetings were held Friday, July 19, 2019, at 3600 E. 95th Street, Chicago, Illinois.

The roll was called at 9:05 am. The following Directors were present: Terry Fitzmaurice, Terry
Sullivan, Ray Suarez, Aaron Del Mar, Charles Bowen, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, and
William Habel. A quorum was present. Michael Forde entered the meeting after roll was called.

Also present: Clayton Harris 111, Executive Director; Counsel Brad Smith, Neal and Leroy; Kurt
Oelerich, Treasurer.

General public present:

Brian Dutler and Dean Lytton of Harborside/KemperSports; Maria attore Lazzaroni, 10th Ward
Constituent Service Coordinator; Nicole Garcia, Director of Constituent Services Community
Outreach; Michael Puente, Paul Mack and Fred Hamisch, CPD Helicopter Operations;
Jim Egan, CPD Bomb Squad; Rennie Heath, Green Seed; Sam Joyce, South Side Weekly; and,
Neil Vohra, Kirkland Ellis.

Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice requested a motion to suspend the order of the Board meeting and
enter into the Leases and Agreements Committee meeting followed by the Finance and Personnel
Committee meeting. The motion was made by Mr. Suarez and seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the
motion carried unanimously.

The Agenda includes two presentations: Harborside/KemperSports and Chicago Police
Department (CPD). Due to the length of the Agenda and appreciating the time of the presenters
and public attending the meeting, Vice Chairman Fitzmaurice made a motion to suspend the order
of the Committee meetings to allow the presentations to be presented prior to the start of the
Committee and Board Meetings. The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion carried
unanimously.

The Presentations were made at this time. (See Presentation Comment Section)

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes July 19, 2019

 

 

Page 2
SUMMARY REPORT ON STANDING COMMITTEES
Committee Members Present: Others Present:
Michael orde Clayton Harris 111, Executive Director
Paul Chialdikas William Habel
Chuck Bowen Terry Sullivan
Henry Wisniewski Aaron Del Mar
Ray Suarez Brad Smith, Neal Leroy
Terry Fitzmaurice Kurt Oelerich, Treasurer

 

 

 

LEASEs AND AGREEMENTS COMMITTEE

 

The Leases and Agreements Committee was held on Friday, July 19, 2019.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chairman Forde made a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: NASCO Lease Agreement,
Letter Of Intent, Master Lease, and Tenant Updates. The motion was seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice
and the motion carried unanimously.

Old Business
NASCO Lease Executive Session

Letter of Intent, JLL Executive Session
Master Lease - Executive Session

Tenant Update Executive Session

Following discussion, Chairman Forde made a motion to exit Executive Session, the motion was
seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice and the motion passed unanimously.

The Committee recommended the Board direct Chairman and the Executive Director to negotiate
a contract with CRL.

The Committee recommended the Board approve the one-year contract extension with Securatex
and the proposed hourly rate increase.

The Committee recommended the Board terminate the Master Lease procurement process.
Butler Drive TIF

The Executive Director reported the Chicago City Council Finance Committee and City Council
will be reviewing and voting on the Butler Drive TIF in the next week.

There being no ?irther business, Chairman Forde closed the Leases and Agreements Committee
Meeting and Opened the Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes July 19, 2019
Page 3

 

 

FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE

 

The Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting was held on Friday, July 19, 2019.

Chairman Forde made a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: debt re?nancing, attorney
fees and employee hiring. The motion was seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice and the motion carried
unanimously.

Following discussion, Chairman Forde made a motion to exit Executive Session, the motion was
seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice and the motion passed unanimously.

Financial Reports and Financial Update
Treasurer Oelerich presented the June 2019 ?nancial reports for review. A number of points were
noted and discussed, including:

The June 2019 revenue and year to date 2019 Revenue fell below the budgeted amount,
due in part to Dockside Steel?s failure to meet its rent obligations.

The June 2019 total expense and year to date 2019 results fell below the budgeted
amount.

0 The June 2019 Net Income exceeded the budgeted amount. Net Income for the year to
date is above the budgeted amount. The year to date Net Income is over 45% above the
budgeted amount.

Following discussion, the Committee recommended approval of the June Financial Reports by the
Board of Directors.

New Business

Attorney Fees- Executive Session
Debt Re?nancing - Executive Session
Employee hiring - Executive Session

There being no further business for the Finance and Personnel Committee, Chairman orde closed
the Finance and Personnel Committee and opened the Regular Board Meeting.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes July 19, 2019
Page 4

 

 

REGULAR BOARD MEETING

 

The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry Fitzmaurice, Charles Bowen, Ray
Suarez, Terry Sullivan, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, William Habel, and Aaron Del Mar.
A quorum was present.

ADOPTION OF MINUTES Board Minutes June 21. 2019

The Minutes of the June 21, 2019 Board Meeting were presented. Chairman orde made a motion
to approve the June Minutes. The motion was seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice and the motion passed
unanimously.

Leases and Agreements Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board direct Chairman and the
Executive Director to negotiate a contract with CRL under the terms discussed. Chairman Forde
made a motion to negotiate a contract with CRL under the terms discussed. The motion was
seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice and the motion passed unanimously.

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve the one-year contract
extension with Securatex and the proposed hourly rate increase. Chairman Forde made a motion
to approve the one-year contract extension with Securatex and the proposed hourly rate increase.
The motion was seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice and the motion passed unanimously.

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board terminate the Master Lease
procurement process. Chairman orde made a motion to terminate the Master Lease procurement
process. The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion passed unanimously.

Finance and Personnel Committee Report Items Reauiring Action

Chairman orde reported the Committee recommended the Board of Directors approve the June
2019 Financial Reports. Chairman Forde made a motion to approve the June 2019 Financial
Reports. Mr. Fitzmaurice seconded the motion passed unanimously with one exception. Mr. De]
Mar requested the minutes re?ect his objection to the payment of the Mayer Brown legal bills.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes July 19, 2019
Page 5

PRESENTATIONS

Chicago Police Department (CPD)

Bomb Squad
Sgt. James Egan made a presentation on the behalf of the Chicago Police Bomb Squad. The CPD

has historically used a location at the Port for its operation. CPD is considering relocating and
expanding its operation at the Port. Sgt. Egan dicussed the uses of the area, equipment used,
restrictions on what would be done on the site, and the safety measures that are needed and would
be put in place. The new location would include training operations at the site.

The Board members had a number of questions and comments, including the restricted uses of the
site, safety and precautions, buffering of the site, surveying of the site, impact on Harborside and
noti?cation of Alderwoman Garza of this requested expansion.

Heliport
Sgt. Fred Hamish made a presentation on the behalf of the Chicago Police Department?s Helicopter

Operations. The has an exisitng location at the Port. CPD and Cook County operates a
task force from this location, which covers the entire area of Cook County. The task force is
considering acquiring two additional helicopteres. Sgt. Hamish indicated the departure location
for the helicopters will not change, however, if new helicopters are acquired, they would consider
erecting a small building and would like to expand its exisiting concrete pad south/southwest.

These presentations are for information purposes and CPD will keep the Board up-to-date as these
expansion plans futher develop.

Harborside/KemperSports

Brian Butler and Dean Lytton of Harborside/KemperSports made a brief presentation regarding
the current operations at Harborside and the overall expectations for the 2019 season. The Key
points included:

0 2018 was a challenging year, however, with food and beverage being the primary driver
and savings on the payroll side of the operation, the 2018 payment to the Port Authority
was above the budget projection.

The 2019 year-to-date performance for the course, incuding food and beverage, is above
expectations; with the months of April and June re?ecting the best performance
since KemperSports has been operating Haborside.

The 2019 payment to the Port Authority is expected to be above the budgeted amount. The
2019 budgeted amount is $398,169.

0 Community outreach programs continue to grow and Tee is also growing.

0 KemperSports has invested over $1 million in capital expendtures since it began operating
Harborside in 2013.

The halfway house is being renovated.

- Harborside/KemperSports continues to look for soultions for upgrading the cart paths.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes July 19, 2019
Page 6
PUBLIC COMMENT

None

ADJOURNMENT

With no other business before the Board, Chairman Forde made a motion to adjourn. The motion
was seconded by Mr. Del Mar, and the motion passed unanimously.

The next Committee meetings and regular Board meeting will take place on Friday, August 16,
2019. The meetings will be held at 9:00 am at 3600 E. 95th Street, Chicago, IL.

9am 

Michael Forde Ka leen Dart
Chairman Secretary

 

 

