ILLINOIS INTERNATIONAL PORT DISTRICT

Summary Record of Proceedings
ofthe
REGULAR BOARD MEETING
May 17, 2019

The Regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Illinois International Port District and
Committee meetings were held Friday, May 17, 2019, at 3600 E. 95th Street, Chicago, Illinois.

The roll was called at 9:10 am. The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry
Fitzmaurice, Ray Suarez, Aaron Del Mar, Charles Bowen, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas,
and William I-Iabel. A quorum was present. Terry Sullivan attended via teleconference.

Also present: Clayton Harris Executive Director; Counsel Brad Smith, Neal and Leroy; Kurt
Oelerich, Treasurer.

General public present:

Alderwoman Susan Garza, James Brusslan, Levenfeld Pearlstein, Edward Garske, 
Enviromental; Tim Dunn, Tim Hartnett and Leon Athas, Draper Kramer; Steve
Zamick, Zamcor Group; Mike Garthwaite, Kinder Morgan, Greg West, Kinder Morgan, Tim
Berens Kinder Morgan Commercial Group, and Scott Thompson; Commercial Director, Kinder
Morgan.

Chairman Forde requested a motion to suspend the order of the Board meeting and enter into the
Leases and Agreements Committee meeting followed by the Finance and Personnel Committee
meeting. The motion was made by Mr. Fitzmaurice and seconded by Mr. De] Mar, and the motion
carried unanimously.

Due to the length of the Agenda and appreciating the time of the public attending the meeting,
Chairman orde made a motion to suspend the order of the Committee meetings to offer the public
in attendance the opportunity speak prior to the start of the Committee and Board Meetings. The
motion was seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice and the motion carried unanimously.

Public Comments were made at this time. (See Public Comment Section)
During Public Comment, Director Sullivan requested to join the meeting via teleconference.

Chairman orde made a motion to allow Director Sullivan to attend the meeting via teleconference.
The motion was seconded by Mr. Del Mar and the motion passed unanimously.

 Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes May 17, 2019

 

 

Page 2
SUMMARY REPORT ON STANDING COMMITTEES
Committee Members Present: Others Present:
Michael orde Clayton Harris Executive Director
Paul Chialdikas William Habel
Chuck Bowen Terry Sullivan (via teleconference)
Henry Wisniewski Aaron Del Mar
Ray Suarez Brad Smith, Neal Leroy
Terry Fitzmaurice Kurt Oelerich, Treasurer

 

 

LEASES AND AGREEMENTS COMMITTEE

 

 

The Leases and Agreements Committee was held on Friday, May 17, 2019.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chairman Forde made a motion to enter Executive Session to discuss: Clean Harbors, Tenant
Update, Letter of Intent, Leases and Update on RFPS. The motion was seconded by Mr.
itzmaurice and the motion carried unanimously.

Old Business

Clean Harbors Update - Executive Session

Vacant Land and Tenant Updates Executive Session
Letter of Intent, JLL Executive Session

Update on Master Lease - Executive Session

Following discussion, Chairman Forde requested a motion to exit Executive Session. The motion
was made by Mr. Del Mar seconded by Chairman orde and the motion passed unanimously.

After the conclusion of Executive Session, the Leases and Agreements Committee continued.

Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve Executive Director
Harris 111 and the Chairman to enter discussions with CRL and COFCO to assist in arriving at a
solution to immediate issues as well as long term operation at the Port.

Chairman Forde reported that after discussion, the Committee recommended the Board
approve the Settlement Agreement with Clean Harbors and have Chairman Forde Sign the
Agreement.

There being no further business, Chairman Forde closed the Leases and Agreements Committee
Meeting and opened the Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes May 17, 2019
Page 3

 

 

FINANCE AND PERSONNEL COMMITTEE

 

The Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting was held on Friday, May 17, 2019.

Financial Reports and Financiad Update
Treasurer Oelerich presented the April 2019 ?nancial reports for review. A number of points were
noted and discussed, including:

The April 2019 revenue and year to date 2019 Revenue fell below the budgeted
amount.

0 The April 2019 total expense and year to date 2019 results fell well below the
budgeted amount.

0 The April 2019 Net Income exceeded the budgeted amount. Net Income for the year to
date is above the budgeted amount.

Treasurer Oelerich reported Harborside is opened and has exceeded prior year revenues to-date.

Following discussion, the Committee recommended approval of the April Financial Reports by
the Board of Directors.

Old Business
None

New Business
None

There being no further business for the Finance and Personnel Committee, Chairman Forde closed
the Finance and Personnel Committee and opened the Regular Board Meeting.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes May 17, 2019
Page 4

 

 

REGULAR BOARD MEETING

 

The following Directors were present: Michael Forde, Terry Fitzrnaurice, Charles Bowen, Ray
Suarez, Henry Wisniewski, Paul Chialdikas, William Habel, and Aaron Del Mar. A quorum was
present. Terry Sullivan attended via teleconference.

ADOPTION or MINUTES Board Minutes April 18. 2019

The Minutes of the April 18, 2019 Board Meeting were presented. Chairman Forde requested a
motion to approve the April Minutes from the public Board Meeting. The motion was made by
Mr. Suarez, the motion was seconded by Chairman Forde and the motion passed unanimously.

Leases and Agreements Committee Report Items Requiring Action

Clean Harbors

Chairman Forde reported after a discussion, the Committee recommended the Board
approve the Settlement Agreement with Clean Harbors and signed by Chairman Forde. Chairman
Forde made a motion to approve the Settlement Agreement with Clean Harbors, the motion was
seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice and the motion passed unanimously.



Chairman Forde reported the Committee recommended the Board approve Executive Director
Harris 111 and Chairman Forde to enter discussions with CRL and COFCO to assist in arriving at
a solution to immediate issues as well as long term operation at the Port.
Chairman orde made a motion to approve Executive Director Harris 111 and Chairman Forde to
enter discussions with CRL and COFCO. The motion was seconded by Mr. Chialdikas and the
motion passed unanimously.

 

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes May 17, 2019
Page 5

PUBLIC COMMENT

Alderwoman Garza requested the status of the Master Lease negotitaions with Savage Enterprises.
Alderwoman Garza repeated her concerns regarding the Master Lease and transparency.
Alderwoman Garza indicated she believed it was essential to await the new mayoral
administration?s review and input before any decision is made regarding the Master Lease.
Chairman Forde indicated the Master Lease action is on hold until the new administration has the
opportunity to review. Alderwoman Garza also indicated the new adminstration has committed to
investment in the 10th Ward. Alderwoman Garza repeated her continued concern with the 5,000
individuals employed at the Port and the potential impact of a Master Lease. Alderwoman Garza
stated she is against privatitzation and noted transparency is essential.

Tim Dunn of COFCO summarized market changes in the industry including soybeans replacement
of wheat. COFCO had orginally requested the Board approve the COFCO project of unloading
the wheat from the grain elevator and replacing it with soybeans. The intial request involved the
tranfer of the products via barge. Mr. Dunn has know indicated that barge transfer is cost
prohibitive and COFOC is now requesting appoval of the transfer of the grain via rail using CRL
(Omni Tracks). He noted using CRL is sign?canlty less costly than using South Shore rail. Mr.
Dunn indicated work on the rail would be needed prior to the transfer and COFCO would assume
this cost. Mr. Dunn also noted he is aware of existing issues of back-rent due to the Port,
and is asking that the Board give CRL permission to serve COFCO. The Board indicated they will
work to accomodate COFCO, however, history with the Port is concerning. Mr. Dunn
requested a response by June 1, if possible.

Tim Hartnett and Leon Athas of Draper Kramer and Steve Zamick of Zamcor Group introduced
themselves to the Board. They were part of the IIPD Crossings team to bid on the Master Lease.
Mr. Zamick indicated their continued interest in a partnership to expand and redevelop the IIPD,
outside of the Master Lease. Mr. Zamick stated they have received much interest from the market
to invest in the redevelopment of the Port, including global companies. Mr. Zamick noted that
investment from these global companies is related to international business trade, and further noted
investment would be exclusively in American companies and American workers. This type of
investment would provide new international exposure to the Port?s current tenants. They see
redevelopment and growth not only in manufacturing but in commercial uses, including hotels.
Mr. Zamick indicated they would appreciate the opportunity to meet with the Board to provide
detail on the investment potential at the Port.

Mike Garthwaite, Tim Berens, Scott Thompson and Greg West of Kinder Morgan introduced
themselves to the Board and summarized Kinder Morgan?s operation and reported their purpose
at the meeting was twofold:
1) Renewal of Kinder Morgan?s lease. Kinder Morgan is requesting to begin discussions and
negotitaions for a long-term lease.
2) Request approval of a storage tank project on the Kinder Morgan site. Board members
discussed timing, contractors, union committment and prevailing wage requirements.

The Kinder Morgan representatives indicated they see the long?term viablity of the Port and Kinder
Morgan?s long term occupancy at the Port.

IIPD Board of Directors
Meeting Minutes May 17, 2019
Page 6

ADJOURNMENT

With no other business before the Board, Chairman Forde made a motion to adjourn. The motion
was seconded by Mr. Fitzmaurice, and the motion passed unanimously.

The next Committee meetings and regular Board meeting will take place on Friday, June 21, 2019.
The meetings will be held at 9:00 am at 3600 E. 95th Street, Chicago, IL.

rM? w, 4 at?.

Michae'l Borde Kath en Dart
Chairman Secretary

