Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ, Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH. £xecuf/Ve Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Reguiar Board Meeting
September 10, 2019,9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room,Chicago, iliinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Alien, Communications Director

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Opai Walls, Purchasing Agent
Bill Perez, Hispanic Outreach Coordinator
LaCretia Dandrldge, Manager - Human Resources

Paulina Mysliwiec, Acting Manager - Community Services
Sarita Villarreal, Consultant

Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magnus, Rainbow P.U.S.H.
Sandy Hed, Election Works
Bob Pyzdrowski, Arrow Messenger

Danielle Matzdorf, Arrow Messenger
George Zastro, Verizon
Xen Marangos, Dominion

Alex Soto Vasquez, Dominion

Kayia Lane Freeman, Chi Documenters
Alan Gieti, Verizon
George Unzueta, Verizon

Call to Order meeting called to order at 9:30 a.m.
Roll Call: All Commissioners present.

Consideration of Agenda: No change.
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027

chicagoeiectjons.com • cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting - September 10, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

IV.

Approval of Minutes:

A.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meetingof July 23, 2019. Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of July 23, 2019.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was passed and the Minutes
approved by unanimous vote of the Board.
V.

Executive Director's Report(Mr. Lance Gough)

• Mr. Gough reported on the new project to implement the Dominion D-Suite voting
system in Chicago.
o The Co-Project Managers are the Board's Assistant Executive Director Charles

Holiday and Dominion's Senior Project Manager Alex Soto Vasquez.
o Mr. Soto Vasquez was called upon to present an update on the project.
■

The project managers have already begun to meet with the
implementation team and have developed an initial schedule for
implementation and training with various teams.

■

The plan now is to agree on the path forward for implementation and
documentation with the team leaders.

■

It has been agreed that we want to keep the procedures and the current

methodologies in place for the upcoming election and we are just moving
new equipment into place.
■

Mr. Soto Vasquez mentioned that he was honored to have this

opportunity and that Dominion has brought in a very experienced team
including the project's Technical Lead Xen Marangos(who was also
present at this meeting).
■

Messrs. Soto Vasquez and Marangos have been involved in
implementations in Puerto Rico, the Philippines and several States across
the U.S.

■

The Chair asked what the first project step will be, Mr. Soto Vasquez
stated that it was to get the contract completed. Executive Director Gough
said that there had been some miscommunications, but that has been
corrected and the contract will be ready soon. General Counsel Adam

Lasker said that there may be a need for a Special Board meeting in order
to have the contract completed.

■

Mr. Soto Vasquez will be staying in Chicago throughout the project.

• Mr. Gough stated that there will be a meeting on Wednesday at 4:00 PM with the City
Budget folks regarding funding for the new equipment and negotiations regarding the
budget.

Page 2 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -September 10. 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Representatives of Verizon are present and will speak regarding our connectivity later at
this meeting.

A.

Assistant Executive Director(Mr. Charles Holiday)

• Mr. Holiday reported that he is working with Mr. Soto Vasquez regarding the
implementation of new equipment and that he has received documentation from
Dominion that he will distribute at a meeting with team leaders later today.
• Card activation for Early Voting has been tested and it is working well.

• Dominion and ES&S are working on card activation for Election Day.

• On September 24^*^ the implementation team will be at the Board's warehouse
working with Manager Keith Carter reviewing the blue equipment carriers,
especially their dimensions to make sure that everything will fit into the carriers.
B.

Communications Director(Mr. Jim Allen)

• Mr. Allen reported that the Canvass mailing is approximately 1/3 finished at the

mailing house. They will continue mailing around the clock and should be done by
the end of the week or early next week.
• Mr. Allen and Mr. Lasker attended a meeting to provide background information

to an Alderman and different groups who are interested in creating a separate set
of elected offices.

• We updated our brochure for the coming Primary.
• Communications has prepared an election primer, a brief Q&A. It has more

information that we had in our old fast-facts cards. Mr. Allen will provide the
Board members with copies, if they would like.
VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: has been

addressed.

B.
Electronic Poll Books: Mr. Holiday stated that there was a meeting with ES&S
regarding having the ADA survey form added to the e-poll book; right now we are in cost

negotiations with ES&S. If ES&S is going to stay at the same price they quoted, we may
have to continue having the surveys in hard copy format. We are also discussing the cost
of card activation using the e-poll books.
C.

Voting Equipment: already addressed.

D.

Legislation: Mr. Lasker reported that since the Illinois State Legislature is not in

session there is nothing to report on legislative action. Mr. Lasker stated that he has

begun a review of the Illinois Election Code for potential legislative agenda items
regarding new equipment, but as Cook County has already implemented the new
equipment, Mr. Lasker does not expect much change. We still have our agenda schedule
from the last session and Mr. Lasker plans to continue forward with that. The omnibus
Page 3 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -September 10, 2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

bill, which had many of our items on it, did not go through, but will continue to push for
those items In the future.
VII.

New Business

A.

Agreement between the Board and MCl Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a

Verizon Business Services

Mr. Gough called upon Verizon representatives Jeorge Zastra, and Al Gletl (from the
Wireline side of Verizon Business) to address the Board.

Mr.Zastra explained that the issue presented to Verizon was to enhance the security
between the voting equipment transmissions and the election center communications.

• Mr.Zastra stated that Verizon has product that would be appropriate.
• Mr.Zastra has worked with the Board In the past and will continue to have onsite
support on Election Day and during election night. Verizon will have dedicated services

with a direct link to Verizon's tier-3 support which can handle any issue that may occur.
• Mr. Gough explained to the Board that Verizon will be working with us, including during a
mock/test election, and we will be able to do an audit right away.
• Mr.Zastra explained how communications will segregate all voting machines from all

public connections. Mr. Zastra emphasized that redundancy and security were a part of
the system and provided an overview of the secure transmission plan.
Commissioner Swain asked if the results will be transmitted from receiving station. Mr.
Gough clarified that the precincts will wirelessly transmit only limited data, then full data
will be transmitted from the receiving stations. The transmissions from the receiving
stations will include the ballot Images. Mr. Lasker added, because of the size of the image
files it will come from the receiving station over dedicated lines. Mr. Zastra pointed out
that the speed will increase. Dominion equipment is moving to a new chip set and
modem from 3G to 4G transmission even for wireless transmission.

Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the 36-month agreement with MCl
Communications Services, Inc. d/b/a Verizon Business Services. Commissioner Swain
seconded the motion. The motion passed by 3:0 vote of the Board

VIII.
Legal Report(General Counsel Adam Lasker)
• Mr. Lasker reported that we are working on finalizing our agreement with the

Department of Justice (DoJ)for ADA compliance of Chicago polling places. The
complicated part with DoJ has been completed. DoJ has received and appreciates the
good work from us, and while we have not met the original time schedule, we are
progressing. We were interviewed by the National Disabilities Rights Network who was
quite Impressed with what we have done with DoJ.

• The Chicago Public Schools(CPS)and other departments are working with us, as the
majority of polling places are in their facilities. It is an ongoing process.
Page 4 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -September 10,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

• We still have two election-related lawsuits pending. The term limit referenda has filed
leave to appeal, and the Galloway case has filed at the appellate court.

• We are in the process of revising the Advisory Referenda and Local Option Guidelines.

• As Mr. Allen had mentioned, he and Mr. Lasker met with an Alderman and public safety
advisory board proponents. It is uncertain that the City can do this on its own.
IX.

Financial Report

A.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the City of Chicago-2019 Appropriation -

19-05 dated September 10, 2019 in the amount of $365,710.37. Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the City of Chicago 2019 Appropriation 19-05. Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous vote of the Board.

B.

Balance Sheet and Voucher Listings for the County of Cook - 2019 Appropriation

-19-01 dated September 10, 2019 in the amount of $576,077.50. Commissioner Kresse
moved to approve the County of Cook 2019 Appropriation 19-01. Commissioner Swain
seconded the motion. The motion passed by 3:0 vote of the Board.
X.

Public Comment

There were not Requests for Public Comment, but the Chair acknowledged the passing of
Disabilities Rights activist Marka Briscoe. The Chair expressed her condolences to her
family, but stated that Ms. Briscoe's legacy will live on.
XI.

Executive Session: None

XII.

Adjournment: The meeting for September 24^"^ has been canceled, but a Special meeting

may be called by the Chair. Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn until October 8^*^ or at the call
of the Chair. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was passed by unanimous
vote of the Board and the meeting was adjourned at 10:45 a.m.

Submitted,

Commi

Secret

Page 5 of 5

William J. Kresse

 