Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council - Meeting Minutes

Date:

November 7, 2019

Time:

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

Co-Chairs: Adam Becker, CLOCC
MPAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Adam Becker

CLOCC

Rochelle Jackson

NLCCC

Terri Worman

AARP

Diane Burnham

SECC

Marcia Trawinski

Metro Seniors in Action

Julia Gerasimenko

Active Transportation Alliance

Margarita Reina

CDPH

Greg Piland

FHWA

Dr. Karen Sheehan

Lurie Children’s Hospital

Audrey Winnink

MPC

Jessica Brant

Latinos Progresando

Laurie Dittman

MOPD

Greg Polman

The Lighthouse

Kathy Austin

Second Sense

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:08 pm by Adam Becker
August MPAC meeting minutes were approved with amendments to correct MPAC members in attendance.

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

MPAC Member Introductions –
a) The Council is joined by a number of new members at this meeting. All council members were asked to
introduce themselves, their organizations, and why they are a part of MPAC. b) New council members: North
Lawndale Community Coordinating Committee, Logan Square Neighborhood Association, South East
Chicago Commission, Latinos Progresando, Garfield Park Community Council, and Teamwork Englewood.

Adam Becker

Fatalities Update a) Between January 1 and October 31, there have been 35 pedestrian fatalities in Chicago. This is the same
number as at this time last year. b) The first half of the year the pedestrian fatality numbers were significantly
lower than in past years, so we know that this can change dramatically over the course of one or two months.
d) 64% of fatalities occurred in High Crash Areas or along High Crash Corridors. Speaks to continued need
for investment in these areas. e) 21 of 31 crashes where we know the type of vehicle were SUVs or larger
and 43% of the crashes were hit and runs. f) Age – both younger and older people are more vulnerable. For
victims whose age we know, 71% are over 50 and 17% over 80. 79% of drivers are under 50, 25% under 30.
g) These numbers are similar to national trends – fatalities for people in vehicles are going down, fatalities for
people walking and biking are not. In Chicago, fatalities are down 27% (77 total), but most of the reduction
comes from fewer motorist deaths. h) Continuing to investigate the role of vehicle design in crashes – older
vehicles are cycling off the road. New cars are now designed to protect the person in the vehicle, but not to
protect vulnerable road users. i) Some questions about the update: How many of drivers were distracted? It is
difficult to know because this is likely underreported. How many drivers were intoxicated? Difficult to track in
real time because results are slow to return to reports. Margarita at CDPH can sure more information from her
long term tracking. How many victims have some type of disability?

David Smith

 Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council - Meeting Minutes
Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Project Updates a) ADA ramps – upgraded over 7,000 in 2019 through a variety of funding sources. Local funding was
used to respond to approximately 800 311 requests from residents, with 300 more to be completed in
Accessible Pedestrian Signals (APS) – Mayor Lightfoot announced a new commitment in late July to
install up to 100 in the next 2 years. Locations will be prioritized in the Central Business District, near
residential/commercial locations, institutional locations, at six legged intersections, university
campuses, and in response to stakeholder suggestions.
b) Pedestrian Countdown Signals – Countdown signals planned at 60 locations in 2020. Many are in
the West and Near West Side High Crash Areas (HCA).
c) Pedestrian intersection improvements – David Smith gave an overview of some pedestrian
improvements that have been installed around the City in the past year: Madison and St. Louis –
Refuge island and bike lanes installed, bump outs to be installed next year. 80 th and Cottage Grove –
Refuge Island. 55th Street – bike lane, bump outs, refuge islands as part of arterial resurfacing
program. Rush University medical campus – buffered bike lane and refuge island. Rush completed a
pedestrian master plan and CDOT will be coordinating on implementation.
d) Question about loading zones and bike lanes – Will barrier protected bike lanes make it difficult for a
vehicle to drop a ramp (like a Pace vehicle). CDOT is working with MOPD to make sure drop off and
pick up for these vehicles is possible. E.g. the raised bike lane in front of the Goodman Theater.

David Smith

Goals for 2020 In 2019, our goal was to add new council members to bring more perspectives to the council and to get
council members out into the community, which we used summer field visits to achieve. Now we’d like to have
the conversation about setting goals for 2020.

Adam Becker

Discussion –
a) Could we reformat the Council to have more community representatives? Would also like to find a
way to better incorporate health messaging and data into Vision Zero efforts.
b) The Mayor committed to all new traffic signals having APS installed. Can this group help monitor that
the City is sticking to this commitment? Also could have a demonstration of APS device.
c) Previously site visits were set up around specific community projects. In the future, could they be
organized around topics – like technology?
d) Possibility for meetings to be organized by topics – technology, access, built environment, etc.
e) Topic for a meeting or part of a meeting – Chicago needs pedestrian counts in the City to understand
trends. What technologies are available and how can we advocate for their use?
f) Site visit where MPAC participates in a walkability audit.
g) Topic for a meeting – walkability to support transit use.
h) MPC has an upcoming report on universal mobility (to be released at December 3 event).
i) Bump outs near schools in North Lawndale are not well-marked and get run over at night by drivers
because they cannot see them. Can the bump outs be painted with reflective paint?
j) Could set time on the agenda to talk through issues in the neighborhoods represented.
k) Goal: use time at the council to explain why and how projects are rolled out to neighborhoods across
the City.
l) Discuss ice and snow/removal in first meeting of 2020.
m) Can council members share ideas for agenda items? Yes! Would like meeting agendas to come from
members.
Please send additional ideas for goals to Adam and Romina.
Big Marsh Recommendations a) Group that attended site visit in July put together recommendations.
b) They include: improvements on 130th St including connections for cycling, extending the 34 CTA bus
route to Riverdale, supporting the pedestrian/bike bridge across Lake Calumet, wayfinding signage,
and setting up a site visit with the Mayor’s Office.
c) Active Transportation Alliance has been working in Big Marsh with a group called Southside
Trailblazers. They have identified similar recommendations to MPAC with a few additions: rightsizing Torrence Ave and an off-street trail from Pullman to Riverdale.

Ruth Rosas
Julia Gerasimenko

 Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council - Meeting Minutes
d) Active Transportation Alliance on behalf of the Port District has secured funding for a feasibility study
process for the bridge across Lake Calumet starting in 2020.

Actions

Lead

Members to email additional 2020 goals to Adam and Romina.

Members

Public Comment & Announcements
a)
b)

World Day of Remembrance Event to be held in the Thompson Center – November 18 from 9am to 1pm. Press conference at
noon.
CDOT should request sturdier crosswalk signs in 2020 budget.

Adjournment at 4:30 pm

 