COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
NOTICE OF A REGULAR MEETING
The Commission on Chicago Landmarks will hold its regular
meeting on Thursday, December 5, 2019, at 12:45 p.m. in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A, 2nd Floor.
The Permit Review Committee will hold its regular meeting in City
Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, in Room 201-A on Thursday,
December 5, 2019, at 1:30 p.m.
Attached is a copy of the agendas for the Commission meetings.

Maurice D. Cox
Secretary

 DRAFT
DRAFT AGENDA
COMMISSION ON CHICAGO LANDMARKS
Regular Meeting – Thursday, December 5, 2019
City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A
12:45 p.m.

1. Approval of the Minutes of Previous Meetings
Regular Meeting of November 7, 2019
2. Preliminary Landmark Recommendation
Blackwell-Israel Samuel A.M.E. Zion Church Building
3956 South Langley Avenue

WARD 4

3. Report from the Department of Planning and Development
MT. PISGAH MISSIONARY BAPTIST CHURCH
4600-4628 South Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive

WARD 3

4. Report from the Department of Planning and Development
CHICAGO & NORTH WESTERN RAILWAY OFFICE BUILDING
226 West Jackson Boulevard

WARD 42

5. Preliminary Decision on Permit Application for Demolition Pursuant to §2-120-740 through
§2-120-825 of the Municipal Code
PILSEN DISTRICT
2038 West 18th Street

WARD 25

6. Schedule for a Public Hearing on Final Landmark Recommendation – Announcement
NEAR NORTH SIDE MULTIPLE PROPERTY DISTRICT
642 North Dearborn Street
14 West Erie Street
17 East Erie Street
110 West Grand Avenue
1 East Huron Street
9 East Huron Street
10 East Huron Street
16 West Ontario Street
18 West Ontario Street
212 East Ontario Street
222 East Ontario Street
716 North Rush Street
671 North State Street

WARD 42

 42 East Superior Street
44-46 East Superior Street
The request-for-consent period expired November 4, 2019. A public hearing will be held:
Date:
Location:
Time:
Hearing Officer:

Thursday, January 16, 2020
City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A
10:00 a.m.
Ernest C. Wong

7. Schedule for a Public Hearing on a Permit Application for the Demolition of a Building
Pursuant to §2-120-740 through §2-120-800 of the Municipal Code – Announcement
PILSEN DISTRICT
1330 West Cullerton Street
Date:
Location:
Time:
Hearing Officer:

WARD 25

Thursday, December 19, 2019
City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Room 201-A
10:00 a.m.
Gabriel Ignacio Dziekiewicz

8. Permit Review Committee Reports
Report on Projects Reviewed at the November 7, 2019, Permit Review Committee Meeting
Report on Permit Decisions by the Commission Staff for the Month of November 2019
9. Announcements
Schedule for 2020 Regular Commission Meetings
Schedule for 2020 Permit Review Committee Meetings
10. Adjournment

 NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
DRAFT PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
THURSDAY, December 5, 2019
City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle St., Room 201-A
1:30 p.m.

DRAFT AGENDA:
1. 433 W. Van Buren
Old Main Chicago Post Office
Proposed new canopy at west elevation with one new sign.

25th Ward

2. 969 W. 18th Street
25th Ward
Proposed Pilsen Historic District
Proposed new construction of four-story, three-unit, masonry, mixed-use building.
3. 951 W. Fulton Market
27th Ward
Fulton-Randolph Market District
Proposed installation of 3 projecting canvas awnings on the west elevation and installation of
3 combination steel awnings with extendable canvas awnings on the north elevation.
4. 910 W. Randolph
27th Ward
Fulton-Randolph Market District
Proposed replacement of existing non-historic façade with new façade, storefronts, and
windows.

Dijana Cuvalo, AIA
Historic Preservation Division
Bureau of Planning, Historic Preservation & Sustainability
Department of Planning and Development

 PERMIT REVIEW COMMITTEE
Summary of projects and staff recommendations, December 5, 2019
DRAFT
1. 433 W. Van Buren
Old Main Chicago Post Office
Proposed new canopy at west elevation with one new sign.
Applicant:

25th Ward

Eric Friedman, Walgreens Co.
Donna Becco-Schroeder, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction, and Standards 9 and 10 of the U.S. Secretary of the
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings and
therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect on the
significant historical and architectural features of the landmark
property and approve the project with the following conditions:
1. The new canopy is approved as shown on drawings dated
November 14, 2019; and,
2. The proposed branded Walgreens canopy sign is approved.
2. 969 W. 18th Street
25th Ward
Proposed Pilsen Historic District
Proposed new construction of four-story, three-unit, masonry, mixed-use building.
Applicant:

Sean Sirkin, owner
John Hanna, architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that the project, with the
following conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the
Commission’s Rules and Regulations and the Commission’s
Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings and New
Construction therefore, the project will not have an adverse effect
on the significant historical and architectural features of the
proposed landmark district and approve the project with the
following conditions:
1. As proposed, the front façade shall be clad in red, standard
size, modular, face brick with mortar matching the color of the
brick. Due to their visibility, the side elevations shall be clad
in either face brick to match the front façade or common brick.
Historic Preservation staff shall review and approve all
material samples with the permit application;

 2. As proposed, brick corbeling details to be included on permit
plans;
3. Enlarged dimensioned details of the new windows and
storefronts shall be included with the permit plans. As
proposed, window and storefront frames and mullions shall be
dark bronze in color and the glazing shall be clear glass; and,
4. The project as proposed requires a zoning variation and/or
adjustment, and the Commission takes no position regarding
any requested variance/adjustment relative to the zoning code
requirements.
3. 951 W. Fulton Market
27th Ward
Fulton-Randolph Market District
Proposed installation of 3 projecting canvas awnings on the west elevation and installation of
3 combination steel awnings with extendable canvas awnings on the north elevation.
Applicant:

Stephen Bernacki, The Alinea Group, owner
Steven Rugo, Rugo/Raff LTD. Architects

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that:
A. The Committee find that the project, with the following
conditions, meets the criteria set forth in the Commission’s
Rules and Regulations, the Commission’s Guidelines for
Alterations to Historic Buildings and New Construction, the
Commission’s Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings
and New Construction, and Historic Fulton-Randolph Market
District Design Guidelines and Standards 9 and 10 of the U.S.
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation of
Historic Buildings and therefore, the project will not have an
adverse effect on the significant historical and architectural
features of the landmark property and district and approve the
project with the following conditions:
3. The three triangular canvas awnings on the west elevation
shall be modified to be open ended with free-hanging
valences. All dimensions and attachment details shall be
submitted with the permit plans; and,
4. The proposed combination steel canopies and extendable
awnings on the north elevation are not compatible with
traditional shapes, forms and materials and shall be revised
to either standard canvas awnings to match those on the
west elevation or a fixed projecting canopy, subject to staff
review and approval.
B. Alternatively, should the Committee find that the proposed
canopy/awning structures on the north elevation are a
contemporary interpretation of historic canopies and would not
have an adverse effect on the historic industrial character of the

 district, the Committee may approve the structures as proposed
with the following conditions:
1. The three triangular canvas awnings on the west elevation
shall be modified to be open ended with free-hanging
valences. All dimensions and attachment details shall be
submitted with the permit plans; and,
2. The three steel canopies with extendable canvas awnings
are approved as submitted. All dimensions and attachment
details shall be submitted with the permit plans.
4. 910 W. Randolph
27th Ward
Fulton-Randolph Market District
Proposed replacement of existing non-historic façade with new façade, storefronts, and
windows.
Applicant:

Edwin M. Vdovets, Keeler Real Estate, LLC
Scott Becker, Partners by Design, Inc., architect

Staff Recommendation: Staff recommends that the Committee find that:
(A) The subject property is a non-contributing building to the
Fulton-Randolph Market District; and,
(B) The project, with the following conditions, meets the criteria
set forth in the Commission’s Rules and Regulations, the
Commission’s Guidelines for Alterations to Historic Buildings
and New Construction, and therefore, the project will not have
an adverse effect on the significant historical and architectural
features of the landmark district and approve the project with
the following conditions:
1. All window and storefront details shall be reviewed and
approved with the permit plans;
2. New brick shall be compatible with the color and texture of
historic brick remaining, per staff review and approval of
material samples prior to permit submittal; and,
3. All glass shall be clear vision, and the windows and storefronts
shall have a dark, factory-applied finish.

 