ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
GENERAL MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 30, 2019
LOCATION: MURTIS TAYLOR HUMAN SERVICES SYSTEM
In the FAMILY AND COMMUNITY RESOURCE CENTER BUILDING
13411 Union Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120
ADAMHS BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT:
Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr.
Gwendolyn A. Howard, LSW, MSSA
Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D.
Katie Kern-Pilch, ATR-BC, LPC-S
Gregory X. Boehm, M.D.
Steve Killpack
Crystal L. Bryant, Esq., MS, LSW
Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA
Erskine Cade, MBA
Max M. Rodas, MA
J. Robert Fowler, Ph.D.
Sharon Rosenbaum, MBA
Harvey A. Snider, Esq.
ABSENT: Elsie Caraballo, Mary M. Step, Ph.D.
BOARD STAFF PRESENT: Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Arnett, Carole Ballard, Erin DiVincenzo, Tami Fischer,
Madison Greenspan, Felicia Harrison, Myra Henderson, Charde Hollins, Leslie Koblentz, Linda Lamp, Jacob Rosebrock, Starlette
Sizemore-Rice, Lavedia Smith, Maggie Tolbert, Leshia Yarbrough, Beth Zietlow-DeJesus
1. CALL TO ORDER / AUDIENCE INPUT
Chairperson, Benjamin Gohlstin, called the General Meeting to order at 4:00 p.m. and expressed his appreciation to Mr. Lovell J.
Custard, President and Chief Executive Officer of Murtis Taylor Human Services System, for graciously hosting the ADAMHS Board’s
General Meeting and for the warm welcome.
Mr. Mike Turk, Audience Member, reported that he concurred with Rev. Gohlstin’s closing remarks at the September 25, 2019
General Board meeting; when he discussed the importance of diversity at the provider agencies.
2. WELCOME
Mr. Lovell J. Custard, President and Chief Executive Officer, welcomed all to Murtis Taylor Human Services System, a county-wide
United Way charitable organization that provides behavioral health, addiction, youth, family and senior services. They serve more
than 11,000 children and adults annually at twelve locations.
Committee Input:
- Mr. Cade congratulated Mr. Custard and Murtis Taylor Human Services System staff on hosting a wonderful annual event
on Friday, October 25, 2019.
- Mr. Snider emphasized that he has known Mr. Custard for approximately twenty years and that he exemplifies the best in
the mental health community
3. OATH OF OFFICE
Ms. Kelli Perk, Assistant Prosecuting Attorney from the Office of Cuyahoga County Prosecutor Michael C. O’Malley, administered
the Oath of Office to Erskine Cade, MBA.
4. RECOGNITION OF CLIENT ARTWORK DISPLAY – OCTOBER 2019
Ms. Madison Greenspan, External Affairs Officer, reported on the work produced by Jewish Family Service Association of Cleveland
and the Mental Health Specialized Docket and brought with her samples of the artwork displayed in the Ohio Room at the ADAMHS
Board. In the absence of representatives from both organizations; certificates of participation will be presented at a later date.

Page 1 of 6

 General Meeting Minutes

5.

October 30, 2019

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - The minutes from the September 25, 2019 General Meeting were approved as submitted.

6. CHAIR’S REPORT
Rev. Gohlstin noted that a Board of Directors Retreat/Training has been scheduled for Saturday, November 16, 2019, 8:30 a.m. to
12:00 Noon, in the Cleveland Room at the Cleveland Marriott East, 26300 Harvard Road, Warrensville Heights, Ohio 44122. Agenda
items to include, but not be limited to, a presentation on Board ethics as well as how to avoid conflicts of interest.
The November meeting cycle was shared: Community Relations & Advocacy Committee will meet on November 6, 2019, the
Committee of the Whole will meet on November 13, 2019 and the General Meeting is scheduled for November 20, 2019.
Rev. Gohlstin reported that Mr. Osiecki and he have met with numerous clergy groups that represent the community; which included
United Pastors in Mission, Baptist Ministers Conference, Baptist Pastors Council, Cleveland Clergy Coalition and the Cleveland
Concerned Pastors. While meeting with these groups, Rev. Gohlstin and Mr. Osiecki passed out the ADAMHS Board’s services
directory; presented the Clergy members handbook as a bridge to mental health disorders and chemical abuse disorders; and
discussed the Board’s de-escalation training. He stated that there is excitement in the community and noted that United Pastors in
Mission has scheduled this training for all members.
7. COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE REPORT
Rev. Gohlstin reported that a Committee of the Whole meeting was held on October 23, 2019 at 4:00 p.m.; and addressed the
following topics:
▪ SFY 2021-2026 Community Capital Plan
▪ Finance Reports – Board Voucher & Expenditure Reports – September, 2019
▪ Contracts
▪ Contract Amendments
▪ Presentation of CY2020 ADAMHS Board Budget
▪ Opioid Settlement
[Dr. R. Blue arrived.]
Ms. Kirkland reported that she has decided to resign as a Board member of the ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County to take a part
time position working with a physician at University Hospitals. She emphasized that during her sixteen year tenure as a Board
member, she was afforded the opportunity to work with a wonderful group of individuals; and has a great deal of respect for the
community and providers. She stated that she has worked alongside Board members and provider agency executive staff for many
years; with admiration and respect for their continued efforts to fight for the community.
8. NOMINATING COMMITTEE REPORT
Dr. Reginald Blue, Nominating Committee Vice Chair, distributed the recommended Board member candidate’s OhioMHAS Board
Member Appointment Application to the full Board for review and discussion. He reported that based upon the Nominating
Committee member’s interview process of prospective candidates for the existing state appointment vacancy, Nominating Committee
members reached consensus to recommend the identified individual for the state appointment vacancy.
Motion to request authorization from the full Board to submit the recommended Board member candidate for the existing
OhioMHAS vacant appointment seat to the Director of the Ohio Department of Mental Health & Addiction Services
(OhioMHAS). MOTION: H. Snider / SECOND: S. Killpack / AYES: R. Blue, G. Boehm, C. Bryant, E. Cade, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin,
G. Howard, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion
passed.
9. FAITH-BASED OUTREACH COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Chair, Mr. Max Rodas, reported on the Faith-based Outreach Committee meeting held on October 2, 2019. He noted
the following agenda items of discussion:
▪ Provider Program Presentations: Strengths and Issues
o Student Training Outreach Prevention (STOP) Program
o Life Recovery Ministries

Page 2 of 6

 General Meeting Minutes

▪
▪

October 30, 2019

o NAMI Greater Cleveland
o OhioGuidestone
o The FAITH Program Inner City Youth and Families Cultural Arts Performance
o Project Community Empowerment Holistic Solutions for Holistic Programs
o Bridges Program Linking Faith and Mental Health Communities
o High Risk Teen Mentorship Program
CY2020 Faith-based Provider Funding Request Applications Update
Old/New Business – Next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, February 5, 2020
[Committee of the Whole Report - continuation]

 RESOLUTION NO. 19-10-01
APPROVAL OF SFY 2021-2026 COMMUNITY CAPITAL PLAN
Mr. Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, reported that the State Fiscal Year (SFY) 2021-2026 Community Capital Plan identifies
requests for capital projects that benefit Mental Health and Alcohol and/or Other Drug (AOD) clients with an emphasis on Permanent
Supportive Housing (PSH), Supportive Housing and other program space that complements a full continuum of care. The Ohio
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (OhioMHAS) issued a notice to all Boards on August 28, 2019, that it is in the
process of preparing the next six year capital plan for submission to the Office of Budget and Management (OBM). OhioMHAS will
use the local system’s capital plan submission to develop the community section of its capital plan request to OBM. All Boards that
anticipate requesting capital funds at any time in the next six years must submit a Capital Plan to OhioMHAS by October 10, 2019.
The Capital Plan includes a project worksheet form for each individual project.
Providers submitted proposed projects to the ADAMHS Board and staff reviewed and prioritized projects according to OhioMHAS
priorities. Information submitted by providers that included other funds leveraged, client and/or family member involvement and
project readiness were considered in the prioritization process. OhioMHAS does not anticipate receiving capital appropriations to
sufficiently fund all projects in the State. The ADAMHS Board’s Community Capital Plan and prioritization of projects can be
amended each SFY as needed and requested by OhioMHAS.
Mr. Osiecki reported that the projects included in the SFY 2021-2026 Community Capital Plan reflect areas of needs that align with
the Board’s Community and Strategic Plans. He stated that Board funding is not required and that OhioMHAS funding is to be used
for capital construction and/or renovation. Third party funding is provided through the requesting agency.
Motion to approve SFY 2021-2026 Community Capital Plan Resolution No. 19-10-01. MOTION: S. Killpack / SECOND: K. KernPilch / AYES: R. Blue, G. Boehm, C. Bryant, E. Cade, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, G. Howard, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E. Kirkland, M.
Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed
CONSENT AGENDA: Resolution Nos.19-10-02 through 19-10-04
Ms. Felicia Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, highlighted the Vouchers, Contracts and Amendments as listed below.
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-10-02 – ACCEPTING THE REPORT OF THE CEO ON EXPENDITURES AND VOUCHERS
PROCESSED FOR PAYMENT DURING SEPTEMBER 2019
Ms. Felicia Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, reported that for the first 9 months of 2019 the Board has spent a total of $3,505,667.00
that is roughly 61.71% of the total Administrative budget.
In September, the Board received revenues of $3,362,829.00, bringing our total revenue to $57,080,165.00 which is approximately
93.71% of our anticipated revenue for the year as a result of receiving our total County allocation in January, 2019. Expenditures for
September were $4,240,243.00 bringing our total expenses for the first 9 months to $38,232,544.00 that is 59.82% of our anticipated
expenditures for the calendar year.
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-10-03 – APPROVAL AND RATIFICATION OF CONTRACTS:
1. Youth-Led Prevention Funding for the Teen Institute Program - $22,474.000
- Recovery Resources

Page 3 of 6

 General Meeting Minutes

October 30, 2019

2. Acceptance of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Overdose to Action Grant Funds from the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health (CCBOH) – $97,064.00
3. Acceptance of OhioMHAS Grant Funding for Psychotropic Drug Reimbursement - $32,290.00
- Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Department
4. Community Transition Program (CTP) – Expansion of Linkage Services to Include Substance Use Disorders $651,280.72
- FrontLine Service
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-10-04 – APPROVAL OF CONTRACT AMENDMENTS:
1. Amendment to Resolution 19-07-03 for FFY2020 Opportunities for Ohioans with Disabilities (OOD), Case Services
Contract - $2,327,271.99
- Jewish Family Service Association - $336,913.55
- Recovery Resources - $415,358.44
2. Amendment to Resolution 18-11-08 for Awarding OhioMHAS Behavioral Health/Criminal Justice (BH/CJ) Linkages
Program Funding - $142,666.00
- Recovery Resources
3. Amendment to Resolution 18-11-08 for Stella Maris for Recovery Housing Network - $40,000.00
Motion to approve the Consent Agenda (Resolution Nos. 19-10-02 through 19-10-04). MOTION: S. Rosenbaum / SECOND:
E. Kirkland / AYES: R. Blue, G. Boehm, C. Bryant, E. Cade, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, G. Howard, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E.
Kirkland, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed
10. CY2020 BUDGET DISCUSSION
Mr. Osiecki reported that two inquiries were received from Board members based upon their review of the budget material and that
questions were discussed as they came in. Mr. Osiecki highlighted that one question received from Mr. Steve Killpack included a
request to fund the AIDS Funding Collaborative for $75,000.00.
Mr. Steve Killpack acknowledged and commended the hard work and efforts of staff to compile the information contained in the
CY2020 ADAMHS Board Budget binders distributed. He reported that he would like to recommend restoring funding for the AIDS
Funding Collaborative for two reasons, one being a cross-over in shared missions around intravenous drug use; specifically around
harm reduction programs. He noted that both programs are being funded through Circle Health; the Board funds them for the
Fentanyl program and the AIDS Funding Collaborative funds them for the Syringe Exchange program, and highlighted the importance
of collaborating efforts when co-funding programs. He further stated that he hopes that at some point the community will become
more progressive in harm reduction programs and adopt supervised injection sites; for which the AIDS Funding Collaborative is
interested in as well. Mr. Killpack also emphasized the importance of the Board’s role as a funding leader in the community for which
representatives need to participate on advisory boards and collaborative funding boards.
Mr. Rodas inquired as to the logic behind the exclusion of CY2020 funding for the AIDS Funding Collaborative. Mr. Osiecki reported
that when a request for funding was presented to the Board several months prior, the Board was questioning the need to fund this
program. Discussion followed.
Mr. Osiecki noted that CY2020 funding for the AIDS Funding Collaborative could be done through one of two means; fund them
separately from this CY2020 budget or include them in the CY2020 Board Budget binder. Rev. Gohlstin suggested that they be
funded separately through an agenda process sheet and Resolution as since it was not part of the Board’s Strategic Plan.
Mr. Osiecki reported that a second inquiry around the CY2020 Budget binder included a recommendation to increase the funding
for Trinity Outreach Ministries – Another Chance Ohio. Rev. Gohstin indicated that the Faith-based program by Dr. Deborah WatsonDaniels, Program Operations Director/Manager at Trinity Outreach Ministries – Another Chance Ohio, has been a successful
program within the Board’s Faith-based initiative. Mr. Osiecki recommended that Ms. Sizemore-Rice, Director of Special Projects,
follow-up with Dr. Deborah Watson-Daniels regarding the availability of Board funding relative to her needs.

Page 4 of 6

 General Meeting Minutes

October 30, 2019

11. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT - Scott S. Osiecki
 Staff Update
- Mr. Osiecki reported that on Monday, November 4, 2019 Board staff will officially welcome Ms. Kelli Perk to the ADAMHS
Board as its new Director of Risk Management. Ms. Perk is currently at the Cuyahoga County Prosecutors Office.
- Ms. Charde Hollins has been hired as a Behavioral Health Prevention Specialist and began her work with the Board on
Monday, September 30, 2019. Ms. Hollins has a strong background in behavioral health prevention services and was
most recently employed with the Ohio Department of Youth Services.
 Clergy Meetings
- Mr. Osiecki reported that as a result of meeting with numerous clergy groups that represent the community; Ms. Carole
Ballard, Director of Training and Education, has provided various trainings to church clergy from a number of churches
in the community and will be providing additional training around de-escalation during November, 2019.
 Roads to Recovery Conference
- Board staff will be providing a Roads to Recovery Conference wrap-up at the Community Relations & Advocacy
Committee meeting of Wednesday, November 6, 2019. Mr. Osiecki also acknowledged and commended staff efforts
relative to the success of this conference.
 Cuyahoga County Budget Presentation
- Mr. Osiecki reported that he forwarded to Board members his presentation; as well as a response from questions
received as a result of the Board’s CY2020 budget presentation to Cuyahoga County’s Committee of the Whole on
Thursday, October 17, 2019.
 Second Annual Cleveland Mental Health Art Show
- The Second Annual Art Show of the Cleveland Municipal Court Mental Health Docket showcasing projects from Art
Therapy sessions was held on Thursday, October 10, 2019 at the Board’s Administrative Office.
 Mental Health and Addiction Advocacy Coalition (MHAC) Legislative Breakfast
- Board members and staff attended the MHAC 16th Annual Public Officials Breakfast on Friday, October 11, 2019 at
Nuevo Restaurant.
 Opioid Settlement
- Mr. Osiecki stated that the ADAMHS Board will be receiving approximately $10.5 million from the Opioid settlement;
however the original ask was for $17.1 million for programs. These funds will be used for expanding Stella Maris
residential treatment beds that will be housed at Y-Haven; St. Vincent Charity Medical Center to expand their Intensive
Outpatient Program (IOP) and Partial Hospitalization Program (PHP); and Ascent ED to expand their peer support
program in each of the emergency rooms in Cuyahoga County.
Mr. Osiecki reported that an additional Opioid settlement has been announced; whereby Cuyahoga County will be
receiving 65% and Summit County will be receiving 35%. As a result, Cuyahoga County Council will be setting up a
separate fund; with decisions regarding these funds to be determined in the future. ADAMHS Board staff have requested
to participate when decisions regarding these funds are discussed.
 Bill Mason Meeting
- Mr. Osiecki reported that he met with Mr. Bill Mason, Cuyahoga County Chief of Staff, on Thursday, October 24, 2019
for a meet and greet.
 State Opioid Response (SOR) Grant Update
- Mr. Osiecki noted that there is another round of SOR applications for all provider agency participants that received SOR
funding in 2019 for MAT programs, housing programs and peer support. These provider agencies are eligible to apply
for year 2 of funding, which is for a 12 month timeframe as opposed to a 3 to 6 month amount that was received in 2019.

Page 5 of 6

 General Meeting Minutes

October 30, 2019

This application was due on October 2, 2019. He stated that provider agencies were requested to provide budget
estimates; which total approximately $3 Million.
Mr. Osiecki indicated that 2 grant proposals were submitted for targeted minorities and high risk families. These
applications were due to the State by September 20, 2019. The estimated request for each of the 2 SOR grant proposals
was $1,000,000.00.
 OhioMHAS 2019 Crisis Academy
- Mr. Osiecki noted that Ms. Tolbert, Mr. Smith, Jr., two representatives from the community and himself attended the
OhioMHAS Crisis Services Academy on Monday, October 28, 2019 in Columbus, Ohio. He stated that additional funding
is available for crisis infrastructure. Experts from around the country spoke to attendees on crisis services to gain insight
and ideas as to how to utilize this funding for infrastructure in Ohio.
 Magnolia Clubhouse Event
- The ADAMHS Board received a partner in employment award from Magnolia Clubhouse. Mr. Osiecki reported that
several participants in Magnolia Clubhouse’s employment program have worked at the ADAMHS Board’s reception
desk to gain experience for future employment opportunities.
12. OLD/NEW BUSINESS
Ms. Linda Lamp, Executive Assistant, noted that Board members received a copy of the CY2020 Board of Directors schedule of
meetings.
Mr. Harvey Snider and Mr. Osiecki congratulated Ms. Kirkland on her new position and thanked her for her friendship and
commitment to ensuring services are provided to the community.
Mr. Osiecki noted that Board members and staff are invited to tour Murtis Taylor Human Services System at the conclusion of the
meeting.
13. AUDIENCE INPUT – None.
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 4:50 p.m.
Submitted by:

Linda Lamp, Executive Assistant

Approved by:

________________________________________________________________________
Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Chairperson, ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County

Page 6 of 6

 