ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
FAITH-BASED OUTREACH COMMITTEE MINUTES
JUNE 5, 2019
Committee Members: Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Gwendolyn Howard, LSW, MSSA, Rev. Brenda Ware-Abrams,
Absent: Rev. Max Rodas, MA, Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA, Mary R. Warr, M.Ed.
Board Staff Present: Maggie Tolbert, Assistant Chief Clinical Officer, Carol Krajewski, Starlette Sizemore-Rice, Lavedia
Smith, Thomas Williams
1. CALL TO ORDER
Rev. Benjamin Gohlstin called the meeting to order at 4:10 p.m. and clarified that he has appointed Gwendolyn Howard as
Faith-based Outreach Committee Vice Chair. Ms. Howard read aloud the committee’s mission statement, “To recognize
and advocate spirituality in the recovery process; to connect the spiritual perspective with other interventions and best
practices; and to promote the concept that treatment works and people recover.”
2. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Faith-Based Outreach Committee minutes of April 3, 2019 were approved as written.
3. 2019 FAITH-BASED OUTREACH INITIATIVES: PROGRESS REPORT
Starlette Sizemore-Rice, Director of Special Projects, highlighted accomplishments of each of the nine Faith-based
Outreach Providers illustrated in the written Faith-based Outreach Program Progress Report dated April 2019. The report
is attached to the original minutes stored in the Executive Unit.
The report on the 1st Quarter 2019 Faith-Based Program Outcomes is the initial effort to share the DARS (Devereuz Adult
Resilience Survey) measurement tool results. As the DARS trainings for Faith-based providers were held in March 2019,
it was noted that several providers are just beginning to use the new measurement tool. The report identifies the four
agencies that have submitted their DARS data to date.
4. PRESENTATION: MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS, SUPPORT & EDUCATION – NAMI GREATER CLEVELAND
Marsha Blanks, Program Director at NAMI Greater Cleveland (National Alliance on Mental Illness), noted that last year
NAMI successfully served 441 people in the category awareness, 187 people in education, and 12 persons in support. This
year NAMI intends to focus on the philosophy of “education as awareness”. Educational support has been provided to
Open Door Baptist, Affinity Baptist Church, and Lakewood Congregational. NAMI is hopeful that its partnership with the
clergy alliance becomes fruitful and that it will be able to provide education about every day mental health concerns.
A unique collaboration is underway with Affinity Baptist Church. NAMI has been participating monthly in Affinity’s Health
Ministries meetings and helping the group shape and guide their inclusion of mental health content. A Saturday presentation
was made about Bridges of Hope that focused on different mental health conditions. A testimony was given by a person
who shared that spirituality played a major part in her recovery. As a result of this presentation, initial efforts are underway
to consider establishing a support group.
NAMI recently partnered with Naaleh Cleveland and the Jewish community in a recent panel discussion entitled, “When is
a problem a problem” (in mental health for children and teens). Rabbi Helman added that this was the 3rd panel discussion
on this topic. Close to 50 people were in attendance. He noted that a Rabbi from a local synagogue presented about the
importance of talking about mental health; three clinicians participated who work with local Jewish Orthodox-based schools.
The panel spoke for a few minutes, the floor was opened for questions and attendees were very interested and engaged.
The meeting was recorded and NAMI provided surveys to complete. Rabbi Helman thanked Ms. Blanks for facilitating the
meeting, and she noted that having a trusted partner involved made all the difference.

Page 1 of 3

 Faith-based Outreach Committee Minutes

June 5, 2019

5. UPDATES
•
Radio Show – Ms. Sizemore-Rice reported that several providers have participated on the “Healing the Hurt” radio
broadcasts. Broadcast times have changed to every other Thursday evening from 8:00-11:00 p.m. It was noted that
it is not necessary to fill all the air time to 11:00 p.m. She shared recent and future broadcasts as listed below:
- April 1 – Rev. Andrea Jacobs, MDIV, BCC, OhioGuidestone
- May 2nd – Rev. Karell McDaniel, Life Recovery Ministries
- May 16th – Dr. Benjamin Franklin, Inner Healing Ministries
- June 6th – Marsha Blank, NAMI Greater Cleveland
- June 20th – Dr. Deborah Watson-Daniels, Trinity Outreach Ministries—Another Chance of Ohio
- July 11th – Raj Roberson, Coalition for Better Life/Peace in the Hood
- 2 agencies (St. James African Methodist Episcopal Church & Far West Center) to be scheduled in the near future.
Rev. Gohlstin noted that as of May 20th there were 19 overdose deaths (crack cocaine laced with fentanyl) in
Cuyahoga County. Ten of the deaths took place over the Memorial Day weekend in the African American community
in Cleveland and East Cleveland. Recently, a coalition of ministers came together along with community leaders,
Mayor Jackson, Police Chief Williams, Chief of the Drug Squad, County Executive Budish, two County Councilpersons
and Board staff to discuss strategies on how to begin to move toward combating this crisis in our community.
This topic was also addressed by Rev. Gohlstin on a radio broadcast on Monday, May 20th on 1490 WERE. Based
upon the two meetings held, the ADAMHS Board is preparing fentanyl test strips that can be placed in the bathrooms
of churches, restaurants, barber/beauty shops to test drugs to see if fentanyl is present. The ADAMHS Board is also
preparing posters for display and businesses will be asked to have at least one Naloxone/Narcan kit on their premises.
•

Evaluation/Outcome Training - Ms. Sizemore-Rice reported that Faith-based Outreach providers participated in
their last training session on the use of Devereux Student Strength Assessment (DESSA) and Devereux Adult
Resilience Survey (DARS) Evaluation Tools on 5/16/19.

•

Faith-based Program Documentary - Dr. Watson-Daniels shared her plans to produce a 35-40 minute documentary.
The goal is to interview and record provider staff as well as to visit their programs on-site. The documentary will aim
to share the impact of the various programs and services. It is hoped that the finished product can be shared with
committee members in October.

6. OLD/NEW BUSINESS
•

Rev. Gohlstin noted that he is contemplating the scheduling of a Faith-based Outreach Committee meeting in
September as well as October. The reason is to allow time for preparation and review of potential contracts so that
Faith-based Outreach agencies will know where they stand earlier than late in January.

•

Rev. McDaniel, Gwen Howard and Rev. Gohlstin met with the staff at Saint Martin de Porres High School. A lively
discussion was held around the possibility of a partnership with the ADAMHS Board. Some recommendations are
being considered and may involve the participation of Dr. Watson, Dr. Franklin and Rev. McDaniel.

•

Rev. Brenda Ware-Abrams thanked all of the guests who participated on the radio broadcast; she feels that it is so
important to share information with the community.

7. NEXT MEETING DATE – October 2, 2019 at 4:00 p.m. (Tentative additional meeting: Wednesday, September 4th)
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 4:40 p.m.
Submitted by: Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist
Page 2 of 3

 Faith-based Outreach Committee Minutes
Approved by: Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Faith-Based Outreach Committee Member

June 5, 2019

Page 3 of 3

 