TRANSITION PLAN
For the Proposed Closure of
Hope High School

I.

Introduction

Chicago Public Schools (CPS) is committed to providing every child from every community with a high
quality education that prepares them for success in college, career and civic life. CPS students continue
to make record-breaking academic progress in every part of the city. Our goal is that all CPS schools can
build on this progress by offering high quality, rigorous instruction from talented educators that help put
Chicago students on a path to lasting success.
On December 1, 2017, CPS proposed ​the closure of ​Hope High School ​located at 5515 S. Lowe Avenue in
the Englewood neighborhood. ​Following the December 1st announcement, CPS continued an extensive
community engagement process involving community meetings, parent meetings, a public hearing, and
regular discussions with elected officials and the Englewood Steering Committee. Based on the feedback
received, CPS adjusted its proposal to allow current students at Hope to graduate from their school.
At the end of last school year (SY18-19), Hope High School had 20 students enrolled. As of November 1,
2019, Hope had zero students enrolled. All students that have transferred out of the school after June
30, 2018 received support to ensure a successful transition to their new school. Additionally, each high
school receiving transfer students received $6,100 per student in supplemental funding to provide
academic, social and emotional, and other supports to these students during SY18-19 and SY19-20. CPS
continues to support former Hope High School students with this transition and as of November 1, 2019,
all Hope High School students have successfully transitioned to other schools. This funding and support
will also continue in SY20-21.
The proposed closure of Hope High School meets the criteria of the Chief Executive Officer’s Guidelines
(Guidelines) because as of November 1, 2019, there were zero students enrolled at Hope.

II.

Summary of Action

Hope is a neighborhood high school located at 5515 S. Lowe Avenue in the Englewood Neighborhood
and CPS’ Network 16. CPS is proposing to close Hope High School at the end of SY19-20, effective July 1,
2020. This proposal is consistent with the Chief Executive Officer’s Guidelines because as of November
1, 2019, there were zero students enrolled at Hope. The transition plan outlined below summarizes any
transition support for this proposal.
III.

Safety and Security

Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, there will be no direct impact on students’ safety.
Current CPS students who were previously enrolled at Hope at any point during SY17-18 are being

 provided transition supports pursuant to the 'Updated Transition Plan' posted to the CPS school action
website on July 7, 2018: ​bit.ly/schoolactions-HopeHS
IV.

Supports for Students and Schools

Academic Needs for Students
Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, there will be no direct impact on students’ academic
needs. ​Current CPS students who were previously enrolled at Hope at any point during SY17-18 are
being provided transition supports pursuant to the 'Updated Transition Plan' posted to the CPS school
action website on July 7, 2018: ​bit.ly/schoolactions-HopeHS
Social Emotional Needs of Students
Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, there will be no direct impact on students with social
and emotional needs.
Students with Diverse Learning Needs
Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, there will be no direct impact on students with diverse
learning needs.
Students in Temporary Living Situations
Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, there will be no direct impact on students in temporary
living situations.
English Learners
Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, there will be no direct impact on students who are
English Language Learners.
Transportation
Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, there will be no direct impact on students with
transportation needs.
Departments Responsible for Oversight
The Portfolio Office of Chicago Public Schools will be responsible for oversight of this proposal and
ensuring the success of former Hope students in their new school environment.
Programs to be Offered
Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, specific programs are not applicable.
Support to Receiving Schools and Funding Source
Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, supports to receiving schools and funding sources are
not applicable. Current CPS students who were previously enrolled at Hope at any point during SY17-18
are being provided transition supports pursuant to the 'Updated Transition Plan' posted to the CPS
school action website on July 7, 2018: ​bit.ly/schoolactions-HopeHS
V.

Information Regarding Choice of School

 Because there are no students enrolled at Hope, information regarding choice of school is not
applicable. However, for general information regarding school choice, please visit go.cps.edu.
VI.

Public Comment

CPS will hold two community meetings and one formal public hearing regarding the proposed closure of
Hope High School. Public comment will be accepted during each meeting or hearing and the transcripts
can be found online at cps.edu/transitions. The community meetings and public hearing are during the
following dates and times:
Community Meeting

Community Meeting

Public Hearing

Tuesday, January 14, 2020
5:30-7:00 PM
Kershaw Elementary
6450 S Lowe Ave

Thursday, January 23, 2020
5:30-7:00 PM
Kershaw Elementary
6450 S Lowe Ave

Wednesday, January 29, 2020
5:30pm - 6:30pm
CPS Central Office
42 West Madison Street

Further Questions and Concerns:
This document can be found at CPS.edu/Transitions. If you have any questions or concerns regarding
this transition plan, please call Chicago Public Schools at (773) 553-1500 or email Transitions@cps.edu.

 