CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
Capital Committee Work Session
April 13, 2019
Rooms 1A&B
Lake Shore Facility
9:00AM

Present:

Ms. Butts, Mr. Corrigan, Ms. Rodriguez, Ms. Washington, Mr. Parker

Absent:

Mr. Seifullah, Mr. Hairston

Mr. Parker called the Capital Committee Work Session to order at 9:08 a.m.
Capital Committee (Mr. Parker Chair)
Present:
Anthony T. Parker, Chair, Thomas D. Corrigan, Vice Chair, Alice G. Butts,
Alesha Washington
Absent:
None
Director’s Update on Bold Plan
Director Thomas thanked the Board for attending the Capital Committee Work Session; the staff
for their hard work on the Strategic Plan, CPL150 initiative, a new organizational service model,
and other projects.
At the Director’s request, Mr. Parker shared a story about an employee who expressed his deep
appreciation for the time he spent at the Library especially when President Kennedy was
assassinated. Mr. Parker mentioned that he was moved as he heard this story and stated that the
Library is engrained in the memories of many.
Director Thomas stated that in 2009, the Library staff reduced from 1,050 to 750 and the budget
reduced from $70 million to $60 million. In 2011, major changes had to be made in the
organization as a result of large funding losses. The organization was stabilized in 2013 with a
“Big Shift”.
Director Thomas reviewed the accomplishments of the “Big Shift” in 2013 to CPL150 in 2019:







Provided effective services despite 20% reduction in funding over past 4 years.
Opened the new Rice Branch and TechCentral
Increase Clevnet members to 44 with a 6:1 ROI
Focused on creating communities of learning and community deficit fighting
Circulation per hour was up
Continuing as a library of ideas

1

 Director Thomas gave an overview of the 2013 landscape:







Ohio Metro Libraries had bold plans
o Dayton - $187 million
o CCPL - $110 million
o Columbus - $99 million
CPL branch facilities needed attention
Main Library had decreasing use/needed consolidation and repositioning
Needed funding options
Needed to build a Friends Foundation

Director Thomas reviewed the 2019 state of the Library:
 Continuous Levy - vote of confidence
 $100 + million Facility Master Plan
 Reimagining branch libraries
 CPL150: A year of celebration
 Not about statistics: It’s about the people of “The People’s University”
 Launch of Cleveland Public Library Foundation
 Re-envisioning:
o Level opportunity
o Foster learning
o Facilitate discovery
In conclusion, Director Thomas shared the following: Imagine a university that doesn’t care
about your GPA. A university that doesn’t require a standardized test; that doesn’t hold auditions
or require letters of recommendation. A university that doesn’t charge tuition. This
UNIVERSITY is Cleveland Public Library: THE PEOPLE’S UNIVERSITY.
Director Thomas gave a brief overview of the day’s agenda in efforts to move forward with the
plan.
Financial/Budget Overview
Carrie Krenicky, Chief Financial Officer, gave a current financial/budget overview and a look
forward in regards to the Facilities Master Plan and how the Library would fund it.
Ms. Krenicky gave an overview of the General Fund Amended Certificate of Resources and
stated that our total revenue is $77.2 million but our Certified Operating Revenue is
$60,501,213.84 and noted the following breakdown:
o Property Tax/Rollbacks = 60%
o PLF = 37%
Ms. Krenicky gave an overview of the General Fund-Second and Third Amendment to the Year
Appropriation. The Library has a $59.2 million Appropriation and that the Third Amendment
would be going before the Board of Trustees on April 18, 2019 requesting a $56.8 million
2

 Appropriation. We will be reducing the Salaries and Benefits appropriation by $2 million and
Library Materials by $425,000. Ms. Krenicky noted the following:




Certified Revenue = $60.5 million
Certified Revenue exceeds the Second Amendment to the Appropriation by $1.32 million
Certified Revenue exceeds the Third Amendment to the Appropriation by $3.7 million

Ms. Krenicky reviewed the current Certified Revenue, Appropriations and Balances General
Fund for the period ending March 31, 2019 and noted the following which has been collected
percent to date:
PLF State Income Tax
General Property Tax

25%
57%

Currently collected is approximately $25 million out of $60.5 million certified revenue as we
close March 2019.
Ms. Krenicky reviewed the Expenditures and noted that the total Appropriation is $65.4 million
and so far we have expended $23.4 million. Salaries/Benefits are coming in lower than what it
should be in March (22% vs 25%) allowing us to reduce our Salaries/Benefits by $2 million this
year.
Ms. Krenicky stated that with our current Budget (2nd Amendment to the Appropriation),
$1,324,032 is left for debt service; and with the Proposed 3rd Amendment to the Appropriation,
$3,749,032 will be left for debt service.
Ms. Krenicky reviewed the Certified Revenue to Appropriate for Operating Expenditures and
noted the following:






6.8 mill revenue = $51,943,977 + allocation of $2,000,000 of the 2.0 mill revenue for
operating expenditures = Certified Revenue of $53,943,977
We should be appropriating at this amount ($54 million)
Current appropriation = $59,177,182
Difference = $5,233,205
Last year’s actual expenditures: $54,287,816

Ms. Krenicky stated that we are trying to get to a $55m appropriation next year. To achieve
this, consider the following assumptions:
We reduce the Salaries and Benefits current Appropriation by $2,000,000
 We are reassessing salary and benefits projection for 2019 (and forward) and actual
expenditures are coming in under budget
We reduce the Library Services Material Appropriation by $425,000
 $55m x 13% = $7,150,000 and current appropriation is $7,575,000
 In 2018, LSM (general fund) per capita expenditure was $17 ($20 for all funds)
3

 

With this reduction, LSM (general fund) per capita expenditure is $18 ($22 for all funds)

For CY 2020, set appropriations at $55m and allocate as follows:
 65% Salary & Benefits
 13% Library Materials
 22% Other-Purchased Services, Supplies, Capital Outlay
 We pledge $500,000 annually for cash capital to fund on-going capital maintenance
 We project these changes stay in place moving forward with a 2% annual increase in
expenditures; our revenues remain flat and as currently certified, but we collect $1.7m
annually in delinquent taxes (which are not certified)
 We issue debt for Phase 1 for $62 million, with debt service payments beginning in 2020
 We issue debt for Phase 2 for $41 million, with debt service payments beginning in 2025
Ms. Krenicky gave a detailed overview of a forecasted certified projection through 2029.
Ms. Krenicky stated that currently we are certified at $60.5 million revenue. With the 3rd
amendment we will have a $56.8 million appropriation. We will possibly receive $1.7 million
additional in delinquent taxes. In 2020, the appropriation is set at $55 million and we will still
bring in $60.5 million in revenues and the unencumbered balance is $25 million. We should be
maintaining at least $9 million, which is equivalent to 2 months of operating expenditures in the
unencumbered balance. Ms. Krenicky continued her detailed overview of projections for 2021
through 2029 and stated that we must focus on sustainability to move forward with these phases.
Ms. Krenicky gave an overview of the Library’s financial history from 2003 to the present
showing actual revenues and expenditures. In conclusion, Ms. Krenicky stated that given our
history and our current state, we need to get on a path of sustainability and assess projections
annually in order to support the Facilities Master Plan over the next 10 years and issue long term
debt.
In response to Ms. Rodriguez’ inquiry, Ms. Krenicky stated that she was comfortable with
moving forward with a phased in approach and feels that we can support Phase I with $62
million. If something happens, we have the ability to move Phase 2 forward. Although we do
not know what will happen with PLF after our agreement with other libraries in 2021; we are
merely forecasting. Starting smaller in Phase 1 rather than one big project all at once, makes it
more feasible and sustainable.
Ms. Butts asked how Salaries/Benefits would be reduced.
Ms. Krenicky stated that this year, it is decreasing naturally as we budgeted too much and there
are positions that were projected in the budget that will not be filled. Deputy Director Wilson is
looking at Public Services, Technical Services, and all of the administrative units to determine
what the compliment should be along with the new service model to support the Facilities Master
Plan.
Director Thomas stated that at the beginning of the year, Ms. Krenicky budgets for staff who are
in those positions. As those position become vacant, many of them have not been filled.
4

 Because they have not been filled, this keeps costs down as we continue to assess the future need
for those positions.
Ms. Butts stated that when positions are not filled, additional burdens are put on staff we
currently have.
Director Thomas stated that we continue to evaluate and provide what the staffing needs are as
well as needs of the patrons we serve.
Director Thomas stated that at one time, there were several branch manager positions that needed
to be filled. We looked internally and considered staff who may not have an MLIS degree but
possess managerial and supervisory experience. For example, Marina Marquez is now leading
our East 131st Street Branch.
Mr. Corrigan asked for the Library’s percentage history of Materials in the budget.
Ms. Krenicky stated about 13% and that it varies depending upon if we base it on the total of
appropriations or certified revenue as we have not always had a balanced budget.
Mr. Corrigan expressed his concern about reduction in filling positions and library materials and
stated that he hoped that Main would be open 7 days per week.
Director Thomas stated that the collection would remain at 13% and then will actually increase
as endowment funds designated specifically for collections would be added.
In response to Mr. Corrigan’s inquiry, Director Thomas stated that in regards to Sunday hours,
the Library has capacity issues and an allocation issue.
Director Thomas stated that one of the promises to our community was to look at the possibility
of providing more service hours. We are examining where staff are currently allocated and how
to move them into Public Services to support additional hours. Director Thomas noted that
branches have been very understaffed for some time. We are looking at a model where
substitutes are moved into permanent positions.
In response to Mr. Corrigan’s inquiry, Director Thomas stated that the Capital Plan allocation
does not limit the possibility for the Library to expand service hours.
Discussion continued about Union support and upcoming negotiations in July.
Director Thomas stated that discussions have been held with the Union about how they can
provide flexibility to do this work.
After Cedric Johns, Director of Employee and Labor Relations, shared his perspective on
negotiations, Director Thomas stated that we will need to fix our staffing allocations issues.

5

 Ms. Washington stated that if the Library staffing and materials are reduced to its former size in
2013, it is important to think through how this is explained to the public in a way that will
resonate with them.
Director Thomas stated that we are working on developing a plan to bring to the Board. We
believe that the community will appreciate that we will put more permanent staff in the branches.
Marketing this concept will be important in our public relations.
In response to Mr. Corrigan’s inquiry, Director Thomas stated that with the new staffing
allocation, employees in the Bargaining Unit will increase.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Ms. Sadie Winlock, Director, Equity & Inclusion Initiatives, stated that Director Thomas has
charged her to assess where the Library is currently in regards to diversity, equity and inclusion
and how Greater Cleveland views diversity, equity and inclusion.
Ms. Winlock stated that the purpose of her work was to:
 Review corporate and organizational notes
 Identify opportunities for definition and strategy development for CPL
Ms. Winlock identified the following expected outcomes:
 Policy Definition Agreement
 Potential Strategies
o Internal
o External
o Supply Chain
Ms. Winlock stated that she met and interviewed Chief Diversity Officers from corporate, health
and academic institutions:
Corporations
 Key Bank
Health Institutions
 Cleveland Clinic
 MetroHealth
 University Hospital
Academic Institutions
 Cleveland State
 Cuyahoga Community College
 Case Western Reserve
Service Organizations
 Cleveland Neighborhood Progress
6

 





GCP - Commission on Economic Inclusion
Cleveland Leadership Center
Jewish Federation
City of Cleveland
The Diversity Center

Ms. Winlock stated that she met with the following Support Organizations:
 Cleveland Leadership Center
 Commission on Economic Inclusion
 Jewish Federation
 City of Cleveland
 The Diversity Center
Ms. Winlock discussed the interview process that included the following 15 questions:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Describe your role.
Why is this work important to your organization?
How was it messaged throughout the organization?
What is the most challenging part of your role? Most rewarding?
How do you/your organization define:
a. Diversity
b. Inclusion
c. Equity
6. How does your definition/processes align with the needs of the community (education,
workforce, health)?
7. In designing your program/processes, where did you begin?
8. What are some pitfalls we should look out for/avoid?
9. What processes were in place when you took on the role?
10. What new processes are needed?
11. What does employee training look like? How Often? Delivery Process?
12. How was the relevance of this work communicated? What is the ongoing communication
to keep it relevant?
13. Was it – is it folded into all strategies across the organization? If so how? If not why?
14. How do you determine if your programs and services are free from inequities?
15. What advice would you give CPL in developing its definitions and closing equity gaps
across the organization both internal and external?
Ms. Winlock shared the following findings as a result of her interviews and gave a detailed
overview of each:
In all but one organization, the CDO is part of the senior leadership team
1. The placement of this role has to be in alignment with its importance to the organization
2. Employees need to continuously hear from the CEO that DEI will be a part of who the
organization is, what and how it does it

7

 3. The message has to be consistent and clear from the CEO to establish relevance to overall
significance to the success of the organization
DEI has become a key strategy for all organizations interviewed because of the diversity of
the community being served and the expectations citizens are starting to communicate
1. All organizations interviewed showed documentation of how DEI is part of every
communication, training and development for new and ongoing for existing employees.
2. To emphasize DEI as a key strategy, 100% of the organizations interviewed had ERG’s
(Employee Resource Groups), representing the diversity among employees.
3. ERGs identify equity gaps, provide feedback on how to close, assist with identifying
training and development needs, recommend product improvement and development, add
value to programs and events
4. All organizations produced an annual report/scorecard results and on pace towards DEI
goal achievement
Cleveland Clinic’s DEI strategy was developed to address what they consider 4 key areas, which
could be considered best practices. While the goals are the same their approach/processes are
different based on the audience.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Workplace
Workforce
Market Place
Community

The message that DEI is important to the organization came from the CEO, to the senior leaders
and each senior leader is held accountable for DEI through performance management.
1. Every organization determined how to include DEI goals in the performance of its senior
leaders.
2. Some organizations included this accountability throughout with each employee being
held accountable to attend training, demonstrate learning and show levels of respect as
indicated through DEI definition.
3. All organizations either had a Diversity Council or Diversity Task Force that assisted
with the development and organizational accountability to achieve goals
While there were variations among the organizations in where the program development and
delivery started, a few areas were consistent.
All organizations included DEI training as part of the onboarding process for new hires.
All organizations started in-depth DEI training with senior leadership team and the board.
All organizations have ongoing training for existing employees.
All organizations have a recognition program for employees who demonstrate definition
and meaning of DEI.
5. Two organizations have DEI as part of Human Resources with a specific division in HR
devoted to the topic.
1.
2.
3.
4.

8

 All organizations utilized both internal and external expertise for training and development.
1. All organizations had a person dedicated to training DEI on their staff, in the DEI
division or department.
2. That individual had some form of local or national certifications.
3. External trainers are used in areas where the local may not have expertise.
4. DEI training strategy is placed in the strategic plan of the organization with a calendar of
training.
5. All organizations provided both online and face-to-face training providing options for
existing employees.
Definition of DEI ranged from broad to very specific. CDOs definition was slightly more specific
than the organizations.
Ms. Winlock shared the following examples of broad and specific DEI definitions from the
following organizations:
Broad: Cleveland State University - “We will be the strongest public university in the Region
and be known for our scholarship and diversity in service to our students and community.” The
mission statement also includes language to include “diversity.”
Specific: Cleveland Clinic - “Diversity encompasses qualities in three categories: Human (race,
gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, age) Cultural(language, religion, class, ethics, values)
Systems (organizational role and function, geographic location, organizational culture)
Broad: Cuyahoga Community College - Stands with the belief that diversity enriches not only
the institution, but society as a whole, and is therefore committed to appreciating diverse
perspectives and valuing the collective differences and similarities that make Tri-C a leading
community organization.
Specific: Case Western Reserve University - The Office for Inclusion, Diversity and Equal
Opportunity provides support, guidance and strategic leadership to promote equitable and fair
treatment in employment, education and other aspects of campus life at CWRU. This includes
the big 8: diversity of race, thought, pedagogy, religion, age sexual orientation, gender
identity/expression, political affiliation and disability.
Broad: University Hospital - Office of Community Impact, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
(CEDI) is responsible for supporting, promoting, and implementing programs that maintain an
inclusive, equitable, and diverse environment that provides culturally relevant patient care. CEDI
implements and coordinates programming, consistent with the UH mission and vision: “To Heal.
To Teach. To Discover.”
Specific: KeyBank - To create a dynamic and fulfilling professional environment, we embrace
and celebrate diversity of: Age, Gender, Ethnicity, Background, Beliefs, Culture... and so much
more

9

 Broad: Commission on Economic Inclusion - The Commission on Economic Inclusion has been
working since 2001 to close the racial disparities in jobs, income and wealth, by growing
businesses owned by people of color and increasing workforce diversity, equity and inclusion.
Ultimately, this work is fueled by the belief that businesses and the region are stronger with
greater racial equity.
Specific: MetroHealth - Any dimension that can be used to differentiate groups and people from
one another; including their race, ethnicity, language, culture, religion, gender, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, socio-economic status, physical or mental ability or
disability, and others.
Ms. Winlock’s presentation continued by sharing the following findings:
American Library Association Definitions
Diversity- the sum of the ways that people are both alike and different. Visible diversity is
generally those attributes or characteristics that are external. However, diversity goes beyond the
external to internal characteristics that we choose to define as “invisible” diversity. Invisible
diversity includes those characteristics and attributes that are not readily seen.
Equity- not the same as formal equality. Formal equality implies sameness. Equity, on the other
hand, assumes difference and takes difference into account to ensure a fair process and,
ultimately, a fair (or equitable) outcome. Equity recognizes that some groups were (and are)
disadvantaged in accessing educational and employment opportunities and are, therefore,
underrepresented or marginalized in many organizations and institutions.
Inclusion- an environment in which all individuals are treated fairly and respectfully; are valued
for their distinctive skills, experiences, and perspectives; have equal access to resources and
opportunities, and can contribute fully to the organization’s success.
Public Library Association - PLA advocates for equity, diversity, inclusion and social justice in
order to enable every member, library and community group to fully and equally participate in a
society mutually shaped to meet their needs.
Both Case and UH have very specific training that could be considered best practices.
Case Western Reserve
New Employee Orientation
 Pre work/Harvard Implicit Association Test
 4 hour training session
o Micro-aggressions
o Privilege
o Implicit/Unconscious Bias
Change Agent Workshops
 In-depth
 8 hours

10

 o Micro-aggressions
o Privilege
o Empathy
o Explicit/Implicit Biases
Lunch & Learns
 Monthly/bi-monthly
 Intersectionality
Speaker Series
University Hospital
Senior Leadership Training
 Small sessions of no more than 10
 Ongoing at least every two months
 History of race and diversity
 Disparities
 Bias
 Privilege
 Blind spots
Speaker Series
Ms. Winlock shared the following recommendations:
Position Placement – Reporting directly to CEO to ensure clear message of importance to
survival and thriving of organization.
Policy– Inclusive of race, ethnicity, language, culture, religion, gender, sexual orientation,
gender identity or expression, socio-economic status, military, physical or mental ability or
disability.
Strategy– Thread DEI throughout the organization, beginning with the strategic plan, with goals
for each senior leader/department/division; in depth training for senior leadership, improving
their ability to train others, include in performance management, onboard training and
continuous training and development for all staff; organize Employee Resource groups to
support goals; recognition program for goal attainment.
Ms. Winlock shared the following policy recommendation for Cleveland Public Library and
discussed how the Library and the public can hold us accountable:
The Cleveland Public Library
Embraces and supports the diversity of our workforce as well as our community to
include differences in: race, ethnicity, language, culture, religion, gender, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, socio-economic status, military, physical or
mental ability or disability.

11

 We will demonstrate our support by:





Engaging our board, leadership and staff in ongoing inclusion training, education
and professional development
Creating a safe workplace environment in which employees’ voices can be
included, heard, valued, and treated with respect.
Developing and implementing programs and services that incorporate the
differences that make us a community, ensuring fair and equitable treatment with
access to appropriate resources and opportunities.
Developing a supplier diversity program that mirrors the patrons we serve

In response to Ms. Rodriguez and Ms. Washington who expressd concern regarding staff
accountability, Ms. Winlock stated that individuals must be met where they are. There are tools
designed to help people discover where they are based on their own cultures and beliefs. An
example would be the Intercultural Development Inventory (IDI), which is a short survey
designed to measure an individual's awareness of and sensitivity to cultural differences
(intercultural sensitivity). The IDI shows where individuals are on a continuum from denial to
acceptance. In addition, Ms. Winlock explained that some individuals must be met emotionally
and others academically. This can change depending on the audience.
Ms. Winlock’s presentation continued on the topic of Supply Chain Diversity and stated that she
met and interviewed Chief Diversity Officers from the following institutions:
Health Institutions
 Cleveland Clinic
 MetroHealth
 University Hospital
Academic Institutions
 Cleveland State
 Cuyahoga Community College
 Case Western Reserve
The interviews consisted of the following questions:
 Who manages supply chain diversity?
 How is it managed? What are the processes?
 How do you determine goals?
 How do you get buy-in from organization?
 How do you measure success?
Ms. Winlock shared and discussed in detail the following findings as a result of her interviews:
All organizations have an individual dedicated to supply chain diversity.
1. The person in this role has no other responsibility.
2. It is a stand-alone department/division
12

 3. The individual reports directly to a senior leader or directly to the CEO
The person in this role has credentials that align with supply chain diversity and affiliated with
Regional and National supply chain organizations.
1. Supply Chain Director or Officer is a member of the National Minority Supplier
Diversity Council
2. Attendance at Supplier Diversity Conferences include those among diverse communities
(LBGTQ, Women, etc.)
3. Director has a Steering Committee made up of organizations that support small
businesses with business development to ensure inclusivity of minorities across a
spectrum of businesses (GCP, Urban League, Ohio Minority Council, Plexus etc.)
4. Director has an Advisory Council that assist with identification of small businesses to
support work in specific geographic locations/neighborhoods, reviews strategy and on
pace results/outcomes
Goals are developed based on the overall strategy of the organization to participate at a level
commensurate with commitment to corporate social responsibility.
1. Goals are a percent of total planned construction or procurement annual spend
2. Goals are a percent of a particular planned project spend
3. Goals are a percent of a particular planned spend per quarter
The expectation for supplier diversity is established by the CEO and is included as part of
performance management for all senior leaders. Hiring of consultants and other vendors are
included in the goals.
1. A business award is presented annually for leaders who are able to include women,
LBGT, Veteran and disabled in their supply chain.
2. An organization, Supplier Gateway is a third party portal system that supports review and
categorization of suppliers. Accounts Payable report is sent and various spreadsheets are
produced to create a benchmark as to where an organization currently is in supplier
diversity and an ongoing report of who, what, when, where and how minority vendors are
engaged. Several of the organizations utilize this vendor.
3. A review of vendor usage is generated monthly and reviewed by senior leaders and CEO,
produced by SDD or SDO.
4. All contracts are reviewed by SDD or SDO before signed to ensure supplier diversity is
considered and aligns with goals
Buy-in and measurement are inclusive. The CEO establishes the relevance of supplier diversity
as part of the overall diversity, equity and inclusion strategy.
1. Supplier diversity is a report-out item at monthly leadership meeting. Those not on pace
discuss plans to close gap with date expected.
2. It is included in leadership performance management.
3. Leadership and staff are recognized with an annual award

13

 4. It is part of the public annual report produced for the community
Ms. Winlock shared the following examples of broad and specific Supply Chain Diversity
policies:
Case / Broad
CASE is committed to assist minority and women-owned business enterprises in gaining access
to business opportunities at the University.
 To further expand business opportunities and enhance continued economic growth.
 CASE will expect our strategic suppliers to adopt similar strategies of inclusion.
 It is our objective to implement an innovative program which makes supplier diversity a
specific objective campus-wide. This objective coincides with the expectation that all
goods and services acquired from any business enterprise will meet the University‘s
requirements relating to value, quality and timeliness.
 The University believes that through our supplier diversity initiative more diverse
business enterprises will not only have greater opportunities but will increase their
business presence at the University
Cuyahoga Community College / Specific
Administration & Finance FY17-19 Strategic Service Priority: Develop innovative capital and
procurement solutions that promote the student experience while emphasizing inclusive
excellence.
 Create a five-year plan to increase the College’s relationships with diverse suppliers
 Increase touch points and connections with diverse suppliers and minority agencies
 Utilize benchmarking with other Ohio institutions to help develop additional strategies
 Develop a community outreach initiative to communicate contractual needs to qualified
vendors
 Include environmental, social and economic factors in proposal requirements and
purchasing consideration
Cleveland Clinic / Broad
Our Supplier Diversity strategy supports our commitment to care for the communities we serve.
It allows us to leverage our purchasing to drive economic inclusion for qualified diverse
suppliers. We strive to increase participation in Cleveland Clinic's procurement opportunities for
businesses that are 51% owned and operated by:
 Minorities
 Women
 Veterans
 Service-disabled veterans
 LGBT
 or are HUB Zone certified
University Hospital / Specific
University Hospitals is firmly committed to supporting minority; women; lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgender (LGBT) and local business enterprises, contracting with firms that share the

14

 same commitment and provide the best quality, value-added products and services at the most
competitive cost.
 We promote the participation of minority- and women-owned business enterprises as
both Tier 1 (prime) and Tier 2 (sub-contractor and/or supplier vendor) vendors. Our
suppliers make every effort to reach the diversity expectations of 15 percent minority
business enterprise (MBE) utilization, 5 percent woman business enterprise (WBE)
utilization and 20 percent local utilization with Tier 2 vendors where available and
practical.
 UH is a supporter of Plexus, the chamber of commerce for the LGBT communities and
allies serving northeast Ohio. UH vendors include those certified by Plexus.
MetroHealth / Broad
Our Supplier Diversity strategy supports our commitment to care for the communities we serve.
It allows us to leverage our purchasing to drive economic inclusion for qualified diverse
suppliers. We strive to increase participation in MetroHealth’s procurement opportunities for
businesses that are 51 percent owned and operated by U.S. citizens within the United States.
 Business Enterprises include:
 Minority
 Women
 Veteran
 Service-disabled veteran
 LGBT
 Small
 Local and Regional
KeyBank / Broad
Our commitment to supplier diversity extends to supplier qualifications. To expand or deepen
our diverse supplier base, we require that a company be at least 51% owned, operated and
controlled by U.S. citizens who are:
 African-American
 Hispanic
 Native American
 Asian-Indian
 Asian-Pacific
 Women
 Veterans
 Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT)
 Individuals with a disability
 Service-disabled veterans
 Proof of ownership is required. We accept certification from local, regional, state and
national certifying agencies
Ms. Winlock shared the following recommendations:
1. Determine our supplier diversity policy that will drive our strategy

15

 2. Determine our supplier diversity goal (based on total projected spend in construction and
other procurement opportunities)
3. Identify expert in supplier diversity field to support, direct:
4. Policy development
 Program and process development
 Compliance
 Education
 Measurement
 Reporting
Ms. Winlock stated that she has initiated conversations with Cassandra Johnson, Supplier
Diversity Consultant, and Chris Nance, Director, Construction Diversity & Inclusion, Greater
Cleveland Partnership, Commission on Economic Inclusion
Ms. Winlock recommended that Cassandra Johnson be considered to provide assistance to the
Library on this initiative and shared the following background highlights on Ms. Johnson:






Experienced Principal with a demonstrated history of working in the hospital &
health care industry and public entities
Supported development of award-winning DEI program at UH
Director of Construction at UH for 8 years
Skilled in Budgeting, Construction, Strategic Planning, Contract Negotiation, and
Submittals. Supported NEORSD supplier diversity program
Graduate from Hathaway Brown School and Columbia University, NY

Ms. Winlock stated that after she compiled her presentation, she met with Thompson-Hine who
indicated that they were very familiar with Ms. Johnson and would be willing to work with her.
Ms. Winlock shared a possible timeline for consideration:
Diversity Equity Inclusion

Supplier Chain Diversity

Policy Approval
Committee Formed
Committee Meeting
Strategy Completed
Strategy Approved
Implementation

Potential Consultant
Determine to Engage
Engagement
Policy Development
Policy Approval
Committee Formed
Committee Meeting

April
May
June
August
August
Aug/Sept.

April
May
May/June
June/July
July
July
July/August

In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Ms. Winlock stated that the recommended Diversity
Equity Inclusion policy will come before the full Board at the Regular Board Meeting next week.
Ms. Washington concurred that the Library could benefit from engaging Ms. Johnson for
assistance in this area.

16

 After additional discussion about the proposed timeline, Mr. Parker thanked Ms. Winlock for her
detailed and informative presentation.
Facilities Master Plan Group 1
Jeremiah Swetel, Chief Operations Officer, stated that the Capital Committee has met twice
since January to discuss the process for the Facilities Master Plan, facilities assessment and
systems recommendations.
Mr. Swetel requested that the Capital Committee consider the recommendation to move Phase I
implementation to the full Board next week for approval. That approval is necessary for the
bond issuance process. Permission is needed to begin inquiry for property acquisition and
consolidation as there are a number of branches in the Phase I implementation list that require
ongoing and in depth discovery of organizations, community residents and of property parcels so
that we can acquire property. In additional, approval is needed to enter into a partnership with
Hospice of Western Reserve and others regarding the Lake Share property acquisition.
Mr. Swetel introduced Jasmine Sims, Operations Project Coordinator, who gave an overview of
the rationale for Phase I.
Ms. Sims stated that the plan is to breakdown the Facilities Master Plan into two phases. The
Capital Committee must discuss the implementation and approval of Phase I for the April Board
Meeting. Phase I will be funded via a $62 million bond considering based on the following
rationale:





All new construction buildings. The goal is to cluster all the new buildings into Phase I:
Martin Luther King, Jr, Hough, Walz, District Facility at Woodland, Rockport, Mt.
Pleasant and Lake Shore.
Several factors were assessed when determining which branches would be replaced. One
of the main factors is deferred maintenance costs. Due to the postponement of regular
buildings and equipment upkeep these locations have exceedingly high deferred
maintenance and high repair costs.
Phase I also includes the following Carnegie Buildings: Jefferson, Sterling, Lorain, and
Brooklyn. These are legacy buildings and we wanted to honor them.

Ms. Sims noted that South and Carnegie West buildings were constructed with Carnegie funds.
South has already undergone a major renovation and addition and is open to the public.
Compared to the same period (Jan-Feb) last year we have seen a 49% increase in circulation at
South and the self-check well received. Carnegie West was not included in Phase I because it
will be one of our anchor branches in Phase II.
Ms. Sims stated that Karcher, a German company known for its high-pressure cleaners, has
selected Cleveland Public Library as a recipient for their cultural sponsorship. On Monday, April
22, representatives from Karcher will conduct a test cleaning of Lorain and South Branch to
determine which site’s façade they will clean.

17

 Ms. Sims stated that several buildings were included in Phase I that involve property acquisitions
and consolidations as the Library needs time to appraise and sell existing buildings, finalize site
selection, negotiate land prices and secure sites, and meet with council representatives,
community stakeholders and organizations, and the land bank. Beginning the property
acquisition and consolidation process at Woodland would include discussions on surrounding
parcels; Mt. Pleasant would include discussing options for relocation; and South Brooklyn
discussions would include additional parking.
Mr. Swetel stated that the branches grouped in Phase I will capture the challenges of new
construction early in the process as financial predictions for the future can be uncertain.
As discussion continued regarding Land Bank parcels that can be acquired cheaply, Mr. Swetel
stated that 98% of the parcel acquired for this implementation will come from the Land Bank or
given to the Library.
Mr. Swetel gave an overview of the following Renovation/Construction Budget Levels:
EXISTING CONDITION
Deferred Maintenance:
Varies
 As identified in deferred maintenance budgets.
 Deferred maintenance costs not covered by scope of renovation work to be performed has
been incorporated on a case by case bases and included in project implementation costs
NEW BUILDING
New Construction:
$460/sf budget
• Based on benchmark data from similar projects in the region as well as specific input
regarding the library’s requirements
• Cost assumes a 10,000-15,000/sf building.
• Costs for additions have been estimated at a higher cost ($575-800/sf) de- pending on scope.
RENOVATION LEVELS
Interior Refresh:

•
•
•
•
•

$114/sf budget (not inclusive of all deferred maintenance costs)

DEFERRED MAINTENANCE +
Replacement of all finishes (including repainting all walls and ceilings, new carpet, tile and
acoustic ceilings)
Full replacement of furniture, cabinetry, and shelving
Minor electrical updates including additional outlets, floor boxes and partial lighting
replacement
Replace/upgrade all AV/IT equipment
Replace mechanical diffusers and grilles

18

 Full Interior Renovation:







INTERIOR REFRESH +
Partial reconfiguration (~10-20% ) of spaces including partitions, ceilings, doors, HVAC,
and electrical
Full lighting replacement
Replace/upgrade AV/IT infrastructure
Updated plumbing fixtures in existing restrooms, unless noted otherwise
Landscape and signage allowance for site work
Full ductwork replacement

Major Renovation:



$163/sf budget (not inclusive of all deferred maintenance costs)

$221/sf budget (not inclusive of all deferred maintenance costs)

FULL INTERIOR RENOVATON +
Significant reconfiguration (~60-75%) of interior spaces including partitions, ceilings, doors,
HVAC, and electrical
New restrooms including new plumbing

Mr. Swetel noted the following:
1. All renovation and new construction budgets represent total project cost inclusive of
construction cost, furnishings and professional services fees
2. Based on estimate of probably cost study performed by Regency Construction services based
on information provided by Bialosky Cleveland and the Cleveland Public Library
In response to Ms. Rodriguez’ inquiry, Mr. Swetel confirmed that the $62,000,000 budget
includes construction cost escalations for the next five years. The numbers are conservative to
be sure to capture every item relative to construction management, design fees, technology, etc.
When we advertise for the Construction Manager At Risks, it will be for all of the projects with
hopes to maximize savings.
Mr. Swetel stated that the MLK branch, which is currently under design, will require at least $10
million of our own bond money. This does not include the $5.2 million that we will receive from
the Developer. This project will be in the range of $15-16 million. Although we will look at
cost reduction strategies, there is a significant cost for that project because of the complexities
involved. This will probably be the most expensive branch on the project.
In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Mr. Swetel stated that the RFP for Group 1 branches
will go out after the Board approves the Phase 1 implementation and will include diversity goals.
Ms. Washington stated the schedules for Phase I and the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
initiatives are not aligned and stressed that staff revisit and adjust them so that the RFP for Group
1 branches incorporates DEI goals.

19

 Director Thomas stated that this emphasizes the need to meet with Cassandra Johnson as soon as
possible.
Mr. Swetel gave the following overview of the Project Budget for Group 1, 2 and 3:
GROUP 1
GROUP 1A
 MLK Center
 Jefferson
 Hough
 Walz
 Memorial Nottingham
 West Park

new building
renovation & addition
new building
new building
new building
renovation & addition

GROUP 1B
 Sterling
 Lorain
 Brooklyn
 Central District Facility
 Eastman
 Woodland
 Rockport
 Mt. Pleasant

renovation & addition
major renovation & addition
major renovation
new building
refresh
major renovation & addition
new building
new building

TOTAL COST:

$62,000,000

Mr. Swetel noted that total cost does not include Memorial Nottingham. It is anticipated that the
$7,8000,000 cost of Memorial Nottingham will be covered by alternative funding sources.
GROUP 2
GROUP 2A
 Maintenance Garage
 Addison
 Collinwood
 Harvard Lee
 Union

renovation
renovation & addition
renovation & addition
new building
refresh

GROUP 2B
 South Brooklyn
 Fleet

renovation & addition
renovation & addition

20

 






Carnegie West
Glenville
Fulton
Langston Hughes
Rice
Garden Valley

TOTAL COST:

major renovation & addition
refresh
refresh & addition
refresh
refresh
refresh
$41,000,000

GROUP 3 – MAIN RENOVATIONS



Main Building
Louis Stokes

TOTAL COST:

renovation
renovation
$60,500,000

Mr. Swetel reviewed the following Project Schedule for Group 1:
June 2019
August 2019
January 2020
June 2020
March 2021
June 2021
January 2022
January 2023
January 2024
October 2024

Issue RFQ for A/E firms
Group 1
Select A/E firms
Group 1 design kick-off
CMR selection
Group 1
Construction starts
Group 1A
Opening Jefferson
Design kick-off
Group 1B
Opening MLK Center
Opening Central Distribution Facility; Completion Group A
Construction starts
Group 2A
Completion Group
Group 1B

Cedric Johns, Director of Employee and Labor Relations, stated that some branches have
experienced problems with bed bug infestation and recommended that we consider moving away
from carpeted floors.
Mr. Swetel stated that we will be looking at different options for flooring and it will depend on
the design of the branch. In addition, we are working with the Health & Safety Committee and
Labor Management Committee on a pest notification system that will inform Property
Management for extermination. As a prevention, each branch will have monitoring devices that
will be inspected on a monthly basis. Quarterly, we will utilize dogs that are trained to detect
bed bugs. This practice is also utilized in movie theaters. Mr. Swetel noted that bed bugs can
enter the branches on returned books and materials.
Ms. Winlock stated that she is meeting branch managers in an attempt to learn more about the
communities they serve. She noted that although we are not a social service agency, those types
of needs often come into the Library and should be considered on every level as we move
forward.

21

 Mr. Corrigan asked for an explanation of the “delay Millwork Package” noted for Jefferson
branch on the Project Schedule – Group 1.
Mr. Swetel stated that Jefferson branch has been identified as the branch to prototype and test
ideas. The Millwork package is being delayed until we have the opportunity to figure out what
we want to prototype. In an attempt to save some money on the service model, we will utilize
our own internal carpenters to build materials such as display units that would hold collections.
The prototype can be first tested at Jefferson before expending funds at other branches.
Ms. Washington stated because of the politics involved, careful thought needs to be given to the
governmental outreach strategy for Phase I Implementation to include the Mayor,
Councilpersons, and others.
In response to Ms. Butts’ inquiry, Ms. Krenicky confirmed that the Library’s bond indebtedness
will be for approximately 35 years.
Mr. Swetel stated that each year we will evaluate how the Library will be good stewards over
these funds while considering cost reduction strategies.
Mr. Swetel stated that early in the process the Library was approached by Cleveland
Neighborhood Progress who informed us that there could be a potential developer who may be
interested in the Lake Shore property. This would allowed the Library to be relieved of some of
the financial burden of the facility by selling the property for market rate development. If we are
able to do that, we need a new location for Technical Services. From an efficiency perspective, a
central location for the services area would be preferred. Placing these services at Woodland
would make more sense. This move to a central location is more efficient. There are many
options that can be considered for a 20,000/sf distribution facility that would also house the
Technical Services staff, materials handling and shipping. With this relocation, there are many
opportunities to discover ways to enhance our services. The sorting process that happens at
Main can be relocated to this central location as well.
Mr. Swetel shared the example of the Free Library of Philadelphia and their experience with a
central distribution location.
Director Thomas explained that currently in our shipping departments, staff must individually
handle every item and place them in bins. By automating this system, more staff positions could
be reallocated into the Library assisting and engaging with patrons.
Mr. Swetel shared information about the proposed site Central Distribution location and the
status of surrounding parcels. To lessen the change of a significant increase in price of these
parcels, a real estate advisor must have conversations on behalf of the Library with the owners of
the parcels.
Discussion continued about the implications of relocating the Ohio Library for the Blind to Main
including accessibility and storage. Building a separate facility for storage or utilizing the
services of a third party will be explored.

22

 Mr. Swetel stated that any recommendations for property acquisition, site selection, community
involvement, etc., must come to the Board for consideration and approval. The inquiry and
discovery process is the means for us to have conversations about plans for the specific branch.
With the 20,000/sf facility, we would renovate the Woodland branch library at the same time and
consider the possibility of 7,000/sf basement which is unused space. This space can be used for
training rooms and meeting rooms. There is a space for an elevator shaft which has never been
put into use. Discussion continued about the branch façade, location of the Distribution Center,
storage space opportunities, landscaping, walking areas, and other concepts.
Mr. Swetel stated that conversations have been held with Councilman Polensek and others about
locations to rebuild the Memorial Nottingham branch. Proceeds from the sale of the Lake Shore
Facility will fund the new branch.
Mr. Swetel stated that it is recommended that the Memorial Nottingham branch be relocated to a
new facility on a new site. The facility will be a Community Hub with increased meeting
facilities to replace those at the existing Lakeshore facility reviewed the following potential site
options:
1. Lakeshore Boulevard (existing site)
Re-utilizing the existing property with a new building located more closely to the Lakeshore
Boulevard street front.
2. East 185th Street (LaSalle Theater)
Located at an existing storefront across from the redeveloped La Salle Theater along East
185th.
3. East 185th Street (Commercial Corrido)
Property northeast of the existing site on the East 185th commercial corridor
4. Lakeshore Boulevard
Located on a portion of a property belonging to the Hospice of the Western Reserve,
northeast of the site along Lakeshore Boulevard
Mr. Swetel stated that the Library was approached by the Hospice of the Western Reserve. They
would like to gift the Library with a 4-5 acre parcel on Lakeshore to build a new branch. The
Hospice indicates that if they give the Library the property, they can leverage partnerships for
development opportunities to expand or build market rate housing.
In response to Ms. Winlock’s inquiry, Mr. Swetel stated that there was a difference in
socioeconomics in the branch’s current and proposed locations.
Discussion continued about Councilman Polensek’s location preference, current patron access
after relocation, community transportation, partnership benefits for the Library, Hospice of the
Western Reserve and Villa Angela-St. Joseph High School.

23

 Mr. Swetel stated of all of the sites, this has the most potential for the Library including
increased circulation. Hospice would like to leverage the branch for their staff trainings and
offer the branch to family members who have relatives in hospice care. The Hospice board has
already granted approval for exploratory discussions with the Library
After Mr. Swetel reviewed in detail challenges associated with the options, he stated that we
must decide the option that is best for the Library and most cost effective.
In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Mr. Swetel stated that he hopes that a final
recommendation would come after the Board gives approval for Phase I and permission to
explore the potential sale and development of the Lakeshore property.
In response to Mr. Corrigan’s inquiry, Timothy Diamond, Chief Knowledge Officer, stated that
he was not aware of any Ohio Library for the Blind patrons relocating because of its location on
Lakeshore.
Mr. Swetel reviewed again for the Board the Group I branches and their respective
recommendations.
Mr. Parker motioned to move Phase I to the full Board for consideration. Ms. Butts seconded the
motion, which passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Mr. Parker adjourned the Capital Committee Work Session at 11:50 a.m.

24

 