1080
CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
Minutes of the Special Board Meeting
August 29, 2019
Trustees Room
Louis Stokes Wing
12:00 Noon

Present: Ms. Butts, Mr. Seifullah, Ms. Rodriguez,
Mr. Corrigan, Ms. Washington,
Mr. Parker (arrived, 12:18 p.m.)
Absent:

Mr. Hairston

Ms. Rodriguez called the meeting to order at 12:01 p.m.

Motion to Temporarily Suspend the Regulations
Ms. Rodriguez stated that because this is a Special
Board Meeting, there was no Finance Committee Meeting
previously scheduled and moved to temporarily suspend
the Regulations of the Board of Trustees in Article IX
and X requiring referral of resolutions to committees,
to consider the following resolutions. Mr. Seifullah
seconded the motion, which passed unanimously by roll
call vote.
OATH OF OFFICE FOR REAPPOINTMENT OF ALICE G. BUTTS
Mr. Corrigan administered the Oath of Office to Alice G.
Butts. Ms. Butts was reappointed by the Cleveland Board
of Education on June 25, 2019 to a third full term on
the Library Board, commencing on July 2, 2019 expiring
on July 2, 2026.

MOTION TO
TEMPORARILY
SUSPEND THE
REGULATIONS
Approved

OATH OF OFFICE
FOR
REAPPOINTMENT
OF ALICE G. BUTTS
Administered

Ms. Butts expressed here gratitude to the Board of
Trustees and Library Administration for the opportunity
to serve for another term.
Resolution to Engage Jaros Strategy LLC for Capital
Fundraising Consulting Services
(See page 1099)
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Seifullah seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.

RESOLUTION
TO ENGAGE
JAROS
STRATEGY LLC
FOR CAPITAL
FUNDRAISING
CONSULTING
SERVICES
Approved

 1081

WHEREAS, The Cleveland Public Library has long been the
recipient of generous donations from community members
and well-known philanthropists alike; and
WHEREAS, The Library Administration recognizes the
importance of strong community support and desires to
engage the services of an experienced consulting firm to
assist the Library in assessing and planning for a
capital fundraising campaign; and
WHEREAS, Jaros Strategy LLC (“Jaros”) was founded in
2010 and has experience working with many of Northeast
Ohio’s most important civic and cultural organizations
and fundraising campaigns; and
WHEREAS, At the Library’s request, Jaros submitted a
proposal to assist the Library in assessing the
feasibility of a capital fundraising campaign,
identifying key strategies for fundraising and
communication, and identifying opportunities to expand
the Library’s pool of engaged donors for a total fee of
$75,000; and
WHEREAS, The Library Administration finds Jaros’ fee to
be fair and reasonable and recommends that this Board
authorize the Library to engage Jaros to provide capital
fundraising consulting services; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Trustees of the Cleveland
Public Library authorizes the Executive Director, CEO,
or his designee, to enter into an agreement with Jaros
Consulting LLC, subject to the approval of the Chief
Legal Officer, to provide capital fundraising consulting
services in an amount not-to-exceed $75,000 (including
reimbursables) to be charged to the General Fund Account
11200053-53710 (Professional Services).
Shenise Johnson Thomas, Chief of External Relations and
Development, stated that the Library is entering into an
agreement with Jaros Strategy to assess the feasibility
of the Library going out to market for a capital
campaign. Jaros Strategy will do the work to determine
what the palate is like externally for the Library to go
out for capital program and collections. Jaros Strategy
will be assessing the Development Office and other areas
internally to determine if we could go out to market for

 1082

a capital campaign or collections campaign for
programmatic support for Cleveland Public Library.
Ms. Johnson Thomas introduced Susan Jaros, Principal,
and Julie Conrad, consultant, Jaros Strategy, who were
available to answer any questions the Board may have
had.
Mr. Corrigan stated that he has known Ms. Jaros for a
long time and is very pleased that she is on board. Mr.
Corrigan shared Ms. Jaros’ association with James
Conway, former Development Director at John Carroll
University and then Case Western Reserve University,
whose accomplishments caused institutions to understand
capital needs and the importance of endowments.
Ms. Washington explained that she began her career as a
fundraiser and Ms. Jaros was a model that she admired.
Ms. Washington stated that she was happy that Jaros
Strategy is engaged in this important project.
Ms. Jaros expressed her appreciation to the Board for
this opportunity to be of service.
Resolution to Approve the Use of Lockwood Thompson
Endowment Funds for Travel
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, The terms and conditions of the Lockwood
Thompson Endowment provide that the income be used for
“the purchase of books or periodicals in the field of
Fine Arts, or to defray expenses of employees of the
Library while attending conventions deemed by the
Director and the Board of Trustees of the Library to be
beneficial to the Library’s aims and purposes”; and
WHEREAS, As the Library moves forward with the new
Martin Luther King, Jr. branch and continues to
conceptualize the new library’s civil rights and social
justice space, the Library Director has determined that
it would be beneficial for members of this Board and
certain employees to visit the National Civil Rights
Museum in Memphis, Tennessee and to meet with
representatives of the Museum; and

RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE
USE OF
LOCKWOOD
THOMPSON
ENDOWMENT
FUNDS FOR
TRAVEL
Approved

 1083

WHEREAS, The total cost for Board members and employees
to visit the National Civil Rights Museum is estimated
to be $12,000, which includes air and ground
transportation, lodging, meals and admission, and
related expenses; and
WHEREAS, The Library Director recommends this travel
request as being beneficial to the Library’s aims and
purposes and the Board of Library Trustees has approved
the appropriation measure for the Thompson permanent
fund (510), which includes this travel expense; now
therefore be it
RESOLVED, The Board of Library Trustees determines that
a trip to visit the National Civil Rights Museum in
Memphis, Tennessee and to meet with representatives of
the museum is consistent with the intent for which funds
can be used from the Lockwood Thompson Endowment fund,
and that it would be beneficial to the Library’s aims
and purposes, and authorizes the Fiscal Officer to use
Lockwood Thompson Endowment funds to defray the costs in
the amount not to exceed $12,000, incurred by Board
members and employees, which shall be charged to account
51015103-53100 (Travel).
Carrie Krenicky, Chief Financial Officer, stated that
the terms and conditions of the Lockwood Thompson
Endowment provide that the income be used for “the
purchase of books or periodicals in the field of Fine
Arts, or to defray expenses of employees of the Library
while attending conventions deemed by the Director and
the Board of Trustees of the Library to be beneficial to
the Library’s aims and purposes”. Director Thomas is
recommending that we use the Lockwood Thompson Endowment
Funds for the Board and a few select employees to travel
to the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis,
Tennessee. The estimated amount is approximately
$12,000 for a total of 10 to attend.
Ms. Krenicky stated that attendees will be meeting with
representatives of the Museum which will deem this as a
convention and would authorize Board members to attend
as they are not “employees” of the Library as noted in
the stipulations of the Endowment Fund.
Mr. Corrigan recalled when he first had the opportunity
to visit the National Civil Rights Museum and stated

 1084

that this visit will be a very helpful and inspirational
guide to what we are trying to do with the new Martin
Luther King, Jr. branch.
Mr. Corrigan stated that a building was constructed next
to the Lorraine Motel where Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
was assassinated in 1968.
After Mr. Corrigan shared additional details and
insights from his visit to the Museum, Sadie Winlock,
Chief Equity, Education & Engagement Officer, stated
that this is directly related to what we are trying to
do at the new Martin Luther King, Jr. branch to develop
a social justice center. This visit will hopefully give
us inspiration on what we want to do here in Cleveland.
Ms. Rodriguez agreed that this will give us ideas on
what we can incorporate at the new Martin Luther King,
Jr. branch.
Mr. Corrigan reminded the Board that Cleveland was a
part of this historical movement advised that we keep in
mind that this trip is not supported by taxpayer funds
but by the Lockwood Thompson Endowment Funds for which
it is purposed.
Mr. Parker stated that his national church is the owner
of the Bishop Charles Mason Temple which is the church
where Dr. King gave his last speech in Memphis.
Director Thomas stated that he would like to add a visit
to the Bishop Charles Mason Temple as a part of the
schedule as well.
Resolution Authorizing Agreement with Kastner, Westman &
Wilkins LLC for Legal Services Related to Upcoming Local
860 Labor Negotiations
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Seifullah seconded the motion, which
passed with four in favor and one abstention by Ms.
Washington.
WHEREAS, The Cleveland Public Library and the Laborers
International Union of North America, Local 860 (Local
860) are parties to a collective bargaining agreement
that will expire on December 31, 2019; and

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING
AGREEMENT WITH
KASTNER,
WESTMAN &
WILKINS LLC FOR
LEGAL SERVICES
RELATED TO
UPCOMING LOCAL
860 LABOR
NEGOTIATIONS
Approved

 1085

WHEREAS, Kastner Westman & Wilkins, LLC (KWW) has
proposed to assist the Library in the upcoming labor
negotiations with Local 860; and
WHEREAS, On March 21, 2019 this Board authorized the
Library to enter into an agreement with KWW for legal
services in connection with labor negotiations with the
Service Employees International Union (SEIU), District
1199, and the Library has been pleased with the services
provided by KWW; and
WHEREAS, KWW has agreed to offer the Library the same
hourly rates for the Local 860 negotiations as for the
SEIU negotiations. KWW’s hourly rates are $270 for
partners, $150 for associates, and $130 for paralegals;
and
WHEREAS
The Library Administration believes that it is
in the Library’s best interests to retain the services
of KWW for assistance with the upcoming labor
negotiations with Local 860; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees authorizes
the Executive Director, CEO or his designees, to enter
into an agreement with Kastner Westman & Wilkins, LLC
for legal services in connection with labor negotiations
with Local 860 at the fees set forth in this Resolution
for a total amount not-to-exceed Fifty Thousand Dollars
($50,000), which expenditure shall be charged to General
Fund Account 11400053-53710 (Professional Services), and
which agreement shall be subject to the approval of the
Chief Legal Officer.
Lynn Sargi, Chief Talent Officer, stated that Kastner
Westman & Wilkins, LLC, was selected to represent the
Library with labor negotiations with District 1199.
Because of this, it is in the best interest of the
Library to use the same legal counsel to represent the
Library in the upcoming labor negotiations with Local
860 as both contracts expire at the end of this year.
Ms. Sargi stated that Kastner Westman & Wilkins, LLC,
has a lot of experience working with libraries and
safety and security forces as well. They have negotiated
on behalf of the University of Akron Campus Police as
well as Youngstown. They also negotiated police
contracts with several cities including Kent, Stow,

 1086

Medina and Twinsburg and the Sherriff’s Department for
Cuyahoga County.
Mr. Corrigan asked, for the record, asked for
clarification on the selection process to select a firm
that had expertise in labor negotiations.
Joyce Dodrill, Chief Legal Officer, stated that Kastner
Westman & Wilkins, LLC, was recommended by former deputy
director Tena Wilson who has had personal experience
with them. Therefore, an RFP was not issued.
Director Thomas stated that they had a long history of
success with labor negotiations.
Mr. Corrigan again asked that this be reflected on the
record.
Resolution Selecting and Ranking Most Qualified
Architect/Engineering Firms and Authorizing Negotiation
of Agreements with Top-Ranked Firms for Master Plan
Projects
(See page 1100)
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Ms. Washington seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, The Cleveland Public Library placed ads in the
Cleveland Plain Dealer on June 19 and July 10, 2019
announcing its request for statements of qualifications
from architectural/engineering firms for the
implementation of Phase One of the Facilities Master
Plan; and
WHEREAS, On August 2, 2019, the Library received
statements of qualifications from 17
architectural/engineering firms; and
WHEREAS, A selection committee was formed to evaluate
the statements of qualifications and to create a short
list of firms that it considered the most qualified.
The short listed firms, in no particular order, are:

RESOLUTION
SELECTING AND
RANKING MOST
QUALIFIED
ARCHITECT /
ENGINEERING
FIRMS AND
AUTHORIZING
NEGOTIATION OF
AGREEMENTS
WITH TOPRANKED FIRMS
FOR MASTER
PLAN PROJECTS
Approved

 1087

1. Bialosky and Partners, Architects, LLC and Robert
P. Madison International, Inc.;
2. Bostwick Design Partnership, Inc. and Ubiquitous
Design, LTD.;
3. Moody Nolan, Inc.;
4. VOCON Partners, LLC; and
5. Wanix Architects, L.L.C. and Williams Associates
Architects, LTD.;and
WHEREAS, During the week of August 19, 2019, the
selection committee interviewed the short listed firms
and subsequently met to select no fewer than three firms
that it considered most qualified for each of the
following projects: 1) Hough, relocation and new
building; 2) Jefferson, renovation with minor addition;
3) Walz, new building on expanded site; 4) West Park,
renovation with addition; and 5) Woodland, major
renovation with new central distribution facility; and
WHEREAS, The selection committee recommends ranking the
firms in order of most qualified for each of the five
projects as set forth in the table attached hereto as
Exhibit “A”; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees hereby
accepts the recommendation of the selection committee,
and announces the selection and ranking of the
architectural/engineering firms as set forth in Exhibit
“A”; and be it further
RESOLVED, That the Board authorizes the Executive
Director, CEO or his designees, to enter into
negotiations for an agreement for each of the five
projects with the most qualified architectural firm in
accordance with the requirements of Ohio Revised Code
Section 153.69 which provides, among other things, that
if the Library fails to negotiate an agreement with the
highest ranked firm for a price that is fair and
reasonable, it shall terminate negotiations with the
highest ranked firm and enter into negotiations with the
architectural firm ranked the second highest. This
process shall be repeated again with the third ranked

 1088

firm in the event negotiations fail with the second
highest firm; be it further
RESOLVED, That upon completion of negotiations, the
Executive Director shall submit the agreements to this
Board for final approval.
Mr. Swetel stated that a new process has been developed
for the Library relative to diversity and inclusion in
our selection of design firms for our first five
branches and introduced Sadie Winlock, Chief Equity,
Education & Engagement Officer, to discuss the process
in detail.
Ms. Winlock stated that she was excited with the final
result and shared that the process worked well for us. A
team was assembled that included Cassandra Johnson,
Consultant, Johnson Randolph Advisors, LLC, and we put a
lot of thought about how the public would know how
committed we are about diversity and inclusion.
Ms. Winlock stated that a Pre-Proposal Meeting was held
for Design Firms & Professionals and was attended by
approximately 93 professionals. As a result, 17
organizations submitted proposals that were extremely
diverse. The final list indicates that these
organizations clearly understand the Library’s
commitment to diversity and inclusion. Included in the
final list is a female-owned business, a minority-owned
business and the remaining firms have minority-owned
business partners. Because this process worked well, it
has been decided that we will implement this same
process in the future for other selections in this
construction.
Various Trustees stated that they attended the PreProposal Meeting and were pleased with its success.
Mr. Swetel stated these are the first five projects that
will kick off how we transform our branches and shared
that the Selection Committee was formed and in addition
to himself, consisted of Sadie Winlock, Joyce Dodrill,
Eric Herman, Harriette Parks, and Jasmine Sims.

 1089

Cassandra Johnson served as a consultant and advisor to
the process.
Mr. Swetel stated that the shortlist of firms were (1)
Bialosky and Partners, Architects, LLC and Robert P.
Madison International, Inc.; (2) Bostwick Design
Partnership, Inc. and Ubiquitous Design, LTD.; (3) Moody
Nolan, Inc.; (4) VOCON Partners, LLC; and (5) Wanix
Architects, L.L.C. and Williams Associates Architects,
LTD.
After the selection committee interviewed the
shortlisted firms and subsequently met to select no
fewer than three firms that it considered most qualified
for each of the following projects: 1) Hough, relocation
and new building; 2) Jefferson, renovation with minor
addition; 3) Walz, new building on expanded site; 4)
West Park, renovation with addition; and 5) Woodland,
major renovation with new central distribution facility.
Below are the top-ranked firms matched with their
respective projects:






Hough – Moody Nolan
Jefferson – Wanix and Williams
Walz – Bialosky and Robert P. Madison
West Park – VOCON
Woodland – Bostwick and Ubiquitous

This resolution seeks authorization to negotiate as the
statute states for the top-ranked firms.
In response to Ms. Rodriguez’s inquiry, Mr. Swetel
stated that Ubiquitous has offices located in Shaker
Square.
Mr. Swetel further explained that we have five separate
firms for five different projects. The partnership
between Wanix and Williams is a direct result of the
Pre-Proposal Meeting. This process helped firms partner
that would have not otherwise been together. Because
this process has proven beneficial, it will continue to
be used moving forward.

 1090

Mr. Corrigan stated that when the Louis Stokes Wing was
built, the Library broke through ceilings that had never
been broken through before and we are doing that again
with this process. Mr. Corrigan stated that he was very
proud of the effort and thanked the Committee for their
hard work to make this happen.
Ms. Washington stated that she is looking forward to the
consistency of this and that this process is
incorporated moving forward.
Resolution Authorizing Off-Step Salary for Substitute
Employees
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Ms. Washington seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, On January 18, 2007, the Board of Library
Trustees adopted the classification/compensation
schedule, as recommended by the Hay Group, with the
ratification of the agreement with SEIU District 1199,
effective February 4, 2007; and
WHEREAS, On February 15, 2007, the Board of Library
Trustees adopted the Hay Group
classification/compensation schedule for staff not
covered by a collective bargaining agreement, effective
March 4, 2007; and
WHEREAS, The Hay Group classification/compensation
schedule established minimum annual salaries for each
pay grade and step, including for the position of
“substitute”; and
WHEREAS, The Library currently employs substitutes in
three different positions: clerk substitutes, library
assistant substitutes, and librarian substitutes. Each
substitute position is paid on an hourly basis based on
the pay grade for the corresponding non-substitute
position; and
WHEREAS, The Library Administration has determined that
it is in the best interest of the Library to align all
substitute employees into a single classification with a

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING
OFF-STEP
SALARY FOR
SUBSTITUTE
EMPLOYEES
Approved

 1091

uniform salary of $20 per hour for all new substitutes,
which salary is not an existing grade in the Hay Group
classification and compensation schedule; and
WHEREAS, The Library Administration recommends that the
salary of $20 per hour be adopted for all new
substitutes hired after the date of this Resolution and
that the salaries of all current clerk substitutes be
raised to $20 per hour beginning the first pay period
after this Resolution. The Library Administration
further recommends that no change be made to the
compensation of current library assistant and librarian
substitutes; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Trustees of the Cleveland
Public Library hereby authorizes and approves the offstep salary of Twenty Dollars ($20.00) per hour for all
new substitutes hired after the date of this Resolution
and for all current clerk substitutes, which increase
for clerk substitutes shall be effective beginning on
the first pay period after this Resolution.
Lynn Sargi, Chief Talent Officer, stated that the Human
Resources Department has been working with the Public
Services Department looking at the substitute work
force. As a part of the process, we refreshed the job
description which was formerly two job descriptions. As
things have evolved from which we once called branch
clerk substitutes and branch library assistant
substitutes each with different rates of pay and
educational attainment. As we looked at the work that
they do, it was determined that the work is very similar
if not identical.
Ms. Sargi stated that in the future substitutes will be
hired at a flat rate of $20 per hour which is believed
to be an appropriate rate of compensation for the work
that is being done. The current rate of clerk
substitutes who are compensated at approximately $17 per
hour will be raised to $20 per hour. There are only 2
people in that category. The existing library assistant
substitutes who receive a rate of $24 per hour will be
grandfathered in. The $20 rate is only for future
hires.

 1092

In response to Ms. Rodriguez’ inquiry, John Skrtic,
Director of Public Services, stated that the Library
currently has a full compliment of 24 substitutes.
However two will be going into the SEIU Pool and will no
longer be classified as substitute staff. We have three
clerk substitutes and the remainder are library
assistant substitutes
Amendment to Fines and Fees Schedule
(See page 1101)
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Seifullah seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, The State Auditor requires that the fines and
fees assessed by Cleveland Public Library be approved by
the Board of Library Trustees; and
WHEREAS, The Fines and Fees Schedule (“Schedule”) is
revised and updated, as needed; and
WHEREAS, The new multi-function devices, being
installed throughout the system, require the Library to
charge the public for all faxing and scanning services
or not charge for any; and
WHEREAS, Thousands of Clevelanders depend on the
Library’s faxing and scanning services to access
critical public benefits such as work programs;
childcare assistance; Medicaid; and Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP); and
WHEREAS, Rather than charging for faxing and scanning
services that do not have the same cost to the Library
as printing and copying services, the Executive
Leadership Team recommends that these services be
offered to the public for free; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees approves
the revised Fines and Fees Schedule, as attached, to be
effective August 30, 2019.
Carrie Krenicky, Chief Financial Officer, stated that
the current Fines and Fees Schedule charges ten cents
per page for faxing and ten cents per page for selfservice scanning to an email address. Now that the

AMENDMENT
TO FINES AND
FEES
SCHEDULE
Approved

 1093

Library
the new
between
have to

has implemented our full print management system
multifunction printers can no longer distinguish
the scan or fax. Therefore, we would either
charge for all or none.

Ms. Krenicky stated that the Leadership Team met and
decided that this was such an imperative service to our
patrons that we should not charge. This amendment would
update the Fines and Fees Schedule to not charge for
faxing or scanning to an email address.
Ms. Rodriguez stated providing this free service to
patrons was a wonderful idea and would especially
benefit those who would otherwise be unable to afford
it. Ms. Rodriguez recommended that this free service be
advertised on the Library’s social media platforms.
Director Thomas stated that this is something that we
like to publicize and noted that Library managers and
staff will be very helpful in spreading the word with
Library patrons and communities. The Library will
launch a campaign as well.
In response to Mr. Seifullah’s inquiry, Ms. Krenicky
stated that we fax approximately 20,000 pages per month
and we were paying ten cents per page. We are now paying
twelve cents per page because we are not sure if that is
the real quantity until we get the new multifunction
devices up and running. Over the past year, the cost to
the Library has been approximately $20,000 per year.
In response to Ms. Rodriguez’ inquiry, Ms. Krenicky
stated that she anticipates that this cost would
decrease as there are so many options to email instead
of fax although patrons are not yet aware. This really
is not an email service; but a digital fax.
After considering the cost of what the Library pays for
Fregal services, he stated that it seems more than
reasonable. Since we have made the decision that the
access to sound and related entertainment should be made
available at no cost, it is obvious that we should
assist in patrons with their fax and scanning needs as
well.
Ms. Krenicky stated that this is really not a tangible
service. When a patron prints they actually receive a

 1094

piece of paper and we are charging ten cents. Faxing is
more of a service and is not a tangible item.
Resolution Urging E-Content Publishers to Reconsider
Policies Limiting Library Access to E-Books and
Audiobooks
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, Ohio’s public libraries have the highest use
per capita in the nation and serve more than 8.4 million
individuals; and
WHEREAS, More than 1 million people in Ohio live below
the poverty line which makes eBooks an unaffordable
luxury, and rely on libraries to provide them with econtent to support acquisition of literacy skills,
complete school assignments, and pursue interests; and
WHEREAS, The “Community Reading Event Impact Report,”
released by the Panorama Project has shown that access
to eBooks through libraries has led to increased eBook
sales; and
WHEREAS, Major publishers have
for eBooks and eAudiobooks that
libraries’ ability to purchase,
of, digital copies of materials

announced new policies
severely limit public
or delays the purchase
and information; and

WHEREAS, These restrictive policies directly impact the
ability of Ohio’s public libraries to serve the 11.7
million people of Ohio and adequately provide access to
materials and information; and
WHEREAS, The new eBook and eAudiobook policies
represent a significant financial burden impacting
taxpayer-supported public libraries’ overall operations
and services. Cleveland Public Library expended more
than $1,000,000 in 2018 on eBooks and eAudiobooks; now
therefore be it
RESOLVED, That on this day of August 29, 2019, the Board
of Trustees of the Cleveland Public Library calls upon
Blackstone Audio, Hachette, Macmillan, and Simon &
Schuster to: 1) reconsider these recently announced
restrictive policies; and 2) engage in a meaningful and

RESOLUTION
URGING ECONTENT
PUBLISHERS
TO
RECONSIDER
POLICIES
LIMITING
LIBRARY
ACCESS TO EBOOKS AND
AUDIOBOOKS
Approved

 1095

direct dialogue and exchange of information with
libraries, library consortia, library associations,
authors, executives from Amazon, Overdrive, and other
relevant stakeholders for the purpose of devising new
policies that ensure equitable access to Ohio’s 8.4
million library users.
Jean Duncan McFarren, Collection Services Director,
stated that although this has been a controversial issue
with libraries over the past couple of years, it has
spiked recently with not only the Macmillan decision to
limit libraries’ ability to maintain e-materials that
they purchased but to actually embargo their new
materials for six months. We are not able to purchase
new materials until after the first six months.
We are
only permitted to have one copy.
Ms. McFarren continued to explain that other publishers
have also developed more of a “renting” concept so that
we are paying for e-materials and then our license for
them expires in two years or after a certain number of
circulations. This has huge financial implications for
the Library’s collections budget in the area of
collections and circulations that have been skyrocketing
for our patrons. There is an obvious demand from our
patrons.
Ms. McFarren stated that we have been working with the
Metro Libraries of Ohio to express concern about this
and to make sure that publishers are aware that we do
not agree with the approach that they are taking. The
publishers’ concern is that library borrowing is
cannibalizing sales which has been proven not to be
true.
Ms. McFarren stated that it is important to establish
that neither the Board nor the Library agrees with this
approach as it does a huge disservice to our patrons.
Ms. Butts noted that this resolution stated that there
are more than 1 million people in Ohio who live below
the poverty line which makes eBooks unaffordable.
Ms. Washington asked for the clarification on the
strategic approach for this issue.
Director Thomas stated that the Metro Libraries have
sent letters on behalf of the libraries and we all are
preparing resolutions indicating that our respective

 1096

boards and libraries are in support of this. In
addition, the Urban Libraries Council, Public Library
Association and American Library Association have been
sending letters to Macmillan and other publishers to
express concern. There will be a larger campaign with
our DC Office to bring this to the attention of federal
legislators.
Ms. McFarren noted that the Library was paying more than
two million per year for e-materials. The demand for
these materials is evidenced by the Library’s
continually growing holds list. The financial
implications are huge for the Library.
Ms. McFarren stated that there is room in the digital
copyright law to look at fair use language that is not
in there now. This may be ALA’s focus when lobbying the
federal government on behalf of libraries.
Director Thomas stated that this is really an equity
issue as people who can afford to purchase these
materials can have access to them. Those who cannot
afford these materials, who would normally have access
to them through libraries, are now unable.
Mr. Corrigan stated that he was very concerned and has
been communicating with those he used to work with in
Cincinnat. Mr. Corrigan stated that he will keep his
eye on this issue and was pleased to see this item on
the agenda.
Ms. McFarren stated that this step in our response to
this issue will include the letter from Director Thomas
and a resolution from our Board. We will continue to
work with staff to bring them up to speed on this issue
and we will continue to work with the Metro Libraries
for further communication efforts to the public as well
as other things that we can be doing.
Ms. Washington expressed her appreciation for this
update.
Director Thomas stated that this issue occurred during
the same time as the South Brooklyn incident.
Ms. Butts recalled the letter writing campaign by
regular Ohioans that occurred during the time that the
library budget was being threatened and suggested that

 1097

generating a similar letter writing campaign may be
appropriate in this instance.
In response to Ms. Rodriguez’ inquiry, Director Thomas
stated that Steve Potash, Founder & CEO, OverDrive,
wrote a passionate letter to the publisher regarding
this issue and expressed his disapproval of the recent
changes in this lending model.
Mr. Corrigan recommended that Trustees read the letter
authored by Steve Potash and stated that he references
all of the data based research in detail.
Ms. McFarren stated that OverDrive has set up the
Panorama Project where they are actually trying to
collect the evidence-based data about how the
interaction between the publishers and OverDrive and the
libraries really work.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
Ms. Rodriguez moved to adjourn into Executive Session to
consider the employment and compensation of a public
employee. Mr. Seifullah seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
Executive Session began at 12:40 p.m.
Ms. Rodriguez moved to return to the Special Board
Meeting. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
The Special Board Meeting resumed at 1:06 p.m.
RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING
EMPLOYMENT
AGREEMENT
WITH THE CHIEF
OPERATIONS
OFFICER OF THE
CLEVELAND
PUBLIC LIBRARY
Approved

Resolution Authorizing Employment Agreement with the
Chief Operations Officer of the Cleveland Public Library
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, The Chief Operations Officer is responsible
for overseeing the Library’s Property Management, Safety
and Protective Services, and Shipping Departments as
well as administering and supervising the Library’s
construction and capital projects; and

 1098

WHEREAS, On April 18, 2019, this Board approved Group 1
of the Facilities Master Plan, which will include
renovating, expanding, consolidating, or relocating
fourteen (14) branches over a five year period; and
WHEREAS, The Chief Operations Officer will play an
integral role in the implementation of Group 1 of the
Facilities Master Plan; and
WHEREAS, The Library desires to enter into a five-year
employment contract with the Chief Operations Officer
beginning on September 1, 2019 and expiring on August
31, 2024, which term is intended to coincide with the
schedule for the implementation of Group 1 of the
Facilities Master Plan and the spend-down period for
bond proceeds; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Trustees of the Cleveland
Public Library authorizes the Executive Director, CEO or
his designee, to negotiate and execute an employment
agreement with Jeremiah Swetel, Chief Operations Officer
of the Cleveland Public Library, for a term of five (5)
years and with a total contract amount in excess of
$25,000, which agreement shall be subject to the
approval of the Chief Legal Officer and the Chief Talent
Officer.

Ms. Rodriguez adjourned the Special Board Meeting at
1:10 p.m.

_____________________
Maritza Rodriguez
President

_______________________
Thomas D. Corrigan
Secretary

 1099

?Rome/Artsy

 

SUSAN JAROS, Principal

For over 30 years, Susan has provided exceptional fundraising counsel and
guidance to diverse nonprofit organizations. She has designed and
executed major comprehensive and capital fundraising campaigns,
provided strategic leadership and managed day-to-day development and
external affairs functions for educational and cultural institutions.

Susan served as the Deputy Director for Development for the Cleveland
Museum of Art. In that role, she was responsible for planning and
implementing a strategic campaign to fund the museum?s transformational
expansion and renovation, the first significant capital campaign undertaken
in the museum?s history and the largest ever launched by a cultural
institution in Ohio. During her tenure, the museum raised $217 million.

Prior to the Cleveland Museum of Art, Susan was Associate Vice President
of Development and Alumni Affairs at Case Western Reserve

University. She was instrumental in planning and executing the
university?s $350. million campaign, completed in 1994 with an attainment
of $417 million.

A Cleveland native, Susan earned a BA from Denison University and a JD
from Case Western Reserve School of Law. She practiced law and taught
at CWRU Law School. Susan?s civic and professional affiliations include
Order of the Coif, former trustee of Cleveland Public Art (now LAND studio)
and the Court of Nisi Prius. She was in the Leadership Cleveland Class of
2003 and received the Northern Ohio Live Rainmaker Award in "Community
Service in 2007.

JULIE CONRAD, Consultant

Julie's communications work across diverse industries and organizations.
brings a valued perspective to JarosStrategy clients as she partners with
organizations to define and persuasively tell their stories. She is
recognized for her effective communications plans and her ability to help
client missions and programs resonate with target audiences and align
with fundraising goals.

Julie dedicated her early career to public relations agencies, including Cohn
Wolfe in New York and Dan Pinger Public Relations in Cincinnati. Since
then she has immersed herself in Northeast Ohio?s cultural organizations
and nonprofit institutions. She serves as an Advisory Board Member for
the ?We Solve Problems Essay Contest," which brings together Northeast
Ohio high school students, business and civic leaders to solve a significant
issue impacting the community.

Julie holds a bachelor?s degree in speech communications from Miami
University and is an accredited member (APR) of the Public Relations
Society of America. She has led a variety of training seminars on public
relations and employee communications and engagement.

EXHIBIT 

EXHIBIT 4

 

Hough

Jefferson

Walz

West Park

Woodland

 

lMost
Quali?ed

1) Moody Nolan

1) Wanix and Williams

1) Bialosky and Robert
P. Madison,
international

1) vocow

1) Bostwick and
Ubiquitous

 

Second
Most
Quali?ed

2) Bostwick and
Ubiquitous

2) VOCON

2) Moody Nolan

2) Bostwick and
Ubiquitous

2) Bialosky and Robert
P. Madison,
International

 

 

Third Most
Quali?ed

 

3) Bialosky and Robert
P. Madison
International

 

3) Bostwick and
Ubiquitous

 

3) Bostwick and
Ubiquitous

 

3) Moody Nolan

 

3) Moody Nolan

 

 

1100

1101

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
FINES AND FEES SCHEDULE: PART A

OVERDUE FINES
ADULT MATERIALS
Circulating ltems..
Reference .
Interiibrary Loan Material"

per day/item
per daylltem
per daylitem

NO OVERDUE FINES are charged for:
Children materials
Young Adult materials
Materials at Universityi'College Libraries

NO OVERDUE FINES are charged to the following patrons:
CPL-GB (age 60 and over)
CPL-DISABLD
CPL-HOMBD

BILL THRESHOLD

MATERIAL RECOVERY REFERRAL

Fee for account referral to collection . .

.$25.00

$15.00

REPLACEMENT PRICES

Borrower pays list price for material as shown online. If database
Shows no list price, patron is charged as follows:

Hardcover Book $26.00
Adult Paperback Book $16. 00
Children? 5 Paperback Book $5.00
Audiobook" $50 00
Blu? $25 00
Comic Book .. .. . .. 
Compact $1400
DVD Set-:- . 00
lnterlibrary" Loan Materlal Value of item
. 00
Pamphlet 
Reference Material Value of item
Mobile Hotspot Device $75.00
Mobile Hotspot Case $15.00
Mobile Hotspot Cable $650
Self?Playing Device $80.00
Misc. uncataloged material $5.001item

LOST OR STOLEN LIBRARY CARD . . 

DAMAGE FINES

.. price

PASSPORT APPLICATION FEES

Application Processing fee.. . 
Passport photo fee.. $10.00
Office

For Approval by the Board of Library Trustees August 29. 2019
Effective August 30. 2019

INTERLIBRARY LOAN
LOAN FEES CHARGED TO LIBRARIES

Ohio Libraries. ..No charge
Out- of-State $10.00 per item
Foreign Libraries" 00 per item

DUPLICATION FEES
Scene (1- -30 ..minimum $15. Dorltem
Paper {1?30 ..minimum $30. 001ltem
Additional fees may be changed Fines and Fees Schedule; Part
for list of fees for scans and printouts made by staff.

FEES CHARGED TO INDIVIDUALBORROWERS

. charge
LOST ITEMS
Replacement prIceValue of item

SELF-SERVICE COPYIPRINTING

812" 11" and 14? $0.10 per page
11" 17? $0.20 per page
$0.25 per page

8% 11" and 81/2" x14?CoIor
11" 17" Color? per page
Copies from Microfonn ReaderlPrinter:

8V2?x 11" and 11"x 17? per page

Use of one?s own paper .. .. . . based on paper Size

FAXING
Self-service faxing from multifunction device No charge
SCANNING
Self?service scanning on MFD sent to email address No charge
Self-service scanning on KIC Scanner in CDPL No charge
Self?service scanning to one?s own device No charge

0N LIBRARY

PROPERTY
Wedding photography $100.00
Commercial ?lming Charge quoted upon request
MISCELLANEOUS
Tote Bags (non- complImentary) $0.10 per bag
Earbudsu $1 .001pair
Flash drive $7.001each
SALES TAX

Ohio sales tax is included in fees charged for self-service copying,
printing, scanning. and faxing from library multifunction devices. and for
miscellaneous items such as passport photos.

