THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 26, 2018

Executive
 For the first time in its 181-year history, The MetroHealth System will be able to offer a
menu of services outside of Cuyahoga County, allowing us the opportunity to reach mo
our region’s underserved patients. The expansion counties are Geauga, Lake, Lorain, M
Portage, Stark, Summit, and Wayne.
 After four years of Medicaid expansion, Ohio’s Medicaid program has been recognized
reducing costs and improving health outcomes and care coordination. Medicaid Directo
Barbara Sears and Office of Budget and Management’s Director Tim Keen shared the 2
Medicaid Assessment at MetroHealth.
 The MetroHealth System plans to build a community and school health center on the n
Urban Community School campus, which is expected to open in 2020.
 MetroHealth is proud to announce we are the first health system in the nation to adopt
concept called Open Table to provide a support system to community members in nee
creating change in their lives.
 MetroHealth has launched the Community Trauma Institute in response to the overwhe
need to help Greater Clevelanders whose lives have been stifled by exposure to all kin
community trauma. We held a summit, with an attendance of 50 invited guests, who p
common definition of Community Trauma and what a transformed community will look
Since this event, we have established a formal partnership with Case Western Reserve
University’s Center on Trauma and Adversity and we have collectively initiated the
development of a Community Trauma Response Model that will be presented at the fol
Summit later this year. The graphic below is a drawing of topics discussed at the Summ

 










Dr. Kavita Arora, OB/GYN, is featured in several videos from the AMA on women in med
On September 19, opened Food as Medicine Clinic to provide meals for recently discha
patients whose diagnoses are impacted by food insecurity (Diabetes, Hypertension, Co
Heart Failure). The program a partnership of MetroHealth and Greater Cleveland Food
and is made possible by generous support of Citizen Bank and Mount Sinai Foundation
MetroHealth received the Corporate Equality Award from the Human Rights Campaign
being a leader in health care equality.
MetroHealth was also one of only 203 hospitals nationwide to receive the American Co
Cardiology’s NCDR ACTION Registry Platinum Performance Achievement Award for 201
award recognizes MetroHealth’s commitment and success in implementing a higher st
of care for heart attack patients. We have also been designated an Aetna Institute of Q
Cardiac Care Facility for comprehensive heart and vascular treatment.
Congratulations to Dr. Hunter Peckham, co-director of the MetroHealth Rehabilitation
Institute, who was awarded a $7.5 million grant to initiate a multi-center clinical trial o
Network Neuroprosthesis, an implantable electrical stimulation system. The clinical tria
focus on hand grasp and reach for individuals who are paralyzed. MetroHealth will be t
site for the study, funded by the National Institute for Neurological Disorders and Strok
And congratulations to the more than 100 MetroHealth physicians featured in the Augu
of Cleveland Magazine as part of the Best Doctors database. Of course, this announcem
comes as no surprise to us and their patients!
I would be remiss if I didn’t extend a warm congratulation to our very own Dan Lewis,
received Crain’s Archer Awards’ Lifetime Achievement Award in August.

Chief of Staff

Survivor Recovery Services Update
 The Survivor Recovery Services team attended the Mid-West Trauma Recovery Center
Symposium in Columbus. This symposium brought together the four Trauma Recovery
in Ohio as well as the newly minted TRC’s in Chicago and Detroit. Our MetroHealth tea
the topics of Best Practices in Victims/Survivor response and services and was an invit
panelist on sustainability of support programming for victims throughout the Ohio and
Midwest. Our team is also participating in the National Alliance of Trauma Recovery Ce
a founding stakeholder to lead the way in victim services, community trauma supports
crisis response throughout the nation. We are partnered with Ohio State Medical Cente
Zuckerberg San Francisco Hospital and Trauma Center.
 We were also informed during this symposium that we will be receiving our requested
million grant to support the ongoing efforts of our Trauma Recovery Center, Victim Ser
and Trauma Survivors Network at The MetroHealth System. This grant will power other
initiatives throughout our system such as our Alpha Clinic wrap-around services, Schoo
Program and Healing Circles Partnership, our forensic SANE program and wrap-around
services, and shared patients with the Office of Opioid Safety, Arts in Medicine, and Ou
psychiatry as well as a host of external community partners.

Page 2 of 11

 Department of Public Safety
 The department implemented a system wide training titled Heads Up, which teaches
awareness of surroundings including, eyes off the phone, if you see something say som
and trust your instincts. To date, we have trained over 200 employees at five ambulato
 We also have distributed over 3,000 gun locks at community events.
 We have also distributed over 500 doses of NARCAN to citizens of our community.

Facilities Management
 Near the Cleveland Heights Hospital, a city water main broke at the street, causing a w
outage at both buildings for several hours. FM staff deployed portable sinks and a truc
non-potable water, while materials management delivered drinking water during the o
Cleveland Heights also incurred a 1.5-hour power outage when a tree fell onto a CEI
substation.
 Repairs from the flood reported two months ago have been completed; the two displac
departments, Radiology and Social Work, have reoccupied their areas.
 At MHMC an 8” water line to the boiler plant and laundry ruptured twice during constru
activities. It is in the route of two Campus Transformation enabling projects, so the pro
team plans to reroute this water line before installing the new road over it. In addition,
100+ year old steam tunnel was found to require additional structural support.
 The FM Department vacancy rate is the lowest it has been in more than five years. In t
two months, we’ve hired three maintenance mechanics and one each of the following:
supervisor, FM specialist, electrician and a building engineman.

System Dyad
 Dr. Gregory Heintschel, DDS, joined our system as our new Chair of Oral Health and De
Dr. Heintschel previously served in various leadership roles at My Community Dental C
a Michigan-based nonprofit dental corporation with 37 offices, 440 employees and 250
visits annually. In 2015, he was promoted to President and CEO, overseeing the $60 m
business. In this role, he collaborated with the University of Michigan School of Dentist
the University of Detroit Mercy School of Dentistry in the education of dental students.
2016, Dr. Heintschel was appointed by the Governor of Michigan to be the Director of t
State Dental Board.
 Dr. Agnes Loeffler has been selected as the next Chair of Pathology, effective October
Loeffler joins MetroHealth from the University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine
Public Health, where she has been an Associate Professor in the Department of Patholo
Laboratory Medicine since 2013. She also served as Director of Surgical Pathology. Prio
these leadership positions, Dr. Loeffler was an Assistant Director and Assistant Profess
Department of Pathology at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H.
Loeffler earned both her doctorate in cultural anthropology and medical degree from th
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She has authored or co-authored articles or
chapters in nearly 30 publications or books.
 Dr. Boulanger attended the September 6 Weatherhead Event with expert panelists tha
discussed: Public Health and Private Hospitals: Better Together? Our MetroHealth board
member, J. B. Silvers, PhD, acted as one of the moderators.

Page 3 of 11

 Hospital Operations
 The team continues to prepare for The Joint Commission Survey with ongoing quality
improvement initiatives and management rounding.
 A new Capacity Command Center is being planned to coordinate stakeholders to enha
patient throughput and staff efficiency.
 A nurse-led Peripherally Inserted Central Catheter (PICC) team will be implemented in

Community Hospitals
 Construction continues on the Bikur Cholim Room at Cleveland Heights scheduled t
in October.

Environmental Services
 The department is implementing new measures in Surgery such as glow light testin
turnovers and terminal cleaning to further reduce infection rates.
 McCafferty staff completed Department of Transportation (DOT) Training (Manifest f
Transportation of Regulated Medical Waste).

Food & Nutrition Services
 The department coordinated the September Employee Appreciation events through
the system including 12 food trucks serving across three shifts at the Medical Cente
13 other MetroHealth locations, lunches for staff at all other sites, and drawings/giv
of more than 75 prizes.

Logistics
 The department established valet parking service at the hospital’s main entrance, w
will enhance patient experience and decrease vehicle congestion at the Emergency
Department.
 Logistics implemented a new strategy to maintain hallway egress at required distan
decreasing unnecessary items, reallocating items to storage spaces and enhanced
management rounding.

Pathology
 Transitioned VDRL syphilis testing and ANA panels from “batched” testing to random
access assays, resulting in improved test turnaround time in support of timely patie
 Implemented the 5th generation HIV testing, resulting in the provision of informatio
which differentiates primary infection from established infection.

Pharmacy
 Retail pharmacy operations continue growth across Mail Order, Specialty Pharmacy
Meds2Beds programs.
 Mail order pharmacy ratings are currently at five stars (with five being the highest);
star rating is a measure from all insurance companies. The five-star rating is due to
ratings with medication adherence in the disease states of diabetes, hypertension a
cholesterol.
 In a recent national publication “Innovation in Pharmacy,” pharmacists Cynthia King
Benjamin King and Benjamin Pontefract were published reporting that MetroHealth
Page 4 of 11

 pharmacists managing diabetes improved lab quality value, HbA1c, by 2.2 percent
compared to patients not enrolled in the program.

Radiology
 Achieved ACR accreditations for Mammography at Beachwood, Ultrasound breast a
breast at W. 150th and CT at Brecksville.
 ODH survey results of 100 percent compliance at the Broadway and Beachwood loc
 Converted 100 percent of the ultrasound high level disinfection process to the new
Trophon hydrogen peroxide system. This increases safety for our patients.
Service Lines

Adult Health and Wellness
 Awarded Primary Care Training and Enhancement Grant $400K per year for five yea
million).
 Addition of six new Skilled Nursing Facilities to Three-Day Waiver Program, effective
1/1/2019.
 Participated in Senior Walk, downtown on Mall C, by having a MetroHealth table and
James Campbell, MD, as a speaker.
 Four new faculty recruits started July 1, 2018.
 Implementation of Wellness Visits at select Discount Drug Mart retail locations.
 Addition of three new faculty members for our inpatient, Main Campus and Parma
locations.
 Awarded the Cuyahoga County for Comprehensive Medical Services contract with th
Department of Children and Family Services. This will allow Psychiatry to continue t
provide consultation services for youth in the Children and Family Services program
 Instituted a family education group for opioid addiction, sponsored by Catholic Char
and hosted by our Parma Snow Road health center. The group began its Saturday p
on July 28, 2018, and will continue through the end of December. This family educa
program has received a positive response.
 Dr. Armstrong-Brine and MAAC (autism) received funding to participate in collabora
Hartwell Grant with CASE.
 Raman Marwaha, MD, will be Principal Investigator at MetroHealth for NIH-Duke
University Phase 4 Trial on safety of antipsychotic medications in pediatric populatio
Trial). Dr. Ewald Horwath, Dr. Juan Young and Dr. Fatima Malik will be co- investigato
 Matthew Baltes, MD, received the Aleece Caron Grant for QI Faculty Development.
 Fnu Rajesh, MD, received the NeoMed Grant for Home Visits.
 New and returning providers to MetroHealth: Dr. Mary D’Onofrio (Parma Snow) and
Erron Bell (Cleveland Heights).

Cancer Care
 The 3rd Annual Cancer Symposium was held Friday, August 31 at Scott Auditorium.
topic was Palliative and Hospice Care and had over 40 attendees.
 Cancer Care piloted a Survivorship Symposium on Thursday, August 2 in Rammelka
was developed for patients and their families. Over 40 individuals attended and Can
Care plans to hold the event annually each June.
Page 5 of 11

 Emergency Services
 Signed Medical Direction Contract with Hinckley Township Fire, starting October 4.
 Our SANE (Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner) coordinators are in the process of comp
their Human Trafficking presentation to all first responders in Cuyahoga County.
 Cuyahoga County citizen continue to find value and support our Community EDs. A
strong were above budget.

Neuro-Musculoskeletal
 We have had a significant number of deployments of Orthopaedic services to variou
locations, including Parma, Brecksville and Cleveland Heights in August and Septem
 In October Neurologist, Dr. Rodica DiLorenzo will join the MetroHealth team.
 Inpatient rehab volumes continue to increase each month due to combined efforts o
outreach, education, coordination of care, and marketing of our inpatient rehab serv
and expertise. In addition, we have hired liaisons to help families and patients mak
decisions and guide patients within and outside of MetroHealth about their options.
hope to continue to expand this service and leverage our expertise.
 We have expanded our Parma Health Center’s spine surgery services with Dr. Beldin
new provider, Dr. Lechner.

Specialty Care
 The Cardiovascular & Pulmonary Center welcomed Dr. Mirna Ayache (Pulmonary), D
Saima Karim (EP), Dr. Najmul Siddiqi (Non-Invasive Cardiology), Dr. Levon Khojayan
(Vascular Surgery) and Dr. Garietta Falls (Vascular Surgery).
 Dr. William Lewis was a guest on WVIZ’s Ideas to discuss reducing your risk of strok
heart disease.
 The Digestive Health Center hosted its annual GI Symposium which had 85 attende
included MetroHealth and guest lecturers on IBD, Hepatology and GI function condi
 The Skin Health Center welcomed Dr. Thomas Knackstedt who is leading the Mohs S
program. The Skin Health team conducted a free skin check event with over 50 par
and multiple cancers detected.
Surgery
 Record volume of cases completed in a month in August.
 Onboarded two new part-time urologists.
 Continued deployment of ENT and urology services to the community.
 Opened an additional ambulatory OR at Brecksville in August.

Trauma, Critical Care, Burns
 As of October 1, we will welcomea new trauma surgeon, Dr. Chad Katona, to our tea
 Our six-bed Neurocritical Care Unit, which opened in May has seen continued growt
the last few months and has opportunity to continue to expand in the future.
 Results of the PAMPer trial were published in the New England Journal of Medicine. D
Claridge and the trauma team were part of this five-year study, which showed preh
administration of plasma to trauma patients at risk for shock improves odds of surv
 Dr. Vanessa Ho was the recipient of a one-year grant from the AAST.
Page 6 of 11

 







Women and Children’s
Pediatric resident Aravind Thavamani was awarded a prize on contribution to the local
community from the organization of Resident Representatives to AAMC.
Pediatrics hired two new general pediatricians who started seeing patients in early Sep
Pediatrics and Geriatrics jointly hired a new provider who will Intergenerational patient
Dr. Edward Chien authored a New England Journal of Medicine article on induction of la

Ambulatory Operations
Expanded the use of Durable Medical Equipment (DME) in clinics, including the Emerge
Department. Hastings/Discount Drug Mart is our new vendor.
Planning for the implementation of FIT tests with flu vaccinations for the adult patients
are due for colon cancer screening.
Parma Snow Road hosted a back-pack event providing back packs for 1,000 children in

Ethics and Compliance
 Published new Code of Conduct, “This is Who We Are,” on metrohealth.org.
 Launched live compliance training program of 200 sessions at all MetroHealth location
seven scenario-based videos.
 Launched culture of ethics and compliance survey.
 Implemented new internal SharePoint portal to aid in departmental efficiencies.
 Developed new process to track service recovery activity.

Legal
 In conjunction with the Legal Department’s ongoing coordination regarding participatio
relevant class action lawsuits, recently received $1.9 million payment as settlement.
 Obtained final determination from the State of Ohio for property tax exemption status
estate located on West
Street.
25
 Legal Department took the lead in connection with MetroHealth’s participation in the O
MDL lawsuit.
 Participated as speaker in a Medical-Legal Partnership Webinar for other hospitals and
Services entities.
 Participated in CWRU Medical Student clinical ethics lecture and small group discussion
 Issued first departmental Newsletter on procurement requirements.
 Completed negotiating of Owner-Controlled Insurance Program for the Transformation.
 Counseling concerning appropriate guidelines for voter-registration activities.
 Updated manger & Executives regarding impact of Public Records law, confidentiality a
trade secrets in connection with protection of confidential System information.

Nursing
 2018 Nurse Satisfaction Survey Results with 83 percent overall response rate:
 The strongest four categories were: Autonomy, Professional Development Oppor
Nursing Foundations for Quality Care, Interprofessional Relationships
 In eight of nine categories, we performed between the 50th and 75th percentile,
an increase in scores for this year vs last year.
 In the ninth category, we improved but were 0.01 below the median
Page 7 of 11

 









2018 Nurse Satisfaction Survey at the unit/clinic level:
 The strongest four categories were the same as the department level categories
 64.8 percent of unit/clinic-level scores were above the benchmark vs 58.4 perce
year. (The benchmark is the median.)
 35.4 percent of unit-level scored above the 75th percentile vs 29.0 percent last y
 51 percent of unit-level scores must be above the benchmark for Magnet.
 We select four of the nine categories to report on in our Magnet Document.
The results were shared with CNO Council and at Shared Governance day in July. The u
practice councils and Nurse Managers will be working on action plans for their area ov
next couple months, with regular report outs of results and changes. Focus groups are
underway to identify department level opportunities/improvements.
Kelly Seabold, Magnet Program Manager, and Melissa Kline are doing a deeper dive in
that have not made progress between last year and this year. The Associate CNO and
will be more involved in these action plans.
Several MetroHealth nurses were nominated again this year for the Ohio March of Dim
Nurse of the Year Awards. These nurses will be recognized at the awards luncheon on
November 2, 2018, in Columbus.
 Ashley Rozman
General Medical/Surgical
 Chris Seminatore Quality & Risk Management, Infection Control
 Kelly Gilhousen
Educator- Health Care Delivery
 Maria Breahna
Nurse Leadership
 Rebecca Scott
Critical Care

Names of six nurses were submitted to the Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing for
consideration for faculty appointments. The FPB committee will review proposals this f
Melissa Kline spoke to the incoming freshman nursing class at Case Western Reserve
University at their Stethoscope Ceremony on September 14, 2018.

Finance







Craig Richmond will be presenting at the Healthcare Financial Management Association
Illinois Chapter on October 23. His presentation is focused on and titled: Thriving not
Surviving: A Story of Resilient Organization.
Craig Richmond will be participating as a panelist at Becker's Healthcare 7th Annual C
Roundtable on November 14.
Charlene Scott, Business Operations Director, has been newly elected as the Chair of t
Certification Committee for Healthcare Financial Management Association (HFMA North
Ohio Chapter), a professional health care organization for finance leaders.
Enrollment on Wheels RV participated in 24 events, servicing 139 community member
August. Year-to-date, we rendered 1,514 services to our community in the RV.
Revenue Cycle organized a hospital-wide donation drive benefitting the NEO Coalition
Homeless in August. A total of 2,267 items, ranging from toiletries to tents, were collec
Blue & Company LLC has been assisting the MetroHealth’s Reimbursement Departmen
their 2018 Cost Report compilation with an emphasis on refining cost allocation and
streamlining data collection.
Page 8 of 11

 


















Department of Operations Finance is working closely with Medical Operations in develo
the operating budget and financial plan for 2019. The process is underway using scien
intelligence and analytics from the new Enterprise Strategic Planning and Analytics So
System (“EPSi”).
Internal Audit launched a new MIV site titled “Stronger Controls. Healthier You.” The si
provides information about Internal Audit’s purpose, process and team.
Internal audit continues to leverage available data to evaluate the effectiveness of our
control environment supporting policies, procedures and business processes. Internal a
has developed quarterly audit procedures utilizing data to monitor segregation of dutie
system access and control performance for various business processes.

Enterprise Data Analytics
The MetroHealth System-wide dashboard on opioid prescribing and governance, which
built by Department of Operational Research and Analytics (DORA) in concert with Clin
Informatics, was presented at EPIC’s national user group meeting conference in Augus
A manuscript co-authored by a DORA team member was accepted for publication in th
reviewed journal, the Annals of Family Medicine. This article, “Panel Size, Clinician Tim
Clinic, and Access to Appointments,” highlights ways to improve the continuity of care
between primary care doctors and their patients.

Enterprise Program Management Office
The Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS) project managed by the Enterprise P
Management Office (Enterprise PMO), under the IS Security Program, is now completed
The Enterprise PMO is in the process of increasing its project management delivery ca
support the MetroHealth’s growth of strategic, business and information technology
initiatives.

Information Technology (IT)
MetroHealth was recognized at the annual Epic User Group Meeting as the world’s first
contributor to Epic’s Cosmos research network, where participants can pool unidentifie
patient data and leverage combined insight to make better patient care decisions.
Epic video visits were expanded to enable patients to use their mobile devices for virtu
appointments.
The annual Epic Disaster Recovery test was successfully completed, verifying that The
MetroHealth System can recover and continue use of Epic in the event our primary dat
is compromised.
Created and filled the Manager of Technology Risk and Continuity of Operations positio
which provides oversight of IT Risk and Disaster Recovery Services.

Supply Chain
MetroHealth’s Director of Supply Chain was a featured speaker at two events involving
diverse supplier community, including a “How to Do Business with MetroHealth” forum
the Ohio Minority Supplier Development Council’s quarterly meeting.
MetroHealth is partnering with Global Healthcare Exchange to further improve pricing
contract compliance, identification of recalled products, optimizing supply standardiza
utilization, and increasing electronic purchase order transmission.
Page 9 of 11

 

MetroHealth Policy Committee approved a new Purchasing Policy, which includes guide
for procuring from diverse business enterprises, establishing performance standards fo
service contracts and standards for onsite sales representatives.

External Affairs

















Government Relations
On August 22, Ohio Department of Medicaid Director Barbara Sears and Tim Keen, Dire
Ohio Office of Budget and Management, conducted a regional press conference at
MetroHealth. Directors Sears and Keen discussed the benefits of Medicaid expansion in
On September 24, Dr. Boutros participated in the America’s Essential Hospital meeting
CMS Director Seema Verma. Dr. Boutros discussed how proposed Medicare reimbursem
changes for drugs and outpatient services impact on vulnerable populations.
September 25 is national voter registration day. The Board of Elections will host voter
registration drives across MetroHealth facilities during the month of September.

Community Engagement
Open Streets – MetroHealth staff coordinated our leading role as presenting sponsor of
Streets,” an annual health-and-wellness event focused on increasing opportunities for
activity in the West 25 Street neighborhood. An estimated 2,500 people attended the e
Parma Back to School Safety Fair – MetroHealth staff worked with Parma Schools to
coordinate the Second Annual “Back to School Safety Day” and back-pack giveaway. M
1,000 attendees were present. Metro Life Flight and Parma first responders also partici
Open Table – Training kicked off in late August for MetroHealth’s Open Table project to
support community members in need. MetroHealth will fill five tables this year and ano
next year.
Falls Prevention – We distributed 10,000 pharmacy bags printed with falls prevention
information during the month of September at all nine MetroHealth pharmacies.

Marketing and Communications
Brand guidelines are revised and completed. Plans are underway to communicate gui
to internal stakeholders beginning October 1.
Developed quality section on website to increase transparency in reporting key quality
measures.
Final preparations are being made for the MetroHealth gala scheduled for October 6. G
After Dark event information and tickets are available on metrohealth.org/gala.

Foundation and System Philanthropy




The Arconic Foundation has provided a generous grant of $25,000 for MetroHealth’s Br
Amigas program. Arconic has partnered with MetroHealth on this program since 2013,
providing $150,000 in support over the last five years.
The Lubrizol Foundation has provided an additional grant of $25,000 to support the
development of an additional classroom and science lab for MetroHealth’s Lincoln Wes
School of Science & Health. Lubrizol made its first grant of $100,000 to this program in
Page 10 of 11

 






Dr. Robert Bahler, a 2017 MetroHealth Medical Hall of Honor inductee and longtime lea
MetroHealth’s Department of Cardiology, has made a multi-year pledge to the campai
The MetroHealth Foundation has submitted a request to the Fred A. Lennon Charitable
of a four-year, $1 million grant to support the MetroHealth Rehabilitation Institute and
Cleveland Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) Center. Cleveland FES Center is a con
with the MetroHealth Rehabilitation Institute, Case Western Reserve University (CWRU
the Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center. If awarded, the grant will support the
establishment of MetroHealth Medical Center as a major international site for referring
with spinal cord injuries and the deployment of our innovative technology for functiona
restoration. Because it is structured as a matching grant, the Lennon Charitable Trust w
match all new gifts to MetroHealth Rehabilitation Institute and the Cleveland FES Cent
Kathy Plummer, Director of Foundation Giving, and Dr. James Misak, a MetroHealth fam
medicine physician, have met with Dr. Glen Mays, Program Director of Robert Wood Joh
Foundation’s national program office for Systems for Action, to discuss the Transforma
aligning programs. Dr. Mays was extremely interested in the EcoDistrict concept and in
Dr. Misak to participate in monthly phone calls with program grantees.
The MetroHealth System received a five-year $1,954,476 grant from the U.S. Departm
Health and Human Services to provide faculty and students from Case Western Reserv
University’s Physician Assistant program with primary care training focused on concep
as patient centeredness, systems integration, quality improvement, clinical teaching a
mentorship, and eliminating health disparities. The grant is led by Drs. Aleece Caron, A
Perzynski, James Misak, Nathan Beachy and Christine Antenucci.

Page 11 of 11

 