THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES

Date:
Time:
Place:
Chair:
Trustees:
Present:

Wednesday, May 9, 2018
2:00pm – 4:00pm
Board Room – K107
Ms. Whiting
Ms. Whiting, Ms. Dee, Mr. McDonald, and Mr. Moss
Dr. Boutros, Ms. Belak, Mr. Chadwick, Mr. Johnson, Ms. Johnson-Hall
Mr. Kaufmann, Mr. Martucci, Ms. Negrón-McDaniel, Ms. Rajki,
Mr. Stern
MINUTES

The meeting was called to order by Ms. Whiting at 2:00pm.
1.

The minutes of the February 14, 2018 were reviewed and approved.

2.

Mr. Stern presented 2018 Enterprise Diversity Goals.
Q1 – 2018 System Diversity Goals Results
System Goal: System Diversity Goals / Metrics include:
o Health Equity Project
o Recruitment/ Reentry Interviews
o Transgender Youth Care Initiative
o Retention/ Mentoring Program
o Provider / Management / Contractor Interviews
o Diverse, Local and Regional Spend
o Campus Transformation Spend
As an organization, the diversity enterprise goals are between the minimum – target scores for the first
quarter of 2018. The Campus Transformation team has done an excellent job.

3.

Ms. Negrón-McDaniel presented the Office of Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) Report.
2018 System Diversity Goals
o Health Equity Project
➢ We have set the foundation by establishing a health equity workgroup and focus for ACO, and
Race, Ethnicity & Language (REaL) reporting.
➢ Established EPIC/Cadence reviews. Facilitated an in-service on demographic categories, EPIC
REaL tip sheet, and updating of yearly reporting methods.
1

 Race, Ethnicity, and Language Data Objective
➢ The purpose is to record race, ethnicity, and language for all patients.
➢ EPIC now prompts the annual reverification of REaL data.
➢ We have shown significant improvement in the rate of REaL data collected in all the ambulatory
clinics.
➢ We are working with the EPIC team and Dr. Margolius on developing provider health disparities
dashboards. Dr. Boutros reported this would be the first time providers would look at their
practice from a disparities lens.
Inclusion and Engagement
➢ Nursing Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) Plan- In collaboration with Melissa Kline, Vice President,
Patient Care Services and Chief Nursing Officer; we are meeting to discuss and create an
inclusion and diversity plan for nursing.
➢ New Employee Resource Group (ERG)- The African American Development Group: The
purpose of this group is to support African American staff who are seeking professional
development opportunities, support organizational recruitment efforts, and to partner with all
other ERGs on system-wide initiatives.
➢ Updating the English Usage Policy II57- Updates will address concerns pertaining to “when is it
appropriate to speak another language at work?” The review will address appropriate protocol
while being inclusive of all.
Collaborative Program: Windows to Health
This is a partnership between MetroHealth and the Mexican Consulate in Detroit to provide services in
the community on information, referral and healthcare services. MetroHealth leadership met with the
Detroit Mexican Consulate to reaffirm our partnership and confirm funding from the consulate for the
program this year.
Community Engagement: All events were well received.
➢ United for Puerto Rico Jobs, Health, and Community Resources- This was a partnership between
MetroHealth, the city of Cleveland, and other community-based partners.
➢ La Mega Job Fair – This was an outreach and job fair event for recent arrivals from Puerto Rico
due to Hurricane Maria with over 260 individuals in attendance.
➢ MetroHealth partnered with Case Western Reserve and minority medical students for a
networking event (the goal is to have several events per year). Students shared that the
physicians’ stories impacted them; especially stories shared about their work, families, and
themselves.
Underrepresented Minority (URM) Provider/Resident Recruitment (Medical School Outreach Plan)
MetroHealth Team: Sherrie Williams, MD; Marcie Becker, Professional Affairs; and Lourdes
Negrón-McDaniel, Inclusion & Diversity.
The MetroHealth team will visit the following schools:
✓ Wayne State School of Medicine
✓ University of Illinois Medical School
✓ Meharry Medical College
✓ Howard University College of Medicine
Inclusion & Diversity Awards and Recognition
2

 ➢ 2018 Human Rights Campaign- MetroHealth achieved Health Care Equality Leader status,
scoring 100% in Patient Services and Support; Employee Benefits and Policies; Nondiscrimination and Staff Training; and LGBTQ Patient and Community Engagement.
➢ MetroHealth will receive the Corporate Equality Leader Award from the Human Rights
Campaign Cleveland chapter in August.
➢ Commission on Economic Inclusion- MetroHealth will receive the 2018 award for Best in Class
for board diversity in the “Large Non-profit, Government, Public Entity” category. We will be
placed in their Hall of Fame for this 3 rd time recognition in this category.
4.

Ms. Belak presented Talent Acquisition.
Leadership Racial Diversity Composition by Title (Executives, Directors, Managers)
Reviewed the changes and fluctuations in leadership from 2013 – 2018, with no significant changes.
2013- 2018 Racial Composition by Type (Leadership, Physician, Combined)
Reviewed the diversity percentage fluctuations.
2nd Chance Interviews
These interviews have resulted in 2 nd chance opportunities for individuals to secure jobs in multiple
departments including Environmental Services, Nursing, and Information Services. The annual target is
to conduct 75 interviews. By the end of Q1 2018, we had 82 interviews completed and hired 26
individuals.
Best in Class Quality Connections
o Established a Steering Committee
o Developed the BIC Q˟ Program
o Identified the first cohort mentor/mentee matches: 78 participants in Q1 2018

5.

Mr. Martucci presented Supplier Diversity.
o Presented Q1 2018 Baseline and Local/Regional Spend Trend: at 48% (below threshold
currently- minimum is 49%)
o Presented Baseline and Diverse Spend Trend:
➢

Q1 2018: Spend trend is at 12% (we are at stretch for this goal)

o Vendor Classifications we are tracking:
➢ Small Business Enterprise (SBE)
➢ Minority Business Enterprise (MBE)
➢ Women’s Business Enterprise (WBE)
➢ Veteran’s Business Enterprise (VBE)
➢ Service Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise (SDVBE)
➢ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Business Enterprise (LGBTBE)
o Presented Diverse Vendor Trends;
➢ Q1 2018: 207 vendors (7% were diverse)
3

 o Dr. Boutros shared that there is much discussion in the supplier diversity community about the
burden of having to fill out a lot of paperwork just to prove one is a diverse vendor. Mr.
Martucci reported they are exploring expanding the definition of a diverse vendor to include
“self-identification” of vendors in addition to certified (some diverse vendors do not get certified
due to the stigma of just being seen as a minority company).
o Dr. Boutros and Jane Platten met with the Urban League.
o Tracy Carter will be serving on the board of the Urban League.
6.

Mr. Stern presented Q1 2018 Transformation Diverse Spend.
(presented on behalf of Walter Jones, SVP, Campus Transformation)

Meeting adjourned at 3:10pm
The next BOT meeting is scheduled for August 8, 2018
Respectfully submitted by Francine Johnson-Hall

4

 