Summit County Opiate and Addiction Task Force
Summit County Opiate Task Force Public Quarterly
Meeting
Monday September 17, 2018 @ 4:00 PM
Location: Summit County Public Health Auditorium

Meeting Notes
Present (70):

1867 W Market St. Akron, OH 44313

70 People were in attendance.

Next Meeting:

OH 44310 (Conference Room A/B)

12/17/18 Summit County Public Health
(Auditorium) 1867 W Market St. Akron, OH 44313

I.

Introduction and Welcome
a. Opened the meeting at 4:00PM (China Darrington)

II.

General Updates
a. Introduction and Overview
i. China Darrington reminded the Task Force of the mission statement: “We are
a group of key individuals and organizations committed to reducing the abuse
of opiates in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of resources”, and gave a brief overview of the six subcommittees that
make up the Task Force.
ii. China also reminded the Task Force that sometimes communication is hard,
and that is the reason why the meetings exist: so every member of the Task
Force is informed about the other subcommittees.
b. Drug Safe Hudson representative, Jamie Hudson, gave an overview and update on the
programs that they are working on which include giving out the drug deactivation
system, Deterra (over 500 bags in about 4 months) educating the community on safe
disposal methods and reduce stigma. Jamie also mentioned that Drug Safe Hudson
goes around to various high, middle, elementary, and pre-K schools to try to educate
the students on safe disposal of drugs. Along with the schools, Jamie also has a
podcast where she talks about safe disposal and gives links to different resources
members of the community can go to.

1

 c. Green Drug Task Force representative, Andy Platt, gave a brief overview of the work
that they are doing to combat the opiate epidemic in the city of Green.
i. Starting in late 2016 and leading into 2017, the Task Force focused on
community and tabling events aimed to educate the public on opiates. Events
held included inviting the community for a screening of the film “Chasing the
Dragon” and “Hidden in Plain Sight”; where members of the police
department lecture on how to spot drug paraphernalia, free Narcan training,
numerous Deterra giveaways, and also drug take back days.
ii. In 2018, the focus shifted to general community awareness in order to find
constituents they could recruit and work with. One of these initiatives
included sponsoring “Crisis Awareness Sunday” with a group of local
churches to educate the clergy about opiates and had the clergy preach to their
congregation, while members of the Task Force had a table at the end of the
service ready to hand out safe disposal bags and Deterra bags, and literature
on opiate addiction (about 5,000 people are estimated to have been present in
total)
iii. They meet with those clergy now on a quarterly basis and now those churches
are sponsoring events to raise awareness in the public including police
officers, firefighters, and EMTs giving talks in their respective churches, and
are planning on doing it again in April 2019.
iv. The city of Green is now looking to recruit students into the force so they can
be represented and also prevention programs. Plans to create and implement
an “Alternative Pain Management” program is underway with initiatives such
as challenging health care providers on prescribing pain medication, being
informed on opiates, and yoga or chiropractic medicine.
v. The city of Green plans to try to get businesses in on the Task Force and to
talk to employees about safe storage and disposal of drugs.
vi. They meet monthly on the first Tuesday at the City of Green Central
Administration Building and the public is welcome
d. Addiction Leadership Council representative at United Way, Dave Rich, gave an
overview of the partnership they have with Summa Health and their Barberton Pilot
Project which includes:
i. Programs with Barberton’s Summa Hospital to give care for addiction. This is
important because all people have to do is walk in and explain they need help
with their addiction, and they will immediately be connected to resources
including speaking with a doctor that is licensed to dispense suboxone, a Care
Coordinated Nurse who will talk about treatment planning, and be connected
to a recovery coach. If the user shows up to the meetings and appointments, as
an incentive, they could qualify for a myriad of resources such as child care,
2

 food allowances, housing, and more. Right now, there are about 47 clients in
the program.
ii. The program started in June 16 and since then, 106 patients have received
services and 24 of them have been inducted with norphine. They currently
have 3 nurses on staff, and 20 people are still in the program currently.
iii. Their data has shown that heroin and opiates have gone down a little however,
people in treatment for alcohol dependency have stayed the same. The
rationale behind this program was to get people who have a chemical
dependency quick access to help no matter their drug of choice.
iv. There are plans to expand their base of clientele across the county, there has
not been very much marketing, however word of mouth is effective in getting
the word out. There are also plans to hit targeted demographics more
persistently such as people with just a high school diploma or GED and
disenfranchised populations.
v. Going forward, Summa Health System is in talks with Mercy Hospital in
Cincinnati to trade ideas on how to better their program and increase the
success of it.
vi. A member of the audience posed the question “Is this program only available
to Summit County residents”, to which Dave Rich answered, “It’s a hospital,
so they can’t turn anyone away, even if they are not from Summit County.”
vii. An update with United Way, Akron Community Foundation and the ADM
Board: they brought together the Addiction Leadership Counsel to bring in
health care players and agencies to implement a study in the University of
Akron and the results will be in around December 2018or January 2019.
e. Summit County Public Health representative, Angela Genet, updated the Task Force
on the Syringe Exchange (Summit Safe), Project DAWN, and the Cardinal Health
Foundation grant.
i. April 4 saw the opening of the 2nd site for Summit Safe and Project DAWN at
the WIC Clinic on Arlington Road from 3PM-6PM on Wednesdays, and as of
August 13, the 3rd was opened on Kenmore Boulevard partnering with
“Akron, Say No to Dope” from 9AM-12PM on Mondays.
ii. The Arlington location is the busiest having given out 267 Narcan kits and
812 kits in total (so far in 2018) and 167 (in 2018) reported opioid overdose
reversals due to Project DAWN as opposed to 2017 where there was only 20
reported reversals.
iii. Along with dispensing Narcan, there is also fentanyl testing strips given to the
people who utilize the program. This is so drug users can test their product for
fentanyl and use caution when using the drugs. There has been a spike in the
amount of fentanyl in many drugs including heroin and methamphetamine. It
3

 only tests to see if fentanyl is present in their product; it does not test the
purity of the product or give a percentage. With data collected from 63 people
who have used the testing strips, 14 of them reported that there was a negative
result, but 49 people reported that there was a positive result. And of those 49
people, 32 decided to use the drug anyway, but 17 decided to not use it. Out of
the 32 people that decided to use the drug anyway, 18 decided to do a test shot
first or use a smaller amount, 1 decided to sniff less, and 13 did not change
their behavior. That is important because that means Summit Safe is changing
the behavior of the people using the program to better their health. In just
August alone, there was a reported 50 opioid overdose reversals due to the
Narcan across all three clinics in the Syringe Exchange.
iv. As part of getting new prescribing guidelines to physicians who prescribe
opioids, the Health Department sent out posters with the new guidelines and
literature on opiates out to doctor’s offices, hospitals, and anywhere that
someone would prescribe opioids in Summit County.
v. With the Cardinal Health Grant, the main objective is to promote safe storage
and safe disposal of medicines with realtors and people selling their houses
who would be at risk of someone stealing medicine from them during open
houses. They are have a social media campaign going and are lending help to
the Opiate Task Force in Summit County.
f. China Darrington gave an update with the Sequential Internet Mapping (SIM) and the
Incident Management Action Teams (IMAT) that started in February and March of
2018. There is a meeting on Wednesday September 19, 2018 that will include all the
key players in the five priority areas and will get the key players ready to implement
the plans.

III. Data Dashboard:
a. ADM Board representative, Eric Hutzell, gave an update on data collected and had
handouts of the information regarding the opiate epidemic such as:
i. Emergency room visits due to a drug overdose has decreased from August to
September 2018, and there was a spike in Overdoses per day in May 2018 and
from July to August 2018, the number has drastically decreased
ii. The Total number of drug overdoses is at 948 in 2018 so far
iii. Preliminary data suggests that there could be up to 63 drug overdose deaths in
2018
iv. The official count for total drug overdose deaths in 2017 as of 3/5/2018 is at
224
v. The number of pounds of unused medications in D.U.M.P. boxes is at 5068 as
of 3/27/18

4

 vi. Detoxification wait times have stayed the same as 2017 in that there is almost
no wait time for detoxification
vii. Residential wait times have gone down, and as of 9/6/18, 92% of the clients
are in some form of interim services
viii. Updated numbers are available on the Summit County Public Health website
https://www.scph.org/

IV. Committee Reports
a. Policy and Advocacy
i. China reminds the Task Force that the goals of this subcommittee are to
“Identify strategic initiatives and programs proven to work and advocate for
their adoption. And also to develop a plan to engage philanthropic, business,
and legislative support of funding of rules that support our community.”
ii. Policy and Advocacy Subcommittee co-chairs Greg McNeil and Mairin
Mancino are representing and reporting to the Task Force.
1. Greg McNeil started by thanking the elected officials that came to the
meeting
2. Greg McNeil then testified a story of author Ryan Hampton and
advocated that people should be electing officials to help the opioid
epidemic.
3. The issue of Issue 1 was brought to the discussion and Greg McNeil
wanted everyone to be aware of the unintended consequences of the
bill passing. So he asked a judge in one of Cuyahoga County’s drug
courts for his opinions on Issue 1: According to him, the law will
decimate the drug courts, and a lot of people have found their way to
recovery in the drug courts. It is a multifaceted issue. There are plans
at the next subcommittee meeting to talk about Issue 1 and to then give
information to the rest of the Task Force.
4. Mairin Mancino provided an update on some of the activities the
subcommittee did over the summer, such as trying to engage the
candidates in the governor’s race in Ohio. They have extended
invitations to both candidates and were able to have a forum with
Richard Cordry in August. Chrissy live streamed the event on the
Facebook page. Plans are underway to try to get candidate DeWine in
a forum as well before November 6, 2018.
5. They also wanted to get local candidates for public office in the
discussion as well and with the help of the Greater Akron Chamber
who will be hosting an event on October 25, 2018 at Firestone Country
Club, there will be a candidate forum and a reception in the evening.
There will be a fee, but there will be more information (such as time)

5

 given closer to the event date. Anyone who wants to go, but has a
problem with the fee are urged to contact Mairin.
6. A concern was raised about whether the op-ed handout from the judge
in Cuyahoga County was reputable or not considering the judge has a
vested interest in keeping the drug courts operational. China explained
that at the last meeting there was a piece written in favor of Issue 1,
Against Issue 1, and someone who was in the middle and those pieces
will be made available to the public soon in order for voters to be well
informed.
7. Mairin added that the senate voted on the Opiate Package later on the
night
b. Family Support
i. The subcommittee was represented by Nicole Jones
ii. One of the big things that they are working towards is creating a website for
support services for anyone who’s family and loved ones are struggling with
addiction. It can be anything from different books to read, links to websites to
visit, or links to services. There is also a magnetic calendar that they are
working to design and disseminate.
iii. There are four members of the subcommittee that have completed training to
become a recovery coach, and the subcommittee plans on taking advantage of
that.
iv. There was the Overdose Awareness event in August at Kenmore’s “Akron,
Say No to Dope” which about 200 people attended. There is an upcoming
symposium on September 25, 2018 from 8AM-2PM at Walsh University
titled “Mental Health and Addiction: Breaking the Stigma” All interested
parties can register for it. New members are welcomed. Their next meeting is
on October 4, 2018 at 5:30PM at the ADM Trailblaser Room in Summit
County Public Health.
c. Public Awareness
i. The subcommittee was represented by Chair Darryl Brake from Summit
County Community Partnership
ii. Darryl Brake gave an overview of the last meeting that was held on
September 10, 2018. They are trying to reintroduce the “Gloves Up!”
marketing campaign through advertising in busses, papers, digital media etc.
There will be a call to action because they want people to call the helpline
iii. A conference is being planned for mid to late March 2019 focused on public
awareness and education. Date and time and location will be announced at a
later date.
iv. There is an initiative to try to get the Deterra bags into the public so that there
is safe disposal.
6

 d. Criminal Justice
i. This subcommittee was represented by Chief Jack Davis of Cuyahoga Falls.
ii. Chief Jack reminded the Task Force that their main goal is to “reduce the
access to heroin/other illegal opioids.”
iii. They are partnered with the courts and the prosecutors in order to prosecute
drug dealers.
iv. They measure success by statistics given through BCI and their discussions
include the Narcan training and the Quick Response Team.
v. Discussions have been under way to implement the IMAT
vi. A concerned audience member raised the point of people who are addicted to
heroin and other illegal opioids get charged with a felony for the smallest
amount of the drug and get sent to prison as opposed to treatment. And if there
were talks in the police department about how to address that. Chief Jack
replied that there is not a lot they can do with regards to the law enforcement
side, so they depend on the drug courts, and they are working with the Policy
and Advocacy subcommittee and discussing the issue.
e. Healthcare
i. The subcommittee was represented by Dr. Gary Thrasher
ii. Dr. Thrasher reminded the Task Force of the mission statement of the
subcommittee and urged the Task Force to use the D.U.M.P. sites and to not
keep medicines stashed away
iii. They are concerned with continuing the education of other physicians about
resources and awareness and the neurobiology of an addict’s brain
iv. Detox is now open 24 hours a day at Akron Hospital for anyone who is going
through withdrawal and they are trying to find and fill gaps in the system
v. The teaching classes for medical students for addiction is ongoing and is
helping them to be better physicians and nurses
vi. There is an event on November 3, 2018 the 5th annual Current Concepts in
Integrated Healthcare
f. Youth and Young Adults
i. This subcommittee was represented by Kim Patton
ii. There are two new co-chairs Katie Van Horn and N’ecole Ast
iii. There was a discussion as to what they want the subcommittee to accomplish
and the main item was trying to shift their focus. At their next meeting, they
will reassign people to community/school resources and also a prevention
subcommittee that will help with prevention. The recovery high school is still
going
iv. On September 20, 2018, there will be a recovery event at Kent State
University. It is a screening of the film “The Long Way Back” and is

7

 sponsored by Kent State Collegiate Recovery Community and University of
Akron Collegiate Recovery Community, and is free
v. They want to focus more on the recovery side of the issue
vi. On October 30, they are sponsoring Operation Street Smart at Cuyahoga Falls
Natatorium where there is a four hour class taught by the police department
about drug paraphernalia.

V.

General Announcements and Upcoming Events
a. Chrissy Gashash told the Task Force about On the Table event on October 3, 2018.
There will be five different roundtable discussions based around drugs and drug
abuse. The Task Force is looking for people to host and facilitate them. It was noted
that it would be great if there could be more youth involved.
b. There is also the ROSC (Recovery Oriented Systems of Care) survey that people in
the Task Force were urged to complete. It collects data and information on recovery
oriented care.
c. The Art Against Addiction event is scheduled for September 19, 2018 and is hosted
by the Akron Art Museum, and is on the Opiate Task Force Facebook page
d. There has been a change to the name of the Task Force. It is now known as the
Summit County Opiate and Addiction Task Force.
e. Akron University and Kent State University have a Sober Tailgate Party hosted by
people in recovery
f. There is information on “Recovery is…” on the Facebook page and the Task Force
Website
g. September 29, 2018 is the Ohio 17th Annual Road to Recovery at Huntington Park.

VI. Closing and Thanks (closed at 5:30PM)

8

 