Summit County Opiate Task Force
Key Stakeholders Quarterly Meeting
Summit County Public Health Auditorium
1867 W. Market St. Suite A, Akron, OH

MEETING NOTES 9/10/19
ATTENDEES:
40 Community Stakeholders were in attendance.
MEETING MATERIALS:
The following meeting materials were distributed: Agenda; Data Dashboard; 42 CFR Part 2 HHS Fact
Sheet; ADM levy information; various agency handouts and event fliers.
GENERAL UPDATES:
China Darrington, Opiate & Addiction Task Force Project Coordinator, welcomed everyone to the
meeting.
•

Introduction and Overview – Ms. Darrington reviewed the mission of the Summit County Opiate
Task Force, and its seven Subcommittees, which will report out individually.

•

Drug Safe Hudson Task Force Report – Jamie Messenger reported on:
o Seeking new resource specialist

•

•

o

Since April 2018 – 750 Deterra bags have been dispersed into the community.

o

Very favorable response to these bags in community.

Green Drug Task Force Report – Bob Bender reported:
o Breakfast meeting scheduled.
o

Working on engaging more businesses in the community.

o

Deterra bags are handed out at every event in the community.

o

5 hotels have Narcan kits on premises.

o

Akron-Canton Airport has Narcan kits on premises and individuals have been trained
regarding the use of the kits.

United Way/Summa First Step Program – Dave Rich
o First Step Update: June 2018 – July 2019, 865 people have been seen by Summa to begin
Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT).
§ 431 of those persons received their first Suboxone treatment before they left the
hospital.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 §
§
§
§

o

Of those 431 persons, 78-82% continue with follow-up treatment.
The 26-36 age group is still the most consistent in receiving treatment.
In descending order: Opioids, alcohol, meth and other drugs are the most common drugs
of substance abuse.
Beginning September 18, 2019, Akron City Hospital will be included in the First Step
Treatment Program

United Way Update – David Menzer reported
§ Catholic Charities has been very instrumental in assisting patients navigating the recovery
system. These people (Recovery Coaches) engage the patient in the ER and start to build
a relationship with that patient.
§ The item most lacking by patients is a public ID card; without that piece of information it
is often difficult to take the next step in recovery.
§ The Recovery Coaches are helping the patients to acquire this ID, often picking up and
driving them to obtain such.

•

Summit County Public Health – Angela Kaiser, MPH, reporting:
o Project DAWN continues to issue Narcan kits.
o In the month of August 2019, the Narcan kits provided the tools for 138 overdose reversals.
o At the next meeting, an update on the jail project will be given as this project has just begun
and statistics are not available at this time.
o The hours of the Syringe Exchange program have changed slightly: Thursday’s hours remain
the same, with access via SCPH rear entrance (door #10), and Fridays between 8am-3pm in the
Counseling Office inside the Public Health building. You can exchange syringes and counselors
are available for those persons participating in the Syringe Exchange.
o The Syringe Exchange program is expanding to add two more sites.

•

DATA DASHBOARD (China - need to update link)
Nick Baechel, County of Summit ADM Board, presented the quarterly Data Dashboard (see
attached)*. Will be updated to reflect numbers reported by SCPH.
o

o

o

Nick Baechel shared information through a PowerPoint report regarding: drug overdoses,
drug overdose deaths, OARRS reports, QRT data update, residential and detox waitlists, and
the ADM Helpline.
ER Overdose information was broken down by geographic areas (ZIP codes) to reflect the
biggest increase in overdoses occurring. The information was also broken down to reflect ER
overdoses, overdose deaths, type of substances causing the overdose, and overdose
situations by race.
Quick Response Team (QRT) update:
§ In 2018 there were 1,113 visits to 694 people
§ 45% of those visited connected with a program for treatment following their interaction
with QRT.
§ 6% of those visited had already connected with a treatment program at the time of the
visit.
§ 13% of those visited by QRT declined services at the initial time of the visit.
§ 29% of that 13% connected with a treatment program after initially declining treatment.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 o
o

o

The Detox Waitlist report reflected that if a patient needs/wants to detox, there are facilities
to initiate that process the same day.
ADM Helpline Report: January – June 2019 there have been 633 scheduled appointments,
average access time to appointments is 6.3 days but mode access time to appointments is only
1 day.
Residential Waitlist Update: Most people are spending 3 days on the waitlist before they can
be placed into a residential situation.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
•

Policy & Advocacy Committee – Ms. Darrington reported on September meeting
o Still need a chairperson for this committee – see Ms. Darrington if interested.
o This committee has been at a standstill due to the proposed revisions of 42CFR part 2.
o A handout was made available that outlined the proposed revisions to 42CFR part 2.

•

Family Supports – Kelly Nagy, co-chair, reported.
o The calendar magnet is still available and all are encouraged to pick one up.
o Working with Project Dawn at this time to distribute more Narcan kits
o Next meeting, Sept. 11 at 5:30 at the ADM Board Offices.

•

Public Awareness – Darryl Brake reported on meeting on September 9th.
o Safe medicine storage/disposal and Deterra pouches continue to be emphasized in community
events, with handouts and information being made available to the public.
o Oct. 24th, Summa Main campus will have completed 3 years with the Deterra pouches.
o Sept. 20th, ADM Board will kick of their levy with an event at Derby Downs.
o Oct. 11-13th, Catholic Charities will host a recovery retreat at Camp Christopher.
o Opiate Conference held June 14th was a huge success with over 300 in attendance and 95
Narcan kits distributed. Video tapes of the sessions held at this conference will be available
soon.
o “On the Table” event is looking for additional discussion locations.

•

Criminal Justice – Ms. Darington reported
o New Co-Chair - Rhonda Brink
o The biggest concern being addressed is the discovery of needles on playgrounds. How should
this be handled? Should a “sharps” box be made available at those sites or does that
encourage drug use? This and the stigma surrounding this issue are concerns being discussed
by this committee.

•

Healthcare Committee – Talia Brown from Akron Children’s Hospital reported.
o William Goldman will join forces with Talia Brown and Dr. Garry Thrasher as Co-Chairpersons
for this committee.
o Akron Children’s Hospital has just added an Addiction Services Program, realizing addiction
doesn’t begin at age 18.
o There is a search for grant monies to help link OARRS with electronic records.
o Working on getting more support for families of NICU babies born addicted.
o Next meeting to be held Sept 19th at 3pm at Akron Children’s Hospital
o One role of the committee is to educate medical providers regarding addiction.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 o

6th Annual medical conference for providers to educate about Mental Health and SUD will
be held on November 9th. One way to help patients is to help providers.

•

Youth and Young Adults – Laura Browles reported.
o They are working on developing a year-long calendar of sober, free activities that persons
involved in recovery can safely participate. Please add your ideas or thoughts to the pages
left at the ends of the tables.
o Next meeting to be held September 11th at 4:00 pm, at the ADM Board offices.

•

Harm Reduction – Angela Kaiser reported.
o Fentanyl test strips have been distributed to agencies for public distribution.
o Plea has gone out for more committee members.
o Next meeting is September 25th, 4:00 pm in Command Control Room of Summit County
Public Health Building.

GENERAL ANNOUNCEMENTS & UPCOMING EVENTS
• ADM Levy Renewal presentation was given by Jerry Craig, emphasizing all the services that are
available through ADM Board providers. The Levy campaign kick-off is September 20th, 4:00 pm,
at Derby Downs.
• Kim Starr talked about a new outpatient treatment center, BrightView, opening in Akron,
September 23rd, Open House to follow in October
• October 14th/15th – Recovery Conference in Columbus, OH
• October 3rd – “Make your voice heard at a community conversation about addiction for middle and
high school students” will be held at Bounce Innovation Hub – sponsored by Akron Children’s
Hospital.
• October 26th – DEA Drug Take Back Day
• November 9th – Sixth Annual Current Concepts in Integrated Care Conference, Hilton
Akron/Fairlawn
• Monday and Tuesdays – Nar-Anon meetings are very successful and well attended
• On September 6th, a medical marijuana conference was held at Summit County Public Health, it
was filled to capacity and was a great event. Should you want the hand-outs from that event see
Darryl Brake.
Ms. Darrington thanked members for their continued support.
Meeting adjourned at 5:30 pm.
NEXT OATF MEETING DATE: Tuesday, December 17, 2019 – 4:00 p.m. – Summit County Public Health
Auditorium

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 