American Legion American Veterans Disabled American Veterans Veterans of Foreign Wars

     

MEI. BAHER FRANK POCCI CHRISTOPHER GRAIY CLAYTON E. UZELL BOB POTTS
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER

Cuyahoga County

Veterans Comm1ssron
P11: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: 
1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite 150 0 Cleveland, OH 441 15

MINUTES
June 5, 2019 9:30 a.m.

PRESENT: Clay Uzell, President
Mel Baher, Vice President
Christopher Grau, Secretary
Frank Pocci, Commissioner
Bob Potts, Commissioner
Jon Reiss, Executive Director
Mary Kitko, Executive Secretary
Brian Gutkoski, Asst. County Prosecutor

EXCUSED: None
VISITORS: None
PURPOSE: GENERAL MEETING

The meeting was called to order by President Clay Uzell followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Chris Grau to dispense with the reading of the
Consent Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (All
Commissioners have a copy of the minutes.)

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

COMMISSIONERS REPORTS:
Christopher Grau DAV
0 May attended the public meeting.
0 May 14th I recused myself from the JVC Lakewood/Rocky River meeting due to an ongoing
personnel matter at the VSC.
0 May 15th attended the public meeting.
0 May 16th I attended DAV Chapter 108 meeting. Installation of Chapter Of?cers.
0 May 19th attended practice for the Memorial Day Ceremony at Lakewood Park Cemetery.
0 May 22nd I attended the appeals meeting.
0 May 251h I assisted with placement of 3,817 American Flags on Veteran graves at the Lakewood
Park Cemetery in Rocky River, Ohio.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet I 

0 May 27?h I participated in the Rocky River Memorial Day Parade and Memorial Day Ceremony
where I placed the National Ensign.

Frank Pocci 
I completed the ?nancial report for Post 80 for May of 2019.
The Honor Guard continues to serve funeral honor duties at the Ohio Western Reserve National
Cemetery.
0 Plans are being made for possible participation in the Conncaut Day reenactment.
A trip to the Dayton Air Force museum may take place later this month.

Other Activities:

I During May I attended all of the scheduled meetings at the 

I I attended the Memorial Day service at Woodvale cemetery where dignitaries from Berea
and Middleburg I-Its. were in attendance as well as very good general attendance.
Afterwards I stopped at American Legion Post 91 with another veteran, later rode in the
Commission van driven by Commissioner Baher, and participated in the Berea Memorial
Day parade and related ceremony. Mel Baher was the moderator of the ceremony and did
an excellent job.

I I attended the Italian American War Veterans meeting and gave my report. The next
meeting will be held on June Our post service of?cer Larry Amato attended and
answered questions regarding claims. He also passed out information and a couple of
veterans were interested in filing claims. Larry is also in contact with a widow of a
Vietnam veteran whom I referred to ?le a claim.

I I will attend the annual Italian American War Veterans state department convention in
Lorain Ohio with other Post 34 officers. As the adjutant I have received notices that at
least 5 of the Ohio posts will be represented and the National Commander may make an
appearance as well. The national convention will be held in Washington DC in August.

I I attended the Catholic War Veterans May meeting where there was concern that the
President would cut off the disability pensions for unemployable veterans. I advised that
this is only one of the suggestions from the budget of?cer related to budget cuts and it has
never passed in the past and it is a premature assumption to think that this will actually
become law.

Bob Potts VVA

0 May attended the open public meeting.

0 May 2nd I attended the VVA Chapter 249 membership meeting.

0 May The Chapter Speakers Bureau Spoke with the junior class at N. Royalton High School
about the Vietnam Experience.

0 May 12th - I attended the appeals meeting.

0 May 16th The Chapter Speakers Bureau spoke with the students of Rocky River High School
about the Vietnam Experience.

0 May 19th I attended the open public meeting.

0 May 26th - I attended the appeals meeting.

0 May 27th VVA Chapter 249 marched in the Bay Village Memorial Day Parade.

Mel Baher American Legion
- I attended all scheduled meetings of the during the month of May 2019. Following is a
report of my activities outside of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service Commission for the
month of May 2019.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet I 

0 Wednesday, May Ist I attended the American Legion 13?? District Council meeting held at
American Legion Post 451, in Rocky River, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I presented
the executive board approved ?nancial reports for March 2019, as District Finance Of?cer. Also,
the 13?? District Past District Commanders group conducted our annual Post Everlasting
ceremony, reading names of our departed comrades.

0 Thursday, May 9th I attended the American Legion Post 91 membership meeting. The meeting
began at 7:00 pm. and I presented the current membership report, as Post 15? Vice Commander.
Also, annual elections of Post of?cers were held, and I was re-elected as Post 15? Vice Commander
and as a delegate to the annual state convention.

0 Thursday, May 23rd I attended the American Legion Post 91 executive board meeting at 7:00
pm. I presented an updated membership report, as Post 15? Vice Commander. Also, annual
Memorial Day preparations were discussed and ?nalized.

0 Saturday, May 25?? As cemeteries chairman for Post 91, I along with members of Post 91
decorated over 1,700 graves at Woodvale, Adams St., St. Mary?s, St. Adelbert?s, and Chestnut
Grove cemeteries.

0 Monday, May 27?h Annual Memorial Day services were held at Adams St. and Woodvale
cemeteries. Following the parade, the Memorial Day program was held at McKelvey Park in
downtown Berea. The guest speaker was Renee Betterson, 13?? District annual Oratorical ?nalist
from Berea. The most interesting factor for this young lady was that she was home schooled and
now will be attending Cleveland State University.

a Tuesday, May 28th I attended the American Legion 13?? District Executive board meeting, held
at American Legion Post 572, in Parma, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I presented the
March 2019 ?nance report for executive board approval, as District Finance Of?cer.

0 Wednesday, May 29?? I traveled to the American Legion Headquarters, in Delaware, Ohio, to
attend the Department Convention planning meeting. The annual Department Convention is set
for June 27- June 30 2019, in Toledo, Ohio. As Department Credentials Chairman, I will oversee
the registration of all delegates attending convention meetings.

Clay Uzell VFW
0 May 1st I attended the Open Public meeting.
0 May I attended the District 7 Convention meeting on West 14?? at Post 387. New of?cers
were elected and installed. All chairs were ?lled.
May 8th - I attended the Level Appeals meeting.
May 15th I attended the open public meeting.
May 22nd I attended the Level Appeals meeting.
May 25-26?? I distributed VFW Buddy Poppies both days at Dave?s Supermarket in Richmond
Hts. The Auxiliary President participated in the annual Memorial Day Ceremony on the USS
Cod.
- May 27?? participated in the Lakeview Cemetery Memorial Day ceremony by having Post 7536
members place seven wreaths honoring WWII, Korea, Vietnam, Beirut Bombing, Gulf Wars,
and VFW Auxiliary. A great program as always. About 400 people attended.

OLD BUSINESS:
None.

NEW BUSINESS:
Wellness reimbursement was moved to Executive Session.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet I 

The VFW 13?h District Convention was held at Post 610 on Sunday, June Jimmy Campana attended
as the County Veterans Service Of?cer. Nine (9) County ID cards were issued.

EXECUTIVE SESSION:

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Chris Grau to go in to Executive Session to discuss
wellness reimbursement, discipline, compensation, and to conduct interviews for County Veteran Service
Of?cer.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried. (10:47 am.)

The Board came out of Executive Session and returned to the regular order of business at 1 1:02 am. In
Executive Session wellness reimbursements, discipline, compensation, and bargaining unit matters were
discussed.

The Board was made aware of a discipline issue. The Executive Director was instructed on how to
proceed.

No action will be taken on the employment compensation or the wellness reimbursement at this time.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocci to extend an offer to Jason Conrad and
David Paroline as County Veterans Service Of?cers and to bring them on board immediately.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

With no further business, a motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Frank Pocci to adjourn the

meeting at 1 1:05 am.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

Clay President ChrisWretary

CONTACT INFORMATION
Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of

 

Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Charlene Amos, Service Of?cer Mgr. (216-698-3831)
Melinda Halliburton, Service Of?ce Mgr. (216-698-2639)
Finance Dept.: Larry Amato, Financial Operations Mgr. (216-698-2391)
Social Work Dept: Terry Walker, Social Worker/Case Mgmt. (216-698-2379)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216-698-2611)
Commissioners: Mary Kitko, Secretary to the Board (216-698-2651)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

