egg. 133.1

35

   



   

a, 
l! --
American Legion American Veterans Disabled American Veterans Veterans of Foreign Wars
MEL BAHER FRANK POCCI CHRISTOPHER GRAU CLAYTON E. UZELL BOB 
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER

Cuyahoga County

JON REISS . . .
Vete1 ans Serv10e Commiss1on

Ph: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: vscmail@cuyahogacounty.us
1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite 150 0 Cleveland, OH 44115

MINUTES

February 6, 2019 9:30 am.

PRESENT:
Clay Uzell, President
Mel Baher, Vice President
Christopher Grau, Secretary
Frank Pocci, Commissioner
Bob Potts, Commissioner
Jon Reiss, Executive Director
Mary Kitko, Executive Secretary
Dale Pelsozy, Asst. County Prosecutor

EXCUS ED: None
VISITORS: None

PURPOSE: GENERAL MEETING

The meeting was called to order by President Clay Uzell followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Chris Grau to dispense with the reading of the
Consent Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (All
Commissioners have a copy of the minutes.) Several items were set aside for discussion under Old
Business.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

COMMISSIONERS REPORTS:
Christopher Grau DAV

0 January 2nd I attended the public meeting.

0 January 7th I attended and assisted with the funeral service for retired Sgt. Major Carl Eaton,
USA and Vietnam Vet, in Westlake, Ohio. The VFW Post #3345 (Don Kennett Honor Guard
Commander), Strongsville, provided the Honor Guard.

0 January 9th - I attended the appeals meeting.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

0 January 10?h I attended the Military internment for Sgt. Major Carl Eaton, USA, at the Ohio
Western Reserve National Cemetery.

0 January 16th I attended the Open Public meeting.

0 January 17lh I attended DAV Chapter 108 meeting.

0 January 17th .1 I participated in a Webinar hosted by the SECVA Wilke Townhall Webcast.

0 January 23rd - I attended the meeting with JVC and the Mayor of Rocky River to discuss the
upcoming Memorial Day Ceremony.

have recused myself from the VC until the VSC personnel matter is resolved.

Frank Pocci AMVETS
I completed the financial report for Post 80 and presented the details at the meeting
0 The honor guard continues to serve funeral honor duties at the Ohio Western Reserve Cemetery.
Their last service was on November 9th.
I A new member has joined the AMVETS Honor Guard and took part in the funeral honors detail
for member Pat Santangelo who passed away in January. Pat was a life member of the AMVETS
Post 80 and the Italian American War Veterans Post 34. He was active in all post activities and
also served in the honor guard.
Other Activities
0 During January I attended two of the scheduled Open and Appeals meetings.
0 I am working on advising a Marine veteran on how to proceed in filing an appeal to the VA for
service connection.
0 I attended the Italian American War Vets meeting.
I I attended the Catholic War Vets meeting.
VA News Release The U. S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) released findings from its most
recent analysis of Veteran suicide data for all 50 states and the District of Columbia. This report yields
several 11np01tant insights.
Suicide rates inmeased for both Veterans and non-Veterans, underscoring the fact that suicide IS a
national public health concern the affects people everywhere.
0 The average number of Veterans who died by suicide each day remained unchanged at 20.
The suicide rate increased faster among Veterans who had not really used Veterans Health
Administration health care than among those who had.

Bob Potts VVA
0 January the Chapter 249 Board and Membership meeting was cancelled because of the
holiday.
January 2nd A I attended the Open Public meeting.
January 9th I attended the Level Appeals meeting.
January 16?" - I attended the open public meeting.
January 23rd - I attended the Level Appeals meeting.
February 5th I attended Chapter 249 Board Meeting and Membership meeting.
0 I referred the wife of an Army Veteran who needed help because he was placed in a nursing home.

0 I 0

Mel Baher American Legion
I attended all scheduled meetings of the during the month of January 2019. Following is
a report of my activities outside of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service Commission for the
month of January 2019.
0 Wednesday, January 211d I attended the American Legion 13th District Council meeting held at
American Legion Post 309, in Maple Hts, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I presented the
executive board approved ?nancial reports for November 2018, as District Finance Of?cer.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

0 Thursday, January 10th I attended the American Legion Post 91 membership meeting. The
meeting began at 7:00 pm. and I presented the current membership report, as Post 15? Vice
Commander.

0 Thursday, January 24th I missed the American Legion 13th District Council executive board
meeting, due to being on the road, returning from out of town. However, I left the Post 91
Adjutant and updated membership report.

0 Saturday, January 26?1 I departed for Columbus Ohio to attend the American Legion Department
of Ohio Mid-winter conference. I attended the National appointees meeting on Saturday and the
Conference session on Sunday. I returned home Sunday evening.

0 Monday, January 28?h Was the scheduled American Legion 13th District Executive board
meeting however, that was postponed due to the passing of a Legionnaire. The re-scheduled
meeting was set for Wednesday January 30?" however, the meeting was cancelled due to
inclement weather.

Clay Uzell VFW

0 January 2nd I attended the first Open Public meeting of the new year.

0 January 9th I attended the Level Appeals meeting.

0 January 10-13[11 I attended the VFW State Conference in Columbus as State Safety Chairman. I
gave a report at the business session and presented the law enforcement and ?re?ghter of the year
awards to Shelby County Sheriff, John Lenhart and Lieutenant Georg Sorge II from the Norwich
Township Fire Department at the awards ceremony. I attended the banquet on Saturday night to
honor our Voice of Democracy and Patriots Pen student winners $38,000 given out to the students.

0 January 16?h - I attended the open public meeting.

0 January 23rd I attended the Level Appeals meeting.

0 January 27th I attended the VFW Post District 7 Commanders luncheon and meeting at the
Village Diner in Orange Village.

OLD BUSINESS:
The Executive Director provided a spreadsheet with the former employees? paybacks. The Director will
contact the employee who has not made recent payments and keep the Board updated.

The 2019 evening outreach meeting schedule has not been set yet. Locations and dates to be determined.
Commissioner Frank Pocci suggested issuing ID cards at these and other meetings to increase attendance
and assist more veterans.

Correspondence, including complaints, were taken from the Consent Agenda and discussed. The
Executive Director has responded, or will respond, as directed by the Board.

NEW BUSINESS:

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Bob Potts to approve Resolution 2019-06 providing
for the purchase of 1,000 Veteran Service Commission commemorative coins for the recognition of
community partners of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service Commission. The coins will be purchased
from American Solutions for Business, and not to exceed a total of $4,000.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Bob Potts to approve Resolution 2019-07 requesting
authority for the Executive Director to reimburse the staff for memberships at gym/fitness centers, not to
exceed $65 per month, per employee, and not to exceed an agency total of $25,000.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:
Two candidates for the open continuous Service Of?cer posting were introduced to the Board.

The Executive Director was contacted by Habitat for Humanity. They will be meeting soon to discuss
mutual opportunities.

The Executive Director was instructed to contact the Executive regarding the status of new
commissioner?s pay.

Commissioner Baher spoke to Bill Overton. Mr. Overton complimented the on superior service
to the veterans for the past three to five years.

EXECUTIVE SESSION:
A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Chris Grau to go into Executive Session to discuss a

personnel issue; matter to be kept confidential.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried. (10:53 am.)

The Board came out of Executive Session and returned to the regular order of business at 11:07 am. In
Executive Session a personnel issue was discussed and the Executive Director was instructed on how to

proceed.

With no further business, a motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Mel Baher to adjourn the

meeting at 1 1:08 am.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

game/42? ,M/x/n 

Clay LJ/Zeil, President Chris Grau, Secretary

CONTACT INFORMATION
Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of

Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Melinda Halliburton, Service Of?ce Mgr. (216-698?2639)
Finance Dept: Steve Fernandez, Finance Operations Mgr. (216~698-2391)
Social Work Dept: Terry Walker, Social Worker/Case Mgmt.) (216-698-2?3 79)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216-698-261 1)

Commissioners: Mary Kitko, Secretary to the Board (216-698-2651)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

