THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
DIVERSITY COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
Date:

Wednesday, August 21, 2019

Time:

1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m.

Place:

Board Room – K107

Chair:

Ms. Anderson

Trustees:

Ms. Dee, Mr. McDonald, Ms. Whiting

Present:

Dr. Boulanger, Ms. Goerndt, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Jones, Ms. Lining, Mr. Nevel,
Mr. Phillips, Ms. Jessica Lovich-Sapola, Ms. Short, Ms. Wahl
MINUTES

The meeting was called to order by Ms. Anderson at 1:00 p.m.
I.

The minutes of the May 22, 2019 meeting were reviewed and approved.

II.

INFORMATION ITEMS
Campus Transformation and Planning, Design & Construction Updates –
Walter Jones and Margaret Hewitt



Data reviewed was through June 2019.
Tracking of the data is the same for Cuyahoga County and City of Cleveland for
committed and current spend.

Facilities and Procurement Update – Karen Dethloff and Darrell Johnson





Kitchen renovation spend is 100% allocated to MBEs on the architecture side.
MH received Honorable Mention – 2 nd GPO Supplier of the Year.
Darrell Johnson explained the procurement process, per Arlene’s request.
o These are private bids. Companies can respond to the bids via the
MetroHealth portal and complete a formal RFP.
Next Supplier Diversity Advisory Council is scheduled on August 23, 2019.

 Provider Recruiting Update – Patricia Gallagher and Dominque Allds





We are leveraging other resources, such as publications and school communications
to help with provider recruitment.
We continue to increase our diversity numbers for APPs, but the Physician talent pool
is limited.
Alan Nevel and three diverse Residents will be attending the Meharry Medical School
(HBCU) career fair.
Starting to plan and map out institutions who graduate higher numbers of diverse
medical students – such as University of Illinois. Those colleges and universities will
be targeted to build deeper relationships.

Employee Business Resource Group (EBRG) Updates


5 of the 9 EBRGs presented. The goal of the presentations was to raise awareness to
how the EBRGs are supporting our mission and the business strategies of
MetroHealth.
o African American Alliance – Alonzo Blackwell and Kimyette Finley
o Emerging Leaders – Sara Brown and Kimberly Cunningham
o Gay Straight Alliance - Teodoro Rosati
o Green Team – Ann Ortega and Mary Joan Roach
o Women at Metro – Cheryl Wahl

III.

Non-Consent/Action Items – None

IV.

Consent Items – None

Meeting adjourned at 3:00 p.m.
The next BOT meeting is scheduled for November 13, 2019.
Respectfully submitted by Alan K. Nevel

 