THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
Date: Wednesday, December 19, 2018
Time: 2:00pm – 4:00pm
Place: Board Room – K107
Chair: Ms. Whiting
Trustees: Ms. Whiting, Mr. McDonald, Ms. Dee, Ms. Anderson, Mr. Moss
Present: Dr. Boutros, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Kaufmann, Mr. Martucci, Mr, Jones, Mr. Nevel, Ms.
Southerington, Ms. Short, Ms. Diaz, Ms. Lining, Ms. Rajki, Dr. Kea, Mr. Stern
MINUTES
The meeting was called to order by Ms. Whiting at 10:00am.
1. The minutes of the August 8, 2018 meeting were reviewed and approved.
2. Mr. Nevel shared that each of the diversity enterprise goals for 2018 were achieved at either a target
or stretch level. Stretch was achieved for the overall organization.
3. Mr. Nevel presented MHS’s HR Service Delivery Leadership and Operating Model
o HR Business Partners
o Talent Management and Development
o Culture and Organizational Effectiveness (includes Office of Inclusion and Diversity)
o Talent Acquisition
o HR Operations
4. Ms. Southerington presented Diversity Recruitment Update.
o Opportunity remains to increase racial/ethnic diversity at leadership and provider levels to be
consistent with census/external benchmark data.
o Recommendation was made by Ms. Whiting to begin having Provider Recruitment
leadership (Dr. Werner and Trish Gallagher) attend board committee meetings going forward
to better understand what’s working vs. what’s not in our efforts to increase provider
diversity from a race/ethnicity perspective.
o Recruitment/ Reentry Interviews: 85 interviews with 33 hires
5. Ms. Short co-presented the Office of Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) Report.
o Health Equity Project – ReaL (Ms. Diaz)
➢ Race, Ethnicity & Language (REaL) metrics exceeded the stretch goal for 2018 and
language data was collected for 98%+ of patients at all sites. Exceeded greater than 3
clinical sites across all sites have improved 2% and above. All 20 clinical sites
evaluated scored 2.22% increase overall.

  Poster and Podium Presentation at the 43rd National Association of Hispanic Nurses
in Cleveland Q3
 “Ask Every Patient REaL” trainings in EPIC Cadence
o Conducted 8 sessions Q3 and Q4 = training over 120 employees
 Ohio Hospital Association Webinar “Health Equity at MetroHealth” - Q4
o Co presenter with Karen Cook, Community Health Advocacy
o Health Equity Project – Transgender Youth Care Focus Groups (Ms. Diaz)
 Completed 40 interviews to include patients, families and community providers.
Completed cultural competence video on transgender patient encounters.
 Completed Focus groups. Action plan includes 3 interventions and evaluations. 1.)
Provider education of 4 clinical areas 2.) Utilization increase of preferred name and
pronoun in Pride Network 3.) Transgender job fair community resource and
partnership.
6. Ms. Diaz shared details regarding “The Transgender Patient” educational video and “The Pronoun
Project” focused on recognizing patients by their preferred name.
7. Mr. Martucci presented Supplier Diversity.
o Presented Q3 2018 Baseline and Local/Regional Spend Trend: at 51% (stretch)
o Presented Baseline and Diverse Spend Trend:
➢ Q3 2018: Spend trend is at 13.4% (we are at stretch for this goal)
o Vendor Classifications we are tracking:
➢ Small Business Enterprise (SBE)
➢ Minority Business Enterprise (MBE)
➢ Women’s Business Enterprise (WBE)
➢ Veteran’s Business Enterprise (VBE)
➢ Service Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise (SDVBE)
➢ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Business Enterprise (LGBTBE)
o First Diversity Advisory Council meeting convened
o Diverse Supplier Reverse Trade Show scheduled
o Zaymat (MBE) received contract for fuel delivery service valued at $393K
o Registration of over 120 diverse suppliers
8. Mr. Jones presented Q3 2018 Transformation Diverse Spend.
Meeting adjourned at 11:45am
The next BOT meeting is scheduled for February 13, 2019
Respectfully submitted by Alan K. Nevel

 