GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees
Held on November 19, 2014
3:00 o'clock p.m.
Offices of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peca, Tarantino & Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
Cleveland, Ohio
There being a quorum present, Mr. Offtermatt called the meeting to
order at approximately 3:10 p.m. The following Board members were
present: Timothy Offtermatt, Matt Carroll, Tracey Nichols and William
Reidy. Board member Emmanuel Glover called into the meeting and was
placed on a speaker phone, but did not vote during the meeting. Also
present were Todd Greathouse, Brian Kelly, Daniella Nunnally of
Gateway and Dennis Wilcox, General Counsel, as well as Michael King
from Cuyahoga County and William Tarter, Jr. from the general public.
The first order of business was to consider approval of the Minutes
of the September 16, 2014 meeting. Upon motion made by Mr. Carroll,
seconded by Mr. Reidy, the Minutes of that meeting were unanimously
approved.
Mr. Offtermatt then asked for any public comment. Mr. Tarter raised
the issue of the sale of Ballpark seats for the Ballpark Alteration
and asked where the money was going from those sales. Mr. Offtermatt
informed him that it was going to Major Capital Repairs for the
Ballpark and Mr. Tarter indicated that there was some confusion in
the press about that and Gateway should provide more information
about these items before they are reported.
Next item on the agenda was to discuss meeting dates for next year.
Mr. Offtermatt summarized the current proposed 6 dates as one meeting
in January; two in May and two in August, the May and August meetings
to consider capital repair matters; and the November meeting which is
set to consider the annual Gateway budget. After some discussion with
the Board, Mr. Offtermatt suggested a potential February rather than
January Board meeting and asked Mr. Kelly and Mr. Greathouse to check
on the Board’s availability.
The Board then received the Executive Director’s report.
Mr.
Greathouse first reported on the Arena and the monthly meetings
Gateway has with Antony Bonavita and Mozelle Jackson to review
projects and budgets. Next, he discussed the monthly construction
progress on the projects the Board previously approved for Arena
Major Capital Repairs.

 Mr. Greathouse then passed out a handout which is attached to these
minutes showing the progress of the Arena Major Capital Repairs and
Ballpark Alterations, in particular showing the MBE-FBE and SBE
participation goals.
He first discussed the Arena scoreboard project and the need to
provide a system to broaden the base of the scoreboard because of the
weight being 66,000 lbs., whereas the maximum weight permitted is
approximately 70,000.
Also, there is a 10% holdback on the
scoreboard contract.
Next he discussed the Arena sound system
project with Parsons and indicated that was being closed shortly.
Next, he discussed the Arena video production system and indicated
that currently the video production is being operated out of a truck
in the underground service area and that contractor is mobilizing
offsite for the shipment of the product to the Arena. Mr. Greathouse
then reported on the command center for the Arena. He is working with
Gateway’s consultant, Dave Faller, and targeting a potential June
completion date. In addition, the Republic National Convention Host
Committee (“RNC Host Committee”) will probably want to have some
input on that project.
At that point Mr. Wilcox was requested by Mr. Greathouse to summarize
the discussions with the RNC Host Committee in Cleveland and the need
for the Host Committee and Gateway to reach an agreement on use of
the facilities, including the Gateway Common Areas, during the
convention to include items such as requiring proper permits,
indemnification, insurance and insuring the Ballpark and Arena are
left in the same or better condition after the Convention. That is an
on-going process.
Next, Mr. Greathouse reported on the Arena security system indicating
there would be a triple monitoring system in place which would
include remote smart phones monitoring. Next, he discussed the Arena
roof system. Gateway is working with the Cavs, Venue Solutions and
Dave Faller to update bid specifications.
Then he gave the Ballpark report and informed the Board of his
monthly meetings with the CFO and others at the Indians. He reported
on the construction of the Alterations.
The General Contractor,
Gilbane, is approximately 90% complete with the demolition.
He
indicated that some seats may be blocked in right field on Opening
Day if they are not able to complete the project by Opening Day. He
also indicated the City is reviewing the right field platforms for
ADA compliance and other issues. As with any renovation project,
there are ever changing issues and items that come up.
Next Mr. Greathouse reported on the Community Benefits Agreement
(“CBA”) efforts with respect to the Alterations at the Ballpark. An
accompanying handout was presented to the Board, which is also
attached to these minutes.
2

 Mr. Greathouse stated that in 1994 Gateway employed an entire team of
employees that monitored MBE-FBE. Since that time there is a much
smaller staff and now Gateway staff is working with Greater Cleveland
Partnership to monitor projects.
He also met with Chief Natoya
Walker Minor of the City of Cleveland on these issues. Daniella
Nunnally then reported on progress including that in April 2014
Gateway acknowledged support for an MOU for the CBA. Gateway is not
using the CBA itself, but using the stated MBE-FBE-SBE goals in the
MOU. Ms. Nunnally also reported that Gateway is also tracking use of
labor forces itself instead of using an outside third-party reviewer.
Gateway also met with the Cleveland Clinic to get information on how
they have handled these matters.
The Ballpark contracts were summarized in the handout that was
presented indicating both the goals and the achievements to date.
Also, Mr. Greathouse and Ms. Nunnally indicated Gilbane will supply
personnel numbers later. The numbers are based on current contract
payout. Tracey Nichols indicated that normally in these situations
you track the contracts and not the labor component, which was
reiterated by Matt Carroll. Mr. Offtermatt then asked that the Cavs
also provide the same information and Mr. Greathouse indicated he
will have similar numbers for the Cavs as well. Also, Ms. Nichols
then discussed potential allowances and ensuring that contractors
were certified by the City of Cleveland, in which case proper
allowances are permitted. She suggested a further meeting with Chief
Natoya Walker Minor. Ms. Nunnally indicated that they are working
with the City on those issues now. Also, Ms. Nichols reported that
new companies could be certified by the City if they make the proper
application.
Mr. Greathouse then gave a site update, specifically to indicate that
6,200 brick pavers had been moved to Gate A, only 200 of which needed
to be replaced and that with respect to security issues, they will
start having additional security at the entrance ramp to the
underground service area which includes dogs per NBA rules.
Mr. Kelly next gave the financial report. He reviewed the operating
account of Gateway as of October 31, 2014. Currently both teams are
paying their rents monthly. The beginning cash balance on October 1,
2014 was $105,647, with total receipts from the teams of $164,863 and
total disbursements from the operating account of $140,369 for an
October 31st balance of $130,142.
Mr. Kelly then reported on the status of the Ballpark Capital account
which had an $123,663 opening balance on October 1st with $201,505 in
receipts and $187,660 of Ballpark Capital disbursements, leaving a
balance on October 31st of $137,508.
He next moved to the estimated receipts and expenditures forecast for
the period from November 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. The opening
balance as of November 1st was $130,142 with anticipated revenues
being $326,054 for total available funds of $456,196.
The
3

 disbursements were anticipated to be $335,000 for an estimated
operating account balance on December 31st at $120,296. Mr. Kelly
also reported that a new Ballpark Alterations Account and Arena Major
Capital Account have been established.
He then reviewed the Ballpark Alterations Account which had total
receipts of approximately $512,000 from September 1st through November
15th, and total payments of the same amount. There is a remaining
balance of $250.
Then he reviewed the Major Capital Repair Account at the Arena which
showed $10,894,472 received and spent with the balance in the account
of $250. The Chart also showed vendors that were paid for each of
the repair items which are attached to these minutes. Ms. Nichols
asked for any information about the draw schedule and suggested only
once a month draws, which Mr. Kelly and Mr. Greathouse indicated they
would look into.
Next, the Board considered the proposed annual operating budgets for
the Indians and the Cavs.
The Board was given handouts showing the combined budget amounts and
individual budgets for the Arena and the Ballpark. The total 2015
budget request is $4,098,006 which is a 8.2% increase, much of which
represents part-time employee parking for the Indians being placed
back in the budget as opposed to having the Indians pay this
directly. Also, he noted that the Securitas’ contract for security
services was higher because of healthcare benefits. Also, they were
projecting to increase the security for the Arena based on the
basketball sell-outs.
Mr. Offtermatt then interjected that the County has been sent a
letter from Gateway requesting $100,000 for additional funding for
review of Major Capital Repairs which hopefully will be delivered to
Gateway in 2015. With respect to personnel (the 8 Gateway employees),
Mr. Kelly indicated there was a 1% cost of living increase and 2%
merit pay increase. On a question from Ms. Nichols, Mr. Greathouse
responded that all of the Gateway employees had earned the merit
increase after their reviews. In summary, the total Ballpark budget
was up by 10%, again primarily because of the employee parking and
the Arena budget was up approximately 5.5%.
Mr. Greathouse then informed the Board that both the Indians and the
Cavs had signed off on the budgets that were presented.
Mr. Kelly then reviewed the Ballpark Capital budget for 2015 which is
$2,216,516. Last year this amount was approximately $2.8-2.9 million
which included some additional non-recurring items, although
historically it has been between $2.2-2.3 million, which is
consistent with the 2015 budget.
Upon further discussion by the Board, Mr. Carroll then moved for
approval of the following resolution which was seconded by Mr. Reidy,
4

 and unanimously approved by the Board:

RESOLUTION NO. 2014-7
REGARDING AUTHORIZATION AND
APPROVAL OF ANNUAL CAPITAL BUDGET
FOR THE CLEVELAND INDIANS FOR 2015
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) has entered into a Lease Agreement with The
Cleveland Indians Baseball Company Limited Partnership (“Indians”)
(the “Lease Agreement”); and
WHEREAS, the Lease Agreement provides for the Indians to perform
capital repairs in the Ballpark on behalf of Gateway; and
WHEREAS, the Indians and Gateway have annually agreed to a
capital repair budget under the Lease to be funded by the Indians and
performed by Gateway and the Indians (the “Budget”); and
WHEREAS, Gateway has worked with the Indians to develop the 2015
annual capital budget and presented the same to the Board of
Directors; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors wishes to adopt and approve
Gateway’s 2015 annual capital budget with the Indians.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of Gateway on
behalf of Gateway does hereby authorize and approve Gateway’s annual
capital budget with the Indians as presented and attached hereto as
Exhibit A.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Chairman or Secretary-Treasurer
are and each of them is hereby authorized and empowered for and on
behalf of Gateway in its name to take all actions necessary to carry
out the foregoing budget or to modify the same pursuant to the Lease
Agreement without further action or notification to the Board, which
such officer or officers shall in his, her or their judgment be
deemed necessary, advisable or desirable in connection therewith,
which execution or approval shall constitute the conclusive evidence
of the approval and authorization thereto of Gateway.
_________________
Prior to considering Resolution 2014-6, the Board upon motion by
Mr. Carroll and seconded by Ms. Nichols to adjourn into Executive
Session to discuss compensation of employees, did adjourn into
Executive Session by 4-0 roll call vote.
The Executive Session started at approximately 4:10 p.m.
5

 At approximately 4:25 p.m. Ms. Nichols made a motion to adjourn
from Executive Session and reconvene the meeting, which was seconded
by Mr. Reidy and unanimously carried by the Board by roll call vote.
After further discussion, Mr. Reidy then moved for approval of
the following resolution which was seconded by Ms. Nichols and
unanimously approved by the Board:
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-6
REGARDING AUTHORIZATION AND
APPROVAL OF ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGET
FOR 2015
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) has entered into Lease Agreements with The
Cleveland Indians Baseball Company Limited Partnership (“Indians”)
and the Cavaliers Operating Company, LLC (“Cavaliers”) (collectively
the “Lease Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, the Lease Agreements provide for determination of rent
to be paid by each of the Cavaliers and
Indians pursuant to an
annual operating budget approved by Gateway; and
WHEREAS, such budget is to be approved by Gateway by November 15
of the preceding year for the annual budget, or as soon as
practicable thereafter; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Lease Agreements, Gateway has worked
with the Indians and Cavaliers to develop the 2015 annual operating
budget and presented the same to the Board of Directors; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors wishes to adopt and approve
Gateway’s 2015 annual operating budget.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of Gateway on
behalf of Gateway does hereby authorize and approve Gateway’s annual
operating budget, including for the Cleveland Indians and Cleveland
Cavaliers, as presented and attached hereto as Exhibit A.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Chairman or Secretary-Treasurer
are and each of them is hereby authorized and empowered for and on
behalf of Gateway in its name to take all actions necessary to carry
out the foregoing budget or to modify the same pursuant to the Lease
Agreements without further action or notification to the Board, which
such officer or officers shall in his, her or their judgment be
deemed necessary, advisable or desirable in connection therewith,
which execution or approval shall constitute the conclusive evidence
of the approval and authorization thereto of Gateway.
_________________
6

 The next meeting may be changed from January to February. There
being no further business before the Board, Mr. Reidy made a motion
to adjourn the meeting and seconded by Ms. Nichols. The meeting was
duly adjourned at 4:27 p.m.

APPROVED BY:
SECRETARY-TREASURER
_________________________

7

 