THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF SEPTEMBER 25, 2019

Executive















MetroHealth has received the American Heart Association’s Get with the Guidelines®-Heart Failure
Quality Achievement Award, as well as recognition on the Target: Heart Failure Honor Roll. This hono
recognizes the System’s commitment to ensure heart failure patients receive the most appropriate
according to nationally recognized, research –based guidelines founded in the latest scientific evide
Every third Tuesday of the month, the Outpatient Pavilion transforms into a makeshift food distributi
offering dozens of patient and community members an opportunity to fill their carts with free produ
by the Greater Cleveland Food Bank. This is one-way MetroHealth is working to bring nutritious food
patients/community to reduce food insecurity and promote healthy eating.
JoAnn and Bob Glick have an affinity for programs that challenge issues facing women and children
This couple also has a newfound affinity for MetroHealth, resulting in two gifts totaling $500,000 to s
Students are Free to Express (SAFE) Project, an arts-based mental health initiative that is a collabora
MetroHealth’s School Health and Arts in Medicine programs and MetroHealth’s Autism Assessment C
I was honored to be included in Crain’s Health Care Summit on August 29, 2019, moderated by Eliza
McIntyre, publisher and editor Crain’s Cleveland Business. This was an historic event as Crain’s bro
a panel of Northeast Ohio’s top 6 hospital CEO’s to address a variety of concerns, such as the opioid
and affordability of medical treatment. Joining me in the panel: Dr. Cliff Deveny, president and CEO,
Health; Dr. Tom Mihaljevic, president and CEO, Cleveland Clinic; Thomas Strauss, president and CEO
Charity Health System; Grace Wakulchik, president and CEO, Akron Children's Hospital; and Thoma
CEO, of University Hospitals.

MetroHealth has received approval to start an Addiction Medicine Fellowship, a one-year training pro
will prepare physicians to address the opioid crisis. Charles Emerman, MD and Neera Gupta, MD will
program.
The Doc2Go program is now available nationwide for any employee and their dependents enrolled i
MetroHealth medical plan (SkyCare or SkyCare Plus). Anywhere in the U.S. you have access to high q
care on demand with $0 copay – from your mobile phone or computer.
th
I met with Congressman Bob Latta, who represents
Congressional
the 5
District in Northwestern and North
Central Ohio. We had an informative discussion centered around Medicaid DSH, health care work fo
technology innovations, including how blockchain can be used in health care.
MetroHealth welcomed our State Superintendent Paola DeMaria on September 5, 2019. We toured
our Lincoln West School of Science and Health. The school combines a traditional curriculum with in
learning in a health care setting, which allows students to learn firsthand from MetroHealth employe
so thankful for his interest in MetroHealth’s one of a kind school and we also appreciate Eric Gordon
Cleveland Metropolitan School District, for his support and partnering with us.
The Stakeholders meeting held at the end of June is still providing interest for the community. I’ve b
interviewed by Modern Healthcare on how MetroHealth is leading the way on Social Determinates o
th
Cleveland Jewish News interviewed me to share information on the revitalization
Street
of the
areaW 25
regarding MetroHealth’s plans to create affordable and market-rate housing. In a separate interview
American Hospital Association, I discussed the institute for H.O.P.E.; Health, Opportunity, Partnership

 



Empowerment, which will be based at our main campus. The institute will work to remove obstacle
health and better lives, bringing together programs and resources to those in our community.
I was privileged to participate in the Keynote Conversation Compassion in Action Healthcare Confere
Boston. Joining me was Dr. Peter Slavin, CEO Massachusetts General Hospital and Laura Crooks, CEO
Village in Yakima Washington. The conversation was moderated by Dr. Richard Baron, President and
American Board of Internal Medicine and the ABIM foundation.
Friday, September 13, 2019, I provided the keynote speech at the Hispanic Heritage Month Opening
held at City Hall.

Chief of Staff

Department of Public Safety
 Fifty-six members of the MetroHealth Police Department (MHPD) have received Active Ass
Advanced Building Clearing training.
 The Active Assailant training was conducted by the FBI and trains law enforcement officer
first responders on protocols for responding to active shooters so that they are consistent
agencies throughout the nation.
 The MHPD hosted and attended training in Advanced Building Clearing techniques.
offered by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Academy (OPOTA). OPOTA offers agencie
training facility to practice scenarios related to room entry and building clearing. This clas
variations with room sizes, inward/outward-opening doors, hallways, four-way interse
target placement. A variety of options, methods, and tactics emphasizing officer safety w
an unfamiliar and potentially occupied structure.

Government Relations
 Ohio Healthcare Anchor Network members, CCF, MetroHealth, ProMedica, and UH, worked togeth
executing a letter addressed to Senator Brown, Representatives Fudge, Gonzalez, and Joyce requ
support of a bill regarding the Affordable Housing Credit Improvement Act (AHCIA) of 2019. The
provisions within the AHCIA would facilitate the development of 450,500 additional affordable ho
United States over the next ten years. We estimate approximately 17,667 homes could be built
alone.
 MetroHealth is partnering with the national 340B Health organization to host a roundtable meetin
340B providers in October. The roundtable will focus on emerging policy and compliance matters

Community Relations
 Partnered with Vanessa Whiting, MetroHealth BOT Chair and CEO of AES to utilize food bag distrib
networks in 15 Popeye’s franchises to share Safe Sleep messaging as part of our work with First
Cleveland. See the story here: https://www.cleveland.com/business/2019/09/first-year-clevelandinfant-mortality-message-in-popeyes-customers-bags.html
 Met with Cleveland Public Library Director Felton Thomas and library system managers to share
information as part of MetroHealth effort with First Year Cleveland. Twenty-nine library branches w
working with our Safe Sleep task force to distribute information to library patrons.
 Community Engagement/Development/Transformation teams hosted three community open hou
6, 8, and 15, 2019, in the Campus Transformation Center with more than 100 people in attendan
cross section of the neighborhood, nonprofit and business community. This event generated high
and positive responses. Media coverage included Cleveland Jewish News, Plain Press, La Mega ra
Scene Magazine.
 Coordinated media coverage: Channel 3 and Radio One, for Alan Nevel to share information abou
MetroHealth’s efforts to generate awareness of Sickle Cell Disease, including MetroHealth lunch
and blood drives with The Red Cross.
Page 2 of 9

 Marketing & Communications
 Veteran journalist Joe Frolik, one of the most distinguished and respected communications profes
the region, has been named MetroHealth’s Senior Vice President, Communications, Government
Community Relations.
 Former Crain’s Cleveland Business reporter and editor Tim Magaw joined the communications st
communications strategist on September 9, 2019. His duties will include overseeing social media

Employee Communications
 An article outlining MetroHealth’s new “Smart Dress Policy” was the most widely read article on
employee intranet/MIV ever measured, garnering nearly 6,000 views within a week of its posting
updated dress code was a hit with staff who wanted to know what to/what not to wear to meet n
standards.

Faith Community Outreach/Pastoral Care
 On Saturday, September 21, 2019, Project Thrive will train the third cohort of congregations to jo
MetroHealth in mitigating the effects of trauma. The training will result in a critical first step in fo
Northeast Healing Circle. Participants will receive training on the Project Thrive operational struc
be invited to receive formal training on trauma 101, trauma-informed care, and resiliency.
 Through its newly launched Pathways to Health and Healing, the Office of Pastoral Care recently
surveying local faith communities on its knowledge of MetroHealth, its community health needs,
which MetroHealth can assist them in building healthier and resilient communities.
 On Wednesday, October 2, 2019, the Office of Pastoral Care will hold its first meeting of the Inter
Spiritual Roundtable.
Finance









MetroHealth’s Treasury team has finalized a Treasury Platform review with the System’s external
Advisor, Kaufmann Hall. Results of the review indicate strong fundamentals in the Treasury area,
opportunities for continued Treasury advancement. A work plan has been developed and execut
plan is to begin at the beginning of the fourth quarter.
The FPA team implemented a new productivity management system and deployed initial reports
leadership with new tools for monitoring staffing levels. The next phase of the roll-out includes d
and incorporating external benchmarks.
Enrollment on Wheels RV participated in 32 events in August 2019 servicing 293 community me
Services provided are scheduling of medical clinic appointments, insurance education, and assis
financial eligibility. There were 19 events on the Westside and 13 on the Eastside.
From January to August 2019, within the RV, 1,533 services were rendered to our community, se
members.
In July 2019, The MetroHealth System and Medical Mutual became the first provider and payer or
to digitally exchange data and documents via Hyland Connect. This advancement in payer-provi
collaboration replaces time-consuming communications by improving claim adjudication and pro
time, reducing costs and eliminating risks and delays through increased transparency.

Internal Audit
 Internal Audit is executing the 2019 audit plan. The plan includes fifteen audits that will be delive
coordinated effort with the Ethics & Compliance team. Ten reports were issued during the third q
2019. The 2019 audit plan is on schedule to be completed as planned by March of 2020.

Page 3 of 9

 Enterprise Data Analytics
 In collaboration with clinical operations leadership, the Department of Operations Research and A
(DORA) is developing and deploying robust analytic tools to aid in staffing optimization. Tools are
development for Environmental Services, Pathology, Radiology, Pharmacy, Patient Transport, and
Surgical Operating Suites. Tools have been deployed to the Emergency Department and Ambula
Services.
 The DORA team remains fully engaged on several high-profile modeling exercises to assess the fi
impact of proposed regulatory changes and altered reimbursement strategies. Results from thes
exercises are shared and stress tested by an inter-departmental working group to guide decision
strategic direction for the remainder of 2019, 2020, and beyond.

Information Systems (IS)
 Information Services is creating a new three to five-year technology strategic plan. MetroHealth
partnered with The Chartis Group for the development of the new plan, which will be complete b
the year.
 The Disaster Recovery virtual computing environment with its associated hardware and storage
successfully moved to our new data center. All critical virtual servers and services have been res
 Information Services upgraded the core data network infrastructure to modern, supported switch
technology. This new equipment will provide increased capacity and functionality for the data an
networks while supporting future healthcare technology innovations.

Enterprise Program Management Office
 The System’s software upgrade to Windows 10 is currently ahead of schedule. As of the end of A
over 2,000 devices have been upgraded to the Windows 10 operating system. The System will u
devices by the end of the year.
 MetroHealth has enhanced our voice-recognition dictation and transcription services to make it e
faster for our providers to complete their documentation. These Artificial Intelligence-powered s
provided as part of our expanded partnership with M*Modal.

Supply Chain
 Justin Gallo will be joining The MetroHealth System as Vice President of Supply Chain in Septemb
most recently served as the leader for international supply chain at the Cleveland Clinic.
 MetroHealth has partnered with Standvast Healthcare Fulfillment and Zitra Healthcare Partners t
the System’s supply chain into a strategic advantage. The end-to-end redesign of supply chain w
processes, workflows, and systems that leverage the best in class tools to ensure our patients an
receive the right items at the right place and time.
 MetroHealth has expanded our partnership with Airgas to include their Total Gas Management (T
program. Airgas’s TGM program manages MetroHealth cylinder gas activities including: tracking
removing empties, and invoicing. To do so, Airgas is providing a full-time inventory coordinator, w
on-site at MHS five days per week.
System Dyad





Michael Stern and MetroHealth hosted the Great Lakes Science Center Governance Committee b
meeting on August 29, 2019.
We would like to congratulate Dr. Holly Perzy on her new role as Chair of Medicine-Pediatrics. We
grateful to Dr. Perzy for her continued leadership and outstanding commitment to MetroHealth a
Department of Medicine-Pediatrics.
New Inpatient Medicine Service Line launched September 3, 2019, comprised of Hospital Medicin
campus, the community hospitals, Medical Intensive Care Unit and Medical Stepdown Unit at ma
Page 4 of 9

 Richard Blinkhorn, MD, Chair of the Department of Medicine and Melissa Kline, DNP, RN, NEA-BC,
Patient Care Services and Chief Nursing Officer, will serve as the dyad leaders for the new servic
Hospital Operations

Inpatient Operations
 Inpatient Operations has exceeded and maintained its patient experience stretch goal for “Recom
Hospital.”

Food & Nutrition Services
 The Department officially kicked off the conversion to room service and cafeteria renovation via
execution and awards.
 On August 13, 2019, the Women at Metro Leadership Development Committee hosted a network
development program, “Everything I Do Positions Me: The Simple Path to Professional Success” p
Christine Zust of Zust & Co. Over 100 attendees were provided proven tips, techniques and tool
strengthen their professional role and contribution to their team and MetroHealth.

Environmental Services, Logistics, and Textile Care
 Logistics has completed the first phase of the courier services efficiency project resulting in 10 p
reduction in courier services.
 Transportation services has expanded its service area with a September 15, 2019, rollout to inclu
and Broadway Health Clinics.
 The Ohio Department of Health (ODH) audit on 6B, Behavioral Health unit, was successful with n
regarding Environmental Services.

Pathology
 The final phase of Pathology’s renegotiated Chemistry contract was completed. New instrument
installed at Main Campus’ Core Laboratories and at the three Rapid Response locations (Clevelan
Brecksville, and Parma). This has resulted in improvements to patient care due to faster result tu
time and less instrument downtime, and financial improvements due to an expense reduction of
approximately $100,000 per year.

Pharmacy
 MetroHealth’s retail pharmacy is going green. The mail order pharmacy is removing all Styrofoam
and replacing them with ThermaCell biodegradable coolers for all cold chain shipping. In additio
is working with VUCA Health to provide virtual patient education and discontinue printing medica
education, saving 1,700,000 pieces of paper each year which will save 204 trees annually.
 The Pharmacy Department celebrated the board certification of 20 MetroHealth pharmacists in A
 MetroHealth’s Inpatient Pharmacy has transitioned to a new vendor for outsourced sterile compo
needs to improve reliability of medication availability, add five new products to enhance safety a
compliance, and save the System $150,000 annually.

Radiology
 Mobile mammography began serving patients on July 24, 2019, at Bedford, Brecksville, Clevelan
Parma, and Buckeye.
 Broadway mammography successfully completed their MQSA (Mammography Quality Standards
from the Ohio Department of Health with 100 percent compliance.
 MetroHealth Radiology’s Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) at both our Middleburg Heights and
Ambulatory Surgery Center locations achieved ACR (American College of Radiology) accreditatio
addition, Radiology’s Ultrasound Section at Brecksville achieved ACR accreditation.
Page 5 of 9

 Access/Network Service Center
 The Network Service Center (NSC) has started using broadcast technology to send out campaign
that do not show for their scheduled visit with a Primary Care Provider.
 The Wellness Access Outreach program is meeting target goals for Pediatric Well-Child show rate
Medicaid population and show rate for Medicare Wellness visits. The program is on track to meet
for scheduled Pediatric Well-Child Medicaid visits and scheduled Medicare Wellness visits.

Emergency Preparedness
 MetroHealth’s Director of Emergency Management, Marek Owca, provided a presentation regard
consequence management of a prolonged pandemic influenza outbreak along with other disaste
the local community at Case Medical School for the next class of medical students.
 Another cohort of MetroHealth leaders attended advanced incident command training at the Cen
Domestic Preparedness in Anniston, Alabama. Attendees learn from national experts on managi
incidents that culminates in a high-fidelity disaster simulation. Over fifty (50) MetroHealth leade
attended this unique training experience which aids in continual readiness for Code Yellow condi
 Everbridge was awarded a contract to replace the current mass notification system which was us
past twelve (12) years. The updated service will have near 100 percent uptime/resiliency as wel
platform for nimble, focused and timely disaster and other critical messaging to MetroHealth Em
Management response and support teams. Additional modules included are Visitor Engagement
mobile application for visitors to receive real-time event notifications and alerts as well as Safety
which allows for emergency messages to staff and contractors in a specific mapped location.
Service Lines

Adult Health and Wellness
 Britt Nielsen, PsyD, was awarded a 3-year $450,000 HRSA grant which will expand training for ps
to include opioid and substance use addiction treatment within medication assisted treatment pr
 Terry Stancin, PhD, is the co-editor of a special issue of the peer-reviewed journal, Clinical Practi
Pediatric Psychology, on “Advancing the practice of pediatric psychology with transgender youth
 Neera Gupta, MD, will serve as one of the Program Directors for the newly approved Addiction Me
Fellowship, which is anticipating its first candidates in early 2020.
 Charles Bark, MD, Attending Physician and Assistant Professor of Medicine, was awarded a $7.2 m
from the National Institutes of Health to study transmission of tuberculosis in Uganda.
 Kenneth Laurita, PhD, Staff Scientist and Associate Professor of Medicine, was awarded a $2.8 m
from the National Institutes of Health to develop optically guided catheter ablation for atrial fibril
 Adam Perzynski, PhD, Staff Scientist and Associate Professor of Medicine, edited/published a boo
"Health Disparities: Weaving a New Understanding Through Case Narratives."
 New Pride location at Cleveland Heights; October will bring Pride Residency to Main Campus and
Pride services will be available at the LGBTQ Community Center.
 Main Campus Aging Out Foster Care program is up and running with a secondary pilot at Clevela
come in October.
 Weekly Old Brooklyn Farmer’s Market was held during summer Saturdays, including a table prom
health and wellness services.
 New Memory Clinic Established at Old Brooklyn Health and McCafferty Health Centers.
 Continued relationship building with Urban Community School – hosted 2 physical nights on mob
Family Medicine residents (Sports Physicals and Annual Well Child Exams).
 Trained 200 Cleveland Metropolitan School District School Resource Officers in Trauma and Toxic
within the youth population.
 Lisa Ramirez, PhD, SHP Director of Community and Behavioral Health, was on the Ideastream ep
Risk to Resilience: Understanding and Supporting Local Teens.”
Page 6 of 9

 

Gregory Heintschel, DDS, was keynote speaker to the leadership of the American Dental Associa
regarding patient safety, a new movement toward adopting safety polices and a culture for the d
profession.
Cancer Care
 Cancer Care is hosting the 4th Annual Cancer Care Symposium on September 20, 2019. The sym
feature Drs. Eric Miller (The Ohio State University), David Mansour (University Hospitals – Clevela
Ashley Sekhon (MetroHealth) discussing “Updates and Advancements in Radiation Therapy.”
 The BREAST Amigas are partnering with the Hispanic Forum to present “Bridging the Cultural Ba
Improve Outcomes for a Hispanic Cancer Patient” on September 17, 2019.

Emergency Services
 Emergency Services’ Clinical Nurse Specialist, Suzanne Fortuna, was accepted for a poster prese
OSU. The presentation is for the development of the Emergency Department’s Mentoring Progra
currently has 17 mentors and 23 mentees.
 The Emergency Department’s registration staff reached their patient experience stretch goal wit
73.2 (stretch goal was 72.6).

Neuro-Musculoskeletal
 Kimberly Anderson, PhD, Staff Scientist in the department of PM&R, was awarded a $803,000 gra
Department of Defense to study recovery after spinal cord injury and community re-entry.
 John Chae, MD, Vice President for Research and Sponsored Programs and Professor and Chair of P
co-editor of the premier textbook in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, "DeLisa's Physical Med
Rehabilitation: Principles and Practices," published by Wolters Kluwer (released July, 2019).
 Ben Roitberg, MD, was invited to give four talks at upcoming leading international meetings. Two
Spine Committee meeting at World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies Beijing September 201
at the SEENS (European Association of Neurosurgical Societies) in Serbia, October 2019.

Specialty Care
 Dennis Auckley, MD, a Pulmonary, Sleep, and Critical Care specialist, has co-edited “The Case Bo
Medicine 3rd Edition,” which was published this summer.
 Dermatology has expanded the use of their Project Snapshot to Beachwood on Tuesday and Frida
is a fast, easy and free dermatology screening for one to two concerning areas on your skin. Usin
resolution iPad, a dermatology nurse will take a photo of the skin lesions in question. You can hav
spots photographed. Two photos will be taken of each suspicious area – a closeup and a wider sh
reference point on where the spot is located on your body. The photo will be uploaded to Epic an
certified Dermatologist will review it. You will be alerted within a week to one of three outcomes:
1. No risk – skin lesion appears to be normal and no need for a follow-up appointment.
2. Moderate risk – a follow-up appointment is recommended within a month.
3. High risk – Skin Lesion appears to be suspicious and you will receive a fast-track appointm

Surgery
 New surgeons starting in General Surgery, Oral Surgery, Ophthalmology, and Oculoplastic Surge
September.
 Continued shift of ambulatory OR cases shifted off Main campus.

Women and Children’s
 Dr. Abughali won the prestigious award of Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) Fellow. I
fellowship recognizes a high level of commitment to the field of infectious diseases
 Dr. Susan Carlin named Division Director for General Pediatrics.
 OBGYN faculty had a ½ day Bias training workshop.
Page 7 of 9

 Ambulatory Operations




The Cancer Care Team participated in the Food Bank Fundraiser in July 19, 2019. Our team su
raised approximately $800 and prepared a beautiful basket for the raffle.
The WIC department partnered with Ohio State University Extension (OSUE) to provide WIC Pr
Perks Coupons (valued at $20 each), conduct food demonstrations and recipes at four (4) loca
Markets. Since July 18, 2019, more than 496 families have participated.
Parma had a very successful multi-specialty health fair on July 12, 2019, that allowed 100 pat
screened for skin cancer as well as over 80 patients receiving BP screenings.

Office of Patient Experience

Arts in Health
 The SAFE (Students Are Free to Express) Project 2019-20 academic year programming has launc
grade bands (third year of high school and 1st grade of elementary school) have been added to t
program. The teaching artist cohort has expanded to include four additional teaching artists and
intentional focus led by a post doctorate fellow on program evaluation and assessment.

Language Access Services
 Three of MetroHealth’s on-site Spanish-speaking interpreters, Jocelyn Amaya-Hughley, Dayleen R
Royer Velasquez, have recently received the national designation of Certified Medical Interpreter
The remaining team members are in preparation to take their exams.

Leadership Rounding
 Leadership Rounding pilot was completed in the Inpatient and Emergency units at Main Campus.
learned include consistency in rounding is important to build relationships and with staff, facilitat
important to support gathering and summarizing feedback, team members are very compliment
other and common themes of concerns identified by staff are consistent across the organization.
raised are prioritized and being addressed. The decision has been made to continue leadership
an important way to engage and support providers and staff to improve experience, safety and q

Volunteer Services
 Fifty students from Cleveland State University have been selected for the MetroHealth Volunteer
Program, a partnership with the Office of Pre-Professional Health at CSU. The students commit to
for two semesters in patient-related areas of their choice, including Emergency Medicine, Child L
and Occupational Therapy, and Guest Services.
Ethics and Compliance





Published code of conduct, This is Who We Are, in Spanish.
Held first Compliance Professionals of Greater Cleveland forum with guest speaker discussing les
from Theranos.
Initiated “Did You Know” internal communication plan and Lunch and Learn program to keep com
topics top of mind for employees.
Launched monthly Compliance Blog on Becoming a World’s Most Ethical Company.

Nursing


Master of Science in Nursing Graduation - In August 2019, our first cohort of 12 employees gradu
Master of Science in Nursing degree from The MetroHealth System/Cleveland State University pa
Page 8 of 9

 





March of Dimes Nurse of the Year Awards: Three MetroHealth nurses will be honored as nominee
Ohio March of Dimes Nurse of the Year Award ceremony in November.
The Greater Cleveland Organization for Nursing Leadership named Kelley Gallagher, MSN, RNC-O
IBCLC, Nurse Manager, as their nomination for the Aspiring Leader Award from the Ohio Organiza
Nursing Leadership.
The Advanced Practice Provider Council will hold its fourth annual Pharmacology Conference here
Main Campus on October 11, 2019. This is open to both MetroHealth and non-MetroHealth advan
practice providers and is usually a sold-out conference.
Melissa Kline, SVP-Patient Care Services & Chief Nursing Officer, provided the keynote address at
Chamberlain University’s nursing graduation ceremony on September 13, 2019. Chamberlain ha
baccalaureate, masters, and Doctor of Nursing practice graduates at the ceremony.
The MetroHealth System, along with other maternity centers in Ohio, is taking steps to promote
of successful breastfeeding, earning its third star in a statewide program. MetroHealth recently a
following steps, which has earned our System its third star on the path toward five: informing all
women about the benefits and management of breastfeeding at their prenatal appointments and
feeding of newborns on demand. Babies are fed as often and as long as they show signs of being
parents were taught feeding and fullness cues and to watch their baby, not the clock.

Foundation and System Philanthropy









MetroHealth’s For All of Us $100 million campaign is moving forward, with $39 million of the $47
committed to program and endowment and $8.2 million committed to capital. The Campaign Ca
partnership with the boards and staff, anticipate achieving the $50 million by the end of 2019.
The MetroHealth Foundation Board of Directors mourns the passing of fellow board member, Dwi
Allgood, Jr. During his 35 years of service to the Board, Dwight was an effective and strong leade
as Board Chair from 1989-1991. He was a founding member of the Board’s Audit Committee and
founding Chair of the Board’s Governance Committee. Dwight’s commitment to MetroHealth and
was unwavering and earlier this year, he was presented with The MetroHealth Foundation Board
Leadership Award.
In 2018, the Fred A. Lennon Charitable Trust made a $400,000 gift to MetroHealth’s Rehabilitatio
(MRI). The Lennon Trust also challenged MetroHealth to secure an additional $600,000 in suppor
which the Trust would be willing to match. Dr. Kevin Kilgore has achieved that match through a g
the Nielsen Foundation, resulting in the Lennon Trust fulfilling its additional commitment. The Le
will specifically support the Institute for Functional Restoration and pivotal clinical trials focused
grasp and release and upper arm function in individuals with tetraplegia.
MHF Board member, Jim Geuther, was instrumental in The MetroHealth Foundation receiving the
Foundation’s Lighting the Way Award, which was accompanied by a $75,000 grant for MetroHeal
Employee Housing Program. MetroHealth accepted the award at a ceremony in Atlanta in Augus
A retiring MHF Board member has made a $100,000 commitment to MetroHealth and its Building
Future fund.
The AIDS Funding Collaborative has made a $50,000 grant to support the expansion of the Positi
program. Positive Peers is a mobile device application designed with and for young people ages
with HIV. It offers a virtual community where individuals can make human connections by engag
interaction and support via group forums and one on one chats. The AIDS Funding Collaborative
supported MetroHealth since 2009, providing nearly $500,000 in support for various initiatives.

Page 9 of 9

 